Responsible Business Solutions UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2009 and 2010 ! RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SOLUTIONS ApS/ Carolinevej 12 / DK-2900 Hellerup / Denmark www.responsiblebusinesssolutions.com / phone +45 8880 8685   A message from Christian Honor, CEO  At Responsible Business Solutions, we believe that every company – regardless of size or loca- tion - should act ethically and minimise environmental impacts. This is not only the right thing to  do, it is an essential part of managing risk, attracting talent, meeting stakeholder expectations  and remaining profitable in the long term. In 2009, we signed the UN Global Compact to demonstrate our commitment to corporate social  responsibility (CSR). We remain committed to integrating the ten principles into our company  and advisory services. Being able to demonstrate strong values and performance in this area is  essential for us as a CSR advisory company and essential for our own values and ambitions.  While managing our own impacts is important, our role as CSR advisors to global businesses  means that the greatest contribution we make to realising the ten principles is through our work  with others. In 2009 and 2010, we worked with some of Denmarks and the worlds largest  companies on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption issues, and I be- lieve our expertise is helping to bring real change in these areas.  I am particularly proud of the UN Global Compact Dilemma Game which we developed in part- nership with the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and presented as a gift to the Global Compact  in celebration of its 10th anniversary on 23rd June 2010 in New York. The game is a fantastic  tool for raising awareness of how the ten principles are relevant to everyday business choices  and it has been very well received by everyone who has played.  The Danish Business Network for Human Rights - which we set up in 2010 together with John  Morrison from the Institute of Human Rights and Business, A.P. Moller-Maersk and Danfoss - is  another significant achievement. The network provides a collaborative environment where mem- bers from 13 global companies can discuss challenges in their organisations and ways to  strengthen processes for protecting human rights. The inaugural meeting was held on 15 June  2010.  I hope you enjoy reading this document which provides more information about our achieve- ments and outlines how we are embedding the ten principles in our business and promoting  them with our stakeholders.  UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1  Management processes All employees are closely involved in developing and implementing the company strategy and  management processes.  In 2010, we underwent a process to formalise the values that define our working practices and  the aims of our business. The team met twice during the year, and each person described what  guides and motivates them in their work. The discussion also covered ethical issues associated  with client work, including whether working for certain sectors, or taking on certain types of work  would conflict with our company values.  Through the process we defined the following values: Integrity – We are consistent, professional and show respect. Passion – We are motivated change agents and in business to make a difference.  Credibility – We are experts in what we do and deliver what we promise.  Innovation – We are radical in our thinking and practical in our solutions.  Accountability – We do what we say and say what we do. All Responsible Business Solutions full-time employees are CSR experts and have a high level of  awareness of the UN Global Compact principles and a strong understanding of how they relate  to the company and their day-to-day work. As the company continues to grow, we will implement more formal policies and processes to en- sure each employee knows what is expected of them and to ensure we continue to maintain high  standards of corporate social responsibility. Networks and engagement  Responsible Business Solutions recognises the value of stakeholder engagement and participa- tion in networks. Here is a summary of our engagement in 2009 and 2010:  We are a member of the UN Global Compact Nordic Network. We attended their event in  Copenhagen in May 2010 and played the UN Global Compact Dilemma game together  with other members.   We are a member of and have been running the secretariat of an anti-corruption network  comprising large Danish companies.   We are also a member of the UN Development Programme SME Network and CSR Fo- rum Denmark. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2  Our key issues We have identified the following issues as being most material (significant and important) to our  business:  The social and environmental impact of our advocacy and work for clients.   Risks relating to taking on certain clients or types of work.  Employment issues, including diversity and equal opportunities and employee development  We have not identified environmental impacts as a key issue for our company, however we be- lieve it is important for all companies to take steps to reduce their impacts. We provide informa- tion below on what we have achieved.  We aim to use a proportion of our profits to support communities in need. In 2009 we donated  DK 25.000 to support relief efforts conducted by Save the Children.  The impact of our client work and advocacy (relevant to all ten  principles) Client work We help global businesses to develop and implement strategies to strengthen their CSR per- formance and implement the UN Global Compact principles.  This is a small sample of work completed in 2009 and 2010:   Developing a code of conduct for a large pharmaceutical company, including scenarios to  enable employees to deal with ethical dilemmas.   Creating a CSR strategy for a business unit of a global transport company, helping the  company to focus its efforts to become a more responsible business.  Devising and writing a train-the-trainers ethical pack and e-learning for a pharmaceutical  company.  Facilitating workshops at several multinationals using the UN Global Compact Dilemma  board game developed by Responsible Business Solutions.   Developing and discussing dilemmas relating to human rights together through the Dan- ish Business Network for Human Rights. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 3  UN Global Compact game The UN Global Compact Dilemma board game offers an engaging, hands-on way for companies  to educate their employees about social and environmental business risks. The game is based  around scenarios which demonstrate how business professionals are often faced with dilemmas  involving CSR issues and the need to balance conflicting stakeholder views.  We often found that our clients were stalled in their decision-making process when confronted  with difficult situations, or by simply not knowing how to implement the principles of the Global  Compact in practice. That is why, we developed the idea of letting decision makers experience  first hand some of the dilemmas we and other businesses had experienced, in a safe environ- ment that does not place their businesses at risk, explains Christian Honor.  The scenarios were developed by Responsible Business Solutions using our experience working  in large businesses and through workshops in Kenya and Slovakia attended by businesses and  NGOs.   In 2010 we facilitated workshops using the game for multinational companies in Denmark, the  Netherlands and the UK and a for leading Dutch ethical trading NGO. We aim to develop tailored  versions of the game for procurement professionals and individual businesses.  Broader advocacy In 2009 and 2010, Responsible Business Solutions CEO, Christian Honor advocated the bene- fits of CSR to a wider audience through:  A webinar providing an introduction to why CSR is important to business and how it is  relevant to managers in their day-to-day roles.   An article in Berlingske Nyhedsmagasin, Denmarks leading business publication, discuss- ing CSR dilemmas encountered by companies and appropriate responses.  Contributing to other books and publications on CSR trends and presenting at businesses  and other organisations.  Managing reputational risks relating to client work (relevant to  all ten principles) We undertake a variety of projects for companies across business sectors. We recognise that  some companies are just starting to think about CSR, while others are experienced practitioners.  We are happy to work with companies at all stages of maturity in this area, although we want to  work with clients who are serious about CSR and making the changes necessary to be a respon- sible business. We are aware that association with some organisations involved in controversial business prac- tices, or taking on certain types of work may damage our reputation and expose us to accusa- tions of double standards. Client work that conflicts with our values could also undermine em- ployee morale.  UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 4  To manage risks associated with client work, proposals for new clients and projects are dis- cussed among the team and reviewed by Christian Honor. We foster an open working environ- ment and employees are encouraged to raise any concerns. To date, we have not refused to be- gin a relationship, or turned down work due to reputational risks associated with client work.  Employment issues (relevant to Principles 1-6) Our clients choose us because of the professionalism and expertise of our employees and our  goal is to create a safe and inclusive work environment where innovation and collaboration flour- ish. Respect for the individual is paramount and we do not tolerate discrimination or harassment  of any kind.  As consultants, we recognise the importance of continual development of employees knowledge  and skills. We encourage team members to take advantage of courses and to attend confer- ences and other events that promote their development.  We have recruited students to work part-time whilst completing their masters courses, to give  them the opportunity to develop knowledge of business and CSR.  Our students are mentored by  one of our advisors.  Employees are free to join labour organisations and have the right to engage in collective bar- gaining. We comply with all Danish employment laws.  Environment (relevant to Principles 7, 8 and 9) As a small, service based company our environmental impacts are small. However, we believe  that all companies should aim to minimise their impacts, regardless of their size. We also under- stand that our credibility as advisors on environmental issues depends on being able to demon- strate good performance in this area.   Travel  Most of our employees bike to work or use public transportation.  We use TAXI NORD, which operates a fuel efficient fleet and offsets the CO2 emissions  from journeys.  Office impacts  Employees use laptops rather than desktop computers (which consume more energy).  All computers have energy saving settings enabled.  We encourage our employees to print only necessarily material and file documents elec- tronically  Printers are set to double-sided, toner saving setting as default.  UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 5