R I C O H   G R O U P S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T   C O R P O RATE SOCIAL   R E S P O N SIBILITY 2010  1 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 2 010  R I C O H  G R O U P  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  R E P O R T   C O R P O R AT E  S O C I A L  R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y  2010 R I C O H   G R O U P S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T ( E N V I R O N M E N T ) R I C O H   G R O U P S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T   C O R P O RAT E  S O C I A L   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2010 RICOH 2010 CORPORATE PROFILE  Important changes to the organization occurred  during the reporting period  Established the Global Marketing Group (June 1, 2009) The new group serves as a core organization for realizing innovations  for expanding business fields. The Group develops marketing  strategies and implements marketing activities for the five regions in  the world (Japan, the Americas, Europe, China, Asia-Pacific).  Established the Ricoh Institute of Sustainability and Business    (April 1, 2010) The institute was established as an in-house organization aimed at  contributing to business growth and the realization of a sustainable  economic society. The research results will be reflected in Ricohs  medium-to-long term business strategy. Guidelines used for reference GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) The Japanese Ministry of the Environments Environmental Reporting  Guidelines 2007 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Policy The Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industrys Information  Security Reporting Model Reporting period This report covers the period from April 1, 2009, to March 31, 2010. However, some activities from year 2010 period are also covered. Date of issue Sustainability Report (Corporate Social Responsibility)  The Report is issued in Japanese in June every year. The Report is scheduled to be issued in English and Chinese in September. Information security  http://www.ricoh.com/about/security/index.html Sustainability Report  (Environment) 2010 RICOH 2010   (CORPORATE PROFILE)  Sustainability Report (Corporate Social Responsibility) 2010 Sustainability Report  (Economic) 2010  Concept of CSR  Integrity in corporate  activities  Harmony with the  environment  Respect for people  Harmony with society   Management policy  Management results  Financial status http://www.ricoh.com/environment http://www.ricoh.com/about/ http://www.ricoh.com/csr/ http://www.ricoh.com/IR/  Concept of sustainable  environmental management  Improving our products  Improvements made at  business sites  Basis for sustainable  environmental management  Environmental  communication/ Conservation of biodiversity ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Based on the belief that social,  environmental, and economic objectives  are not incompatible, the Ricoh Group  is committed to making meaningful  contributions to the creation of a  sustainable society. In the course of  business activities undertaken toward  this end, we communicate with our  stakeholders and seek their understanding  and support through appropriate and  timely disclosure of information on what  we do and how we do it. We also listen  carefully to stakeholders and incorporate  their voices into our efforts to improve  our business and build greater corporate  value. As part of these efforts, we publish  this report for the purpose of providing  information on the Ricoh Groups socially- responsible management. As a good corporate citizen, the Ricoh Group continues to  increase its corporate value with a three-pronged focus on  society, environment, and economy. For information related to this report,  please also visit  Corporate profile  Business activities  Sustainable environmental  management  Corporate social  responsibility  Network  Corporate history  2 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Level of contribution to Ricohs growth High High Medium PDF (handbook format) Web site Major efforts Medium Low Low Level of interest from stakeholders GRI Sustainability  Reporting Guidelines  (G3) United Nations Global  Compact Communication on Progress Policy The Japanese Ministry  of the Environments  Environmental Reporting  Guidelines 2007 Editorial Policy of the Ricoh Group Contents Our approach to reporting  With the goals of timely disclosure and reduction of environmental impact,  our corporate social responsibility efforts will be disclosed and distributed  exclusively through our web site starting this fiscal year. We will no  longer produce printed copies of our reports. Instead, we will provide  PDF files in easy-to-read handbook format. The PDFs will be created in  three languages (Japanese, English and Chinese) and be easily accessible  worldwide from our global web site. Through our web site, we will make  efforts to distribute the latest global information in a more timely manner.  The information targets stakeholders such as customers, shareholders,  employees, partner companies, and society at large.  Thoughts on reporting content In compliance with the Ricoh Group CSR Charter, the Group reports  CSR activities in four areas (integrity in corporate activities, harmony  with the environment, respect for people, and harmony with society)  in a systematic and comprehensive manner, to enable readers to easily  understand the disclosed information. The reporting content is based on two major pillars: Level of interest  from our stakeholders and Level of contribution to Ricohs growth. The  most important efforts have been documented in PDF format. We also referenced the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3)  and United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Policy  to maintain reliability and transparency as a sustainability report. Sustainability Report (Corporate Social     Responsibility) and Other Reports  1 Editorial Policy  2 Message from the President  3 Feature Article Value-Creating CSR CSR that is good for society and    good for business  7 Concept of CSR Foundation of Ricohs CSR  11 Concept of CSR and its Development  13 Our Major CSR Activities and Plans  15 Integrity in Corporate Activities Quality Management/Customer Satisfaction Activities   —Ricoh Quality—  19 Creation of User-Friendly Products  23 Color Universal Design  25 Risk Management and Compliance  27 Information Security  29 Expansion of CSR to Our Partner Companies  31 Building New Sustainable Bases  33 Harmony with the Environment Sustainable Environmental Management  35  Respect for People A Vital and Motivated Culture  39 Creating a Safe, Healthy and    Comfortable Working Environment  41 Promoting Autonomy and Creativity    in the Workplace  43  Harmony with Society An Active Member of the Communities  45 Communication with Stakeholders  55 Ricoh Group Outline Highlights of Fiscal 2010 (Ended on March 31,    2010) Results Major Awards and Recognition Independent Third Party Review Business Overview  3 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Amid global economic change Since the global recession triggered by the financial crisis, the  operating environment for companies has changed greatly. The  Ricoh Group has provided numerous products, services and  solutions centering on imaging equipment, aiming to create value  based on its previous customer-driven approach. However, in this  unprecedentedly dynamic change in the global economic society,  we feel that our customers standards of value are changing  drastically. Unless we respond speedily to these changes, we may  lose our companys raison dtre as a public organization. For  me, the financial crisis was a good opportunity to review the way  corporations function and the way we conduct our work.  It became an opportunity to reconsider the role of companies  and the role of each and every employee in order to provide  products and services that truly satisfy customers worldwide and  realize an affluent and sustainable society no matter what kind of  situation we are facing. The Spirit of Three Loves The Ricoh Groups corporate philosophy is based on the Spirit of  Three Loves principles advocated by our founder, Kiyoshi Ichimura.  This philosophy states: love your neighbor—in other words,  cherish people, be of use to people, and provide new values that help  customers; love your country—think not only of your companys  profit but contribute to society and the Earth through business; and  love your work—find meaning of your work and perform your  duties with a sense of mission, meet new challenges, and grow. As  the recession forces us to reconsider what a company is, we take  pride in the fact that we have such a wonderful corporate philosophy.  This spirit is still alive and well today at Ricoh. Simultaneous Realization of Business Growth and Rich Sustainable Society Message from the President Shiro Kondo Representative Director President and CEO  4 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Awareness for building a sustainable future Corporations are increasing their roles and influence as members  of society and residents on planet Earth. We are faced with so many  issues that need to be worked on by society as a whole, such as  environmental destruction and poverty. At Ricoh, we believe it is  important to seriously consider what we can do as a company as  well as outside the realm of a corporation, and take specific action.  In other words, we have a strong awareness that companies are the  engines for realizing a sustainable society and making the future  happen. The Ricoh Group has always considered socially responsible  management as a means of creating corporate value, and we have  rolled out appropriate global activities on a group-wide basis. In  2002, we were one of the first Japanese companies to sign the United  Nations Global Compact and we have been promoting corporate  activities based on its principles. Through these engagements with  society, we have been able to learn a lot from our many stakeholders.  Based on the lessons learned from these activities, we plan to  interact with the community as much as possible, engage in highly  ethical and sound management, and actively work on preventing and  solving social issues. Our role in realizing the sustainable society Global environmental problems pose great risks to humankind. We  need to stop being a society based on mass-production and mass- consumption that produces massive amounts of waste, and make a  transformation as big as the industrial revolution in order to create a  society based on new rules and values. The purpose of environmental  conservation is to reduce environmental impact to a level that the  Earths self-recovery capability can deal with and thereby sustain the  global environment. The Ricoh Group considers global environmental  conservation our mission as residents on planet Earth, and we are  governed by Environmental Management—which simultaneously  realizes environmental preservation and profit creation. From long- term goals, we have derived high target goals that need to be worked  on immediately. We are also working on developing cutting-edge  environmental technologies such as technology for innovating  production processes and technology that provides products  with both eco-friendly features and user friendliness. In addition,  in terms of global environmental conservation, it is important to  reduce environmental damage while also maintaining and mending  the Earths ability to recover. In March 2009, we devised the Ricoh  Group Biodiversity Policy and clarified specific policies to give more  consideration to biodiversity in our business activities. Based on this  policy, we track the effect our business activities have on biodiversity,  and work on reducing environmental impact and reducing its effects  as part of our management approach. In addition, we aim to be a  top environmental business that realizes major results and profits  as part of the environmental industrial revolution. To this end, we  will tirelessly take on challenges as a member that contributes to this  transformation. However, we cannot do this alone. We aim to be a  company that joins hands with customers, suppliers, shareholders  and investors, NGOs/NPOs and citizens, and stakeholders around the  world to realize a sustainable society, and continue to grow with the  global environment. Enhancing all our business activities including the  supply chain To realize sustainable progress, we believe in the need to track the  effects of not only the Ricoh Group but the entire supply chain, both  upstream and downstream, and the need to take appropriate action  as part of our responsibility. In addition to the green procurement  we have been promoting, in fiscal 2009, we launched CSR  procurement activities concerned with such CSR issues as labor  practices (including the banning of child labor) and human rights.  With our suppliers, we established a system for regularly monitoring  suppliers adherence to the Ricoh Group Supplier Code of Conduct  and running a PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle. With our dealers, we  seek their understanding of the importance of socially responsible  management, and help strengthen their management structures.  As we have shown, we aim to improve the level of our CSR efforts  along with our partner firms with consideration for ISO 26000, an  international standard for social responsibility which will be issued in  December 2010.  5 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010  Direction of business field expansion Becoming a truly global company The Ricoh Groups management philosophy is to constantly create  new value for the world at the interface of people and information.  We believe that we can contribute to creating an affluent society  by responding speedily to the changing needs of our customers,  providing customers worldwide with Ricoh-specific values,  identifying their future needs, and creating new value (hardware/ software/service) that meet those needs. To achieve this goal, we  will actively continue expanding our business fields by metabolizing  businesses with an eye to developing a highly efficient management  structure that will sustain the Ricoh Group as a global company. We  hope to realize business growth by strengthening our organizational  reform efforts more than ever, making the transformation to a  leaner management structure and investing our resources into new  businesses. We truly believe that activities aimed at the realization  of this ideal will create innovation, and we will promote these on a  global scale.  In addition, we aim to become a company where employees  who conduct these activities, as well as partners who will be  cooperating with us, shareholders, local residents and other  supporters can share in the joys of our achievements. The Ricoh Group has seen a rapid increase in alliances in the  past year or two, and it has grown into a company that employs  roughly 110,000 people, with employees outside Japan comprising  two-thirds of the total. We respect the various cultures and  customs of different countries and regions as well as the diversity  of our employees. We seek to create an environment where our  employees can work enthusiastically, and strive to become a truly  global company in name and substance.  We established the Ricoh Institute of Sustainability and Business on  April 1, 2010, as an in-house organization. Based on the fruits of its  research, the Institute will give advice to and raise issues with Ricoh  senior management. While seeking a new growth model for the  direction of corporate activities, the Institute will influence Ricohs  business strategy. In this harsh business environment, as an executive, I sincerely  believe we are an entity with a strong social presence, that we will  continue to espouse a socially responsible management and will  pursue our goal of simultaneously realizing business growth and  an affluent, sustainable society. As always, your comments and  opinions are very much appreciated. Message from the President Expansion of business elds Management Document Services (MDS) Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) IT services Laser printers (LP) GELJET printers Projection systems Production printing Multifunctional digital copiers (MDC) Web service (quanp) Digital cameras Company (corporate entity) Ofce Production Consumer (individual) Products Services Strengthening and expanding on services  6 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Enhancing competitiveness and earning  the trust of the international community The global community is undergoing unprecedented  and dynamic economic and societal change. Against  this background, we established the Ricoh Institute of  Sustainability and Business as an in-house organization  on April 1, 2010, with the goal of achieving business  growth through corporate activities, and contributing to the  realization of a sustainable society.   Exploiting the Institutes functions, Ricoh will gain an  accurate understanding of the structural changes taking  place in society against a backdrop of growing change  in the business environment. At the same time, we will  conduct penetrating independent analyses in light of  Ricohs own business conditions. We will seek a new  growth model for the direction of corporate activities,  based on solving global issues such as global warming  and the depletion of resources. We will also look at the  role of business in global competition. By reflecting  these findings in our medium- to long-term management  strategies, we plan to enhance our competitiveness as  a company and at the same time earn the trust of the  international community. Linkage of research and corporate  activities The Institute will serve dual functions, a think-tank  function to research the impact the economy and society  will have on future trends and business management, and  an advisory function whereby, based on the fruits of its  research, the Institute will give advice to and raise issues  with Ricoh senior management. In order to ensure that  research findings are linked to real corporate activities—  as a research institute of a globally active company—the  advisory members consisting of the Institutes president  and advisors will give advice to and raise issues with Ricoh  senior management, and contribute to the realization of  a prosperous and sustainable society. The Institute will  study four areas with strong links to corporate activity— Economy, Environment, Resources and Energy, Social  Structure and Industry and Business and conduct  research that will be linked to practical corporate activities.  Ricoh intends to widely disseminate the results of its in- depth research gained from the linkage of studies and  corporate activities for the benefit of society at large and the  advancement of management studies. This institute will call upon business executives and intellectuals with advanced insight  from outside the company. Advisors: Kunio Nakamura (Chairman of the Board, Panasonic Corporation)   Shoei Utsuda (Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mitsui & Co., Ltd.)    Hiroyuki Itami (Professor, Tokyo University of Science) Nobuo Inaba President Ricoh Institute of Sustainability and Business   (Director & Corporate Executive Vice President  of Ricoh) Toward building a sustainable society The new Ricoh Institute of Sustainability and Business Ricoh Institute of Sustainability and Business The Institutes structure and concept President Advisors Advisory function (give advice and raise issues) Think tank function (provide information) Linkage of research  and corporate activities Give feedback on  management issues Research ndings Research elds Economy Environment,  Resources,  Energy Social Structure Industry and  Businesses Ricoh Group senior management Practical use in  corporate activities Ricoh Institute of  Sustainability and Business Advisory members  7 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 7 Feature Article CSR that is good for society and good for business Value-Creating CSR At an elementary school in Kabul in September 2005. Mohammed Wasseli, an  employee of NRG Benelux speaks in front of the students. This day was a special  day for the students because they did not have a single copier in the school before. Progress of our activities in Afghanistan In our Sustainability Report (Corporate Social Responsibility) 2007, we reported  on how we were supporting Afghanistans reconstruction efforts. This social  contribution activity was initiated by Ricoh Netherlands, then NRG Benelux  B.V., in response to its Afghan employees wish to help reconstruct their home  country. Since 2003 the company has donated 150 copiers to schools in Kabul  for duplicating learning materials, most of which had been destroyed in the war.  In order to guarantee maintenance service and supply deliveries for the school  machines, Ricoh Netherlands supported an Afghan national with founding his  own copier sales and service company in Kabul in 2007. This also contributed  to the economic independence of the area through the creation of employment  opportunities.  The project is widely recognized by the Afghan government and local  communities, also helping our business growth in the region. Our support for  Afghan reconstruction will continue and evolve; Ricoh Netherlands is currently  working with NGOs and Kabul University toward possible implementation of  projects designed to help bridge the digital divide*. * Digital divide refers to the gap in educational and employment opportunities, economic status  and so forth, between those who have access to information technology (e.g., computers and the  Internet, and who are literate in their use) and those who do not. After seven years of reconstruction assistance, the  social contribution program has grown as a business Ricoh is helping achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), a set of goals adopted by the United Nations in 2000 that aim  to resolve a variety of issues being faced by todays world. Among such activities, this Feature Article highlights the next installment  of our social contribution activities in Afghanistan that were initiated in 2003, the exploration of new possibilities for our social  contribution programs, employee awareness promotion, the recent launch of a cross-functional project, and others. Children studying at our field survey site in a deprived area in India (see page 10) Milestones in our support/business in Afghanistan To take responsibility for the future and contribute to the sustainable development of society,  Ricoh utilizes its core competencies to become part of the solution to todays social issues  with an eye on business. 2003 Donated 75 recycled copiers to schools in Kabul. Launched a local  sales and service unit (hired four engineers). Sold 60 copiers. 2005 Donated another 75 recycled copiers to schools and the Kabul  University. Increased the market share in the businesses with  governmental organizations, the United Nations, and NGOs, thanks  to the enhanced reputation through our donations and other support  programs.  2007 Nashuatec Kabul became an official sales agent of Ricoh with 17  employees. Sold 450 copiers and represented  60% of the sales in the  Kabul market. 2008 Implementation of reprographic site (with 14 employees) at the Afghan  Ministry of Education. Started to market in other regions.  2009  Workforce increased to 36 employees.   8 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 8 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Discussion at the stakeholder dialogue  Children and Najeeb Ahmad (right) with the new copier Participants in the dialogue meeting: Yuka Iwatsuki, ACE; Hideki Kaji, Save the  Children Japan; Keiko Kiyama, JEN; Miyoko Takagi, CARE International Japan;  Shoko Hashimoto, Chiaki Yamada, ADRA Japan; Toshiya Nishigori, UNDP; Teruhiko  Kawashima, IBM Japan; Tomoko Matsubara, Microsoft Corporation. Exploring new possibilities for our social  contribution programs Stakeholder dialogue on bridging the digital divide Ricoh intends to strengthen its global activities leading to both social  issue solutions and business opportunity creation, one example being the  Afghan project mentioned above. As stated in its management philosophy,  Ricoh will continue providing new value at the interface of people  and information. In accordance with this philosophy, we are planning  to launch a program to help those affected by the digital divide as an  extension of our business. To obtain broad perspectives and insight for  developing Ricohs quintessential programs, we hosted a dialogue meeting,  inviting representatives from among our stakeholders, including NGOs  and international organizations that work on social issues in developing  countries and corporations that lead the efforts to alleviate digital divide  issues. Ricohs participants comprised management strategists, technology  developers, and CSR people, among others. The meeting adopted the  World Caf* model, under which participants moved between small  discussion groups and engaged in active discussions. * The World Caf is a meeting and discussion technique where participants are divided  into smaller clusters, and reshuffled several times after a certain period. It is designed to  enhance participants knowledge and awareness through multiple processes of sharing  opinions with different members. New program ideas emerged through  opinion sharing among specialists with  diverse backgrounds During the discussion, which lasted about three hours, stakeholders  and Ricoh employees developed a short list of issues that Ricoh could  help resolve using its core business strengths, and discussed specific  program ideas for implementing those issues. As a result, three ideas  were developed, which intend to provide: (i) support for teachers, (ii)  marketing and logistic support in One-Village-One-Product campaigns,  and (iii) support for small and middle-sized companies. Through continued  communication with meeting participants, we will finetune these ideas  further, with a view to making them happen. Comments from meeting participants  There are few opportunities where NGOs and businesses get together  and discuss one theme on an equal footing. I found the discussion  approach innovative, allowing participants to bring their special knowledge  and expertise together, share opinions, and learn together to create  specific program ideas. (Ms. Matsubara, Microsoft)   As many countries in the world actually need the programs suggested  in the discussion, I hope to see the proposed programs implemented as  soon as possible with a small but quick start policy. (Mr. Nishigori,  UNDP) * To view more participant comments, please visit our website:  http://www.ricoh.com/csr/activity/special.html Its my great pride to work for a corporation  highly trusted by society.  nterview I Najeeb Ahmad Senior Provincial Engineer, Nashuatec Kabul I joined Nashuatec Kabul in January 2006. Originating from a copier donation project  for schools, this is the only copier maintenance service provider operating across  Afghanistan, and has earned and maintained trust from the public. The level of  confidence is manifested in the fact that governmental and UN organizations are among  key customers of the company and that we can fly with the UNs airplanes to visit our  customers in rural areas to provide maintenance services. We go to great lengths to  ensure that all our customers, including those who work in less secure areas, can  receive our service to the fullest extent possible, although we face many challenges— such as timely delivery of maintenance parts. All in all, working for Nashatec Kabul gives  me a great sense of pride.  9 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 9 BOP Volunteer Study Group Employees look to the future CSR workshop for enlightening people on social issues Our employees awareness is essential to resolving social issues  through business. For employees who already have a strong sense of  awareness, we regularly conduct study sessions for BOP volunteers  to learn about the plight of developing countries and the true nature  of social issues. To raise the awareness of all our employees, we  actively offer CSR study sessions in various divisions around the  company. At the CSR workshops conducted at the study sessions, we  ensure that employees gain personal insight and work on issues   by considering ways to solve social problems. We also participate in  the Stand Up and Take Action Campaign to share the significance of  resolving social issues with other employees*. *Please refer to page 47 for details. Roughly 4 billion of the worlds 6.8 billion people  live on less than 3,000 US dollars in annual  income. In a bid to eliminate poverty among  this so-called BOP (Base of the Pyramid), or  the socially disadvantaged living in developing  nations, many businesses aiming for a  sustainable society are being set up in various  regions. The Ricoh Group, a multinational firm  employing over 110,000 employees worldwide,  aims to harness its comprehensive strengths  to help solve social issues. As the first step in  such efforts, we have taken specific measures  such as the CSR workshop, Consideration of  BOP businesses by the Kokorozashi team and  Research activities in India in fiscal 2009.   The shock I felt while attending a CSR workshop led me  to a new approach to technical development. nterview I I could not write a single word I had been attending the regular employee study sessions, and  I happened to hear about CSR at one of these sessions. After a  general explanation on CSR, I participated in a workshop and  engaged in a group discussion. When asked what Ricoh could  do to solve poverty and other global issues using its mainstay  business, I could not write a single word. This experience was a  profound shock and—at the same time—it made me realize that  understanding issues in my head was not enough.  Participating in a division-wide contest made  CSR feel close to home This experience was the starting point and gradually helped  me share my thoughts on social contribution and corporate  profit making. I did not have an opportunity to immediately  use the knowledge at work, but several months later, I entered  a user-interface development contest held in the Controller  Development Division. I chose education as the theme,  because I had studied it earlier at a CSR study session. I created  a system that uses our multifunctional printers to provide  educational services in both advanced nations and developing  nations, and I won the contest. Wanting to develop new technology with a  focus on society I am currently engaged in developing new technology related to  future business plans. I believe that Ricoh can provide new value  to society by using its strengths (its value chain, conducting the  entire process from planning, development, manufacturing to  sales). When developing controllers in my line of work, I hope to  make proposals that incorporate a CSR perspective. Michitaka Fukuda Controller R&D Strategy Center & Development  10 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 10 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR  Launching business  Conducting tests of products and services in the BOP market  Conducting a market survey in selected localities  Finding issues and solutions along with local people  Gaining basic knowledge of BOP  Selecting target nations  Searching for cooperative partners  Proposing ideas for products and services Developing business Market Survey 2 (Pilot test activities on site) Market Survey 1 (Experiencing the local community) Preparations for a market survey (Getting to know BOP) Ms. Nakamoto (Ricoh) listens to children in a village, Uttar Pradesh, India Mr. Furukawa from Ricoh (right) interviews an entrepreneur in the village BOP business ideas start with on-site surveys  in India In March 2010, Ricoh conducted its first on-site survey in India. Roughly  70% of Indias population reportedly lives in rural areas, and many of  them are from low-income families. We went to a village near Mathura, a  mid-sized city in northern India. We visited entrepreneurs and schools in  the village, and talked to local people.  During this survey, we reaffirmed the importance of understanding  the regional situation first-hand and finding solutions to local problems  New cross-divisional volunteer team to  consider BOP business potential  In October 2008, we launched the Kokorozashi team which  discusses efforts to solve social issues, considers business  opportunities in the BOP market and takes action. The team was  formed when six employees who shared same Kokorozashi  (which means vision or motivation in Japanese) naturally came  together, and voluntarily decided to form a team. Members consist  of employees in new business strategy, new technology strategy,  and CSR division, including employees who have participated  in non-governmental organizations or the Japan Overseas  Cooperation Volunteers program. The teams approach is to drop all  conventional thinking that targets only advanced nations for Ricohs  business, and hold discussions with local community members in  target nations or regions to determine truly needed products and  services. In fiscal 2009, as the first step in these efforts, we began  searching for partners and gathering information by conducting  a market survey to identify the true problems and needs of  developing countries.  together with local residents when proceeding with BOP businesses.  We also learned that the important thing is how to connect a companys  sustainability with efforts aimed at making society affluent while  transcending the framework of individuals, countries and companies.  Ricoh plans to continue listening to the voices of local people and  consider products and services together with the community with  the goal of contributing to solving issues outlined in the Millennium  Development Goals. We believe that global issues that are difficult for one company to resolve on its own can be resolved  with the help of many partners. Ricoh welcomes the advice of its stakeholders and collaborate with  them in order to help bring about a sustainable society. Steps toward launching BOP businesses  10. 11. 11 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 The Spirit of Three Loves Principles for corporate  activities applied globally Code of Conduct to which  Ricoh executives and  employees adhere Ricoh Group Code of Conduct Ricoh Groups relative regulations, standards and manuals Ricoh Group CSR Charter Management philosophy Established  in 1986 Established  in 2003 Established  in 2003  Framework of corporate activities Love your neighbor Love your country Love your work Ricohs CSR is rooted in its corporate philosophy [Ricoh Group CSR Charter] [Founding Principles] [Management Philosophy] The Ricoh Group adheres to the The Spirit of Three Loves  philosophy advocated by our founder, Kiyoshi Ichimura. This  philosophy encourages people to Love your neighbor (as a  member of the global community), Love your country(and  planet) and Love your work (with a sense of mission). This  idea is the basis of the Ricoh Groups CSR initiatives. Ricohs  management philosophy was established in 1986 based on  these Guiding Principles so as to develop a corporate and  business structure that can respond to changes in todays  world, such as the acceleration of the advanced information  society and the diversification of values.  In addition, we established the Ricoh Group CSR Charter  and the Ricoh Group Code of Conduct in 2003 so as to lay  down common values and behavioral principles to share  globally among all employees. The Group also continues to roll out  CSR activities proactively with the understanding that CSR enhances  corporate value. Foundation of Ricohs CSR  Our Purpose To constantly create new value for the world at the interface of people  and information  Our Goal To be a good global corporate citizen with reliability and appeal  Our Principles To think as an entrepreneur To put ourselves in the other persons place To find personal value in our work  Integrity in Corporate Activities  1.  Every company in the Ricoh Group will develop and provide useful  products and services, with high quality, reliability and ease of use, while  maintaining security of information and giving proper consideration to   the environment.  2.  Every company in the Ricoh Group will compete fairly, openly and freely,  maintaining normal and healthy relationships with political institutions,  government administration, citizens and organizations.   3.  Every company in the Ricoh Group will take responsibility for managing  and safeguarding its own information and that of its customers.  Harmony with the Environment  4.  Every company in the Ricoh Group will take responsibility, as a citizen of  the world, working voluntarily and actively to preserve the environment.  5.  Every company in the Ricoh Group, and all employees of each  company, will seek to implement technological innovations that reflect  environmental concerns and will participate in ongoing activities to  preserve the environment. To grow as a respected enterprise, the Ricoh Group must fully discharge its corporate social responsibilities (CSR) from a consistent global  perspective and throughout every aspect of its operations. To ensure this, the following principles are to be observed, with the proper social  awareness and understanding, compliant with both the letter and the spirit of national laws and the rules of international conduct.  Respect for People  6.  Every company in the Ricoh Group will, apart from corporate group  activities, maintain a working environment that is safe and that makes it  easier for its staff to perform their duties, respecting their richly individual  characteristics and encouraging their autonomy and creativity.  7.  Every company in the Ricoh Group will respect the rights of all those  connected with it, and will seek to create a cheerful working environment,  free of discrimination.   8.  No company in the Ricoh Group will permit forced labor or child labor,  and none will tolerate infringement of human rights.  Harmony with Society  9.  Every company in the Ricoh Group will, as a good corporate citizen,  actively engage in activities that contribute to society.  10.  Every company in the Ricoh Group will respect the culture and   customs of its country or region, and will operate so as to contribute to  their development.  11.  Every company in the Ricoh Group will engage in the fullest possible  communication with society, actively seeking to provide proper and  unbiased disclosure of corporate information. Founder Kiyoshi Ichimura  12 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR The Ten Principles [Human Rights] 	Businesses	should	support	and	respect	the	protection	of	 internationally	proclaimed	human	rights;	and 	make	sure	that	they	are	not	complicit	in	human	rights	abuses. [Labour] 	Businesses	should	uphold	the	freedom	of	association	and	the	 effective	recognition	of	the	right	to	collective	bargaining; 	the	elimination	of	all	forms	of	forced	and	compulsory	labour; 	the	effective	abolition	of	child	labour;	and 	the	elimination	of	discrimination	in	respect	of	employment	 and	occupation. Signatory to the UN Global Compact (GC) The UN Global Compact, launched in July 2000, proposes ten principles in  the fields of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Ricoh  joined the Compact, as one of the first Japanese companies to do so and  [Integrity in Corporate Activities]  1. Providing customer-centric products  2. Free competition and fair trading  3. Banning insider trading  4. Managing corporate secrets  5. Limits on entertainment and gifts  6. Doing business with public bodies and making political  contributions  7. Strict control of exports and imports  8. Protection and use of intellectual properties  9. Participation in anti-social actions  10. Individual actions against the interests of the company  11. Protection of corporate assets [Harmony with the Environment] 12. Respecting the global environment  [Respect for People] 13. Respect for human rights [Harmony with Society] 14. Practical contributions to society  15. Harmonizing with society The Ricoh Group Code of Conduct The Ricoh Group Code of Conduct is intended to establish the basic  standards to ensure that Officers and Employees of the company,  when engaging in corporate activities to advance the Ricoh Group,  shall act in accordance with social ethics and in full compliance with  the law. History of CSR Activities and Awards 1936– 2000  Foundation (1936)  Receives the Deming Prize for excellent total quality management (Japan)  (1975)  Formulates the Ricoh Management Philosophy (1986)  Establishes a childcare support system (1990)  Establishes Ricoh Espoir Co., Ltd. (1994)  Establishes a support system for the nursing care of family members (1996)  Sets up a reserve fund for social contribution (1998)  Receives the Japan Quality Award (1999)  Volunteer Leave of Absence and Vacation System (1999) 2001– 2004  Establishes the Ichimura Nature School (2002)  The Ricoh Groups main production sites in the world achieve a 100%  resource recovery rate (Zero-Waste-to-Landfill) (2002)  Establishes the Corporate Social Responsibility Office (2003)  Establishes the Ricoh Group CSR Charter and Code of Conduct (2003)  Establishes a Hot Line for whistle blowing (2003)  Receives Gold Medal from World Environment Center (WEC), becoming the  first Asian company to be so honored (2003)  Obtains integrated certification for the ISMS Group (2004) 2005– 2008  Starts expanding CSR to our partner companies (Establishes the Ricoh Group  Supplier Code of Conduct) (2006)  Devises the Ricoh Group Supplier Code of Conduct (2006)  Receives CS No.1 Title in five categories including copier, printer and solution  (2007)  Starts activities of color universal design project (2007)  Begins holding events to read CSR reports with employees (2008)  Ricoh Europe signs on to the United Nations Global Compact (2008) 2009– 2010  Ranked 1st in the world (in the IT division) for corporate social responsibility  by Oekom Research AG of Germany (2009)  Selected as one of the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the  World for the sixth consecutive year by Corporate Knights (2009)  Selected as one of the Worlds Most Ethical Companies for the second   consecutive year by Ethisphere of the USA (2009)  Ricoh MFP became the worlds first multifunctional copier to meet the  international standard for information processing security (2009)  Received the Grand Prize for Environmental Reporting in the 13th  Environmental Communication Awards (Ministry of Environment) (2010)  Won the Special Award in the 13th Green Reporting Award and the Third Prize  in the 13th Sustainability Reporting Award (Toyo Keizai Inc.) (2010)  Established the Ricoh Institute of Sustainability and Business (2010) has been serving as one of the directors on the Global  Compact Japan Network since fiscal 2008.  [Environment] 	Businesses	should	support	a	precautionary	approach	to	 environmental	challenges; 	undertake	initiatives	to	promote	greater	environmental	 responsibility;	and 	encourage	the	development	and	diffusion	of	environmentally	 friendly	technologies. [Anti-Corruption] 	Businesses	should	work	against	corruption	in	all	its	forms,	 including	extortion	and	bribery. Please	visit	our	Web	site	for	the	Ricoh	Group	Code	of	Conduct	and	 the	Ricoh	Group	Supplier	Code	of	Conduct http://www.ricoh.com/csr/index.html	 The Ricoh Group Supplier Code of Conduct Devised in January 2006 to encourage the Ricoh Groups partner  companies to observe action guidelines conforming to the Ricoh  Group Code of Conduct.  13 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Three ideas const ituting the foundatio n of CSR Communication Stakeholders Employees Customers Share- holders Partner Companies Society Objective of Ricoh Group CSR To become a company that is admired by society and  whose continued growth is desired by people who—  wish to buy the companys  products  wish to invest in the company  wish to work for the company  wish to form a relationship with  the company  wish the company would enter  the market <Management Philosophy> Corporate image  the Ricoh Group wants to create Reliable and attractive  global company Sustainable Society Improving Corporate Value Value-Creating CSR Compliance Efforts Areas of CSR Initiatives Ricoh Group Partner Companies A company  with  appeal Earning the trust of  society Communication A P D A P A P D A P D C C CC C D PLAN CHECK ACT [Group wide PDCA]  DO [Functional PDCA] [Business unit PDCA] Taking CSR to the next level with PDCA In accordance with our three CSR founding principles, the Ricoh  Group engages in two-tier CSR activities with the goal to become  a company that is admired by society and whose continued growth  is desired. First-tier CSR points to the region of fundamental  responsibilities to society and second-tier CSR points to the region  of voluntary responsibilities to society, and we are promoting a wide  range of activities mainly in the four areas specified in the Ricoh  Group CSR Charter. We hope to achieve our CSR objective: earning  societys trust by permeating first-tier CSR, creating an attractive  company by expanding second-tier CSR activities, and at the same  time, increasing our corporate value. This is how we visualize a reliable and attractive global  company in line with our management philosophy, while  contributing to the development of a sustainable society. In  carrying out our activities, we join hands with other departments  depending on the theme and issue, and repeat the PDCA cycle* for  each topic. * PDCA cycle: continuous improvement management system   using a Plan-Do-Check-Act cycle  PDCA responsible for controlling group and business functions  Framework of the Ricoh Groups CSR Concept of CSR and its Development  14 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Level of contribution to building  a sustainable society Level of contribution to Ricohs growth Contribution to solving social issues  through business (Value creation CSR) Positive impact  toward society Response to expectations  and requests from  society Compliance with  laws and  in-house  rules Appointed/dismissed Appointed/dismissed Judges the  appropriateness of  accounting audits Audits  Internal control system   construction support   Internal audits  Accounting audits  Internal audits  Accounting   audits  Internal   audits Operations audits Operations audits Appointed/ dismissed General shareholders meeting Group Management Committee Headquarters  functions Internal Management  & Control Division etc. Board of  directors Nomination & Compensation  Committee Outside director Inside director Corporate governance and internal control system diagram Board of auditors Accounting auditor Afliated companies Afliated companies Business execution department Business execution department Business execution department Future direction  How we decide on CSR activities To further advance and deepen our CSR activities, the Ricoh Group  acknowledges social issues from various angles and sets important  agendas through dialogue with our stakeholders. Based on the draft  ISO 26000 international standard on social responsibility scheduled   Compliance efforts In addition to legal matters, we observe compliance in the framework  of manners and conscience, as well as engage in activities centering  on risk management and Business Continuity Plans (BCP). Particular  efforts are made to institutionalize the Ricoh Group Code of Conduct  Involving partner companies The Ricoh Group promotes CSR among its partner companies in  the supply chain. In addition to abiding by the Ricoh Group Supplier  Code of Conduct, we also developed a Self-Assessment Sheet to  evaluate suppliers current CSR performance. This enables us to   Value-Creating CSR The Ricoh Groups value creation CSR activities refer to initiatives  that use the Ricoh Groups resources such as technology, products,  services and human resources to contribute to solving the many issues  faced by society today. We consider CSR activities to be the engine  for simultaneously resolving social issues and achieving corporate  growth. We plan to enhance our value creation CSR activities with the  goal of creating a corporate culture where all employees are keenly  aware of social issues and spontaneously take action. to be released in December 2010, Ricoh is now reorganizing its past  efforts and reviewing them. By incorporating the globally common  standard ISO 26000, we hope to make our domestic and overseas  business activities more sustainable.  Corporate governance system  The Ricoh Groups corporate governance system  is designed to ensure transparent management  underpinned by strong business ethics and legal  compliance; to increase competitiveness in the  market; and ultimately to achieve sustainable growth  and increased group-wide enterprise value. We have  identified four key stakeholder groups—customers,  shareholders, employees, and society—and defined  respective policies to address each of these groups. We  have a corporate auditor system in place to strengthen  our board of directors, and an executive officer system,  to intensify our management oversight and business  execution. By appointing some of our directors from  outside the company, we ensure greater transparency. by ensuring that it permeates the thought processes and actions  of our employees. To this end, we are pushing ahead with related  education and assessment of understanding within the Group. continue our PDCA cycle and aim for further improvements. We ask  dealers to strengthen their CSR activities as part of our corporate  value improvement support program based on know-how gained  from Ricohs practices.  15 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Our Major CSR Activities and Plans (1/2) Targets for Our CSR Activities in the 16th Mid-Term Management Plan  (Fiscal 2008 to 2010) Description 2010 Targets (level) Integrity in corporate activities Quality management  Continuing efforts to maintain and improve the  quality management of the Ricoh Group by offering  opportunities and building systems to enhance product  quality, focusing on becoming more competitive in  order to continually provide customers with high value  products and services  Ricoh Group quality target achievement: 100% Customer Satisfaction activities  Implementing improvement and reforms to create value  for customers and a cycle in which PDCA functions  effectively and is autonomously established through  the management system  Established targets  CS target achievement: 100% Creation of user-friendly products  Offering designs that take into consideration  customers feelings and ease of use, to increase  customers satisfaction levels while retaining market  competitiveness  Achievement of easy-to-use designs: 100% Information security  Established a sense of information security within the  Group, affording strength to our business activities,  and receiving high evaluation  Establishing group-wide cooperation through the  Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to establish and review  the Groups infrastructure  Development and establishment of a Common Standard  for Information Security: 100%  Completion of 1 PDCA cycle in the BCPs of our major  business domains Risk management and internal control  Each employee acting in accordance with the Code  of Conduct; the effective operation of TRM to prevent  management risks  Written pledge to comply with the Ricoh Group Code of  Conduct (or equivalent form): 100%  Occurrence of management risk: zero (excluding risks  attributed to external environment)  Standardizing the internal control system of the Group  to contribute to an improvement in management  efficiency, thereby creating an effective mechanism for  preventing acts of dishonesty and accidents  Completion of an integrated internal audit system  by level and achieving zero material weaknesses  or significant deficiencies under the U.S. SOX Act  auditing Expansion of CSR to our partner  companies  The understanding of Ricohs CSR concepts and the  voluntary development of related activities by our major  partner companies  Major suppliers in Japan and China: Completing 1  PDCA cycle of CSR activities   Major dealers: Implementing CSR programs Efficient use of resources toward    a resource-circulating society  Reducing the total environmental impact due to the  effective use of resources, and resources that are  consistently being circulated  Increase the number of parts re-used from used products  Amount of re-used parts: 1,910 tons in Japan, 6,000  tons outside of Japan, etc. Implementation of advanced  environmental technology development  to address climate change; promotion  of reduced energy use by business  operations  Due to the implementation of advanced environmental  technology and reduced energy use by business  operations, CO2 emission volumes are falling and  reducing environmental impacts which cause climate  change  Reduce greenhouse gases caused by production  activities  CO2 emission volumes: down 12% compared with  fiscal 1990 (Ricoh and manufacturing subsidiaries in  Japan) etc. Strengthening chemical substance  control to create highly environmentally- safe products and business operations  Reducing risks of contamination by strengthening the  control system for creating highly environmentally-safe  products and business operations  Reduce emission of environmentally-harmful chemical  substances; Down at least 80% compared with fiscal  2000 (Ricohs manufacturing plants and manufacturing  subsidiaries) etc. Biodiversity conservation  Promoting activities to conserve the ecosystem, aimed  at improving the self-recovery capabilities of the global  environment  Conserving biodiversity from two perspectives:  business activities supported by society, and social  contribution activities Harmony with the environment  16 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Major Activity Plans, Achievements and Challenges for Fiscal 2009 Major activities Achievements Self evaluation  Challenges  Self-evaluation    : Exceeded plan     : Achieved plan  : Partially achieved plan  Defining and communicating Ricoh Quality   Reforming the Group-wide quality management  objective   Achieving Ricoh Quality under a flexible, business  line-specific approach   Developing human capital that makes Ricoh Quality a  reality  Defined and globally communicated Ricoh Quality  Built an indicator structure containing the concept of  Ricoh Quality  Conducted activities and human capital development  through pilot case    Conduct expanded Ricoh Quality  activities and established group- wide common indicators  Develop human capital through  practices that makes Ricoh  Quality a reality   Strengthening product design based on three Ricoh  Values  Made new products that pioneer the future, and  strengthened product design from the perspective of  ecology and user-friendly comfort    (Continue to) strengthen product  designs based on the three Ricoh  Values  Maintenance of common group-wide certification  and continued improvement of common measure  standards and overseas expansion   Prevention  of accidents and incidents  Continue implementing  information security education  Expansion of Business  Continuity Plan (BCP) and management  After the second inspection, efforts were continued at 52  domestic firms and 46 overseas firms. Common standards  were revised and implemented overseas  Achieved  improvements to incident and accident management  database and developed preventative measures   Implemented e-learning for all group employees   Devised action plan concerning the new strain of influenza    Boost efficiency in risk  assessment, and achieve  continued common standards for  overseas branches   Continue to offer education &  training  Implementation of Business Continuity Plan (BCP)  Implementation of the Total Risk Management Audit  Implementation of education on Code of Conduct  Building a system for preventing insider trading  Establishment of internal reporting systems   Devised the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for  responding to the new strain of influenza and major  earthquakes  Conducted audits of 71 divisions and  prepared for 49 risks  Conducted Code of Conduct  trainings and education programs  Built a pre- trade business application database  Promoted the  establishment of internal reporting systems overseas in  regions currently lacking them   Strengthen the TRM promotion  system  Specific progress in BCP   Implement Code of Conduct  education applied to each country  and region  Continue creation of  internal reporting systems outside  of Japan  Completion of an integrated internal audit system that  conducts comprehensive business audits and theme  audits under the U.S. SOX Act auditing  Completed integrated internal audits at 79 locations  (Ricohs divisions and affiliates) and proposed  improvements to newly discovered issues   Further promote internal control  contributing to the improvement  of management efficiency  Domestic implementation of supplier self-assessment  and preparation for the self-assessment in China  Steady implementation at domestic dealers   Implemented self-assessment and feedback at 224 firms   Built a system for assessment and support for dealers    Implement self-assessment in  China   Promote improvements based on  assessment results   Steady implementation of system rebuilt in the  Americas  Implemented reuse and recycle as planned by steadily  implementing system rebuilt in the Americas   Promote reuse and recycling in  all regions of the world  Implementation of well-planned energy-saving  measures in each division   Achieved CO2 emission reduction plan through  improvement activities in each division    Continue energy-saving  measures   Steady implementation of internal system meeting  Europes REACH regulation  Showed progress in data collection necessary  for disclosure via the steady implementation and  management of internal system meeting Europes REACH  regulation    Continue implementation and  review   Specifying categories mentioned in policy  Clarifying  direction in preserving biodiversity  Creating action  guidelines for offices and plants  Standardizing paper  procurement standards  Considering direction of  incorporating environmental education   Clarified direction in preserving biodiversity   Standardized paper procurement standards  Determined  direction of incorporating environmental education,  implemented employee activities linked to regions and  business divisions  Determined forest preservation project   Set up an environmental portal site   Implement biodiversity  preservation activities within  business activity regions and  efforts toward EMS  17 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Our Major CSR Activities and Plans (2/2) Targets for Our CSR Activities in the 16th Mid-Term Management Plan  (Fiscal 2008 to 2010) Description 2010 Targets (level) Respect for people A vital and motivated culture  Completing creation of an organization where each  individual—regardless of gender, age, employment  contract or nationality—can fully exert his/her skills (1) Percentage of female managers: 1.5% (2)  Continue obtaining certification as a company that  contributes to the development of future generations Creating a safe, healthy and  comfortable working environment  Establishing a safe and healthy working environment  for the employees of the Ricoh Group, in which they  can exercise their abilities to the full, in turn improving  business performance  Achieving management indicator goals regarding safety  and health  Implementing, improving and establishing  a mechanism to manage safety and health  Starting the  development of measures and mechanisms on safety and  health within the Group Promoting autonomy and creativity in  the workplace  Achieving effective functioning of the motivation  cycle at Group companies in and outside Japan; and  each Ricoh employee setting higher goals and taking  on challenges responsibly. This in turn contributes to  the performance of the company and its organizations,  enhancing employee satisfaction and creating a sense of  growth  Obtaining and developing human resources to  foster leaders in and outside Japan toward the growth  of the global market; their nurturing, positioning and  optimal utilization for the whole Group      Establishing a system for handing down technologies,  skills and know-how  Ricoh: exceeding the best points in previous surveys  for important items in the employee satisfaction survey   Group companies: establishing a management cycle  to motivate employees  Constructing a mechanism to  select, acquire, systematically nurture and utilize human  resources, in order to create business leaders for the  Ricoh Group  Establishing a mechanism to acquire,  select, appoint and evaluate key personnel to realize our  strategies  Establish a mechanism to promote activities  to hand down technologies, skills and know-how for each  function, and implementing education Social contribution activities  Improving the visibility and participation rate of  FreeWill, a social contribution activity, across the Ricoh  Group  Visibility of FreeWill among Ricoh employees: 85%;  participation rate: 40%  Employees participating in the Ricoh Science  Caravan, in which Ricoh acts in cooperation with local  communities, taking advantage of its corporate power,  and the wide development of this program across  Japan  Domestic: Repeatedly hosted at five central locations,  established structure for nationwide practice  (establishing an organization to cooperate with NPOs) Subsidiaries and business sites in Japan and overseas  sharing activities, creating social contribution in  harmony with local communities  Building a mechanism to collect and share information  on activities within the Group that promote voluntary  activities Communication  Establishing and implementing Ricohs unique  communication style  Completing a new communication style  Developing color universal design (CUD) initiatives to  offer the benefits of colors to society, the CUD concept  being reflected in our products and communication  tools  Reflection rate of CUD concept in our products and  communication tools: 100%  Implementing activities aimed at earning the public  trust in each Ricoh Group company in the field of user- friendliness  Setting up and developing themes at major Group  companies  Creating products, services and solutions that  contribute to realizing a sustainable society  New themes being set and implemented Harmony with society Value-Creating CSR  18 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Major Activity Plans, Achievements and Challenges for Fiscal 2009 Major activities Achievements Self evaluation  Challenges  Self-evaluation    : Exceeded plan     : Achieved plan  : Partially achieved plan  Promotion of diversity (empowering women)   Implementation of work-life management   Continued information-sharing activities with group firms,  launched Career Support Program for career female  employees to come back to the work after childcare  leaves   Re-established a system to support work-life balance,  implemented Seminar for Papas, implemented  employee satisfaction surveys on work-life management  to review work styles   Create appropriate environment  and disseminate information to  raise awareness of employees  and managers   Efforts toward improving group management  indicators  Improvements and sustained development of  occupational safety and health standards  Creation of a group mechanism for optimal safety and  health  Devised common group-wide safety standards,  implemented a group-wide stress check, strengthened  a health-management follow-up system  Standardized  a risk assessment guide targeting injuries and chemical  substances within the group  Built a new health  management system and common group-wide mental  health program    Further strengthen improvements  to group management indicators   Continue to create a group  mechanism for optimal safety  and health  Training personnel by personality type   Achieving structure and promotion of career  development   Developing global personnel  Released a database for sharing information on the  four manager education courses and activities aimed at  passing on skills to future generations   Promoted a challenge toward individual employee goals  through career design training   Expanded educational menus and made pre-overseas- dispatch training compulsory   Strengthen training personnel  by personality type and promote  activities aimed at passing on  skills to future generations   Implement support measures for  career development   Devise educational programs for  global personnel candidates   Investigation into visibility of FreeWill and activities  aimed at boosting participation rate  Implemented FreeWill 10th anniversary events for  promoting acknowledgement and membership   Implement a new structure for  the content and dissemination  method for improving the  visibility and participation rate of  FreeWill  Expanding Ricoh Science Caravan  (Child participant goal: 9,500 children a year)  Established a system for implementing cooperation  with affiliates nationwide; achieved roughly 13,500 child  participants, largely surpassing the goal   Improve quality of current  program and proposed new  program   Sharing activities between offices and companies in  Japan and overseas  Collected 23 CSR Hikarimono from each overseas  region (improvement from last year)  Improved the web  dissemination case numbers and shared information with  regions in a timely manner   Collect and share information  from each overseas region  in fields outside of social  contribution activities  Considering and testing Ricohs unique and new  communication style  Implemented dialogues, meeting targets and purposes,  and factory visits for shareholders   Review current activities through  the ISO 26000 perspective  Expanding color universal design (CUD) activities  Released products equipped with CUD-compatible- printing  Released CUD certified digital cameras   Continued development of communication tools   Built structure for evaluating maturity    Establish maturity evaluation  and establish activities through  developing standardization   Activities aimed at selected themes  Conducted activities under selected themes at three  firms, but progress is partially delayed    Propose measures to deal with  each firms agendas   Planning theme related to resolving global social  issues  Conducted market survey in India for the BOP market and  understanding of needs   Conducted dialogues to create a new social contribution  program  Propose specific BOP business  programs Decide target  countries, regions and partners  19 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Ricoh Values Long-term vision Management philosophy Reliance on the Ricoh brand —Contributing to the process of expanding value created by customers—  Ricoh Quality is the process of providing  products and services of ever higher quality  that consistently delight and inspire  customers and of co-creating value Consistently delighting and inspiring our customers Customers society Ricoh Quality <Brand Statement> Our sincerity and passion for the  Ricoh Values of harmonizing with the  environment, simplifying life and  work, and support knowledge  management, helps people move their  ideas forward To establish a global brand To be a good global corporate citizen with reliability and appeal Harmonize with the  environment Simplify your life and work Support knowledge management Integrity in  Corporate Activities Quality Management/Customer Satisfaction Activities—Ricoh Quality— Ricoh Quality provides products and  services of the highest quality that consistently delight and  inspire our customers, and co-creating value Plan for Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Activities Review At the Ricoh Group, nothing  is exempt from our quality  management activities. All our  divisions are striving to improve  and reform their operations  in order to enhance customer  satisfaction. In other words, we  want to ensure that everything  we do—which of course  includes, but is not limited to  product-related processes, such  as manufacturing, sales, and  services—is customer driven.  We aim to raise the level of the  quality of our products and  services continuously: making  customers experiences evolve  from reassurance to amazement.  Going forward, we will work to  establish Ricoh Quality through  our Group-wide efforts and  solidify trust-based relationships  with customers. <Ricoh Group> Defining and communicating  Ricoh Quality In addition to realizing quality that exceeds  customer expectations, we announced the  Ricoh Quality Statement globally over the  web with the goal of improving awareness  of the fact that we are seeking values that  customers want based on their perspectives. Reforming our Group-wide  quality objective management  systems for greater customer  value In order to engage in full-scale activities  starting fiscal 2010, we changed our group  quality target system and built a Ricoh  Quality indicator system reflecting our  thoughts. Achieving Ricoh Quality   under a flexible, business   line-specific approach We conducted a pilot program for Ricoh  Quality activities, and identified Ricohs  insistency for implementing activities. Developing human capital that  makes Ricoh Quality a reality We have been training employees through  the Ricoh Quality activity pilot program. <Ricoh Group> Steady development of  activities to implement Ricoh  Quality (expanding target  divisions and fields) We will expand target divisions and fields  from our pilot program activities in fiscal  2009; not only to steadily achieve basic  quality, but also to determine what is most  important for customers and engage in  steadily developing activities to implement  Ricoh Quality to include the key elements in  our products and services. Establishing the Ricoh Quality  group-wide common indicator Based on the knowledge gained from  implementing activities, we will establish the  Ricoh Quality group-wide common indicator  in order to determine the direction they  should take.   Developing human capital that  makes Ricoh Quality a reality We are training staff who can voluntarily  engage in plan-do-check-act (PDCA) and to  ensure that every single employee involved  in the implementation of Ricoh Quality  tracks, understands and determines what  values are significant for customers.  The value expected by customers from  products and services has been changing  recently. High-quality features and highly  functional, highly reliable products have  become standard and even taken for  granted. Something extra is required to  convince customers to choose certain  products and services. Ricoh Quality means  delivering products and services that will  make customers say, This is something  that only this service can provide, or Im  glad we chose this, or I want to continue  using this, and seeking consistent quality  that always delights and inspires customers.  All Ricoh Group employees should share the  same ethos, embody Ricohs own distinctive  values (the Ricoh Values) in the process of  co-creating values and providing products  and services to all customers, and conduct  creative activities in order to not only just  delight customers but also inspire them. Thoughts behind Ricoh Quality How we position Ricoh Quality  20 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR The Ricoh Quality Statement We will always remain trustworthy  and attractive for customers,  consistently delighting and  inspiring our customers by  innovating while partnering with  them to create valuable products  and solutions. Consistently delighting and  inspiring our customers Ricoh Quality activities consist  of the plan-do-check-act (PDCA)  cycle in the chart. Plan Act Do Customers Check Activities to make up for  competitive weaknesses and  missing features, and speedily  respond to problems occuring in  the market Activities to get to know  customers through understanding  the conditions of use,  environment for use, and purpose  of use, and discover customer  values in order to improve them Response Plan to problems incurred Plans to increase customers value creation Activities for Ricoh (implementer)  to evaluate whether the target  figures set for features and  functions are being achieved Activities for customers to  evaluate how much their value  targets have been met Evaluation by Ricoh Evaluation by customers Activities to concentrate on and  achieve features and functions  allotted to individuals and their  organizations Individual activities to optimize oneself Activities to implement a thorough  organization-wide improvement of  features, functions and measures  toward common goals that  maximize customer values Total optimization activity Activities to prevent recurrences  and responding to problem  solving Resolving issues Activities to forecast customers  expectations and potential  values and achieving them Forecasting and looking ahead customer. Within the Group, it is a promise  to clarify Ricohs dedication and vision and  to express our intent to continue innovation  (management and administrative reform)  to boost corporate value, and contribute to  establishing a strong global Ricoh brand.   Ricoh Quality activities Ricoh Quality activities focus on creating  new customer value based on the strong  foundation of CS and quality management.  United by a common purpose, all group  employees share and understand the  basis for Ricoh Quality and are dedicated  to innovation on behalf of our customers.  Before proceeding with our new quality  activities, we conducted trials between  August 2009 and March 2010, discovering  key points and issues which we then  integrated into our program. Based on  conventional quality management, we were  able to clarify the PDCA cycle for new Ricoh  Quality activities. (Chart below)  In fiscal 2010, we will expand our  program throughout the group and  steadily implement real world activities  incorporating actual products and services.  In addition, through these activities, we hope  to understand the true value that customers  are seeking, train Ricoh Quality employees  who can perform PDCA on their own, and  proceed with comprehensive programs for  fine-tuning Ricoh specific values. Ricoh Quality Statement  announced The Ricoh Group announced the Ricoh  Quality Statement in March, 2010,  expressing its profound commitment to the  The PDCA of Ricoh Quality activities  21 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 40.0 *By Ascii Media Works 50.0 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 78.4 77.3 72.2 68.8 73.3 66.9 64.3 60.4 75.0 71.2 87.8 62.5 60.7 63.6 68.6 71.4 69.3 61.6 59.6 61.1 62.2 60.6 71.0 60.0 63.6 63.1 74.4 70.9 75.0 at time of deciding purchase post-purchase 89.9 Comprehensive satisfaction level 80.1 points (post-purchase) 79.6 points (at time of deciding purchase) Manufacturer brand Design Size and weight of main unit Image quality Start-up time Shutter lag Continuous shooting Optical zoom Wide-angle shooting Dynamic range (ISO sensitivity) Easy to hold when shooting Easy to see through the LCD and finder Battery run time Accessory variety Cost performance Ricoh Quality activities, from manufacturing sites to global sales network In order to provide specific values to our customers, we have launched various innovations in all business activities,  including not only products and services but also development and design, on-site sales, and the creation of a  global sales support system. We would like to introduce some of these activities here.  Example 1 : Ricoh Quality Activities Defining customer value in  digital cameras <Ricoh Group/Global> Ricohs digital camera business, as  exemplified by the GR DIGITAL series,  has been transforming into a business  that provides the features, functions  and values that customers are looking  for. This is partly the result of limiting  our target to gear enthusiasts and keen  photographers, and consistently focusing  on the expansion of the shooting range*,  as we continue to innovate. All members  of the camera division share a common  vision and understanding of exactly why  they are developing cameras. They are  aware of the features and functions desired  by customers through feed back on their  own blogs in addition to tracking customer  needs through marketing data. Surveys  clearly show that these efforts result in an  amazing experience for customers. Ricoh ranked first in comprehensive  scores in an Ascii Media Works survey  of compact digital camera satisfaction  conducted in January 2009. Specifically,  Ricoh ranked first regarding optical zoom  range, and received a high evaluation  regarding wide-angle shooting features.  In addition, although customers post- purchase satisfaction generally tends to  decrease from pre-purchase levels (as  the graph shows) Ricohs post-purchase  satisfaction levels rose in most categories,  showing that many users experiencing  satisfaction beyond their initial expectations.  We feel that we truly understood the value of  expanded shooting range, which customers  with a real understanding of cameras  insist on, and we continued to reform our  manufacturing process, resulting in many  customers gaining satisfaction exceeding  their expectations. Using this evaluation as  reference, Ricoh will continue to provide  customers with cameras that give them an  amazing experience during use.  *  Expansion of the shooting range refers to a feature  allowing photos to be taken under all conditions,  reducing incorrect exposures and increasing shooting  opportunities. With the GXR digital camera, the unit that  houses the lens, image sensor and image- processing engine can be removed from  the body and replaced by a different unit. Ricoh Cameras comprehensive satisfaction level and satisfaction level by category     (At time of deciding purchase and post-purchase) Integrity in  Corporate Activities Quality Management/Customer Satisfaction Activities—Ricoh Quality—  22 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Customers  management issues Providing value to customers Cost reduction Training of human resources Reducing environmental impact Improving productivity Ricoh Groups in-house  implementation know-how Consulting  service IT  solutions Operating service Reducing manufacturing costs Training seven types  of human resources Energy conservation, visualization  of CO2, Improvements Improving  manufacturing process Example 2 : Ricoh Quality Activities Example 3 : Ricoh Quality Activities Establishing a superior global  sales support system  <Ricoh Group/Global> Ricoh built a global sales network based  in the five regions (Japan, the Americas,  Europe, Asia-Pacific and China) that  responds to customer needs. However,  there were no full-scale global marketing  functions that covered both advanced  nations and developing countries, as  the standard of values for products and  services differs significantly. For this  reason, the company was not able to meet  customer demands in all areas, such as  sufficiently providing products and services  standardized on a global level.   New businesses provide know- how of group management  <Ricoh Group/Japan> As part of Ricoh Quality activities, we are  making efforts to boost quality—not only in  providing products and services—but even  during the process of co-creating values  with customers. Our business concept is  Customers Customer Success, which  means we will continue providing value  with the aim of satisfying the customers  own customer. In doing so, management  know-how is the most important factor  in supporting the customers innovation  and realizing success. This is why the  Ricoh Group began a new service called  CIS (Customer Innovation Support  Service), which itemizes and makes  available to the customer a range of know- how in management reorganization and  administrative reform that Ricoh itself  has been implementing using the Groups  comprehensive strengths. For example, we  are providing solutions and consultation  on improving administrative processes in  fields such as manufacturing, including  improvements of on-site manufacturing  processes, improvements of the five Ss,  and training employees in manufacturing;  the sustainable environmental management  field including the visualization of energy  consumption, environment improvement,  and building environmental management  systems; and the CSR field such as building  structures for internal control, support for  obtaining ISO 27001 ISMS (information  security management system) certification,  and support in training security personnel;  and other fields. In order to provide higher  value to customers, we will continue to  implement activities such as (1) creation  of customer value by all employees from  a customer first perspective (2) ensuring  that customers consistently evaluate  our support for customer innovation (3)  pursuing activities aimed at raising in- house implementation levels. By continuing  to follow this cycle of activities, Ricoh  believes it can build a bond of trust with  customers and continue to grow into a  company that inspires customers. In order to reform such a sales  structure, Ricoh in 2005 established Ricoh  Global Services, an organization specializing  in organically linking sales subsidiaries in  each region. The organization can offer  optimal technical support by sharing  customer information on a global scale  through the use of a CRM (Customer  Relationship Management) system that  supports technical support activities during  global negotiations. In June 2009, we  established the Global Marketing Group,  which offers marketing support in each  region,  maintaining an optimal balance  between globally unified strategies and  locally sensitive strategies, and offering  businesses that best match customer  needs, regional characteristics and product  features. As a way of strengthening control  of Ricohs global sales network in the five  regions, we launched Ricoh Japan Corp., a  sales subsidiary in Japan in July 2010. We  are now strengthening our timely response  to customers nationwide while maintaining  our local-community-focused sales  network, which is one of Ricohs strengths.  Amidst such activities, all employees share  the measurement tool (insistence and vision)  called Ricoh Quality, while each region joins  hands to create new customer value. For more information on our efforts to maintain quality, please visit  http://www.ricoh.com/csr/activity/integrity/quality.html For more information on our maintenance services, please visit  http://www.ricoh.com/csr/activity/integrity/support.html  Examples of providing Customer Innovation Support Service  23 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Design values Ricoh design image* Level of satisfaction Brand recognition Brand image Intention of  purchase Impression Management philosophy Customer-oriented Ricoh Values Loyalty Results of loyalty PDI concept Resulting action (purchase) Customers opinions Products Brand strength (trust from customers) Brand value All customers handling information Harmonize with  the environment Simplify your  life and work Support knowledge management Ricoh Values Creating fresh ideas to  innovate the future Creating usability and  a comfortable feeling Ecological design Design values Customer-driven approach to product development, aiming at  greater user comfort and longer product life Plan for Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Activities Review With the advancement in  performance and the increase  in functions of information  equipment as well as the  colorization of information,  manufacturers are now more than  ever required to develop safe  and usable products in all parts  of the world. Ricoh is developing  user-friendly products to offer the  benefits of information technology  to as many users as possible  and at a higher level. To this  end, we have been promoting  the concept of Product Design  Identity (PDI)*, where we develop  products from the perspective  of three design values based  on Ricoh Values (harmonize  with the environment, simplify  your life and work and support  knowledge management). * A philosophy and actions for achieving  integrated designs that enable customers who  use our products to recognize Ricohs originality <Ricoh Group> Stepping up our product  development based on the  three Ricoh Values  1) Create fresh ideas to innovate the future Adopting a customer-driven approach  and assessing the intrinsic essence of  our products, we will offer products and  services with attractive shapes, colors  and sounds.  2) Developing products with usability and   comfort We will reflect universal design and color  universal design in our products. To offer convenient and user-friendly   operability to our customers, we will  introduce the design of large-size color  liquid crystal operation screens. 3)Ecological design From the viewpoint of energy and  resource conservation and pollution  prevention, we will create for sustainable  and environmentally-friendly designs. <Ricoh Group> Stepping up our product  development based on the  three Ricoh Values 1)  Create fresh ideas to innovate the future GXR: Ricoh developed an interchangeable  unit camera system where the lens,  image sensor, and image-processing  engine are combined into one unit. By  allowing the use of different units the  systems possibilities are expanded. The  new system offers easy lens exchange,  high-quality resolution and mobility when  shooting. 2) Developing products with usability and   comfort (i) Color Universal Design incorporated  printing feature: When printing, this  feature transforms colors into colors that  even people with imperfect color vision  can differentiate, enabling users to make  their documents more understandable to  a wider range of people. (ii) App2Me: This provides a way to set up  and control the features of multifunctional  digital copiers on a PC or other device.  The simple and clear design was highly  rated.* 3)Ecological design Eco-friendly multifunctional copiers:  These copiers contain an average of  more than 80% reusable parts that have  met the same quality standards as new  products. We released the imagio Neo  300RC/250RC, with greatly reduced CO2  emissions during manufacturing, and won  high praised from external sources. *  * Won the fiscal 2009 Good Design Award. Outline of PDI concept Offering Ricoh Values from a customer perspective Integrity in  Corporate Activities Creation of User-Friendly Products * 1) Ricohs originality recognized by customers as a result of products based on the   PDI concept   2) Having our customers expect convenient and user-friendly products from Ricoh,   and feel a sense of trust  24 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Standard Gothic New Gothic Standard Gothic New Gothic Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Drag and drop a file onto a  widget on the computer Choose your own widget on  the multifunctional copiers  control panel Push the start key (1) (2) (3) Contributing to the creation of  the IAUD/UD matrix by creating  examples of products that fit <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Ricoh continues to develop products that  fit, for example, detailed consideration for  diverse users in the field of operational  environment of multifunctional digital  copiers. Through these technologies  and know-how, we actively participate in  creating the UD matrix which the IAUD*  is working on in order to contribute to the  expansion of UD incorporated products and  services. This matrix is aimed at creating  a tool that can be used commonly in UD  development. In addition to the conventional  Excel and Web versions, the IAUD created  book-style tools in February 2010. We can  boost the efficiency of development and  deepen understanding of diverse users by  referencing actual examples and matrices as  necessary at product development divisions  at companies, schools, and small to  medium-sized companies lacking research  divisions. At Ricoh, we will continue to  inspect matrices and make improvements,  and pursue user-friendly designs that  make it easier for more people to use our  products and services. *  International Association for Universal Design http://www.iaud.net/ We darkened the color of the paper ejector to make it  easier for users to see the paper. In addition, we added a  lamp that lights to notify users when fax paper is ejected,  making it easier to confirm from a distance. Example of multifunctional digital  copier (imagio MP C5000it) that was  provided for the IAUD/UD matrix When we designed the New Gothic font, we emphasised  the differences between similar letters to make it easier to  distinguish between them.  Easy-to-distinguish letters The IAUD/UD Matrix  user information guide  and examples which is  laid out like a book and  contains many examples Using the Eco-friendly print widget Developed a font that is easier  to see and read <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> As society continues to gray, an  increasing number of people are suffering  from weak eyesight due to amblyopia,  presbytism and cataracts. Meanwhile,  people are using digital equipment  such as cell phones and digital TVs  more than ever. At Ricoh—which has  developed many different font designs  in the past—we believed that under  these circumstances, it was important to  develop fonts that are easy to see, easy  to read, and easy on the eyes for all users  including healthy people, the elderly,  and those with visual impairments.  Therefore, we realized a New Gothic font  designed to make it easier to decipher  letters intuitively. In developing this new  font, we actually had 20 elderly people  evaluate the font and test the quality.  Ricohs fonts, including the New Gothic,  are contributing to improving operations  with easy-to-read and easy-to-see letters,  and used in in-vehicle information  systems in BMWs, cell phones, medical  devices, digital home appliances, etc. Developed App2Me software  which makes it easier to use the  multifunctional copier features  that customers want to use <Ricoh Group/Global> Ricohs imagio series of multifunctional  digital copiers are equipped with many  features that boost efficiency and are  eco-friendly. However, survey results  show that users are not sufficiently using  these features because the features are  difficult to understand or the setting is  difficult. For this reason, Ricoh developed  App2Me software which enables users to  access features on multifunctional digital  copiers through easy manipulation on the  screens of devices such as PCs and cell  phones familiar to customers. We then  made the software downloadable online.  During the development stages, we sought  feedback from general users as well as IT  professionals and bloggers, and clarified the  values that App2Me can provide to users.  Using App2Me, users can—for example— use a tool called a widget* on their own  PC screen, set printing preferences  such as double-sided printing or saddle- stitch binding, and easily print out from a  designated multifunctional copier over the  network just by dragging and dropping the  document onto the widget (Refer to chart).  By setting up a file name and the destination  to save to beforehand on the PC, users  can easily digitize paper documents. The  App2Me service is currently available in  Japan, the Americas, Europe and Asia, and  is scheduled to be offered in more regions  soon. *  A simple application that can easily set up a  multifunctional copiers features on a PC. There are  widgets for each feature such as scanning and printing. For more information, visit the App2Me web site  http://www.app2me.com  25 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Social awareness drive External communication tools Internal communication tools Products  Body displays  Supply packages  Manuals  Informationboards/ notices at business  sites  Internal materials  Websites  Reports/ company brochures/ catalogues  Showrooms  Proposals to  customers/ presentation  materials Ricoh promotes color functions  of office documents ahead of  its rivals. One of Ricohs major  business pillars is bringing  multifunctional color copiers  and printers to the market which  users can enjoy and with which  they can leverage color to convey  information more effectively.  Nevertheless, there are many  people with imperfect color  vision, who face obstacles in an  increasingly colorized society.  Color universal design (CUD),  which addresses these issues,  has become a social mission at  Ricoh in line with colorization  of information. Color universal  design (CUD), which addresses  these issues, has become a  social mission at Ricoh in line  with colorization of information.  We promote CUD activities as  a common CSR theme for the  Ricoh Group. We will step up  our efforts to incorporate CUD  into more products and fields of  communication and create an  environment in which everyone can  enjoy the benefits of color.   <Ricoh Group/Japan> Expanding CUD to new  products and services We will continue to actively incorporate CUD  into our products and services. Expanding CUD to  communication media We will incorporate CUD into sales proposals  for customers and presentation materials for  large-scale stakeholder meetings and other  occasions. We will also incorporate CUD into  the new building (under construction) of the  Ricoh Technology Center in Ebina City. Spreading the maturity-level  review By using the maturity-level review several  times since its full-scale operation,  we will raise the maturity level of each  organizational unit. In addition, we will  consider measures to help CUD key persons  continue their promotion activities.  Standardizing CUD procedures We will standardize CUD incorporation  procedures to ensure that CUD is reflected  appropriately in our publications and other  materials, and make CUD procedures one of  our normal practices. <Ricoh Group/Japan> Expanding CUD to new  products and services We continued to incorporate CUD in our  multifunctional copiers, printers and digital  printers. We also incorporated CUD into new  digital cameras. (e.g.: imagio MP C1800  multifunctional digital copier, CX2 digital  camera and other models.) Expanding CUD to  communication media We used CUD on notice boards/posters,  reports, company brochures, reports to  shareholders and other documents at Ricoh  Groups offices and plants. We incorporated  CUD into our show rooms upon renovation,  and newly obtained certifications under the  Color Universal Design Management System  (CUDMS) standards at PIC* Shinagawa and  PIC Kansai.  *PIC (Printing Innovation Center) Building a maturity-level  review system We developed a system for voluntarily  reviewing the maturity level of CUD activities  in each organizational unit. Plan for Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Activities Review  Expansion of color universal design activities About Color Vision Diversity *  Affects one male in 20 and one female in 500, totaling about 3 million people in Japan and  more than 200 million people worldwide. * Source: Color Universal Design Organization (CUDO) In the retinas of the human eye there are three kinds of cells  designed to sense the wavelengths of red, green and blue light,  respectively. Imperfect functioning of any of these cells results in  imperfect color vision. Most affected people are classified as type  P, with imperfect sense of red light, or type D, having imperfect  sense of green light. Persons with all the cells functioning  perfectly are classified as type C. Imperfect color vision is  hereditary through the X chromosome, and often found in males  possessing only one X chromosome*.  People with imperfect color vision experience the   following problems:   Inability to quickly grasp the meaning of colored information boards at   train stations, and having to read the words to understand a warning   or direction;   Difficulties in making distinctions in color-coded charts and figures and referring to  legends;   Difficulty in differentiating buttons on screens and operation panels;   Difficulty in reading highlighted sections on electronic bulletin boards; Creating an environment in which anyone can perceive colors  freely and easily Integrity in  Corporate Activities Color Universal Design  26 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Voices of CUD promotion key persons Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR In normal printing In the print quality tab in the  printer driver, just check off  Color Universal Design  Incorporated printing  Seen by the general public and by Type C  An example of what those with    imperfect vision see  Seen by the general public and Type C  An example of what those with    imperfect vision see In CUD printing mode Difficult to see the  border between orange  and green Borders in the graphs  and colors are  clearly different! Difficult to see the  border between purple  and blue Easy to differentiate  colors even by the general  public and by Type C *  Because we change the shades of colors difficult for those with imperfect color vision to see, some colors may not  change at all. In addition, some colors may print out completely different from how they look on the original data.  * We cannot guarantee that all people with imperfect color vision will be able to differentiate these colors. * We recommend the use of Microsoft Office 2007. CUD incorporated printer  functions ensuring easy  operation for those with  imperfect color vision <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Until now, Ricoh had been providing easy- to-use multifunctional digital copiers  incorporating CUD mainly in the display  panels LED lamp color or display and  screen. Ricohs high-speed, color,  multifunctional copier imagio MP C7501/ C6001—released in January 2010—is  the industrys first printer to incorporate  CUD. With this feature, users can select  CUD incorporated printing, which will print  out colors that are easier for those with  imperfect color vision to see. For example,  the red will come out with a stronger  magenta, while the green will come out  closer to blue-green. CUD activities based on a master  plan with the participation of all  employees <Ricoh Numazu Plant/Japan> Ricoh Numazu Plant, which is a production  site for consumables, has established a  cross-sectional structure to promote CUD  activities led by key persons in each division.  These members devised a Master Plan  with the goal of creating an ideal society  where CUD is incorporated unconsciously  at offices and plants. The plan promotes  the participation of all employees. Starting  fiscal 2009, we have been incorporating  CUD activities into our Occupational Safety  and Health Management System to polish  the content. To get all 1,900 employees at  Ricoh offices and plants to incorporate CUD  into their daily activities, we implemented  the following activities:   1)  Implemented detailed education of CUD  key persons selected from each division 2)  Built a tool that shows simulated images  of how those with imperfect color vision  see certain target objects as well as  the before and after images of target  objects, then visualized and shared results 3)  Shared awareness by using methods  showing efforts, such as making an  original CUD certification mark at offices  and plants, and displaying them on  locations where improvements were  made. Through these promotional  activities, we won the 10th Shizuoka  Universal Design Grand Prize in the  promotional activities division. Incorporating CUD when  constructing new buildings at  R&D bases <Ricoh Technology Center/Japan> Ricoh aims to further raise its level of CUD  incorporation at its offices and plants. For  example, at the Ricoh Technology Center in  Ebina, it aimed to incorporate CUD into all  possible equipment in the newly built office  in August 2010 such as the light switches,  elevator buttons and A/C switches. For this  reason, Ricoh aims to closely join hands  with companies in charge of facilities and  equipment, and share its CUD awareness. The industrys first CUD-incorporated printer features Major awards won Tokyo Metropolitan Government:  58th annual Tokyo Metropolitan  Governments social welfare convention  Governors Certificate of Appreciation for  Community Leaders (January 2010) Shizuoka Prefectural Government: 10th Shizuoka Universal Design Grand  Prize in the promotional activities division  (December 2009) As a result of all employees participating in CUD activities based  on the Master Plan, we have heard on-site employees with  imperfect color vision express gratitude for making safety and  quality displays easier to read. Employees with perfect color vision  say they learned that over-using colors in material would actually  make it more difficult to see where the emphasis is. Through CUD  activities, these employees say they are now considering using  color and can produce very good documents. Such responses  from employees are a great encouragement for future activities. Shinichi Umehara Numazu	General	Affairs	Center	 Environment	Safety	Group RS	Products	Division Production	Business	Group  27 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 [Key-person conference to promote TRM] Defning policies, checking implementation  structure and effectiveness assessment Review and decision making on items  submitted by the TRM Committee Organized by:  The General Manager of the Internal  Management & Control Division Members:  Persons in the management division for  each risk Responsibilities:  Discussion and promotion of TRM  development and its daily  implementation Report Checking and audit TRM Committee Board of Directors Management division of each risk Each division and affiliate Internal Management  & Control Division GMC* Internal Control Committee Participation  and report Chairman: Director in charge of internal control Members: Head of divisions for managing each risk Responsibilities: Review of direction, promotional  structures, management divisions, and  important measures, as well as decision  making on items submitted by the  Internal Control Committee Risk management and compliance in daily operations  strengthen internal control The Ricoh Group built and operates a  total risk management (TRM) system. The  TRM system is designed to identify and  address risk in a comprehensive manner.  It aims at providing risk management that  will lead to the consistent and sustainable  growth of the Groups business and the  enhancement of its corporate values.  For this reason, each Group company  conducts rigorous risk management as part  of its day-to-day operations to avert any  crisis that may have a significant adverse  impact on the business activities of the  Group. We have also devised a business  continuity plan (BCP) on especially high- risk factors such as earthquakes and new  types of influenza. We set up a task force  that will speedily take action in the event of  a crisis, and are devising an action plan of  businesses that will be given top priority in  such cases. In particular, the plan covers  maintenance services and continued  supply of consumables for printers and  multifunctional copiers to clients who  maintain social infrastructure, such as gas,  electricity and water companies as well as  government offices and medical institutions.  We have established a system where the  Ricoh Group can be socially responsible  under any circumstances using the BCP. Management may face crises  caused by various internal and  external factors. The Ricoh Group  considers taking preventive and  preparedness actions against and  being prepared for crises as one  of its social responsibilities, and  has established a risk management  system and implements preventive  measures, together with  compliance, in its daily activities. Plan for Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Activities Review TRM promotion structure * Group Management Committee Risk Management and BCP <Ricoh Group> Strengthening the TRM  promotion structure 1)  Overseas, the risks concerning differences  in law, culture and customs are changing.  We plan to strengthen our TRM promotion  structure based on these changing  circumstances.  2)  We plan to confirm through TRM audits the  results of these efforts to strengthen the  structure and make further improvements. Implementing BCPs 1) Countermeasures to new types of influenza (i) To prepare for highly-virulent, new types of  influenza, we will promote the establishment of  rules, education and training to implement the  necessary action plans in each group firm.  (ii) During a pandemic, the top priority will be  securing the basic infrastructure required  to maintain necessary business. We  will promote preparations for securing  operations such as clarifying the minimum  requirements of computer systems. 2)  Countermeasures for a disastrous earthquake  in the Tokyo metropolitan area or the Tokai  region We are now duplicating our core  systems, making our offices, plants and  warehouses quake-resistant, and conducting  emergency drills for earthquakes.  Monitoring our supply chain We established rules against child labor and  regularly monitor not only Ricoh Group firms  in and outside of Japan, but also all businesses  within our supply chain to ensure that our rules  are being followed. <Ricoh Group> Implementing BCPs 1) New type influenza outbreak: We developed a specific BCP for preparedness  measures to share among Ricoh Group firms  (both in and outside of Japan)  (i) In the event of an outbreak of a new type  of influenza, the Ricoh Groups Disaster  Countermeasures Committee will issue  Ricohs proprietary warning levels, and  take countermeasures based on the  action plan prepared beforehand.  (ii) Even in the event of a pandemic,  the Ricoh Group plans to continue  services as much as possible to clients  in need of services to maintain social  infrastructure.  2)  A disastrous earthquake in the Tokyo  metropolitan area or the Tokai region.   We completed the development of a BCP  for earthquakes measuring a weak six on  the Japanese seismic scale. Because it will  take large-scale investments into equipment  to respond to such measures, we will start  preparations as soon as possible after  determining the priority of each need. Conducting TRM audits In fiscal 2009, we listed 49 risk factors that  may affect business, and prepared prevention  plans and response plans mainly in the  management divisions. By the end of the  fiscal year, we conducted TRM audits and  reported on a total of 71 divisions for all risks. Integrity in  Corporate Activities Risk Management and Compliance For our environmental risk management, refer to the Ricoh Group Sustainability Report (Environment) 2010 on our website.  28 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Structure Individual action based  on Code of Conduct Education through  e-learning, etc. Internal audit Hot line systems Standardizing/making  rules for initial response  when incidents occur Making a system to  prevent recurrences Building a system to prevent  accidents and incidents Prevention Discovery Initial response Analyzing and rectifying factors Preventing recurrences Horizontal development Build into a structure Discovering and dealing with problems Acquring a compliance mindset Improvement cycle for penetrating compliance Importance of repeating the cycle of: Acquring a compliance mindset/  discovering and dealing with problems/and building them into a structure                 RICOH SALES COMPLIANCE POLICY 1. 1 2 3 2. 4  5 6  3. 7 8 CODE01  CODE02  CODE03  CODE04  CODE05  CODE06   CODE07  CODE08   RICOH SALES COMPLIANCE CODE Each Ricoh employee is required to fully  understand the Ricoh Group Code of  Conduct and act in accordance with it, in  order to strengthen compliance (observance  of laws, regulations and corporate ethics).  For this purpose we provide e-learning  courses to help employees understand the  importance of following laws, regulations  and corporate ethics. These online education  courses use dramatized educational  video material to provide employees with  better understanding and enable them  to reflect what they have learned in their  daily activities. In addition, we are working  to ensure continuous improvement by  checking the effects of education as well  as the level of knowledge penetration and  retention among employees. MQ-up Activities aiming at  raising the awareness of  compliance among the domestic  sales group <Ricoh Group/Japan> In November 2002, we created a  compliance policy for the domestic sales  group. In order to raise the awareness of  compliance among employees who interact  with customers on a daily basis, we built  a proprietary system for MQ-up activities*  and are implementing them diligently. For  example, we produced handbooks and  portable cards of rules such as maintaining  a higher sense of ethics and distinction  between private and public matters and  distributing them to all senior executives  and employees in the domestic sales group.  In July 2004, a self-check system was  launched for MQ-up (Management Quality  Plan for Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Activities Review Portable cards concerning the compliance policy for  Japan sales group Conceptual diagram of activities aimed at spreading compliance Compliance Up) activities, in which employees reflect on  their own actions and conscience regarding  compliance on their computers. Once a  month, all employees including senior  executives conduct this self-check. In  order to boost employees knowledge and  awareness, employees who give responses  showing misunderstanding or a lack of  understanding receive instruction from their  supervisors. In addition, the Ricoh Groups  division chiefs and our affiliates managers  conduct preventive measures by searching  for the underlying factors of each problem. *  Management Quality up activity (Activities implemented  by all employees to boost corporate quality into one that  is trusted by society) Providing education on the  Code of Conduct <Ricoh Group/Japan> In order to further permeate the  understanding and implementation of the  Ricoh Group Code of Conduct, we have  proposed a continuing education plan and  reviewed our educational content, and will  implement those changes. We require our  employees to sign documents pledging their  commitment to the Code of Conduct every  year. <Ricoh Group/Overseas> We will continue to implement education on  the Code of Conduct with themes matching  the circumstances of each nation and  region. Reviewing hot line structure  and system <Ricoh Group/Japan> We will establish consultation desks at major  group firms to build a structure for Ricoh  to work in conjunction with group firms,  thereby strengthening speedy response to  incidents and prevention of recurrences. In  addition, we aim to improve the quality of  key persons through education.  <Ricoh Group/Overseas>      We will continue to establish hot line  systems in regions that currently lack them. Providing education on the  Code of Conduct <Ricoh Group/Japan> In order to promote thorough understanding  and implementation of the Ricoh Group  Code of Conduct, we implemented many  educational and promotional activities. In  addition, employees have signed documents  pledging their commitment to the Code of  Conduct. <Ricoh Group/Overseas> Each country has different circumstances  and customs. For regions where employees  cannot pledge their commitment to the  Code the Conduct, the employees signed a  document confirming their completion of  the Code of Conduct education. Building a system to prevent  insider trading We built a database for applications by Ricoh  Group employees and senior executives to  buy shares of Ricoh Corp. and Ricoh Leasing  Co. Ltd. in Japan. We strengthened the pre- application system again. Establishing hot line systems <Ricoh Group/Japan> In addition to the original hot line systems  implemented at group firms, we established  a hot line system within the Ricoh head  office that responds to reports and  consultations with group employees.  <Ricoh Group/Overseas> We are introducing hot line systems in  regions that currently lack them.   29 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 P D C A Realization of a secure society Creating information value Delivery of value to customers Delivery of value to customers Information protection Information protection Information use Information use Company practices Participation by all employees Daily management and continual improvement Ensuring trust in the information age Plan for Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Activities Review Information is at the core of the  Ricoh Groups business and we  recognize that information security  is indispensable for providing  safe products and services to  our customers. We therefore  manage and improve the daily  business activities of each of our  employees based on an all-employee  participatory approach. Based  on this approach, we utilize our  products and services internally  to facilitate the creation of new  value for our customers. At Ricoh  information security management  aims to implement Integrity in  Corporate Activities and Harmony  with Society, as stipulated in the  Ricoh Group CSR Charter. <Ricoh Group> Maintaining unified ISMS  certification for the Group We will conduct the second renewal review for  the unified certification for the Group. Overseas expansion of  the common standards for  information security measures Because the standards are close to being  finalized, we will take practical measures  to incorporate the standards in information  technology and improve or change operations.  We will also consider boosting the efficiency  of risk assessment in order to promote more  effective information security activities. We  will also continue to introduce the common  standards overseas. Enhancing the Ricoh Groups  Business Continuity Plan and  management To prepare for risks against major earthquakes  and virulent new strains of influenza, we  will promote the establishment, review and  improvements of a group-wide action guideline  for dealing with emergencies. Continuous education to raise  awareness of information  security issues We will provide self-assessment-based  education programs for all employees, aimed  at greater awareness of information security  issues and more effective implementation of  related activities. Using IT to prevent the  recurrence of information  security incidents The use of information technology alone will  not guarantee the prevention of recurrences.  Each and every employee needs to be aware   of the risk of information security incidents   and information leakage. This fiscal year, we  will work toward the prevention of incidents  and recurrences by taking account of the  human factor. <Ricoh Group> Maintaining unified ISMS*  certification for the Group Following the renewal review for unified ISMS  certification for the Group, 52 group companies  in Japan received their second renewal reviews  and obtained certification. Overseas, Ricoh  Singapore PTE Ltd. newly underwent the  review and obtained certification. (In total  98 companies worldwide are certified: 52 in  Japan, 46 overseas) Overseas expansion of  common standards for  information security measures Based on the results of the fiscal 2009 version  of the common standards for information  security measures, we added a category  entitled, Dealing with information generated  when providing services to customers and  made revisions to the common standards to  accurately reflect information-management  methods. This new version has been adopted  for fiscal 2010. The new common standards  for information security measures are also  being introduced overseas. Preventing the recurrence of  information security incidents  and noncompliance with  audits and reviews During the year, there were no incidents  significant enough to require either a public  announcement or a report to any governing  regulator or review body. We further improved  a group-wide database system for managing  information security incidents and began to  implement group-wide measures to prevent  recurrences of information security incidents. Providing education for  all employees We conducted e-learning based on the  three principles behind information security  activities aimed at establishing and reinforcing  information security consciousness among all  employees within the Group. Enhancing the Ricoh Groups  Business Continuity Plan and  management To deal with outbreaks of new types of  influenza, we created our own action guidelines  and formulated an action plan under which  Ricoh Group companies worldwide act as one. *Information Security Management System Integrity in  Corporate Activities Information Security  30 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Daily business activities Daily business activities Management review Management review Improvement actions Improvement actions Daily inspections Daily inspections Audits/ inspections Audits/ inspections Feedback Feedback Promoting daily vigilance  management and continued  improvements through   internal audits <Ricoh Group/Japan> Information security management can  only be achieved when all participants  implement security measures in their day- to-day business activities. The Ricoh Group  rigorously establishes common standards  and rules and conducts thorough education  and training. To ensure that these standards  are followed in day-to-day operations, we  confirm implementation levels through each  employees self-assessment report, regular  monitoring by supervisors, and audits and  inspections by professionals, and speedily  rectify problems or improve the situation.  By implementing plan-do-check-act (PDCA)  at every level—from regular employees  to executives—we continue to improve  security levels. We also position internal  audits as one of the engines behind PDCA  implementation for continued improvements  and efficient daily management. Imagio MP 5000 SP/4000SP  first digital copier to obtain CC  certification <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Previously, there were no international  standards for security features in  multifunction copiers and printers. Each  manufacturer had equipped their products  with security features based on their own  standards. Under these circumstances, a  working group was formed in 2003, led by  major manufacturers. Ricoh has actively  participated in this working group along  with industry rivals, and contributed greatly  to devising standards. In June 2009, the  IEE 2600.1 international standard for  information security features was created.  This standard covers multifunction copiers  and printers, and is defined as the required  specification in extremely high-level  security environments such as government  offices and military establishments as well  as regular offices (See Table). In March  2010, Ricohs multifunctional digital copier  imagio MP 5000 SP/4000SP2 became the  first in the world to obtain CC certification3  which corresponds to IEEE 2600.1. This  Internal auditing structure The Ricoh Group employs more than 1,700  internal auditors. The division in charge  of auditing tracks the performance of  internal auditors and manages their training  through the use of a comprehensive  internal auditor database. This thorough  training and monitoring ensures a supply  of well qualified internal auditors by grade,  and contributes to the continuation and  upgrading of ISMS (Information Security  Management System) certification. offers users a stronger sense of security.  Ricoh plans to promote efforts to obtain CC  certification for other products, both  for  those sold in Japan and overseas, and will  pioneer in the development of new security  features to deal with every kind of risk  facing our customers information assets. 1.  Certified as Common Criteria (ISO/IEC15408), which  is a major international standard for information  technology security evaluation.  2. The optional imagio security card type 9 is necessary. 3.  The worlds first as of March 11, 2010, according to  Ricohs research.  Internal auditing system There are three ranks of Ricoh Group  internal auditors, based on their  qualifications, experience and level of skill: (1) Assistant internal auditor  This entry-level auditing position  comprises those who have completed  the information security internal auditor  training course designated by the  division in charge of auditing. (2) Internal auditor This designation is awarded to those  who have conducted a certain number  of audits or experienced auditing for a  certain period in the past three years.  These internal auditors play the role of  audit team leaders. (3) Chief internal auditor This designation is reserved for those  who have served as an auditing team  leader more than a certain number of  times in the past three years. We aim to  maintain and boost our auditors skills  and qualifications through auditing  education and training and practical  experience.  Process of daily management and  continued improvements The imagio MP 5000 SP the first printer  in the world to obtain CC certification  corresponding to IEEE 2600.1. The major required specifications of IEEE 2600.1 Categories Names of functions Basic security functions Identity authentication, access control functions, network protection  features (encrypted communication functions), etc. Delete functions Information deletion functions such as deleting by overriding  remaining information under designated patterns etc. Management functions Security management functions by administrator Auditing functions Auditing functions that enable the viewing of security-related log  records etc. Verification functions Software verification functions that ensure the legitimacy of equipped  software etc.  31 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010  224 Suppliers conduct   self-assessment <Ricoh Group/Japan> In a bid to raise the CSR levels of our global  supply chain, we built a self-assessment  system for monitoring compliance with the  Supplier Code of Conduct introduced in  2006. We began introducing this in Japan.  In May 2009, we held a briefing in the five  national regions for our major suppliers.  We provided a guidebook to allow suppliers  to deepen their understanding of the  Supplier Code of Conduct, and asked them  to conduct self-assessment. The initial  assessment categories included product  safety, trade secrets, intellectual property,  the environment, human rights, labor  (including the prohibition of child labor)  as well as safety and sanitation. We built  a system where the responses could be  retrieved online, and received a very high  98% recovery rate. Through such self- assessment, we have suppliers voluntarily  engage in the PDCA cycle, and enable them  to respond to the needs and requests of  society. In fiscal 2010, we will introduce  similar measures at our Chinese subsidiaries  in China, and later expand them to our local  subsidiaries in Europe and the Americas. Fiscal 2009 Activities Review Plan for Fiscal 2010 <Ricoh Group> CSR procurement activities 1)  We will conduct the second self- assessment in Japan, confirm the  progress of improvement actions, and  support efforts to raise the level further.  2)  For major suppliers in China, we will  implement similar activities as in Japan. Green procurement* 1)  CO2 reduction activities among suppliers We will continue to help nine model  suppliers achieve their fiscal 2010  targets, and expand the application of  examples of on-site improvements. 2) Compliance with EUs REACH regulations We will conduct support activities  aimed at achieving goals in the Imaging  Business Groups various bases. Implementation of procurement  ethics (including the Act Against  Delay in Payment of Subcontract  Proceeds, etc., to Subcontractors) at  procurement divisions We will review the results from the previous  fiscal year and conduct a self-check for  fiscal 2010. Full-scale expansion of support  for sales partner companies to  boost corporate value Based on assessments, we will offer full- scale support while introducing real world  examples from Ricoh.  <Ricoh Group> CSR procurement activities 1)  Began requiring major suppliers in Japan  to conduct self-assessment. We provided  feedback on the results and identified  issues that needed to be dealt with. 2)  Set up the structure and dates for  implementing activities in China. Green procurement* 1) CO2 reduction activities at suppliers (i)  Targets for improvement actions at nine  model suppliers were almost met.  (ii)  Confirmed the voluntary promotional  activities of 171 suppliers worldwide. 2)  Built a system and structure to help  gather information from suppliers on  their compliance with the EUs REACH  regulation and implemented activities to  support their efforts. Implementation of procurement  ethics (including the Act Against  Delay in Payment of Subcontract  Proceeds, etc., to Subcontractors) at  procurement divisions Conducted self-checks at procurement  divisions in Japan. Full-scale expansion of CSR  activities to sales partners 1)  Built an assessment system for  identifying issues concerning each  stakeholder. 2)  Shared good examples of CSR activities  with partners. To achieve the development of  a sustainable society, the Ricoh  Group has adopted a CSR- oriented management approach in  collaboration with our suppliers  and sales partner companies.  Our objectives are not limited  to managing and reducing  environmental and human rights  risks throughout the supply  chain; we aim to make a positive  contribution to society. We believe  our commitment to giving back  to society will lead to greater  trust from the public, which will  then increase the morale of our  employees, add a competitive edge  to our business, and ultimately  improve our business performance.  To create this virtuous circle, there  must be a deeper understanding  and continuous implementation  of effective CSR activities by all  the parties involved, including  our partners. We are therefore  committed to further advancing  CSR procurement*, and providing  comprehensive support to raise the  corporate value of sales partner  companies so as to expand CSR  activities to the entire supply chain. *  A procurement scheme in which CSR initiatives  are taken by the supplier set as a condition for  purchasing Joining hands with our partners to raise CSR level  in our supply chain *  For details of green procurement refer to the Ricoh Group Sustainability Report (Environment) 2010,          available on our website. Promoting CSR Activities at Suppliers Integrity in  Corporate Activities Expansion of CSR to Our Partner Companies  32 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 nterview I Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Helping major dealers in Japan  boost their corporate value <Ricoh Group/Japan> In order to grow alongside our sales  partners, we launched initiatives designed to  boost the corporate value of major dealers.  To start with, we decided to ask dealers  to implement self-assessments from a  CSR perspective. We wish to encourage  the idea that building a strong relationship  of trust with stakeholders like customers,  communities and employees—and not  simply achieving conventional sales targets  —is what leads to sustained corporate  growth and we provide examples of our  own from the Ricoh Group. In fiscal 2009,  we decided on the methods and categories  for self-assessment, and implemented them  at Ricohjimuki Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) ahead  of full-scale implementation in October  2010. With the self-assessments, we had  the president and employees as well as  the entity now known as Ricoh Sales Co.,  Ltd. which is a business partner, answer  questions prepared beforehand in order to  identify the issues. We have since set up  a working group and implemented several  improvements. President Kentaro Kamei  said, I believe that from now on, companies  must raise their corporate value in addition  to seeking better business performance.  Conducting these assessments has helped  us make many discoveries. We plan to  conduct CSR activities that raise corporate  value along with our sales partners. Taizo Miyazawa President, Miyazawa Machinery Industrial Co., Ltd. To better understand self-assessments in the field, we visited Miyazawa Machinery Industrial  Co., Ltd. (Tokyo), a company that presses parts, to get feedback from an actual supplier, and  obtained valuable information. Self-assessment helped us to redefine our companys current  position and pave the way for further improvement. We were able to gain new insight into  areas such as working regulations and the  management of classified information These self-assessments were a good opportunity to recheck  our companys regulations regarding personnel and labor  issues. In addition, we were able to gain new insights from  the perspective of protecting intellectual property and  managing trade secrets, because we often use blueprints  supplied by Ricoh during our interactions with outsourcing  firms. For example, we now get data sent to us electronically  instead of receiving paper blueprints. When exchanging this  data with outsourcing firms, we felt the need to strengthen  our information security with anti-virus software and other  measures. We would like Ricoh to provide more specific  examples of activities to raise the level of   CSR activities Until now, I had thought that CSR activities were to address  major social problems that had little relevance to small and  medium-sized enterprises like us. However, through these  self-assessments I was able to further understand the Ricoh  Groups active efforts and I decided to boost our future level of  CSR activities. In order to do this, I look to Ricoh to provide us  with more specific examples of information security measures.  If we learned about the specific activities being implemented at  the Ricoh Groups small and medium-sized offices and plants,  I am sure we could draw much inspiration from them. Kentaro Kamei (President of Ricohjimuki) explains  assessment results and newly found issues to his  employees Promoting CSR Activities with Our Sales Partners  33 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 As economy in the developing world expands, CSR in China and the  rest of Asia grows in importance. The Ricoh Group is committed to  sustainability and maintaining harmony with society in the region. Training and motivating local  employees <Ricoh Manufacturing (Thailand) Ltd./ Thailand> Ricoh Manufacturing (Thailand) Ltd.  (RMT), a production site for laser printers  was established in Thailands Amata City  Industrial Estate and began production  in September 2009. We are working  to increase procurements of parts and  materials within the industrial estate while  at the same time, expanding personnel  training programs so that local employees  can eventually take charge of the entire  operation. These efforts by RMT are an  example of creating new bases in line with  Ricohs CSR Charter which pledges to  respect the culture and customs of any  country or region, and will operate so as to  contribute to their development.   Employees create awareness of  equality and a sense of oneness Based on the basic idea that employees  are collaborators in our business, Ricoh  adopts a management style where the  employees and senior executives work as  one. As a way of reflecting this concept  at RMT as well, the president, Japanese  expatriates and local employees all take  part in a 10-minute cleaning session every  morning to implement the 5S activities*  together at the offices and plants. In  addition, we are hiring engineers, operators  and staff on the assumption that local  employees will one day be exclusively in  charge of the sites operations. For this  reason, we set up a mechanism for training  employees, allocating day-to-day work, and  sharing information with them. Implementing standardized CSR  education For the employees hired at RMT, we offer  the same thorough education as all Ricoh  Group employees worldwide as much  as possible in order to give employees  sufficient knowledge of CSR activities,  including environmental conservation and  information security management system  (ISMS), to ensure that they implement  these activities in their workplace and  community. In addition, as part of the  education and training curriculum, senior  executives take time to directly deliver  significant messages on such topics as the  Groups management philosophy.   Providing a menu of benefits  meeting the needs of local  communities While expanding the mechanism for  education and training, we are also  expanding the menu of benefits and  creating a suitable workplace environment  in a bid to motivate RMTs local employees  to extend their employment period. For  example, we started providing a bus service  to make it easier for employees to commute  from regions far from RMT. We also  organize and host sports days, New Years  parties, employee bus trips and events to  promote internal communication with local  employees. Continuing to improve training  and benefits through dialogue  with local employees We adjust the training program and  benefits provided to fit local customs and  culture while thoroughly passing down  product-making technology and know- how, and the Code of Conduct they should  follow as employees of the Ricoh Group.  For example, the training curriculum has  been reviewed and improved after checking  the trainees level of understanding  through questionnaires. The department  in charge of these programs first inform  local employees of what Ricoh is seeking,  then decide on improvement measures  after productive discussions leading to  everyones consent. In addition, RMT has  a committee run by employees instead of a  labor union. The management recognizes  employees voices through debates with  this committee and debate on measures  that benefit both sides. Through such  efforts, RMT aims to grow into a business  where all employees work together as one. Efforts at a Thai Manufacturing Subsidiary Sports Day at RMT, Thailand An employee trip Integrity in  Corporate Activities Building New Sustainable Bases *  Five categories regarding sorting, organizing, cleaning,  maintaining sanitation and discipline  34 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Promoting environmental  conservation and effective use  of human resources that will  serve as role models in the  industrial districts of China, the  worlds factory  <Ricoh Thermal Media (Wuxi) Co., Ltd./ China> Ricoh established the Ricoh Thermal Media  (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. (RTM) in Chinas Wuxi City  High Technology Industry Development Zone  which consolidated the manufacturing and  sales of thermo-sensitive labels for bar codes  and other products. Production began there in  April 2008. Some 190 Japanese, European and  American companies have already opened bases  in Wuxi City, which has become the largest  production site in the global economy. RTM  (Wuxi) is promoting various efforts, aiming to  become a model factory in the region.  Realizing zero industrial wastewater  to protect water sources In China, industrial wastewater from  papermaking processes comprises 17% of total  emissions of industrial wastewater nationwide,  and is a major cause of water pollution. To  contribute to resolving this issue, we installed  at RTM (Wuxi) Ricohs proprietary chemical- free wastewater processing system ahead of its  competitors. The system dries up waste liquids,  changes them into solid waste, reuses them as  fuel, and completely eliminates the volume of  waste water from the manufacturing process at  plants. Because plants manufacturing thermal  media use large volumes of liniment, it is very  difficult to completely eliminate wastewater.  However, we considered it an important  challenge for reducing environmental impact  and actively took it on. Recycling activities aimed at  Zero-Waste-to-Landfill RTM (Wuxi) also promotes the Zero-Waste- to-Landfill activities* that the Ricoh Group is  implementing worldwide. The company opened  a proprietary recycling center to promote the  recycling of waste. We then collected several  dozen types of waste and recycled them.  For example, waste liniment paper—which  comprises more than 70% of all waste released  from RTM (Wuxi)—is delivered to paper  manufacturers by waste-collection businesses,  and is 100% recycled as materials for toilet  paper. In addition, we collect and reuse the cans  and bottles of the chemicals used as ingredients  for thermal liniment. Progressive environmental  conservation activities win high  praise from the local community In addition to conforming to applicable  Chinese laws, RTM (Wuxi) sets its own  higher standards, and actively engages in  environmental conservation. This stance  has been highly praised by the local  community. In March 2009, the company  was certified as one of the districts most  eco-friendly firms along with seven others.  During the same period, the company  passed the districts clean-production  inspection* and in June it won the title of  Wuxi Environmentally Friendly Corporate  Activities Green Rank. The companys  long-term diligent activities conducted  in Wuxi City were recognized by Jiangsu  Province as well. In March 2010, the  company became one of five companies to  be certified from a pool of several tens of  thousands of candidate firms. Maximizing human resources When creating a new base, we appoint  experienced local Chinese staff as leaders.  We train workers by accurately delivering  Ricohs views on manufacturing and  explaining the Groups management  policies. In this way, we have achieved a  vertical launch in a short period of time.  The presence of leaders also enhances  communication between employees, which  produced enthusiastic employees amid  a comfortable environment. In addition,  the company is taking various measures  to create a sense of social responsibility  among employees. In these ways, Ricoh  is maximizing its diverse human resources  while promoting cutting-edge  environmental  conservation so as to become a model  manufacturer in China as well.  Initiatives at Manufacturing Plants in China *  Ricohs Zero-Waste-to-Landfill refers to 100% recycling  rates and zero processing at landfills. Recycling center that distinguishes the waste placement *  Production activities at Wuxi City aiming for such  activities as pollutant reduction, energy conservation,  and recycling. Few firms participated spontaneously.   35 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 * For more information, please visit http://www.ricoh.com/environment/management/concept.html 1994 RICOH Product manufac- turer Parts manufac- turer Materials manufac- turer Shredder company Final disposal company Thermal energy collection company Shredder dust Metals Fossil and mineral resources etc. Disassembly oil Open loop materials recycling Closed loop materials recycling Reuse of products Reuse of parts Sorting and  disassembly Crushing of products Landfill Long use Parts recovery center Oil recovery company, smelting company Materials recovery company Recycling center Materials supplier Product recovery center Collection center Sales company User Generation of raw materials  Chemical recycling  Metals recycling Energy recovery (Energy, CO2) Maintenance company User of recycling materials Society Global environment Economy Ecosystem conservation Resources Resource recovery Production activities Money Products Consumption activities Minimum disposal Resource Conservation  and Recycling Energy Conservation and Prevention of  Global Warming Pollution Prevention Products Measures to create a  resource-recirculating society Measures to combat  issues associated with  climate change Measures for environmentally  safer manufacturing Business Activities Basis for Sustainable Environmental Management Harmony with  the Environment Sustainable Environmental Management Simultaneously achieving environmental conservation and profits Amid environmental crises,  companies are required to  exercise their leadership in order  to transform society. The Ricoh  Group pursues environmental  conservation and profit generation  through its business. This is how  we conduct business as a valued  and respected member of society.  Going forward, we will focus on  cross-sectional environmental  technology development and  conserving biodiversity that  supports the earths regenerational  ability. Three Ps Balance:   Representing the relationship between  the global environment and society Pursuing the Ideal Society Environmental impact remains within the self-recovery  capabilities of the global environment. Overall picture of the Ricoh Groups sustainable environmental management  (basis and three Pillars) For details, refer to the Ricoh Group Sustainability  Report (Environment) 2010 on our website. Contributing to the development of a sustainable society based  on the Comet Circle concept For the Ricoh Group to become the type of organization we envision, not only does  the Group need to realize change towards the creation of a sustainable society but  society as a whole also needs to realize such change. In 1994, we established the  Comet Circle as the basis to encourage such change. The Comet Circle expresses the  greater picture of our environmental impact reduction scheme, which includes not  only the scope of the Ricoh Group as a manufacturer and sales company but also the  entire lifecycle of our products, including upstream and downstream of our business  activities. Being well aware that product manufacturers like Ricoh, because of their  involvement in the early phases of a products lifecycle, can make the greatest  contribution to reducing environmental impact, we engage in all business taking into  account the Comet Circle. 1. Identifying and reducing the total environmental impact at all stages of the lifecycle 2. Putting priority on inner loop recycling and promoting a multitiered recycling system   2-1 More economically rational recycling   2-2 Reducing the needs of new resources with greater use of recovered resources 3. Establishing a partnership at every stage Concept of a sustainable society: the Comet Circle Pursuing an environment ideal The purpose of environmental conservation  activities is to reduce environmental impact  to a level that the Earths self-recovery  capability can deal with and sustain the  global environment. The Ricoh Group, by  considering how the relationship among  the three Ps (planet, people, and profit)  in environmental, social, and economic  activities has changed over time, defines  the kind of society we should pursue and  carries out its responsibility as a company  to create such a society.  36 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 2000 2050 100 2040 2030 2010 2020 Destructive scenario if we  continue our current way of life A better option To gently ease our transition into a  way of life that does less harm to  the environment [Actual level in proportion to a tolerable  global environmental impact level]  * Tolerable level = 100 (FY) Mid- and Long-Term Goals Concept Major activities * Targets are set based on the business areas and market share for fiscal 2000 (see the news release at http://www.ricoh.com/info/090501.html). Energy  Conservation  and Prevention  of Global  Warming Resource  Conservation  and Recycling Pollution  Prevention Reduce the total lifecycle CO2  emissions by the Ricoh Group  (including emissions of the five  gasses converted into CO2) by  30%* by 2020 and by 87.5% by  2050 from the fiscal 2000 level.   * Equal to 34% reduction from the fiscal 1990  level (for domestic CO2). Reduce the impact of chemical  substances on the environment by  30% by 2020 and 87.5% by 2050  from the fiscal 2000 level. (1) Reduce the new input of resources  by 25% by 2020 and by 87.5% by  2050 from the fiscal 2007 level.   (2) Reduce the use of or prepare  alternative materials for the major  materials of products that are at  high risk of depletion (e.g., crude  oil, cupper and chromium) by 2050.  Set targets for the entire lifecycle with the  aim of achieving the reduction levels set  for society as a whole based on the  warnings of IPCC.     Reduce the CO2 directly emitted from  business activities by setting targets for  each stage, including production and  distribution.  Reduce electricity consumption of the  products in an active manner by setting  high targets.  Collaborate with suppliers at the  procurement stage.  Discourage new input of resources and  promote efcient use of the limited  resources in business activities.     Recognize that resource conservation  measures directly reduce production  costs and help avoid risks accompanied  by possible increases in resource prices  and to ensure stable supplies of products  in the future. Position the measures as a  central part of management.  Implement risk management that covers  not only impact on the environment but  also impact on human health.     Carry out risk management taking  information on consumption, emissions,  hazards, and exposure of chemical  substances into consideration.  Give priority to the high-risk chemical  substances in reduction and replacement  in order to prevent possible pollution.  Develop technologies that improve the  environmental functions of products and facilitate  the use of such products.  Make suggestions to customers to help them fully  enjoy the environmental functions of our products.  Realize low carbon manufacturing through  innovation of production processes.  Actively use solar power and other renewable  energies for electric generation.  Reduce CO2 emissions at the procurement stage  by making products smaller and their lives longer  and by recycling more products.  Support suppliers in their environmental impact  reduction measures.  Obtain more accurate information on CO2  emissions during the distribution stage, increase  distribution efciency, and promote a modal shift.  Develop technologies to make products/parts  smaller and lighter.  Develop technologies to improve reliability of  products/parts, such as technologies to make  product life longer.  Increase recovery rates of used products.  Increase recycling rates of products/parts/materials  by developing technologies for recycling and  efcient use of recycled items.  Reduce the use of materials at a high risk of  depletion or replace them with other materials,  such as biomass plastics and toner inks.  Increase the level of chemical substance management  system to improve risk management.     Promote reduction and replacement of high-risk  chemical substances. Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Two scenarios for reducing global environmental impact Striving to achieve environmental  impact reduction goals for 2050  which was set first in the world in  three areas: energy conservation,  resource conservation, and  pollution prevention In a bid to make long-term efforts towards its  ideals, the Ricoh Group has projected how the  world will look in 2050 based on an analysis of a  wide range of data. In 2050, the global population  will have grown to more than nine billion people.  Fossil and mineral resources will have become  depleted and the amount of useful land will have  decreased. People must switch from petroleum to  other energy sources to prevent global warming  and there will inevitably be drastic changes in  business models and the structure of society. If the  environmental impact we generate will continues  to rise by continuing the present business  operation style, humankind will eventually be  faced with a devastating future. Taking this into  consideration, the Ricoh Group established the  Year 2050 Long-Term Environmental Vision in  2005, on the understanding that advanced nations  needed to reduce their environmental impact to  Major ideas in the Ricoh Group mid- and long-term environmental impact reduction goals one-eighth of fisical  2000 by 2050. In  March 2009, we  followed up on  these efforts by  establishing Mid-  and Long-Term  Environmental  Impact Reduction  Goals which identify  specific steps to be  taken to achieve our  vision. With 2020  and 2050 being key  years, the targets are  set in three different  areas—energy  conservation and global warming prevention,  resource conservation and recycling, and pollution  prevention—making them the first of their kind  for business in the world. The numerical targets  will be incorporated into the Environmental Action  Plan formulated every three years, and effective  activities will be developed in each area to achieve  the targets. In parallel with these efforts to reduce  our adverse impact on the environment, we are  also working to help the global environment  restore and maintain its self-recovery capability.  This commitment of ours to give consideration to  biodiversity in conducting businesses is declared  in the Ricoh Group Biodiversity Policy we  established in March 2009.   37 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with  the Environment Sustainable Environmental Management Ricoh Groups 16th Mid-Term Environmental Action Plan (Fiscal 2008 to Fiscal 2010)(extract) *For items that do not specify a target year for achieving a goal, the target year is fiscal 2010.  Develop environmental technologies aiming to reduce the use of resources. Details of plan Develop resource-saving technologies to reduce the input of new resources in business and society as a whole. Progress   While developing technologies to downsize products and extend their lives, we began developing technologies to use recycled resources heading   toward 100% reuse and recycling and to reduce the use of materials with high depletion risks and replace them with other materials.   Increase recirculation of resources and use resources effectively to reduce the use of      new resources in products.  Promote the reuse of parts. Details of plan Increase the use of reusable parts recovered from used products to 1,910 tons by fiscal 2010 (Japan). Progress  Weight of parts reused reached 1,703 tons.  Details of plan Increase the use of reusable parts recovered from used products to 6,000 tons by fiscal 2010 (outside Japan). Progress  Weight of parts reused reached 6,934 tons.   Reduce waste generated by production activities.  Reduce waste of resources in the thermal media business.  Details of plan Reduce the amount of waste generated by 10%, compared to fiscal 2006 figures.  Progress  Waste generation was reduced by 5.7%.   Reduce waste of resources relating to packaging materials. Details of plan Reduce packaging material waste per production volume in the manufacturing of imaging products in Japan by 30%, compared to fiscal 2006 figures.  Progress  Ricoh Gotemba Plant: Achieved a 24.4% reduction. Tohoku Ricoh Co., Ltd.: Achieved a 16.3% reduction. Ricoh Elemex: Achieved a 26.9% reduction.  Details of plan Reduce packaging material waste per production volume in the manufacturing of imaging products outside Japan by 30% compared to fiscal 2007 figures. Progress  RIF: Reduced by 3.3% RPL: Increased by 5.6% REI: Reduced by 19.3%.   Reduce waste generated in the manufacturing of polymerized toners. Details of plan Reduce waste generated per production volume by 17%, compared to fiscal 2007 figures. Progress  Reduced by 23.3%.  Reduce greenhouse gas emissions in production activities. Details of plan Reduce CO2 emissions by 12% by fiscal 2010 (Ricoh and manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan) compared to fiscal 1990 figures. Progress  Total emissions were reduced by 13.5%.    *  Increases of CO2 due to business growth through M&A and change of the electricity conversion factor were calculated based on CDM. Based on this  idea, the emissions for Ricoh Printing Systems, Ltd. and Yamanashi Electronics Co., Ltd. are treated as increases due to business growth. Details of plan Reduce CO2 emissions by 10% by fiscal 2010 (manufacturing subsidiaries outside of Japan) compared to fiscal 1998 figures. Progress  Reduced by 9.2% for the boundary set for the 15th Environmental Action Plan (FY 2005-2007). Increased by 7.6% when emissions due to business  growth (Ricoh Thermal Media) are included. Details of plan Reduce emissions of greenhouse gases other than CO2 by 10% by fiscal 2010 (semiconductor business sector) compared to fiscal 1995 figures. Progress  Emissions of greenhouse gasses other than CO2 were reduced by 47%.   Expand CO2 emission reduction efforts to involve suppliers. Progress  We reduced CO2 emissions in cooperation with model suppliers, specifically by setting targets for fiscal 2009 with our suppliers and providing them with in-house know-how.  Contribute to the reduction of environmental impact at customers sites.  Survey the frequencies of energy-saving and duplex copying functions used and raise their rates of use. Progress  We made proposals to customers to encourage them to use the energy-saving mode. In fiscal 2010, we will continue to visualize the  environmental impact of our products in use and make proposals to reduce their environmental impact both inside and outside Japan.   Upgrade risk management relating to chemical substances.  Establish a global system for management of risks from chemical substances. Progress  In the LCA-based manufacturing process, we established a global system to manage health risks to local residents.  Reduce environmentally sensitive substances. Details of plan Reduce the amount of environmentally sensitive substances used by at least 30% (Ricoh production sites and manufacturing subsidiaries) compared to fiscal 2000 figures. Progress  Achieved a 74% reduction by reducing the use of solvents, substituting them with substances with a lower enviornmental impact, and recycling wasted solvents.  Details of plan Reduce environmentally sensitive substance emissions by at least 80% (Ricoh production sites and manufacturing subsidiaries) compared to fiscal 2000 figures. Progress  Achieved an 85% reduction through substituting with substances with lower environmental impact and the introduction of decontamination equipment.  Promote ecosystem conservation activities to enhance the self-recovery capabilities of  the global environment.  Progress  All the Ricoh Groups targeted organizations (99) conducted biodiversity conservation activities. 1 2 3 4 Using resources  effectively to realize a  resource-recirculating  society Developing frontier  environmental  technologies to cope with  climate change problems  and promoting business  activities that reduce  energy consumption Upgrading chemical  substance control  aiming at environmentally  safer manufacturing and  business activities Conserving biodiversity  38 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 TheTotalGreenOfficeSolution Cost reduction ideas Possible savings  (cost reduction) Monitoring  Reporting Evaluate the effects  of the solution  implemented Environmental impact  reduction ideas Possible power and paper  consumption reduction       Advice on sustainable environmental management  Pre Sales  Post Sales  Business Discussion + The benefits of  installing Ricoh  products and  systems Opportunity creation Building relationship of trust Consultation Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Milestones 2002 Began developing biomass plastic components as materials for copiers 2005 Became the industrys first to employ plastic with 50% biomass content in the main  component of a multifunctional digital copier 2006 Began efforts toward commercialization of biomass toners October  2008 Released the imagio MP C2200 model, which employs a newly developed plastic  component with roughly 70% biomass content November  2009 Released the imagio MP 6001GP, equipped with for E Toner, and became the worlds  first manufacturer to employ a biomass toner (25% biomass content) Supporting customers  sustainable environmental  management through the Total  Green Office Solution <Ricoh Group/Global> The sales and service divisions of the Ricoh  Group help customers around the world conduct  sustainable environmental management by sharing  the experience of Groups own efforts on various  customer contact occasions, such as during  sales activities, and when negotiating and closing  purchase contracts.  These activities are called the Total Green Office  Solution (TGOS), where we advise customers  how they can reduce the Total Cost of Ownership  (TCO),* as well as reducing environmental impact  and other costs by improved energy efficiency and  reduced paper consumption. Example solution ideas  Development of alternative  materials using biomass resins  and launch of biomass toners <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> As part of its efforts to develop alternative materials to  realize a low-carbon and resource-recirculating society,  Ricoh is working on the development of components  and toners for copiers by utilizing biomass resins.  While biomass resins have been receiving increasing  attention recently because of their recyclability and  lower impact on global warming than petroleum-based  counterparts, there are several challenge related to  cost, raw material sourcing, quality, and others, which  need to be solved to apply the materials for practical  use. Ricoh has been working to develop technologies  that solve these problems and allow biomass resins be  used for a wider range of products.  In 2002, we started development of biomass  * Total costs associated with the installation, maintenance and management of the relevant device History of Ricohs biomass resin material development  Conservation with Customers Conservation through Products    Development of Environmental Technologies 1. Percentage of biomass resins included in components. 2. Designed to be used for Ricoh products. Ricohs policy on the  technological development of  biomass resins  Do not use raw materials that have  an adverse impact on food supply or  ecosystems, including land use.  Develop and commercialize materials  that can slash the environmental  impact of the resulting products  without compromising the optimal  properties required of parts and  components for imaging equipment. imagio MP 6001GP equipped with the  worlds first biomass toner plastic for application in our copiers, and in 2005,  rolled out the industrys first multifunctional digital  copier equipped with biomass components (50%  biomass content1) in its main unit. As collection and  recycling of toners after printing is rather difficult, it  is important to reduce the environmental impact of  their components—currently, petroleum-based resins  constitute the primary components. Ricoh has worked  on the commercialization of biomass toners since2  2006, releasing them into market in November 2009.   Ricoh plans to continue technical development  toward improving biomass content and expanding the  use of biomass resins. At the same time, Ricoh plans  to search for possibilities toward commercialization of  other materials as well by reducing use of resources  that are highly likely to dry up and focusing on  alternative resources.  include more use of the energy-saving mode and  double-sided printing ability of their Ricoh products,  and the replacement of existing multiple printers  and fax machines with a MFP to reduce the number  of document devices. Even after introducing Ricoh  products, customers also benefit from our monthly  Green Report, which gives the evaluation results of  the effects of the implemented solution.  Such comprehensive support for customers  sustainable environmental  management, throughout the  entire process from discussion  of possible device installation  to the post-installation phase, is  unique to Ricoh. This customer  support has grown to become  an official service business  called Sustainable Environmental  Management Consulting.  As a front-runner in the field of sustainable  environmental management, the Ricoh Group,  with its cross-departmental teams comprising of  marketing, sales, service and environmental staff,  will work to provide the TGOS service to more  customers around the world. We aspire to become  a reliable partner for sustainable environmental  management.  39 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 2008 2007 2006 2004 2005 2003 2002 0 5 10 15 20 18.8 12.2 18.8 12.9 18.4 13.6 18.8 18.6 15.0 18.5 15.5 18.3 15.7 2009 17.616.1 14.6 (years) Male Female (FY) A B A B 100 75 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2002 2003 100 200 300 0 25 50 400 500 2009 0 A B A B (FY) (Number of  people) (%) Rate of use Childcare leave system Reduced working hour system  (or use of both systems) 0 2.0 1.0 3.0 6.0 5.0 4.0 7.0 Male Female (FY) (%) 2009 2008 2007 2005 2006 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 4.1 3.3 3.1 1.2 2.1 3.5 2.6 1.5 1.7 1.0 2.1 1.7 1.4 1.6 1.4 2.4 5.7 0.9 1.3 2.8 (Legal employment ratio) (FY) (%) 2.03 2.01 2008 2009 2007 2006 2005 0 0.50 1.50 1.80 1.00 2.00 1.96 1.96 1.87 2008 2009 2007 2006 2005 50 150 100 200 0 100 75 179 177 0 25 50 89.1 87 91.2 64.8 187 91.4 96 46 (Number of  people) Number of  reemployed retirees Rate of reemployment  of retirees (FY) (%) Respect for People A Vital and Motivated Culture Plan for Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Activities Review <Ricoh Group/Japan> Fostering workplace diversity At Ricoh, we are working to make the workplace  more female-friendly. Empowering female  workers is a national priority in Japan, a country  facing the twin issues of an aging population  and a declining birthrate. Our major activities  during fiscal 2009 include: 1) Introduction of a program to support the  return to work of employees on childcare  leave 2) Launch of a study group and a networking  event for female managers  3) Hosting of the Diversity Promotion Forum on  an ongoing basis to share information and  raise awareness among employees of the  Ricoh Group. Managing work-life balance 1) Support employees with family  responsibilities  (i) Related programs were improved: childcare  leave (turning part of the unpaid leave to paid  leave), nursing care leave, shorter working  hours for parent employees, reclaiming  <Ricoh Group/Japan> Fostering workplace diversity 1) A Diversity & Work-life Balance  Management portal site will soon be  launched to promote employee awareness.  This tool will be used to communicate  Ricohs diversity and other HR policies  and programs, publicize examples of good  practice by Group companies, and more.  2) We will organize forum events for junior  female employees to support their career  planning and development.  3) A mentoring program for female managers  will be launched.   4) We will continue to hold seminars for  employees on childcare leave to support  their preparation for returning to work. Managing work-life balance 1) Support employees with family  responsibilities  We will revise the Employee Support  Program Handbook and newly develop  guidelines for employees who intend to  use parenting support programs, and their  supervisors. We will also continue to hold  seminars to encourage fathers active  involvement in parenting.   2)Rethinking working styles  Necessary action will be taken to improve the  productivity of each employee and workplace  and foster employee/workplace awareness  toward these objectives. We will also review  and improve business processes to take  operational efficiency to a higher level.  Employee diversity and work-life balance for  a vibrant workplace Based on its corporate philosophy,  the Spirit of Three Loves (Love  your neighbor, Love your country  and Love your work), the Ricoh  Group operates its business  under a caring, people-centered  management approach which also  values self-initiative. In other words,  we strive to help employees have  a sense of purpose, think and act   Average length of service by gender  Shift in Activity Results (Ricoh)  Turnover rate by gender  Reemployment rate of retirees  Rate of employees with disabilities  Number and rate of employees who used childcare support system    * Total number of those who actually used the system per fiscal year proactively, and find fulfillment in  work by contributing to society and  customers, thus enriching their own  lives while helping the company  grow. In the three-year mid-term plan  starting in 2008, our main goal was  global expansion. The key to that  global expansion is to create new  value that enables a diverse group of  employees to work enthusiastically. unconsumed annual leave (fertility treatment  became an eligible reason).  (ii) A re-employment program was launched to  provide an opportunity to return to work to  employees who leave Ricoh for parenting,  nursing care, and other duties  (iii) A paternity seminar (Seminar for Papas)  was held to encourage fathers to take a  greater role in child rearing.  2) Rethinking working styles (i) We surveyed all employees to understand  their views and learn about their actual  practice of balancing their professional and  personal lives. (ii) We designated a greater number of no  overtime days, continued to encourage  employees to use annual leave, allowing  the taking of annual leave on an hourly  basis, among others, to increase employee  productivity through enhanced working  styles. In addition, we worked to improve  operational efficiency (e.g., business process  improvement through the effective use of  person-hour management)  40 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Create innovation and greater customer value  Attract and retain top talent and diversified human capital   Fulfilling work, personal growth, productivity improvement Create a vibrant company Manage work-life balance Diverse employees Enriched professional life Enriched personal life Enriched professional life Enriched personal life Enriched professional life Enriched personal life Fulfilling life outside work (family, learning and education, community contribution, etc.)  Promote mental and physical wellness Work Outside work Promote diversity Ratree Sasirachsiri receiving an honor from Princess Soamsawali Fifteen-year efforts recognized  by the Thai Princess <Ricoh (Thailand)/Thailand> In Thailand, the job market for people with  disabilities is not welcoming. However, Ricoh  Thailand actively recruits and retains workers with  disabilities, recognizing that they can demonstrate  just as excellent a performance as able-bodied  coworkers when appropriate training and support  is provided. Ratree Sasirachsiri is among those  who demonstrate by example that employees  with disabilities can contribute to the companys  success as much as their colleagues when given  such opportunities. This highly motivated telephone  operator with visual impairment has always been  striving for better performance during her 15-year  professional life at Ricoh Thailand, and is well- respected by her peers. She was honored by Thai  Princess Soamsawali in recognition of her role  Employee surveys and seminars  for a fulfilling professional and  personal life <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> To ensure every Ricoh employee can lead a fulfilling  life, both professionally and personally, we promote  workforce diversity and the management of a better  work-life balance.  Specific actions toward this end include  continual improvement of related policies and  programs, awareness raising activities concerning  diversity and work-life balance.  Employee survey on work-life  balance management We surveyed all employees to understand their  needs and the challenges they are facing regarding  managing their work-life balance. In addition to  obtaining insights useful for future activities,  the survey also intended to raise employees  recognition and understanding of this issue. Seminars for parents Seminar for those returning to work  The seminar was designed to address any  employee concerns regarding their participating  in the workplace and continuing to pursuing their  careers while raising young children. Attendees  learned about the improvements to the childcare  support programs which had come into effect  in April 2010, and the underlying principles  and philosophy of Ricohs career development  support. They also joined a group discussion and  listened to the experiences of other employees  who had used the support programs and had  come back to work. Participants said they left the  seminar room with a positive, uplifted feeling free  from worries or concerns. model* status among workers with disabilities.  Ricoh Thailand will continue providing an inclusive  and motivating working environment that enables  its employees with diverse backgrounds to reach  their full potential and achieve professional growth. *  A role model is an individual whose behavior and  attitude is exemplary and worth emulating by others. Seminar to encourage fathers involvement in  parenting (Seminar for Papas)  Despite their wish to play a greater role in parenting,  in reality, many male employees hesitate to translate  their wishes into action, worrying about the difficulty  of balancing their professional duties with childcare  leave, or the financial strain that could result. The  seminar served as a forum to remove such concerns  and provide some ideas for successful management  of professional and family life. Many present and  future fathers learned about the programs that  are available at Ricoh under the revised childcare  support system, listened to other employees  experiences, and participated in discussions.  Participants were inspired and determined to take a  greater role in raising their children. User-friendly guidance on using  support programs Ricoh offers various childcare support programs  for different parenting phases to facilitate its  employees to pursue their careers. To encourage  more use of these programs, we offer systematic,  user-friendly guidance and information regarding  what programs are available for which age groups  of their children, as well as a guide on how to  communicate with supervisors in using the  relevant programs. retirement age. Ricoh Thailand has enabled  me to gain my independence by teaching me  how to fish in order to lead a better life,  rather than giving me a fish. I am deeply  grateful to the company for providing me with  the opportunity to work. Comments by Ratree Sasirachsiri on her award Workforce diversity and work-life balance management at Ricoh I am so proud of having received an  honor from the Princess, which is a rare  achievement for a Thai individual with  disabilities. I enjoy working with my kind and  supportive supervisor and coworkers. I would  like to continue working here until reaching  To see the list of related programs, please visit our website: http://www.ricoh.com/csr/activity/respect/worklife.html  41 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Scheme Activities Growth Occupational safety activities Occupational health activities  Occupational hazards  Natural disaster     Fire     Explosion, etc.  Health checkup     Complete medical examination  Overwork health management     Mental health care  Anti-infection measures     Checking of work environment, etc. 0 30 40 50 20 10 60 2009 2007 2008 2006 2005 (FY) Fat Liver functions Body mass  index (BMI) Uric acid Saccharo- metabolism Blood  pressure (%) 47.6 27.6 19.6 21.4 13.8 13.3 12.9 12.5 25.6 28.5 42.1 33.7 2006 2005 2009 1.04 2008 0.79 2007 0.78 0.97 1.80 1.62 1.62 1.83 1.90 1.95 0.82 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 Ricoh Major businesses in Japan (Frequency) (FY) Respect for People Creating a Safe, Healthy and Comfortable Working Environment A pioneering approach to the workplace Plan for Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Activities Review The Ricoh Group aspires to  create a comfortable working  environment following basic  rules on health and safety  management, and is implementing  various initiatives, such as  the Ricoh health management  system. As one of the first  Japanese corporations to acquire  Occupational Safety and Health  Management System (OSHMS)  certification, promoted by the  Ministry of Health, Labour and  Welfare of Japan, the Ricoh Group  is committed to improving health  and safety activities, announcing  cases where health and safety  have been improved, and actively  disclosing information. <Ricoh Group/Japan> Efforts to improve group  management indicators 1)Preventing labor hazards A Safety Working Group, consisting of  representatives from OSHMS-certified  plants and others was launched. The  new committee developed group-wide  safety standards and took various actions  to prevent any recurrence of similar  occupational accidents in the Group. 2)Mental health Ricoh and Ricoh Technosystems Co., Ltd.  have started stress checks under the new  health management system. 3)Health management In cooperation with the health insurance  union, some follow-up services  by medical professionals such as  occupational physicians and public health  nurses were made available across the  entire Group. Improvements and sustained  development of occupational  safety and health standards 1) As a model for future development,  the non-production site, Ricoh Ohmori  Office, has launched a full program of  occupational safety and health activities  based on the 5S* principles.  2) OSHMS-certified plants (Gotemba Plant,  Numazu Plant, Fukui Plant, Tohoku Ricoh  Co., Ltd.) as well as the Atsugi Plant (the  development of the OSHMS system is  underway) were evaluated against the  OHMS certification criteria. The Ricoh  Group Assessment Guide (on injuries and  chemical substances) was standardized. *  Five categories regarding sorting, organizing,  cleaning, maintaining sanitation and discipline Creating a group mechanism  for optimal health and safety  In consultation with the health insurance  union, we developed the new health  management system and group-wide mental  health programs, and worked to implement  these new system and programs across the  Group. <Ricoh Group/Japan> Efforts to improve group  management indicators 1) We will develop and introduce a group- wide labor hazard reporting system and  cause analysis methodologies to reinforce  our recurrence prevention measures. In  addition, we will work on risk assessment  and training for occupational safety and  health.  2) We will also develop a contingency  response plan (e.g., initial fire fighting,  first-aid measures).   3) To raise occupational safety and health  levels in the Group, we will improve  relevant databases to enable the  information on regulatory compliance  status and problem rectification progress  to be centrally managed and shared  throughout the Group.   4) Stress checks and other programs under  the new health management system  will be expanded across the Group.  Specialists follow-up services will be  introduced to Group companies. Improvements and sustained  development of occupational  safety and health standards 1) The program launched at the Ohmori  Office in fiscal 2009 will be introduced  in other non-production sites within the  Group.  2) We will promote employee awareness of  occupational safety and health issues to  create a comfortable workplace. Creating a group mechanism  for optimal health and safety  1) Details of revised health management  programs and optimal specialist allocation  across the Group will be determined in  preparation for their implementation in  fiscal 2011. 2) We will work with the health insurance  union to develop a group-wide mental  health program, and implement  e-learning programs on managerial care  (for managers) and self-care (for all  employees) across the Group. Part of  these programs was already implemented  in fiscal 2009.  Conceptual diagram of health and   safety activities Percentage of employees surpassing Ricoh  Groups standard (group companies in Japan) Frequency of work-related accidents (Ricoh) * This data is taken from the medical exams of Ricoh Group employees  in Japan who are over the age of 35. Some of the data from fiscal 2009  was unavailable due to the launch of a new system. * Frequencies have been calculated by the following formula. Frequency = (Toll of the dead or injured in work-related  accidents (took or did not take leave from work)/ Total of actual working hours)  1,000,000  42 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Improving performance against  group-wide management  indicators to create an even more  comfortable work environment  <Ricoh Group/Japan> We are aiming for better performance against  the Groups management indicators, including  ensuring workers safety, mental and physical  health, providing comfortable work environment,  and continuously improving of occupational  safety and health measures. Launch of the Safety Working  Group and group-wide safety  standards While making good progress in reducing the  number of work-related accidents, the Ricoh  Group is working to make the workplace free  from occupational accidents. To expedite  such efforts, we have launched a Safety  Working Group that communicates safety- related information, analyzes incidents which  have occurred, and implements response and  prevention measures across the Ricoh Group.  The working group has already established  group-wide safety standards based on feedback  regarding actual experience in the field. The  standards consist of five sets of safety criteria  regarding: heavy goods transportation, protective  equipment, box cutters, stair use, and working  in high places. A guide to the safety standards  was also developed. Including many photos,  illustrative charts, statistical data, and previous  incident examples, the guide is designed to serve  as an easy-to-understand, useful reference tool  for actual practice. Shared physical and mental  health management programs for  the entire Group A systematic mechanism for the early  identification, follow-up and prevention of health  problems is necessary to provide effective  support for employees good management of  their mental and physical well-being. However,  some of our smaller-sized Group companies  found it difficult to develop such a mechanism,  which may include developing an IT-based  health management system, implementing  stress checks and mental health care programs,  and retaining occupational physicians and  public health nurses, internally. To overcome  this obstacle, we are planning to roll out a new,  group-wide health management system for all  Group companies. In cooperation with the health  insurance union, shared medical professional  services have also started at selected sites as  a pilot program. In addition, we have launched  a database of the Groups safety and health  management information to visualize related  activities by the Group. These efforts will be  accelerated in the future, which we believe  will result in the improvement of management  indicator scores. We will continue to strive to  make our workplace safe and comfortable for all  our employees. Organizational support for  employee health management <Tohoku Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Tohoku Ricoh Co., Ltd. offers a range of  education and support programs for its  employees safety and health. The key focus areas  of these well-planned, organizational programs  are encouraging employees to walk more  and eat a healthy diet to mitigate the risks of  lifestyle-related diseases and promoting mental  health management. To support the staffs  mental health management, this manufacturing  subsidiary raises managers awareness of the  importance of mental healthcare, conducts stress  checks and other preventative measures, offers  consultation service accessible by all employees,  and many more. Through these programs,  the company helps its staff detect the signs of  mental health issues and receive necessary care  and treatment at as early a stage as possible in  the hope that no employees will have to suffer  serious problems. The company has equally  focused on physical wellness, demonstrated by  the results of annual heath checkups—the scores  of relevant items under the occupational safety  and health regulations have been approximately  10 percentage points lower than the average  scores of local companies in Miyagi prefecture  for the past 10 years.  In recognition of its continuous efforts and  record of zero material labor accidents for the  past three years, Tohoku Ricoh was selected as  one of the THP* Leaders of the Year in July 2009  by the Japan THP Promotion Council. We will  continue to strive for employee health and safety.  Simulation-based training to  prevent worker injuries <Ricoh Numazu Plant/Japan> Ricohs Numazu Plant, which manufactures  consumables, launched simulation-based  safety and health training in February 2004.  Recognizing that hands-on simulation training,  rather than classroom lectures, is important and  effective in nurturing safety awareness among  employees, the plant has introduced simulation  training machines, with which the plant workers  can actually feel the danger of 16 kinds of  possible injury hazards (e.g., being caught in  the a machine, explosion of solvents) in their  workplace.  Target participants are all the employees working  in the Numazu Plant. By the end of 2009, the  aggregate total of participants has amounted  to 6,466 people, including Numazu Plant staff  and some customers who had requested to take  part. Participants have raised their awareness  of workplace safety, as a participant said, The  training brought home to me the real danger of  machine operation without safety considerations.  I will pay more attention to safety during work. Thanks to this training and other efforts, the  Numazu Plant recorded zero lost-time injuries for  a total of 4.6 million hours from 2007 to 2009,  and was certified as a Business Operator without  Work-related Injuries by the Ministry of Health,  Labour and Welfare of Japan. All Numazu Plant  employees will continue striving to keep their  workplace safe and injury-free.   Database of the Groups safety and health  management information Accident simulation using a drill press Awards ceremony of the Occupational Safety and  Health Convention *  THP stands for Total Health promotion Plan, a mental  and physical health promotion campaign by the Ministry  of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan.   43 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 (Assessment criteria) 3.25 2009 2008 2007 2006 3.50 4.00 3.93 3.93 3.70 3.69 3.88 3.73 3.88 3.73 3.77 3.78 3.78 3.81 3.71 3.77 (FY) Understanding  and sympathy  for the company  vision strategies Motivated work  attitudes Challenges to  achieve goals Satisfaction level  of workplace 3.25 4.00 3.97 3.49 3.48 3.95 3.55 3.55 3.58 3.96 3.97 3.96 3.62 3.53 3.53 3.57 3.57 2009 2008 2007 2006 3.76 4.04 4.04 3.65 3.62 3.54 3.54 (FY) (Assessment criteria) Pride in working  for Ricoh Pride in own work Sense of  personal growth  through work 3.59 3.59 Respect for People Promoting Autonomy and Creativity in the Workplace Fostering a vital culture Plan for Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Activities Review Ricoh is proceeding with reform of  its human resources management  system to achieve effective  functioning of the motivation  cycle. We are promoting a  vital culture where each Ricoh  employee can take on higher  goals, in line with respecting  employees richly individual  characteristics and encouraging  their autonomy and creativity,  as provided for in the Ricoh  Group CSR Charter. Ricoh will  proceed with its human resources  development program comprised  of seven categories of human  resources, to achieve the Groups  growth strategy, which includes  increasing profits in our major  businesses and venturing into  new fields. <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Human resources development 1) We continued to offer four manager education  courses: enhancing management capacity,   nurturing subordinates, Quality Management  (QM) training and human affairs and labor  issues for managing subordinates. We also  started to design training programs for junior  positions. 2) Technological Inheritance Database, a  database of information about our efforts to  transfer the Groups heritage of technical and  engineering skills to younger employees, was  launched. This database is also used for the  training of new mid-career engineers. Mechanism to accelerate  career development Offering a series of Career Design Training  programs for employees aged 30, 40 and 52,  we help employees define their career vision and  motivate them to aim for more ambitious goals. Developing global personnel 1 We have added some courses to our training  program (currently a total of 23 courses  are offered).  Those who will be assigned  outside Japan are now required to take the  cross-cultural communication, international  management, and QM training courses.      2 In addition to the TOEIC English proficiency  test, employees are encouraged to take  a Chinese proficiency test to address our  expanding business in China. <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Human resources development 1) Manager education will be conducted in such  a way that participants will practice what  they learned in their day-to-day management  and operation. We will also start to plan and  operate training programs for junior-level  employees.  2) Training to nurture innovative and creative  thinking will be offered to employees in  specialized fields.  3) Improve the content of the Technological  Inheritance Database aiming to facilitate  passing down technical knowledge and  experience to younger generations. Mechanism to accelerate  career development 1) We will improve the operation of the annual  training interview to ensure the program takes  care of the items discussed in the relevant  employees career development interview. 2) For supervisors who conduct training  interviews, we will develop and offer  supporting tools to carry out effective  interview. At the same time, we will provide  the necessary support to enhance the quality  of departmental counseling.   3) An in-house career counseling service  function will be launched.  Developing global personnel An employee education program for future  global leaders will be started. Employee satisfaction survey  <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Ricoh has conducted its annual employee  awareness survey since 2001 to determine  whether it can be considered a "vital  company" (as in the Ricoh Group vision)  in quantitative terms and utilize the survey  results by comparing them to targets  Motivation cycle Sharing a vision and voluntary challenges to  achieve higher goals General satisfaction rating of employees Customers Shareholders Partner companies Society Stakeholders  Outstanding business  performance  No. 1 products  in the world  Responsible actions as  corporate citizens Creating  challenges Growth and  self-actualization  through work Environment that  promotes growth  and creates results Vital Employees Vital Company Challenging  proactively Accurate  evaluation Shared visions  & goals Pride in results  44 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Masters Requirement: outstanding technical skills and proposal suggestion skills Technical and customer contact skills backed by extensive knowledge Analytical thinking, responsiveness Technical skills Customer orientation,  relationship building Proposal suggestion skills Information orientation, expertise Knowledge base Transferring an excellent  heritage to younger employees <Ricoh Group/Japan> At Ricoh, excellent skills, knowledge, and  manufacturing know-how have been developed  and evolved over many years. As the  documentation of these intangibles is rather  difficult because of their implicit knowledge  nature, field-specific knowledge and skills  have been transferred from senior to junior  employees in the course of daily operations and  sometimes outside work. However, such a time- consuming process may no longer be effective  in todays globalized and fast-moving business  environment, which requires highly sophisticated  and specialized technological capabilities.  Against such a background, Ricoh was  determined to preserve its longstanding  intangibles, so that each and every Ricoh  employee will understand the importance of  learning from the accomplishments of our  predecessors and be inspired to acquire higher  skills and capabilities. We considered this effort  a necessary step to become a truly global brand.  To translate this ambition into specific action, we  launched a Technological Inheritance Database  in the hope of creating a culture that values the  conservation of in-house skills and knowledge.  Through the database, employees can access  skilled employees personal wisdom and the  implicit knowledge based on their experience,  and learn how other departments and Group  companies are striving to pass senior staffs  skills and knowledge to younger generations.  Such information is a precious asset of the  Ricoh Group, yet it could not be found in  any documented form before. Many real-life  examples and first-hand accounts from senior  employees who have contributed to the success  of Ricoh and many real-life examples will give  the users of the database useful insights into  what they should do to solve a difficult problem  on the factory floor. Some Group companies  also use the Technological Inheritance Database  for employee training.  Going forward, we will continue to enhance  and expand the coverage of the Technological  Inheritance Database—not only in the  fields of engineering but also in production,  management, sales and other areas—so that our  employees can share and benefit from valuable  technological skills and expertise inherited in  the Ricoh Group. This is part of our journey  to become the worlds best manufacturer, one  which delivers  customer delight  and astonishment.  Report of interviews with veteran employees Top page of Technological Inheritance Database Technological Inheritance Database Icon (image) Passing down customer service  and support skills  <Ricoh Technosystems Co., Ltd./Japan> At support and service provider Ricoh  Technosystems Co., Ltd. (RTS), highly  experienced customer service engineers and  other employees are certified as in-house  masters, honoring their exemplary customer- centric activities. This certification program aims  to share and spread these masters excellent  technical and problem solving skills across  the company, and in turn to improve customer  satisfaction and minimize possible downtime.  To showcase best practice by such certified  masters, the first Masters Contest for Passing  Down Skills was held in December 2009, using  a video conference format.  In the online competition event, 6 finalists  out of some 160 participants from across Japan  gave presentations on how they strive day in  and day out for high-quality customer services  and support. The grand prize went to a master  who revised customer engineers workflows  and started to share complicated device  breakdown cases with others to earn customers  satisfaction and confidence. Through these  activities, the first-prize winner aims to provide  not only necessary device-related services but  also greater user comfort. This event for sharing  excellent skills and practices will continue to be  held in the future. set in the motivation cycle. In 2005, we  added categories to check the level of  understanding and practice of customer- oriented behavioral patterns that Ricoh  should be strengthening. In fiscal 2008,  we added 12 questions regarding themes  such as health and safety, passing on  technology and technical know-how, and  CSR activities. By analyzing the survey  results, Ricoh is addressing the problems  of each department and improving its  human resources management system so  as to enhance employee satisfaction. In  addition, each Group company conducts  its own employee satisfaction surveys  and introduces improvement cycles  based on them. Master certification process Bequeathing Skills and Technologies  45 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Company Employees Shareholders Reserve fund  for social contribution Social contribution club: FreeWill Environmental Volunteer Leader Development Program Volunteer service leave program Ricoh Science Caravan Forest ecosystem conservation program     Ichimura Nature School Kanto 08 09 (FY) (Numberofpeople) 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00 14,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2,968 13,537 9,783 Respect for human beings and respect for the Earth  The thinking behind the Ricoh  Groups social contribution  activities is to try to communicate  with society through the company,  its employees, and shareholders  and to contribute to creating  a more sustainable society. In  line with this principle, Ricohs  social contributions focus on  environmental conservation and  providing young people with sound  values. In implementing activities,  each Ricoh employee believes in  fostering attitudes and actions  that value human beings and the  Earth and takes action based on  this concept. Through the use of  corporate capital, including know- how, technologies and human  resources cultivated through our  business activities, Ricoh conducts  social contribution activities that  span the globe. Social contribution program linking Ricoh, its employees and Its shareholders Social contribution  reserve system <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Ricohs social contribution reserve  system ensures stable and continuous  social contributions. In accordance with  this system, which was approved at the  shareholders meeting in 1998, the Board  of Directors meeting approved a measure  to allocate a portion of profits toward  three types of social contributions: the  Ichimura Nature School Kanto, the Ricoh  Science Caravan, and Forest ecosystem  conservation projects. The reserve is now  used for all these activities. Learning how to earn a living  from Mother Earth at Ichimura  Nature School <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> The Ichimura Nature School was  established in 2002 to commemorate the  100th anniversary of the birth of Ricohs  founder, Kiyoshi Ichimura. Based on the  concept of learning how to live from  Mother Earth, the school offers programs  to nurture three societal values (care for  nature, care for others and observation  of good social behavior) as well as two  abilities (independence, and the ability to  recognize danger). Each year, every other  weekend from March to November, children  of various ages spend three days and two  nights together at the schools facilities and  take part in agricultural and other activities.  Through agricultural experiences like  planting and harvesting, children learn  first-hand the significance of nature, the  joys of self sufficiency and an appreciation  for food. In addition to the school staff,  Ricoh employees also serve as volunteers.  Together, they follow the basic rules of  not offering children too much instruction,  orders, lessons or excessive care to  help build a sense of independence,  responsibility and cooperation among the  children. The program boasts a more than  90% average yearly attendance rate per  child and a total of more than 400 girls  and boys have attended the school to date.  We hope these children will become good  citizens and help create a better world.  Ricoh Science Caravan <Ricoh Group/Japan> Ricoh Science Caravan is a hands-on  experience program designed to help  children nurture an interest in science.  The program is operated by Ricoh Group  employee volunteers who feel motivated by  their interaction with the kids.   Pretend you are a copier is a popular  program in the Ricoh Science Caravan,  which enables children to experience  six copier processes (the mechanism  by which static electricity duplicates  an image) through experiments. The  program was held in 28 locations with  more than 13,000 participants in fiscal  2009, compare with 18 locations and  some 3,000 participants in fiscal 2007.  This program represents how the Ricoh  Group gives back to the communities in  which it operates—leveraging the Groups  capabilities (technologies, expertise, and  human resources), voluntary participation  by employees, and collaboration with local  communities. Harmony with Society An Active Member of the Communities Participants in Ricoh science caravan  46 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Ricohs social contribution club:  FreeWill <Ricoh Group/Japan> FreeWill is an employee-led social  contribution club founded in January 1999  to support grass roots organizations.  Members contribute a fraction of their  monthly salaries and bonuses (less than  100 from an employees monthly salary  and less than 1,000 from his/her bonus),  which is then allocated toward a wide  range of social contribution activities,  mainly support for nonprofit organizations  <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> need to come to the museum  to perform experiments  to compete their school  curriculum. Students in remote  areas receive occasional visits  from museum staff members  who go and teach them. When I  taught local students, I focused  on developing their scientific thinking and application skills  by encouraging them to think and experience things by  themselves, as I found most of them had basic theoretical  knowledge but lacked the capability to apply the theory. It was  my great joy to see the students develop their understanding  of science and achieve not only academic but also personal  growth. Such a delightful experience motivated me to work  even harder to provide better support for them. Happy news  continued even after my return to Japan; I learned that many  of my students had graduated and moved on to the next level  of education. I intend  to continue making my  humble contributions  to making a difference  in local and global  communities. In September 2007, I took a two-year volunteer service leave*  to help a state-run science museum in the northernmost  province in South Africa. My main responsibilities there  were: (1) helping students perform science experiments  which supplemented school education, (2) operating shows  and events to raise young peoples interest in science,  and (3) producing exhibits and visual aids to help visitors  understanding the relevant themes. The museum is located in  a province whose education level is one of the lowest in the  nation. During the apartheid era, science education was not  sufficiently provided there. Local schools do not have science  laboratories—all  they have are the  bare necessities,  such as blackboards,  desks, and chairs.  Neighboring junior  high school and  high school students  Students using learning tools in the museum Teaching science in South Africa Tamami Midori no Kai, a recipient of FreeWills support,  offering local children opportunities to interact with nature *  Employees are entitled to take leave for a period from 1 to 26 months to participate in social contribution activities  organized by national or local governments or other qualified programs. Toshinobu Kasuya Platform Development Center Imaging Engine Development Division Promoting science education  in South Africa (NPOs) endeavoring to provide solutions  to social issues. Contributions have totaled more  than 38.0 million to date, offered to a  cumulative 274 organizations. In addition  to donating funds, Ricoh will aim for social  contribution activities involving more  employee participation by developing  programs in collaboration with NPOs  receiving our support. FreeWill marks its 10th anniversary In 2009, FreeWill celebrated its 10th  anniversary. To commemorate this  milestone, the social contribution club  conducted The Santa Project, where each  Group employee became a Santa to donate  goods in kind as an expression of friendship  toward organizations that Ricoh has been  supporting, and also to do something in  cooperation with these organizations.   Another commemorative event was held,  featuring a lecture by Ken Noguchi, an  alpinist and the Chairman of Seven Summits  Actions for Sustainable Society (SSASS).  Before an audience of 200 people, including  FreeWill members and their families, he  talked about a school construction being  undertaken in Nepal by SSASS. The project  is being supported by FreeWill.   Mr. Noguchi contrasted his personal  struggle while climbing Mt. Everest with  the daily hardships of local people in Nepal.  To support the school construction project,  Freewill donated 4.8 million, sufficient to  construct a dormitory and toilet facilities, to  SSASSs Manasul Foundation.  47 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Participants voices * The pictograms above were designed by   Hottokenai Sekai no Mazushisa (GCAP Japan) Eradicate extreme poverty  and hunger Global goals adopted by the United Nations  Millennium Summit, calling for their  achievement by 2015 Achieve universal  primary education Promote gender equality  and empower women Reduce child mortality Improve maternal health Combat HIV/AIDs, malaria,  and other diseases Ensure environmental  sustainability Develop a global partnership  for development Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Ricoh Hokkaido Co., Ltd. STAND UP TAKE ACTION Stand UP!! Are you ready? Together with local communities and NGOs, the Ricoh Group  gives back to society  Under the slogan Lets start with what you can do! Ricoh Hokkaido invited its people to join in the Stand Up and  Take Action campaign. In a photo contest for campaign participants, the company was a standout.  Some 1,900 Group employees  stood up to fight against  world poverty <Ricoh Group/Japan> From October 16 to  October 18, 2009,  the Ricoh Group  participated in the  Stand Up and Take Action event, a global  action program to fight against world  poverty and achieve the United Nations  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  The campaign started in 2006, calling on  people around the world to stand up  and urged world political leaders to take  aggressive action. The 2009 event was  joined by 31,298 people in Japan and some  173 million people worldwide to send a  strong message to the world. The Ricoh Group first joined the global  movement in 2008 to promote employees  awareness of MDGs, a set of key global  agenda, and make them realize that they can  be a part of the solution to todays issues  by using Ricohs technologies and human  and other resources. In 2009, the number  of participants from Ricoh grew more than  sevenfold from the previous year  to 1,915, the largest group from a  single corporate participant. From Ricoh Kansai Co.,  Ltd., for example, nearly 700  employees from 15 sites joined  the campaign, partly thanks to  active promotion by its CSR  Department. At Ricoh Chugoku  Co., Ltd., 190 people stood up  at a management team meeting held outside  of the campaign period. In Ichimura Nature  School, children attending the course stood  up after the school heads lecture about the  mission of this global action.  At a symposium held as a campaign  event, we as a representative of the  business world explained how the Ricoh  Group has been working against poverty  and what these activities mean to us.  Through active participation, we  would like to continue to provide Ricoh  Group employees and stakeholders with  opportunities to raise their awareness of  global issues and think about what each  of us can do to address these issues as an  individual and collectively as a corporate  citizen.  I want to know more about world poverty and MDGs and share it with my family and friends The participants all looked motivated and fired up   Its great to see so many people passionate about making a difference. Ill be sure to join next  year!  Children stand up at Ichimura Nature School Japan Harmony with Society An Active Member of the Communities  48 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR 3 pillars 1 2 3 CSR for harmony with society Active volunteer activities  by employees  (individuals and groups)  Encouraging volunteer  activities by offering  volunteers service leave Evaluation and  award program  for volunteer activities Enhancing the value  of the Ricoh Hokkaido brand Tomohiro Sakanushi (President of Ricoh Hokkaido, right)  and award winners Working with local communities  to establish a biotope* pond in  urban surroundings <Ricoh Group/Japan> Ricoh has a program to develop  environmental volunteer leaders who have  a deep understanding of the importance  of biodiversity and are capable of planning  and operating environmental conservation  activities. After completing such training at  Ricoh Nature School, certified environmental  volunteer leaders plan and implement various  activities, inviting the participation of their  coworkers and local communities. However,  some leaders have a hard time coming up with  activity ideas because there are no forests or  natural setting in their local areas.   As part of efforts to help this situation, a  project to construct a biotope pond with local  children took place in Aoyama Elementary  School in Tokyo on February 6, 2010.  This nature school event started with an  open class for participating fourth-graders,  who learned the importance of considering  the needs of other creatures and understood  that the true purpose of the event was not  to create a biotope but to take voluntary  action to interact with nature. Following the  class, 18 volunteer pupils from the school  and environmental leaders constructed the  biotope. Work included activities such as  solidifying the ground and planting water  plants and weeds and finally filling the pond.  Comments from the environmental leaders  who participated in the event include: Moving  forward, we would like to invite the active  participation of the local community. This  project is not about creating a biotope but  about raising understanding of the importance  of conserving ecosystems, and We would  like to monitor the development of the biotope  pond as a responsible custodian because we  created the pond from scratch.  Fixed-point observation has been  conducted on the biotope and the latest  developments have been shared with local  people. Recently, many frog eggs were found  in the pond. For upcoming events, we are  planning nature watching and vegetation  surveys with children.   *  Biotope refers to a habitat of living creatures, whose  lives are organically connected. The word biotope is  derived from two German words: bio meaning living  organism and top (e) meaning place. Award program to honor  employees volunteering  activities <Ricoh Hokkaido Co., Ltd./Japan> In addition to corporate programs, employees  may engage in volunteer activities by  themselves or with like-minded peers. Such  grass root volunteering is also an integral part  of a companys effort to create a harmonious  relationship with local communities. With  this recognition, our sales subsidiary  Ricoh Hokkaido started an award program to  commend such employees in fiscal 2007, aiming  to create a corporate culture that encourages  and values active contribution to society.  Among the candidates, including those  who put themselves forward and those  who were recommended by others, annual  awards go to the employee or group of  employees conducting year-round activities  which are continuous, have potential for  wider participation, and are relevant to the  companys business. In fiscal 2009, three  activities: an individuals efforts to expand  a social contribution activity network, a  youth development sports program, and  a sanitation service at mountain lodges  for environmental conservation, received  awards. Award winners are honored and their  activities are introduced at the companys  annual employee convention. With employees  commending their coworkers achievements  together, the award presentation event builds  stronger comradeship among Ricoh Hokkaido  Elementary school students, local residents and Ricoh Group  employees got together  Environmental volunteer members and pupils creating the  biotope pond Environmental volunteer leader  development program Ricohs Environmental Volunteer Leader Development  Program was launched in June 1999 for employee training  purposes. In fiscal 2001, eligibility to participate in the  program was extended to include all Group employees and  retirees. By the end of fiscal 2009, a total of 496 people had  been certified as environmental volunteer leaders.  Ricoh Hokkaidos approach to social contribution activities employees and may inspire them to take their  own actions.  Rugby event for local elementary  and junior high school children  <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Ricoh Rugby Football Team hosted the  10th Ricoh Rugby Festival in June 2009. More  than 500 children from Tokyo and Kanagawa  prefectures joined the event, playing rugby  with Ricoh players. Running around on the  pitch, the little athletes learned many things,  especially the importance of teamwork. Ricoh  will continue to hold this Rugby event to  encourage children to play more sport and to  support their healthy development.    49 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 nterview I Harmony with Society An Active Member of the Communities Creating an environment  that encourages employee  contribution to society  <Ricoh UK/U.K.> Ricoh UK Ltd. (RUK), a sales subsidiary,  held a fund-raising walk event on December  17, 2009. In organizing this event, RUK  enhanced its in-house system that supports  and enables employee volunteering— even during normal working hours—to  encourage employees voluntary activities  for society. Despite a heavy snowfall the  night before, 187 employees gathered at the  Ricoh Arena soccer stadium. On a bitterly  cold day, with a maximum temperature of  just 3C, the volunteers walked around the  soccer pitch, listening to Christmas music  played in the venue. These employees also  raised personal sponsorships in advance  from their own salary, friends, families,  colleagues, and customers. A total of  approximately 3,900 pounds (about 560,000  yen) was raised, which was donated to the  following three organizations:  School Governors One Stop Shop:  Recruiting volunteers to become school  governors  Forest of Marston Vale: Planting trees to  restore biodiversity in the local area   Shaftesbury Young People: Working to  improve the lives of children  In addition to encouraging employees  social contribution activities, contributing  to environmental conservation was another  objective of the event. The United Nations  Climate Change Conference (COP 15) was  held in Copenhagen in December 2009,  aiming to agree on a post-Kyoto Protocol  framework. To promote Ricohs corporate  support for the conference beyond the  company, the event participants walked  5,350 laps and RUK pledged to plant  5,350 trees in the Forest of Marston Vale,  a symbol of the distance from Kyoto to  Copenhagen: 5,350 miles. As the next step,  RUK will develop an inventory of volunteer  programs aligned with its three major  social contribution themes (environment,  education, and local community) to  encourage employees engagement. The manager of Coventry City FC, which offered the event venue (left), RUK CEO David Mills (right), and RUK employee  volunteers Employees completing the last few laps, commenting Tired but happy! All the participants enjoyed themselves and were  able to see about how much of a difference we  can make to the local community by doing such  a simple thing as a sponsored walk. This was  our first experience of organizing such an event  and we believe that the successful outcome will  encourage further employee volunteering during  work-time. Coordinator of the walk event Ms. Charlene Withall, CSR Advisor, Ricoh UK A brilliant event and very enjoyable!   Nice to meet so many colleagues from other parts of the  company.  So nice to do something for a good cause during work-time.   Good to hear about these charities. Im now considering  becoming a school governor. Comments from employee participants in the walk event Europe Area: Europe, Middle East, Africa  50 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Conserving biodiversity in  Alsace <Ricoh Industrie France/France> Ricoh Industrie France S.A.S. (RIF), a  manufacturing subsidiary, is promoting the  Vie & Couleurs [Life & Colors] project to  conserve biodiversity in Alsace, together  with RIF employee volunteers and a local  environmental association. The project  aims to help develop a green network in  Alsace—a region active in environmental  conservation and education and the  location of RIFs factory. By creating a pond  Bridging the digital divide <Ricoh Europe, Ricoh Belgium/Europe> Ricohs sales subsidiary, formerly part  of NRG Benelux B.V., provided eager  support and cooperation in establishing  Close the Gap, an organization with the  mission of closing the digital divide gap in  developing countries by donating personal  computers and other IT equipment and  offering related education. Since May 2004,  NRG Benelux has been an avid supporter  of Close the Gap, offering a range of IT- based educational programs primarily to  schools and hospitals in Africa (see table  below). These activities aim to enable local  and planting plants,  flowers, and fruit trees,  employee volunteers  transformed 12 hectares  of land on the factory  premises into a biotope  where indigenous  plants, birds, insects,  and other species are  conserved in a natural  way. The company  is also considering  the future installation  of beehives there. In  addition to this biotope  creation, RIF has been  conducting a variety  of programs to raise awareness among  its employees and the wider public of  environmental conservation. Sample efforts  during 2009 include external seminars and  presentations to help other corporations  conduct similar biodiversity conservation  initiatives, as well as the production of  a video presenting how a corporation  community members, particularly young  people, to access information online and  thereby help them to build a brighter  future. This partnership has subsequently  expanded from our Benelux companies to  France. In 2008, Ricoh Europe, the regional  headquarters, established a CSR Steering  Group to coordinate social contribution  projects across all Ricoh sales subsidiaries  in Europe.  One of the focus areas agreed  for these activities is "closing the digital  divide", both in developing countries and  within disadvantages communities in  Europe.  In line with this, Ricoh Belgium  teamed up with PC Solidarity, a Belgium- works for biodiversity on its site and  provides related employee education. As an  exemplary case of environmental education,  the video was shown at French conferences  on environmental education and sustainable  development. based daughter project of Close the Gap,  and donated Ricohs multifunctional digital  copiers to an organization supporting  people with disabilities, as the first initiative  under this partnership.  Major activities in Africa April 2005 Established the Digital Education Center in the University of the Western Cape, South Africa.  Donated 200 PCs with HIV/AIDS education program installed and 15 printers. October 2005 Provided a computer class in a hospital for children suffering chronic illness in South Africa.  Donated 21 desktop computers and eight laptop computers. May 2006 Established the Digital Education Center in Kenya. Provided computer skill training for young people to help them find employment. Donated ten PC  units, developed network systems, and supported the purchase of necessary equipment and supplies in the Center and payment of teachers salaries. 2007–2008 Donated 200+ PCs, MFPs, and printers to African nations such as Congo, Uganda, Tanzania, Niger, and Zambia. Assisted computer training,  support for people with disabilities, and local communitys information collection. Computer class in Uganda  51 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Ricoh employees and devices  contribute to the Winter Olympic  Games <Ricoh Canada/Canada> As an official supporter of the 2010 Vancouver  Olympics and  Paralympics, Ricoh  Canada Inc. has  supported the  organization of the  Winter Games in  various forms over  the past eight years, from the start of preparations  through to the end of the event in March 2010.  Before the opening of the event, the company  created the Ricoh Olympic Spirit Awards (ROSA)  to recognize exemplary volunteer community  service displayed by employees with a view to  encouraging them to undertake further social  contributions. As a reward for the individuals  commended at the Awards, they were able to  take part in the torch run, and a total of 20 people  from Ricoh Canada, including the president of the  company participated in the torch run as runners. With regard to the organization of the Winter  Games, Ricoh Canada made a special contribution  in the field of information systems. At the event,  Harmony with Society An Active Member of the Communities all the competition records were reported and  printed utilizing Ricoh devices, which were  equipped with an automatic duplex printing  function as a standard default to minimize the  use of printing paper for the conservation of the  environment. Moreover, the machines installed  by the company went into sleep mode but still  produced the first copy immediately after exiting  the mode, which helped save energy and reduce  CO2 emissions. The company also implemented  fail-safe support measures to prevent machine  failures by using the @Remote function, which  manages devices via the Internet. These Ricoh  devices and technologies were highly evaluated as  innovative technologies for the reporting means  to be used at the Olympics, and the Vancouver  Organizing Committee for the 2010 Olympic and  Paralympic Winter Games (VANOC) awarded the  Sustainability Star to Ricoh Canada.  From the summer of  2009, shortly before the  opening of the Winter  Games, 13 employees  were dispatched from the  company to various venues  as technical support staff.  During the actual period  of the Winter Games,  more than 200 technicians  and about 2,300 Ricoh  devices (multifunctional digital copiers, printers,  and facsimiles) supported the organization of the  Games. In terms of labor hours, Ricoh Canada  spent about 40,000 hours for technical support  and about 10,000 for other support activities,  including PR activities. Supporting the 2010 Games was the single  largest CSR event that Ricoh has ever done in  Canada.  Employees dispatched to the venues were able to  do their best and develop themselves just like the  athletes and players participating in a great sports  event and the sense of accomplishment and  commitment was demonstrated by all employees  of Ricoh Canada. The Olympic Organizing  Committee highly praised the stability of Ricohs  technologies and its effective contingency  responses. Engineers on standby at Cypress Mountain President Glenn Laverty of Ricoh Canada running with the  torch in his hand Start line of the cross country skiing at the Winter Olympic Games The Americas Area:North America, Latin America  52 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR A total of 82 people, including employees and their families, participated in a beach cleanup activity and collected about 100  pounds (45 kilograms) of waste. (REI) Employees at IKONs headquarters helped raise  money for IKONs annual United Way campaign  by  washing 55 cars.  Employees conducted classes on economic  awareness for elementary school students as  part of their partnership with an NGO named  Junior Achievement. (RAC) Volunteer activities conducted  by Ricoh Group companies <Ricoh Americas Corporation, IKON  Office Solutions, Ricoh Electronics /The Americas> In the Americas, Ricoh Group companies are  encouraged to conduct volunteer activities,  and they participate in a range of initiatives to  contribute to local communities throughout  the year. These activities help strengthen  the ties between employees and the local  community and also help employees find  more meaning and value in working for Ricoh.  Ricoh Electronics, Inc. (REI) has an  employee volunteer team. The members  of this team, named  Helping Others and  Protecting Our Environment (H.O.P.E.) lead  a range of volunteer activities. In 2009, they  implemented 15 projects, including the  cleanup of a local beach and a fundraising/ walking event, and a total of more than 460  employees and their families participated in  the activities.  IKON Office Solutions, Inc. (IKON) has  held IKON Volunteer Day on an annual  basis for the past two years. In 2009,  426 employees and their friends and  families participated in the event to make  contributions to the local community,  including the cleanup of schools and  parks, and helping to prepare and provide  meals to the homeless. Moreover, IKON  has been supporting United Way, an NGO  engaged in activities to help people raise  their living standards, mainly from the  three aspects of education, income, and  health. In a fund-raising campaign held  in October, employees contributed more  than 1.1 million dollars to the NGO.  Ricoh Americas Corporation (RAC),  Ricohs regional headquarters for the  Americas, conducts more than 100  volunteer activities per year, focusing  on the five fields of health, environment,  education, community, and donations. In  fiscal year 2009, 1,800 employees spent  approximately 8,000 hours in volunteer  activities.  The CSR program is one of the methods of showing how Ricoh can contribute to bettering the  world. It helps me grow myself and find more value in working for Ricoh.   It is pleasant to be able to conduct volunteer activities with other employees and I feel very  happy to be able to work for a company that is committed to using its resources for the benefit  of society. Opinions from employees participating in volunteer activities Employees and companies  working together to provide  support to the victims of the  earthquake in Haiti  <Ricoh Group/Global> The major earthquake that occurred in Haiti  on January 12, 2010, is said to be the worst   in the past 10 years with up to 30% of the  citizens being affected, including the death  of more than 200,000 people. The Ricoh  Group, led by companies in the Americas  and with the participation of companies in  Japan and Spain, gave donations to the  victims of the earthquake, wanting to help  them recover from the disaster as soon as  possible. For example, RAC, IKON, and REI  asked employees to donate to the American  Red Cross, and the companies themselves  also donated, matching the amounts  given by their employees. As a result of  these three companies encouraging their  employees to give proactive support to the  victims, the donations made by the three  companies and their employees totaled  86,236 dollars. Ricoh Spain collected 3,728 euros from  employees and donated it to the Spanish  Red Cross. The company also donated the  same amount to Doctors Without Borders,  an organization engaged in medical care in  the devastated area. Also, from Japan we  donated five million yen to Japan Platform,  an organization for humanitarian assistance,  through which the NGOs belonging to the  organization provided prompt emergency  and recovery support throughout Haiti.  53 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society An Active Member of the Communities Solar LED lamp posts reduced  CO2 emissions in park by 4.27 tons  <Ricoh Asia Industry (Shenzhen) Ltd./China> Since its foundation, manufacturing  affiliate Ricoh  Asia Industry  (Shenzhen)  Ltd. (RAI) has  been focusing  on sustainable  environmental  management  activities, such  as energy and  resource saving  and recycling.  In recognition of this dedication, RAI  received the Guangdong Eco-Friendly  Manufacturer Award, the Shenzhen Eco- Friendly Manufacturer Award and other  environmental prizes, together with  financial rewards totaling 1.29 million yuan,  from the City of Shenzhen. The company  Planting trees to raise money for  children with heart disease  <Ricoh Group/China> As they have done for years, the Ricoh  Group companies in the East China region,  including Ricoh China Co., Ltd. (regional  sales headquarters in China) and RTM  Wuxi (manufacturing affiliate) planted  trees in fiscal 2009. However, there was  something different this time—the project  was undertaken to support children fighting  heart disease.   In China, more than 120,000 children  develop heart disease each year. To support  them, about 150 Ricoh Group employees in  the country gathered in Shanghai to plant  trees in a park. Under the theme of Planting  trees and giving love, these volunteers  decided to donate 50 yuan per tree planted,  and a total of 10,000 yuan was donated to a  special fund for children with heart disease  operated by the Shanghai Childrens Health  Foundation.   decided to use the reward money to help  the local community and donated 55 solar- powered LED lamp posts to neighboring  Beacon Hill Park, a popular place for  Shenzhen citizens. The park and RAI have  been good partners in environmental  conservation efforts, which include  joint implementation of tree planting,  periodical cleanups, and many other  activities. At the donation ceremony in  the park in December 28, 2009, the park  representatives expressed their deep  appreciation and gratitude for RAIs  Employees volunteering for the  project said they were delighted to join a  meaningful project that helped not only the  environment but also children suffering  from heart disease. In their respective  companies, the project participants  reported on the objectives of the project  and how it was carried out, and encouraged  other employees to become interested in  and actually join voluntary activities.   The park manager expressed his  continuous environmental efforts over  the years.   The installation of the donated lamps  is expected to reduce the parks annual  power consumption by 5,540.7 kW and  cut CO2 emissions by 4.27 tons. The eco- friendly lighting has also helped raise local  peoples awareness of energy saving. RAI  will continue to make efforts as an active  environmental steward, in the hope that  their activities will inspire other businesses  and individuals to also take action. gratitude, saying What you planted was  more than trees. Thank you for bringing  hope to the children.  Supporting earthquake relief  efforts in Qinghai  <Ricoh Group/China> On April 14, 2010, a devastating earthquake  struck Qinghai province in western China,  causing enormous damage and many  victims (the death toll exceeded 2,000).  For victims of this major earthquake, Ricoh  Co., Ltd., Ricoh China and other Group  companies in the country donated one  million yuan to the Red Cross Society of  China, Shanghai Branch on April 16, 2010.  In addition to the contribution by Group  companies, Group employees in China  voluntarily raised funds and donated.  Solar LED lamp posts donated  to park Receiving a certificate of gratitude at the donation  ceremony Tree planting by employee volunteers RAI President Kazuhisa Daimon being interviewed by a Guangdong  TV network about RAIs Declaration of Environmental Conservation China Area: China  54 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR <Ricoh Australia/Australia> Restoring bio-diversity on  Motuihe Island <Ricoh New Zealand/New Zealand> Ricoh New Zealand Ltd. (RNZ) has been  cooperating with the Motuihe Island  Restoration Trust since 2004, an organization  engaged in the protection of biodiversity on  Motuihe Island, one of the most beautiful  islands in Hauraki, Gulf, Auckland,  New Zealand. Jointly with the Trust,  the company has been conducting  environmental activities with the  voluntary participation of its employees  and their local friends. Specifically,  they are engaged in the planting  and protection of trees and other  plants, cleanup of a local beach, and  the removal of weeds. More than  10,000 trees have been planted by  the volunteers over six years, and the area  in which Ricoh is conducting forestation  activities is now known as Ricoh Valley.  Since 2006, customers of RNZ have also  been participating in these activities. At  the beginning, there were 58 volunteer  participants and the number has increased to  140, including 13 MA customer companies by  2009. The activity is thus steadily expanding  in size. From a customer who actually  participated in the activity we received the  following comment: I enjoy spending the day  in the volunteer activity with my family. It was  also good to be able to see the planted trees  growing taller. I was able to feel that I was a  real part of the Ricoh team. RNZ has been  giving support to the Motuihe Island  Restoration Trust on a continuing  basis, including support for the  creation of brochures and other  printed materials, and the donation of  cameras for a photographic contest  held by the organization, which the  company supports as a sponsor. Employees of Ricoh Australia Pty, Ltd. have been  conducting volunteer activities at Arranounbai School since  2007. This special needs school is attended by children  who are physically disabled or have illnesses are and aged  12 or younger, including those younger than school age.  Employees spend the lunch time talking with children and  play soccer, basketball, and card games with them. They  also assist children with craft activities. The children are  becoming more self-confident and gain more self-respect  through communicating and playing with the employees. At  present 36 employees are registered as members who visit  the school once every two weeks, and all the participating  employees agree that they themselves have gained  personally from their involvement in this activity. Ricoh volunteers make a difference to children  with special needs Asia-Pacific Area: Southeast Asia, Oceania Ms. Judi Billingham, School Administration Manager I would like to take this opportunity to  say thank you to all our wonderful Ricoh  volunteers. The difference they are making in our  students lives is really fantastic. The students can  talk and have a laugh with the volunteers, who have  become important and comfortable friends to them.  The excitement of the students when they know their  buddy has arrived demonstrates this fact. Moreover,  their input and ideas are very valuable to the school  staff and the parents of our students also value their  support. We all feel the Ricoh volunteers are truly part  of the Arranounbai family. Testimonial  55 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 improvement and how we moved forward  during the past year.  Through continuous communication with  NGOs and international organizations, we  will work to incorporate a broad spectrum of  perspectives into our CSR activities. Taking our CSR to the next level through dialogue  with stakeholders Keeping stakeholders up to date  with our agenda  <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Ricoh has been working to help solve the  challenges specified in the Millennium  Development Goals. Recognizing the  importance of active communication with  NGOs and international organizations which  have deep knowledge of, and have been  endeavoring to address, global issues,  Ricoh has held official stakeholder dialogues  regularly for two years.   In a March 2009 meeting, members of six  organizations were invited to share their views  on what considerations are necessary for our  future CSR activities. Their comments and  advice were reflected in our activities in fiscal  2009, resulting in tangible improvements.  For instance, a recommendation expressed in  the meeting called for greater efforts from us  to uphold human rights. In response, we held  departmental study group meetings several  times to obtain a better understanding of  Understanding issues facing  developing countries <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Nippon-Keidanren International Cooperation  Center (NICC)1 organizes various  international cooperation activities to help  Asian and other developing economies  achieve sustainable growth.  As part of  these initiatives, NICC operates an annual  social trends in this area. We also followed  advice received in the meeting and conducted  a field study on the BOP market to explore  how best to communicate with local people  and assess the impact of this kind of  business on the local market. In April 2010,  or one year after the dialogue, we compiled  and sent a report to the dialogue participants  to inform them how their advice had been  incorporated into our subsequent actions for  training program for business managers  from developing countries in cooperation  with leading Japanese companies.  Participants can learn a wide range of business  skills, including manufacturing and quality  control.  Ricoh supports this program by  sending our employees to teach sustainable  environmental management and CSR.   Such support for the NICC program also  provides us with opportunities to talk with  business people from developing countries.  In fiscal 2009, we held a meeting with  business executives from 14 countries2 to  learn that many companies in their home  countries are taking various actions to meet  the needs of local communities, such as  personnel development and educational  support and that they expect Japanese  corporations to provide support in the areas  of environmental and other CSR training,  technology, and management skills.    We would like to continue seeking such  opportunities to understand social needs  and issues in developing worlds and adjust  our approach accordingly.  1.  To learn more about NICC, please visit   http://www.nicc.or.jp/en/index.html 2.  Bangladesh, Brazil, Cambodia, China, Indonesia,   Laos, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan,   the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Vietnam  Dialogue meeting in 2008 Communication with Developing Countries Communication with NGOs and International Organizations Harmony with Society Communication with Stakeholders  56 RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Harmony with Society Respect for People Harmony with the Environment Integrity in Corporate Activities Feature Article Concept of CSR Overall rating of the factory tour Unanswered 3 Very satisfied 55 Satisfied 32 More or less satisfied 6 So-so 4 Desire to join a future tour Unanswered 3 No idea 1 Definitely want to join 63 Want to join 28 More or less  want to join 4 So-so 1 Overall rating of the factory tour Unanswered 3 Very satisfied 55 Satisfied 32 More or less satisfied 6 So-so 4 Desire to join a future tour Unanswered 3 No idea 1 Definitely want to join 63 Want to join 28 More or less  want to join 4 So-so 1 Management  Central Meeting  (Division Meeting*) Office/Plant Meeting Division Meeting  Office/Plant Meeting  Information delivery  (policies, earnings, programs, business results, etc.) Division Meeting  Office/Plant Meeting Special Committees  (discussion panels) * Division Meetings are not held in some offices/plants Workplace Meeting  Employees voices (proposals, opinions, etc.) Factory tours for shareholders   <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> Using various occasions and opportunities,  Ricoh strives to listen to its stakeholders  and help them understand our business  better. In fiscal 2009, we organized factory  tours in October and December, in response  to requests from shareholders. A total of 68  shareholders were invited to our Gotemba  Plant to see how Ricoh manufactures  its products and reduces environmental  impact at its facilities. The shareholders  also visited a biotope pond created in the  Ricoh Employee Council meets  monthly to discuss issues with  management <Ricoh Co., Ltd./Japan> As specified in its management philosophy,  Ricoh believes that management and  employees should work in unison to create  a work environment where each member  of the company can find personal value  in their work. In other words, employees  are important partners in the companys  business. Fully recognizing the importance  of communication with employees,  management established Ricoh Employee  Council (See the chart, right), a multi-tier  system to facilitate internal communication,  40 years ago. These meetings have been  held regularly since then. At the Central  Meeting, held on a periodical and ad  hoc basis, latest business updates and  departmental (e.g., CSR, R&D) current  activities are reported, which then are  explained in detail to each employee at  respective Office/Plant Meetings and  Workplace Meetings.  Enterprise-wide  issues, such as the companys yearly  factory premises.  The tours were well-received by the  participants. Nearly 90% of the participants  surveyed said they were satisfied with  the visit and would like to join a similar  event in the future. The shareholders also  provided us with many valuable insights,  including improvement opportunities they  identified, as well as words of support and  encouragement.  We will continue to meet and exchange  views with our shareholders. plan, and salary rise and bonus payment  plans are discussed at relevant Special  Committees, which seek and incorporate  employees opinions to the fullest extent  possible. This dialogue-driven mechanism  at Ricoh has attracted a lot of attention  from other companies wishing to develop  systems to facilitate active internal  communication.  Communication with Shareholders and Investors Communication with Employees Results of survey of factory tour participants Chart of Ricoh employee council  RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 R Female  14% Administrative  24% Technical  76% Male  86% 2006 2007 2008 2009 0 50,000 100,000 108,500 81,900 83,500 108,500 (FY) (people) Business Overview Ricoh Co., Ltd., was established in Tokyo,  Japan on February 6, 1936. The Ricoh  Group consists of Ricoh Co., Ltd., 266  subsidiaries, and 6 affiliates,* with a  combined total of approximately 108,500  employees worldwide. The Group offers  imaging equipment products, such as  digital copiers and printers, and other  products as well as associated services and  solutions in five regions around the world  (Japan, the Americas, Europe, China, and  the Asia-Pacific region). * This definition of a subsidiary/affiliate follows the   U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S.   GAAP), which differ slightly from the definition given   in Japans GAAP. Ricoh Group Outline * Launched on July 1, 2010 Ricoh Head Office Ricoh Bldg., 8-13-1, Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo   104-8222, Japan Main number: +81-3-6278-2111 http://www.ricoh.com/ Japan Ricoh Company, Ltd. Ricoh Elemex Corporation; Tohoku Ricoh Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Printing Systems, Ltd. Ricoh Optical Industries Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Microelectronics Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Keiki Co., Ltd. Hasama Ricoh, Inc.; Ricoh Unitechno Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Leasing Company, Ltd. Ricoh Logistics System Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Technosystems Co., Ltd. Ricoh Hokkaido Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Tohoku Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Sales Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Chubu Co., Ltd. Ricoh Kansai Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Chugoku Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Kyushu Co., Ltd. Americas Ricoh Electronics, Inc.; Ricoh Americas Corporation InfoPrint Solutions Company, LLC; IKON Office Solutions, Inc. Europe Ricoh UK Products Ltd.; Ricoh Industrie France S.A.S.; Ricoh Europe PLC Ricoh Deutschland GmbH; Ricoh UK Ltd.; Ricoh France S.A.S. Ricoh Espana S.L.U.; Ricoh Italia Srl Others Ricoh Asia Industry (Shenzhen) Ltd.; Shanghai Ricoh Digital Equipment Co., Ltd. Ricoh China Co., Ltd.; Ricoh Hong Kong Ltd.; Ricoh Asia Pacific Operations Ltd. Ricoh Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.; Ricoh Australia Pty, Ltd.; Ricoh New Zealand Ltd.  Scope of the report (extract) Imaging & Solutions Imaging Solutions Digital copiers, color copiers, analog copiers,  printing machines, facsimiles, diazo copiers,  scanners, multifunctional printers (MFPs),  printers, and related supplies and maintenance  services, related software, and others Network System Solutions Personal computers, servers, network devices,  network-related software, applications, services  and support, and others Industrial Products Thermal media, optical devices, semiconductors,  PC unit products, measuring instruments,  and others Other Digital cameras and others Printers Copiers, multifunctional copiers Digital cameras [Japan] Number of Employees (Ricoh Group): 41,118 Average Yearly Salary (Ricoh): 7.15 million yen Average Age (Ricoh): 41.6 Male to Female Ratio      (Ricoh) [Outside of Japan] Number of Employees: 67,407   (Americas:35,000, Europe:17,239,   China:10,143, Asia-Pacific:5,025) Ricoh Group Main Brands The Ricoh Group provides products and services  under the brand names given on the right.  Number of employees of  the Ricoh Group (global)  Major product lines  Ratio of staff category  (Ricoh)  RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 FY2010 FY2010  Sales by category (billions of yen)  Sales by area (billions of yen) Other 123.4 (6.1%) Overseas 1,139.7 (56.5%) The Americas 557.6 (27.7%) Europe 458.5 (22.7%) Japan 876.5 (43.5%) Other 124.4 (6.2%) Network  System Solutions 274.0 (13.6%) Industrial  Products 101.6 (5.0%) Imaging Solutions 1,516.1 (75.2%) Imaging & Solutions 1,790.2 (88.8%) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 0 500 100 150 200 7.8 4 8 6 2 0 966.2 943.0 1,909.2 148.5 1,153.3 2,091.6 938.3 74.5 1,139.7 2,016.3 876.5 65.9 1,203.9 2,219.9 1,016.0 181.5 8.4 8.4 1,066.6 2,068.9 1,002.2 174.3 8.2 3.6 3.3 A C B Operating margin Japan (left scale) A Overseas (left scale) B Operating income (right scale) C Operating  income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Net sales 2006 2007 2010 (FY) 2009 2008 (%) 10.6 10.6 11.0 11.0 2,041.1 960.2 2,243.4 1,070.9 2,513.4 975.3 2,383.9 973.3 2,214.3 1,080.1 9.9 9.9 0.6 0.6 2.9 A B Return on equity (ROE) (Billions of yen) Total assets Shareholders equity A B (%) 0 4 8 12 2006 (End of March) 2007 2008 2010 2009 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 0 50 100 150 0 45 30 15 18.1 18.1 18.3 18.3 22.6 22.6 365.9 85.9 132.33 24.0 153.10 28.0 9.02 33.0 38.41 33.0 146.04 33.0 10 15 20 A B 2007 2008 2010 (FY) 2009 2006 Consolidated dividend payout ratio (Yen) (Yen) Net income per share  (left scale) Dividends per share  (right scale) A B (%) Highlights of Fiscal 2010 (Ended on March 31, 2010) Results The Ricoh Group saw a sales decrease in all business segments, including Imaging and Solutions, as a result of the continued impact of the economic recession and the yens appreciation. Overall sales  decreased 3.6% from the previous year to 2,016.3 billion yen. Sales in Japan decreased 6.6% to 876.5 billion yen. Sales in overseas decreased 1.2% to 1,139.7 billion yen. Operating income decreased 11.5%  to 65.9 billion yen, as positive contributions, such as cost reduction through our group-wide structural reform activities and continued efforts to reduce manufacturing costs, were not sufficient to offset weaker  sales and the impact of the stronger yen. Net sales, operating income, and operating margin  For details, please refer to the Annual Report 2010. Ricoh announced an annual dividend declared of 33.0 yen per share, maintaining the  same dividend level as the previous year.  (As % of total sales) Total assets decreased by 129.5 billion yen from the previous year to 2,383.9 billion yen,  primarily due to inventory reduction and the reduction of cash and cash equivalents to  normal levels. Interest-bearing liabilities decreased by 94.7 billion yen to 684.4 billion  yen, mainly resulting from the improvement of free cash flow and the reduction of cash  and cash equivalents. Net assets decreased by 0.4 billion yen to 1,023.8 billion yen.  Return on equity rose to 2.9%, compared with 0.6% in the previous year. Net income per share and dividends  Total assets, net assets, and return on equity  (ROE)  RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Major Awards and Recognition Ricoh Stocks Included in Leading SRI Indices* In Japan, Ricohs stocks are included in many eco funds and SRI funds. Also, the Morningstar  Socially Responsible Investment Index has included Ricoh since its establishment in 2003. In  addition, Ricoh has been selected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good Global Index for seven years in a  row. The index is published by FTSE Group, a joint venture between The Financial Times (U.K.) and  the London Stock Exchange.  * As of May 1, 2010 Date Subject Organizer Remarks August to  September 2009 November December Ranked No.1 in a color copier customer satisfaction  study1 for the third consecutive year and in a color laser  printer customer satisfaction study (business users)2 by  J.D. Power Asia Pacific, Inc. J.D. Power Asia Pacific, Inc. 1.  J.D. Power Asia Pacific 2009 Japan Color Copier Customer  Satisfaction StudySM, measuring customer satisfaction in two  segments: large businesses (with 300 or more employees) and  small/medium businesses (with between 30 and 299 employees).  The 2009 study was based on responses from 813 large  businesses and 2,912 small/medium businesses that use color  copiers in their offices.  2.  J.D. Power 2009 Japan Color Printer Customer Satisfaction  StudySM, based on responses from 1,482 businesses (with 30  to 299 employees) that use color laser printers in their offices.  http://www.jdpower.co.jp/jdp_e/index.html Ricoh Global Services Business Center, Global Marketing  Group received the 2009 CRM Best Practice Award. CRM Association Japan The award commends companies and organizations with excellent  customer relations management (CRM) implemented in a customer- centric manner. Ricoh Numazu Plant won the grand prize in the UD  Promotion category of the 10th Shizuoka Universal  Design Award. Shizuoka Prefecture In recognition of its color universal design project January 2010 February March April Received a certificate of gratitude from the TMG  governor at the 58th Tokyo Social Welfare Convention. Tokyo Metropolitan Government  (TMG) In recognition of Ricohs color universal design project Selected as one of the Global 100 Most Sustainable  Corporations in the World for the sixth consecutive year. Corporate Knights Inc. Corporate Knights Inc. of Canada evaluated the sustainability of the  businesses surveyed. Won the Excellence Award at the 13th Environmental  Communication Awards ( Ministry of the Environment  Award). The Japanese Ministry of the  Environment, and the Global  Environmental Forum Ricoh Group Sustainability Reports 2009 (Environmental Report, Corporate Social Responsibility Report, and  Annual Report) Ranked first in the Top Contributors to Global Warming  Prevention DIAMOND, Inc. Evaluated and rated CO2 emission reduction performance at 225  major corporations.  Selected as one of the Worlds Most Ethical Companies  for the second straight year. Ethisphere Institute Based on the results of numerous evaluation procedures, including  comparisons with industry rivals. The Ricoh Group was given the Special Prize in the 13th  Green Reporting Award and the Third Prize in the 13th  Sustainability Reporting Award.  Toyo Keizai Inc. Ricoh Group Sustainability Report (Environment) 2009 Ricoh Group Sustainability Report (Corporate Social Responsibility)  2009 Product-related defects during the reporting period  Multifunction monochrome laser printer Aficio SP 3400SF/3410SF We have regretfully learned that this model is not be able to print out incoming data appropriately due to a failure of its fax feature. We sincerly apologize to the users of this  product for the trouble and inconvenience caused. We have contacted the users of Aficio SP 3400SF/3410SF individually to notify them of the defect. Users of the model in question can have the product inspected and the  installed software replaced free of charge. We will revisit our product evaluation checklist items and procedures in order to prevent recurrence of the defect, achieve even better quality, and ensure users satisfaction  with and confidence in our products.  RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) 2010 Third Party Review Junichi Mizuo Response to the Third Party Review PhD in Business Administration. Professor at Surugadai University,  Visiting Researcher at University of London, Lecturer at Tokyo  Institute of Technology (undergraduate and graduate school),  Deputy Chairman of Japan Association for Performance Excellence  (JAPE). Also served as a member of the Panel on BOP Business  Policy for the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan  (2008–2010). Author of Seven Principles of Management during  the Rough Ride (Asahi Shinsho) and Use CSR to Your Advantage  (Toyo Keizai), along with a number of other books. I reviewed the CSR activities undertaken the Ricoh Group, a leading  corporate contributor to the sustainable development of society,  during fiscal 2009. I hereby express my opinion as an independent  third party, which is informed by my background as an individual who  has been promoting the integration of theories and practices of CSR  activities into society, practicing CSR activities in the business sector  and constructing theories as a university-based academic. Clarifying the Ricoh Groups vision for the next 20 years A well-balanced combination of proactive and defensive CSR activities,  underpinned by Ricohs management excellence I noted that the Ricoh Groups CSR activities, which take a dual- track approach, correspond to our CSR Initiative Committees  recommended practice model. It would be fair to say that Ricohs  fundamental responsibilities to society and voluntary responsibilities  to society are synonymous with the Committees defensive CSR  activities for managing risks and strategically proactive CSR  activities, respectively. This report contains sufficient information on how the Ricoh  Group is implementing CSR activities across its entire supply chain,  which includes not only group companies but also suppliers of raw  materials and dealers of Ricoh products; as well as how Ricoh is  creating a stronger organization by ensuring integrity in its corporate  activities. Supply-chain-wide engagement in CSR is essential for  the sustainable development of both individual businesses and the  broader society. In this respect, the Groups self-assessment program  is quite an effective tool for managing CSR-related risks. Conducting  The Ricoh Group has set and implemented a series of Medium-Term  Management Plans to translate its management philosophy into  specific corporate activities. As the next step, I would recommend  that the Group set down its ideals in terms of its vision for the  corporation it aspires to become by a certain point in time in the  extra-long term, draw a roadmap to reach that goal and share the  roadmap with employees and other stakeholders. Specifically, it  would be advisable to formulate a Ricoh Dream 2030 (for example)  that defines the ideal Ricoh Group 20 years hence and draw a  roadmap to take the Group where it wants to go. Clarifying ideal  In our report this year, we focused on communicating our CSR  activities implemented as a growth strategy and a means to  achieving value creation. As a responsible global corporation,  we identify social challenges from various perspectives and,  in discussion with stakeholders, determine priority issues  to be worked on. We then incorporate the key tasks into our  Mid-Term Management Plan for implementation. Aiming for  higher quality in our CSR efforts, we are planning to introduce  international guidelines, conforming, for example, to ISO  such self-assessment as part of a plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle  allows the Ricoh Group to maintain its corporate integrity and, in  turn, to create for itself a stronger business foundation. Another notable initiative by the Ricoh Group is its early entry into  the BOP business market. For example, the Group offers reconstruction  support in Afghanistan, which not only helps solve social problems and  but also helps the Ricoh Group achieve further growth. The Groups  enterprise-wide dedication to achieving the United Nations MDGs by  2015 through various efforts, such as the exploration and discussion  of BOP business opportunities at CSR workshops and by voluntary  teams, and field studies in India, is exemplary and worthy of emulation.  In future articles, readers of this report can learn how the Ricoh Group  has being practicing CSR activities for value creation, namely, making  strategic investments with its resources while simultaneously helping  solve societal problems. roles and relationships with respects to employees, consumers,  global communities and the global environment will enable the  Ricoh Group to identify the position of its mid-to-long-term plan for  the next three to five years on the roadmap it has created. Then, an  annual plan should be developed in line with these longer-term plans  and vision. This will ensure the effective implementation of the PDCA  processes and ultimately to lead to further improved management of  the Groups operations. I look forward to the Ricoh Groups further  progress and hope to see it solidify its position as a corporate leader  and top performer. 26000, to review our activities, which are conducted for both  aggressive and defensive objectives. With regard to the extra-long-term corporate vision  recommended, while we believe this has already been shared  with our stakeholders through the Ricoh Group CSR Charter  and Mid- and Long-Term Environmental Vision, among others,  we will work to communicate the vision in a more specific  manner by developing a roadmap as suggested. Opportunities for improvement Positive findings Profile Mariko Azuma, General Manager, CSR Office  RICOH GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) Please send all comments and inquiries regarding this report to: Ricoh Co., Ltd. CSR Office Ricoh Bldg., 8-13-1 Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8222, Japan Phone: +81-3-6278-5202  Facsimile: +81-3-3543-9341 e-mail: csrinfo@ricoh.co.jp http://www.ricoh.com/csr/ This report deploys principles of Universal Design  in consideration of people with various types of color vision.