The complete perspective. Sustainability Report 2010 O e s t e r r e i c h i s c h e  K o n t r o l l b a n k G r o u p  Figures  2010  Changes  as compared to 2009 Indicators Heating energy per employee Electric power per employee Water consumption per employee Waste per employee Carbon dioxide emissions (traffic) per employee Sheets of copy paper per employee  Category A environmental audits carried out  Total of environmental audits carried out Total ratio of female employees  Ratio of female executives Fluctuation rate  Total employees +18.26 % -3.26 % +4.34 % +14.02 % -4.33 % +7.79 % +6.25 % +7.25 % +0.7 % +- 0.0 % +0.74 % -1.26 % 2,643 kWh 6,200 kWh 15,493 litres 366 kg 663 kg 8,665 sheets 17 audits 74 audits 56.06  % 30.36  % 1.51  % 396 employees +408  kWh -209 kWh +645  litres +45  kg -30  kg +626  sheets +1  audits +5  audits -5  employees Sustainability Report 2010 OeKB – Sustainable development at a glance  5,427  kWh 11,088  kWh 29,111  litres 536  kg 559  kg 10,351  sheets  2  audits 3  audits 56.25  % 34.55  % 4.96 % 368  employees Environmental key indicators Social key indicators  Reference values 2000 Reference values 2001  The complete perspective.  Sustainability Report 2010  Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG OeKB Versicherung AG OeKB Business Services GmbH Includes the Environmental Statement under Regulation (EG) No.1221/2009  of the European Parliament and the Council (EMAS) for the aforementioned  corporations and Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG.  Includes the Implementation Plan for the workandfamily audit under  the 2002 Framework Directive on Implementation, as amended in 2004,  issued by the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Youth.  The present Report is in compliance with GRI G3 application level A+.  The GRI-content index is available on the internet at www.oekb.at With this Report, Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG expresses its commitment  to the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact.  sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH  Sustainability Report 2010 Why does it say  The Complete Perspective  on these reports?  The reason is that our aim at OeKB and the  Group companies is always to balance meticulous  attention to detail with a firm grasp of the big  picture, in all its intricacy and interconnectedness:  The export markets and their risk situation, the  capital and energy markets, and the rapidly growing  wealth of news and data.  With this special combination of wide-angle vision  and close-up precision, we deliver services that  help our clients achieve success in a complex world,  serving everyone from public sector principals, to  exporters and outward foreign investors, to capital  market participants and energy suppliers.  Sustainability Report 2010 Foreword by the Board of Executive Directors 5 1 Focal points and highlights 2010 1.1 If you grease you lose 9 1.2 Stakeholder dialogue 10 1.3 UN Global Compact Network Austria –  Annual focus on anti-corruption  11 1.4 Ecologic construction –  Loft conversion Strauchgasse 13 1.5 Fair IT – Sustainability in the IT supply chain 14 1.6 Cooking in the Crypt 15 1.7 Accession to R.U.S.Z 16 1.8 Sabbatical scheme 16 1.9 Awards 2010 17 2 Living values – Strategy and management system 2.1 The OeKB Group introduces itself 19 2.2 Shareholder structure 21 2.3 OeKB business segments 21 2.4 Scope of the report and locations 23 2.5 Shareholdings of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG 28 2.6 Sustainability policy 29 2.7 Stakeholder analysis 30 2.8 Dialogue and networking 31 2.9 Sponsoring 32 2.10 Social dimension 34 3 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development 3.1 Export Services 43 3.2 Capital Market Services 47 3.3 Commercial development 48  4 Protecting values – Corporate governance and risk management 4.1 Risk management 53 4.2 Corporate governance 55 4.3 Anti-corruption 56 4.4 Human Rights and Corporate Values 60 Contents  Sustainability Report 2010 5 Measuring values – Operational ecology 5.1 Operational ecology and input-output analysis 65 5.2 Changes in OeKBs carbon-dioxide emissions 73 6 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability 6.1 Communication on progress 74 6.2 Programme of ecology and sustainability 79 7 Certificate and validation 85 Imprint 88  The OeKB Group companies strive to do business in an environmentally friendly, socially compatible and commercially successful manner. In 2010, as in previous years, we were trying to meet this  challenge. In this Sustainability Report, you will read how far we succeeded and what targets we have set for the future.  As regards our activities in terms of sustainability, this Report focuses, among others, on the  anti-corruption issue, a significant principle of the UN Global Compact. Indeed, OeKB, along with the Austrian Development Bank, is actively working in the anti-corruption working group of the Austrian Network of the UN Global Compact. Moreover, OeKB is a corporate member of the Austrian Chapter of Transparency International. We consider doing business in a non-corrupt manner the basis of  fair competition. Our aim is to increase the level of information on and awareness of this issue within the OeKB Group as well as among our stakeholders.  In this Report, you will learn, among other things, how we maintain the dialogue with our stakeholders concerning even sensitive issues and how we are networking, in our own interest, with other banks  for the sake of sustainability within the IT supply chain.  It is crucial on our part that our companies understand sustainability management as an executive function and that, at the same time, our teams are strongly committed to our goals and strategies. The fact that 42 of our employees are working in operational ecology-related and 27 in product- related sustainability groups and that sustainability-related targets are regularly agreed in the annual employee assessment meetings emphasizes that these values are being lived and comprehended.  The same applies to committed and voluntary participation in OeKBs charitable Christmas market that supports charitable organisations.  We would like to thank our colleagues and other stakeholders for their ideational and practical  support as well as for appreciative criticism, which we intend to apply toward consistently  and credibly achieving our goals.  Johannes Attems Rudolf Scholten Karolina   Offterdinger Helmut Altenburger Brigitte Bruck Carl de Colle Wolfgang Pitsch Robert Anderl Thomas Spanel 5 Foreword by the Board of Executive Directors Sustainability Report 2010 GRI 1.1, GRI 3.5  6 Why did the OeKB Group companies  sign the UN Global Compact? Because we are convinced that, in the long run, the values embodied  in the Global Compact will generate more fairness in global  competition. Some threshold countries efforts to promote socially  and ecologically more compatible business practices show that  this no Utopia. Michael Sasse Senior Sustainability Manager  7 O e s t e r r e i c h i s c h e  K o n t r o l l b a n k G r o u p  8 Sustainability Report 2010  9 Carrying out transactions in the absence of corruption forms the basis of fair competition. That is why we  chose anti-corruption as the focal issue for 2010 and, in cooperation with respACT, the leading Austrian  platform for corporate social responsibility, dedicated the annual presentation of the Sustainability Report  to this issue as well.  The OeKB Groups Sustainability Report is traditionally presented in an annual event that is dedicated to  a sustainable issue. In 2010, the issue was anti-corrup- tion. Helmut Willke, Professor of Global Governance  at the Zeppelin University at Friedrichshafen, Germany, explained the systemic aspects of corruption as well  as possible incentive procedures and rules of success- ful anti-corruption at OeKB Reitersaal hall on  8 September 2010. Walter Soelle, Siemens Cluster Compliance Officer for Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia, very frankly spoke of Siemens past experiences and the resulting changes within  the company. Thereafter, both key speakers engaged in a discussion with OeKB Executive Director,  Rudolf Scholten, attorney general for corruption cases  (Korruptionsstaatsanwalt), Walter Geyer, and the  management board chairwoman of the Austrian  Chapter of Transparency International, Eva Geiblinger.  When is corruption outlawed within a system and  when does it become socially acceptable? That was the question Professor Willke addressed in his lecture. He investigated corruption, both on an individual  level and within a system, such as a company,  a society or a state. According to Willke, even though these systems are formed by individuals, these  individuals act in a different manner within the super- imposed structure since they conform to the pre - dominant behaviour patterns and accordingly adopt their decisions. However, this also implies that,  when corruption is not institutionalised or silently  accepted within a company, the employees will adopt this attitude as part of corporate culture.  Willke held that measures must be taken right there, with the rules and attitudes within a company.  He deems ineffective bans issued by the legislator and holds that traditional political institutions are no  longer able to sanction or prevent corrupt activities.  On the other hand, he argues that, due to its particular  knowhow, the financial sector could play a specific part in combating corruption. In addition, however, NGOs, such as Transparency International, and  measures, such as whistle blowing, which previously has not been much appreciated in Europe, would  have to be taken into account as well.  At the end of the day, these efforts could be successful only if a change occurred as to how companies, the  society and individuals view corruption. Corruption must not be considered a trivial offense or a necessity of business life (If I dont bribe, my competitor will).  Walter Soelle holds that the latter argument, in  particular, is not necessarily valid; this, because sales and orders developed favourably since Siemens  implemented its compliance programme. Siemens, among others, saw a need for change in awareness and endeavoured, through collective action, to create alliances for active anti-corruption. The goal was  to establish fair and equal market conditions for all market players.  Sustainability Report 2010 Focal points and highlights 2010  1 Focal points and highlights 2010  1.1 If you grease you lose  GRI 3.5 GRI SO 3  10 According to Walter Soelle, employee training is the key to successfully implementing the compliance  programme within a company. Binding guidelines and directives as well as clear and precise assignment of  responsibilities supplement the programme.  During the ensuing panel discussion, Rudolf Scholten addressed structural conditions, such as extreme  poverty, that lead to or at least favour corruption.  However anti-corruption attorney general, Walter Geyer, did not rejected the idea that a societys increasing wealth was a condition that would correlate with  a decline in corruption. According to him, human  greed and an economic system geared to maximising profits are the breeding ground for corruption in  affluent societies.  Rather than regulatory overkill, the chairwoman  of the Transparency International Austria managing  board, Eva Geiblinger, is calling for clear rules  within an existing system as counter measure.  These would facilitate rethinking in the medium term according to which corruption would no longer be  considered a trivial offense.  The extensive positive and, in part, pensive feedback on this well-attended event showed that, at least  marginally, such rethinking is already taking place. http://www.siemens.com/sustainability/ en/compliance www.oekb.at/de/osn/DownloadCenter/ RELEVANT/RELEVANT-3-2010.pdf (German only) www.ti-austria.at  (German only) In November 2010, approximately 50 representatives  of various government offices, companies, NGOs,  the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and several  banks attended a stakeholder dialogue at OeKB. OeKB utilises this type of event in order to facilitate an ex- change of ideas between itself and the stakeholders  on relevant common issues and developments and  better understand the stakeholders positions.  The accompanying discussion particularly focused  on the issue of human rights and the practicability  of these. The Common Approaches, the OECD  Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the  Inter national Finance Corporation (IFC) Standards  were being revised at the time.  Since it is important that these particular documents  be coherent, the work is expected to be completed  no sooner than by mid 2011. UN Special Envoy  on Human Rights, John Ruggie, is playing a key role in these consultations. Apparently, his three-pillar  concept of protect – respect – remedy has been  selected as the appropriate approach to further  development.  Since human rights aspects may trigger conflicts,  such conflicts risk potential as regards the  projects was also addressed in the discussion on  implementing human rights in major projects.  1.2 Stakeholder dialogue  Sustainability Report 2010 Focal points and highlights 2010  GRI SO1, GRI 4.17, FS5  11 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG is part of the Global Compact Network Austria and is also represented in  the steering committee. Moreover, OeKB is a member of Transparency International.  Launched in 1999 by Kofi Annan, the UN Global  Compact (UNGC) relies upon nine principles in the  environmental, human rights, and labour conditions sectors. In 2004, based on the UN Convention  Against Corruption, anti-corruption was incorporated  as the tenth principle.  Founded in 1993, Transparency International (TI)  is a non-governmental organisation committed to  national and international anti-corruption. TI attempts to promote change by virtue of constructive colla - boration. By virtue of various instruments, the most  popular one being the Corruption Perception Index (CPI) (along with the Global Corruption Barometer  and the Bribe Payers Index), TI is attempting to unveil corruption.  At the general meeting of the Austrian Global Compact Network in October 2009, to which the Austrian  Chapter of Transparency International, among others, had been invited, anti-corruption and combating  corruption were introduced as the annual focus of  the year 2010. During the ensuing talks, it was agreed  to consolidate energies and pool work forces in these areas, rather than maintain parallel working groups. More than 30 company representatives, including  many from the financial sector, attended the first joint meeting in January 2010.  Since the banks expressed great interest in a separate working group to address sector-specific issues,  a working group dealing with the issue of fighting  corruption in the financial services sector was initiated in addition to a group addressing whistle blowing. Prior to the first meeting of the banks round table (Banken- runde), the potential issues were discussed and targets defined in bilateral talks.  Areas where Austrian financial service providers  may encounter corrupting behaviour are located on  various levels. A supraregional approach was dis - cussed, since a number of the represented companies maintain subsidiaries in Central and Eastern Europe. However, consensus was soon reached to initially  confine the deliberations to Austrian territory, with  specific consideration being given to the situation in Central and Eastern Europe. In this context, the  manner in which corruption could be counteracted  beyond the regulatory framework was also discussed. To this end, a continuous exchange was suggested concerning relevant initiatives as well as the  imple mentation of the particular codes of conduct.  There was great interest in situations arising in the course of daily business based on customer and  supplier relations. In particular, there were intense  debates on what is legally and even ethically  acceptable and where the line should be drawn.  Customer events and business dinners as well as  the obligatory Christmas gifts suddenly appeared  in an entirely different light.  Sustainability Report 2010 Focal points and highlights 2010  1.3 UN Global Compact Network Austria –  Annual focus on anti-corruption GRI SO3, FS5 Another topic was the limited leverage of export  credit agencies, such as OeKB, whose status does not compare to that of the World Bank or of direct lenders. The OECD non-members desirable approximation to OECD standards was addressed on several occasions.  NGOs as well as the Federal Ministry of Finance quite positively reflect on the recommendation of a study that investigated project impact in the target countries. As a result, local NGOs will be increasingly and actively involved in project evaluation.   12 Moreover, there was a debate on the dual capacity of companies that actively approach customers and  suppliers, on the one hand, while, on the other hand, being themselves confronted as business partners  with the issue of accepting gifts. The participants  found it difficult to insist on uniform regulations in this context; they agreed that decisions need to be taken on a case-by-case basis.  The debates and the exchange of experiences in this group proved very helpful. This, because the parti - cipants were able to share many basic contemplations and constructive approaches that had been de -  libe rated on and contemplated during the first three  meetings. These meetings were accompanied by  parallel events held by the Austrian Network of the UN Global Compact and by Transparency International.  The cooperation of TI and UNGC also had an  international impact and resulted in a joint publication (The 10th Principle Against Corruption), which is available at  www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/issues_doc/ Anti-Corruption/UNGC_AntiCorruptionReporting.pdf For further information on central anti-corruption  issues, such as, What may be the consequences  of corrupt behaviour? and, How can corruption  be effectively counteracted? please see Chapter 4.3 Anti-corruption and money laundering.  www.unglobalcompact.at/content/ungc/site/de/ netzwerk/oesterreichischesnetzwerk/index.html (German only) www.ti-austria.at  (German only) Sustainability Report 2010 Focal points and highlights 2010  Problems with law enforcement  in the Ukraine  Over the past two years, OeKB Versicherung AG has made the experience that law enforcement is nearly impossible in many cases.  Courts and/or judges in the Ukraine may require the foreign customer (plaintiff) to present original records of delivery. In doing so, they have been  and frequently continue to require documents  that normally would no longer be available to the  export companies, e.g., original invoices, which  are commonly sent to the Ukrainian customer,  or original bills of lading, which are handed over  to the shipping agent along with the goods. Even  if, by virtue of duplicates, a foreign plaintiff is able  to provide complete documentary evidence of  the transaction, the court does not accept such  evidence.  Indeed, it appears to be rather common practice,  in this context, that the Ukrainian debtors exercise a direct influence on the court proceedings.  Moreover, counterfeit import documents are  frequently presented in the proceedings,  indicating the goods as having been paid for and, thus, implying customs and tax fraud as well as  smuggling.  It appears to be common practice among Ukrai - nian debtors to transfer, by virtue of purchase  contracts, their entire assets to other Ukrainian companies owned by identical or similar pro - prietors. Through these new companies, the former proprietors continue to conduct the same kind  of transactions.   13 An increased need for office space and simple  business economics calculations led to the decision  to convert the loft in the Strauchgasse building. The  location of the former Palace Montenuovo, right in the middle of the palace quarter in Viennas First District, represents to OeKB a special responsibility in terms  of dealing with historic building fabric. The architects office of Professor Adolf Krischanitz has been con - tracted to carry out this challenging project. Construc- tion started in mid 2010, completion is scheduled  for 2012. The supervisory committee on construction  design of the Municipality of Vienna (Gestaltungs beirat der Gemeinde Wien) rated the project exemplary  for loft conversions in Viennas First District. The top- quality architecture was complemented by an  ecologic concept.  OeKBs ecological footprint should not be further  strained by additional energy consumption. In light of good transport connection, the decision to keep  the location certainly is another important argument  in this context.  Thanks to optimal heat insulation, the loft will be  heated exclusively with waste heat generated in the server rooms. Heat generated on the lower floors  will further reduce heat requirements during the winter months and, at the same time, noticeably improve room comfort. In addition to the energy balance, highly insulated glazing and a waste heat recovery ventilation system will improve room climate as well. Area cooling and pre-conditioned air in the air conditioning plants minimise the cooling energy requirements. The in - stitute of construction physics (Institut fr Bauphysik),  Professor Krec, has conducted a simulated calculation in order to review the energy concept. The suggested improvements will be implemented.  Photo-voltaic panels will be mounted on the flat-roof area, which is a specific architectural feature, and  on the glass roofs above the stair cases, which are  to be repaired at the same time.  Sustainability Report 2010 Focal points and highlights 2010  1.4 Ecologic construction –  Loft conversion Strauchgasse  Such contracts are subsequently confirmed by  the courts in law suits that the individuals involved file specifically for this purpose, and thus can no longer be avoided by the creditors. Hence, the thus undermined debtor comfortably looks forward  to a law suit being filed or bankruptcy proceedings being initiated.  All those facts have prompted OeKB Versicherung AG to generally reconsider its guarantee policy  in the Ukraine and no longer provide insurance for Austrian export business in the Ukraine, or do  so only under extremely restrictive conditions, and  to expressly make aware suppliers as well as its  national and international partners in the credit  insurance sector of these difficulties in law  enforcement. Moreover, OeKB Versicherung AG has sent out relevant memoranda to Ukrainian  and Austrian business and political circles.   14 The comprehensive approach to human rights in  the Sustainability Report 2009 has sharpened our  own awareness of this issue and has indicated several spheres of activity. There is a particular need for  action, particularly in the area of IT hardware procure- ment. Similar to the textile sector, the IT sector,  with countless suppliers in Asia, is confronted with questions of labour conditions that are appropriate  socially as well as in terms of human rights. The fact that several platforms exist in the industry proves  that this has been recognized, at least in part. Founded  in 2004, the EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship  Coalition) has developed a code of conduct for global supply chains in the electronics sector in order to  improve work and environmental conditions. However, critics hold that this approach is no more than the smallest common denominator. Similar to the codes  of conduct (CoC) maintained by nearly all manu - facturers, these developments must be deemed mere  declarations of intent. However, the indicator must  be the continuous further development of these codes which, rather than existing on paper only, will bring  about quantifiable improvement of labour conditions and, thus, increased human rights compliance at the production sites. However, there are large differences, particularly in terms of implementation in the course  of daily business.  Hence, OeKBs initial expectations as regards this  project focused on achieving a continuous con creti - zation of the existing codes of conduct (CoC) through constructive cooperation of suppliers, customers  and NGOs and, thus, improved labour conditions in  the supply chain. At the same time, this would indicate to OeKBs customers (the export companies) that  standards apply not only to these (i.e. compliance  with various codes and regulations) but also to the  receiving states.  In order to get things moving, however, a process  must be initiated that requires the procurement officer to play an active part beyond merely reading codes of conduct and commenting activities that certainly exist in the environmental and social sectors on the part  of manufacturers. This would merely fortify the status quo, rather than initiating or speeding up continuous improvement of labour conditions. Now, what might this active role of the procurement officer entail?  At the first glance, the buyers position appears to be strong. However, this view is quickly put into per - spec tive. The most complex issue is the fact that the  buyers position does not include any right to exercise direct influence on the supply chain. Neither the  Austrian suppliers nor the procurement officers have access to the manufacturers supply chain. Moreover, there is a technical dependency in terms of servers and network technology, which makes a change over nearly impossible. Suppliers as well as procurement  officers are well aware of that fact.  Moreover, standard features, which have been  applicable in reconstruction for a long time, will be  implemented, such as non-halogen cables and  pipe works, low-emission adhesives and varnishes  as well as hemp insulation of partition walls that  are irrelevant in terms of fire control.  At the same time, building safety will be substantially increased by virtue of a pressure aeration system  in the stair cases and investments in the fire zone  design in the basement and stair cases.  Sustainability Report 2010 Focal points and highlights 2010  1.5 Fair IT – Sustainability in the IT supply chain  GRI HR 1, HR 6, HR 7, HR 9  15 The premises beneath the Church of the Barnabites  in Vienna have been a refuge for the homeless ever since the Christmas season in 1986. Initially intended only as a contact point, over the years, the Crypt (Gruft) has evolved as the main institution providing  advice to the homeless as well as offering shower  facilities, accommodation and hot food – all this, 24/ 7, i.e., 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In the  meantime, the Crypt, which is operated by Caritas, has become a standing term to all Vienna citizens.  A perfect example of social commitment in a  win-win situation is the Cooking in the Crypt project where committed groups prepare the meals and  serve it to the Crypts customers directly on site.  OeKB first participated in this project in autumn 2010. Due to the strong interest, the originally scheduled  date was followed by two further occasions. Teams of ten prepared the meals while OeKB covered the cost  of the required food.  Practical implementation was initially overshadowed  by some insecurity about how to act in this entirely  different and unknown living environment, which  only few are aware of even though it represents a part  of Viennese reality. In the run-up to the event, the  participants were even worrying that their commitment might appear imposing; they did not want to create  the impression that satisfying their own potential social deficits was more important to them than the actual purpose. However, on site at the Crypt, such worries soon vanished particularly since the feedback from the approximately 100 persons present was very positive. Nevertheless, to the amateur chefs, the experience  of these few hours was by far more important as it had showed them a parallel world, which they previously never even knew existed in that form.  www.gruft.at  (German only) Sustainability Report 2010 Focal points and highlights 2010  1.6 Cooking in the Crypt  The idea of a multi-stakeholder dialogue, where  manufacturers, procurement officers and NGOs explain their respective positions on a level of equality as well as discuss and, through constructive dialogue, pro mote improvements to labour conditions, has not been  pursued any further since, except for HP Austria, none of the contacted manufacturers responded. Even  the statements, issued by nearly all Austrian banks, that they had an interest in the results of the dialogue did not prompt any reaction on the part of hardware suppliers.  Instead of this stakeholder dialogue, a procedure has now been defined in order to evaluate the major  manufacturers in terms of sustainability. Any publicly available information is relied upon in this procedure.  The evaluations and the underlying methodology  are made available to the other banks. The metho -  do logy will be published in the OeKB Groups  sustainability report. www.eicc.info/Home.html www.cisco.com/web/AT/index.html www.netapp-innovation.at www8.hp.com/at/de/home.html www.dell.at Concerning the individual companies  environmental activities:  www.hp.com/hpinfo/environment/index.html www.greenpeace.org/international/en/campaigns/ climate-change/cool-it/leaderboard/Cisco  In the course of rapid change within society that  has occurred over the past decades, the compatibility  of family-related chores and both parents pursuing  professional careers is becoming increasingly  significant. Hence, OeKB has been attending to the compatibility of family and career and is trying,  through a range of measures, to support the design  of a family-oriented working environment.  Thus, in the course of the workandfamily audit in  December 2011, a further measure toward more  flexible working hours has been taken by concluding  a relevant shop agreement. This sabbatical scheme  applies to all employees with valid contracts of per - manent employment and at least three consecutive years of service.  1.8 Sabbatical scheme  16 Sustainability Report 2010 Focal points and highlights 2010  Turning away from the throwaway society which, in - cluding all of its aspects, such as growing waste piles, dwindling resources and changing climate, has proved to be part of the environmental issue, and returning  to the new, yet old values of repair and recycling is  the core of this cooperation. For the first time, the EU  Waste Framework Directive (WFD 2008) defined re- use as a bundle of measures that is to be transposed into national law. In Austria, a stakeholder procedure ini tiated by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and Water Management has been  realised by way of the ReUse-Platform, which has been dealing with the definition and quality assurance of concrete implementation steps since 2008, taking into consideration the re-use of old electric appliances in particular. The repair and service centre (R.U.S.Z.) and the repair network (Repanet), which is a conglomerate of cer - tified specialists, had previously created a structural  approach in Austria. However, due to lack of economic incentives and/or in the absence of statutory require- ments, this initiative had not been successful.  In order to make use of the present opportunity and promote such development, OeKB became a member of R.U.S.Z. in the autumn of 2010. Moreover, OeKB  is represented in the steering committee (advisory  expert committee).  Besides the aforementioned goals, the R.U.S.Z., being a socially integrative company, also strives to achieve further goals, such as employing persons who are  alienated from the labour market and providing services to low-income sections of society. Thus, certain  synergies evolve along a sustainable triple-bottom-line:   Extending the useful life of IT hardware  (environment);   Questions concerning social-economic approaches (social sector); and   Value creation in Austria (economy).  By virtue of specific projects, such as RepaService - Mobil (pick-up and delivery service for repair works provided by the entire RepairNetwork in Vienna upon orders by OeKB employees), and through cooperating  in the expert advisory committee, OeKB is able to  exercise an influence on further development in  Austria as well as on international networking. OeKB  is convinced that this is an essential point within its own sustainable orientation.  www.rreuse.org www.rusz.at  (German only) www.repanet.at  (German only) www.eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do? uri=OJ:L:2008:312:0003:0030:DE:PDF 1.7 Accession to R.U.S.Z  17 Sustainability Report 2010 Focal points and highlights 2010  1.9.1 Austrian EMAS Award 2010  OeKB verifiably demonstrates how to combine and  improve social, economic and ecologic aspects  in a holistic management system. The Sustainability  Report illustrates this in an impressive manner.  This was the jurys reasoning given on occasion of  the award presentation ceremony. But how does  a company actually benefit from such a management system?  Credibility: EMAS is a suitable tool that enables a  company to document that it is serious about achieving sustainable goals. Such clear and quantifiable goals, along with underlying, concrete measures and  time frames, make it comparatively easy for outsiders to verify a companys environmental performance.  Moreover, these provide an opportunity for stake - holders to assess the companys present position and see where it is heading. The increased credibility thus achieved has an impact on the companys image  as well.  Motivation: EMAS leads to further development  in corporate culture. Aspects of sustainability are  internally discussed in a different light if the company  commits to specific procedures and content.  Addressing sustainability issues raises awareness in terms of continuous and sustainable further develop- ment. Being able to participate in this debate increases  employee motivation. The fact that sustainability has become an issue is also evidenced in recruiting: Job applicants are interested in the sustainable orientation and awareness of OeKB Group companies. The impact on operational ecology key indicators through reduced energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions  is a positive side effect.  1.9.2 Austrian Sustainability Reporting  Award 2010  The OeKB Groups Sustainability Report, along  with that of Palfinger AG, won first prize in the  large companies category at the 11th presentation  of the ASRA by the Austrian Chamber of Certified  Accountants. After a two-year break due to member - ship in the ASRA jury, this marked the third time  OeKB received this award.  1.9 Awards 2010  GRI 2.10  The sabbatical period consists of an accumulation  phase, during which a time balance is accrued, and  a leisure phase, during which such time balance is consummated. In total, the accumulation and leisure phases amount to a period of 12 to 36 months.  A reduced gross salary is paid during this sabbatical period, the amount of which is individually calculated according to the duration of the sabbatical period  in relation to the leisure phase.  During the sabbatical period all non-income-related parts of the salary are paid in full, i.e. not on a pro- rated basis, while income-related parts of the salary are paid on a pro-rated basis. This shop agreement  entered into force on 1 January 2011.   18 Sustainability Report 2010  19 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  2.1.1 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG The history of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (OeKB) begins with the resolution adopted by the  constituent shareholder meeting on 22 January 1946. The objective was to develop the banking business  after 1945 and subsequently perform the duties of the former Giro- und Cassenverein. From 1946 onward, OeKB has also been entrusted with placement of the first federal treasury bonds.  Since 1948, OeKB has been acting as settlement  agency of the Vienna Stock Exchange. In 1954,  OeKB was assigned the responsibilities of securities  validation. In 1965, the Austrian Central Securities  Depository (Wertpapiersammelbank) was established  at OeKB.  Since 1950, OeKB has been acting as agent of the  Republic of Austria (Federal Ministry of Finance),  handling the banking aspects (banking assessment through credit rating and processing) of guarantee  applications under the Austrian Export Promotion Act, drafting and administering guarantee agreements,  and protecting the rights of the Austrian govern - ment under these agreements. The valid guarantee procedure is based on the provisions set forth  in the Austrian Export Promotion Act 1981 and the  ordinance on its implementation issued by the  Federal Minister of Finance.  Since 1954, OeKB has been a member of the Berne Union (International Union of Credit and Invest ment  Insurers), London. This is an international association  of presently 52 export and investment guarantee  institutions – 49 members, including the Multi - lateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) and three observers – from 41 countries. Its objective  is to coordinate international terms and conditions  of trade and enhance the global dialogue among  its members.  2.1.2 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Since 2008, Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG (OeEB) has been acting as the official Austrian  Development Bank. It specialises in realising projects in the private sector that require long-term financing, are paid back from own funds, and have an impact  on regional commercial development.  2.1.3 OeKB Business Services GmbH OeKB Business Services GmbH (OeKB-BS) is a s pecialised IT service provider owned by Oesterreichi- sche Kontrollbank AG. Being a Microsoft-certified partner, having the competence of information  worker solutions, and specialising in portals and  collaboration, it develops and operates professional software solutions that are distinguished by utmost quality, security and reliability.  2.1.4 sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH Since its incorporation in 1950, the Exportfonds  (export fund) has been supporting Austrian companies by financing export transactions. Financing is  provided for export transactions of Austrian small  and medium-sized enterprises (SME).  2 Living values – Strategy and management system  2.1 The OeKB Group introduces itself  GRI 2.1, GRI 2.2 EC 8, EC 9, FS 11  20 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  2.1.5 OeKB EH Beteiligungs- und Management AG In cooperation with the Euler Hermes Group,  the corporation holds shares in credit insurance  companies.  The major credit insurance companies are: 2.1.5.1 OeKB Versicherung AG OeKB Versicherung AG specialises in providing credit insurance for medium-sized enterprises focusing  on export credit insurance. Moreover, it has been  providing insurance on the national level since  2006. Established in 2004, the company emerged from OeKBs short-term guarantee business and  has meanwhile become Austrias third largest credit  insurance provider.  2.1.5.2 PRISMA Kreditversicherungs-  Aktiengesellschaft On behalf of its customers, PRISMA verifies the  credit rating of business partners and insures active debts against the insolvency risk. Established in  1989, it is the current market leader on the Austrian credit insurance market. Having its registered offices  at the Himmelpfortgasse 29 location, PRISMA is  presently not included in the OeKB Groups sustaina - bility management.  2.1.5.3 OeKB Sdosteuropa Holding Ges.m.b.H. OeKB Sdosteuropa Holding Ges.m.b.H. was  established in 2002 and has been a member of the OeKB Group since early 2005. Its main responsibi li - ties are working the credit insurance markets in  South East Europe and creating local credit insurance  opportunities at marketable risks.   Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  21 2.2 Shareholder structure  GRI 2.6 Number of shares 217,800 142,032 113,432 72,688 72,600 71,456 44,792 44,000 34,224 26,888 26,888 13,200 880,000 Shares in % 24.750 16.140 12.890 8.260 8.250 8.120 5.090 5.000 3.890 3.055 3.055 1.500 100.000 CABET-Holding-Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna  (UniCredit Bank Austria-Group) UniCredit Bank Austria AG, Vienna Erste Bank der oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG, Vienna Schoellerbank Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna AVZ Finanz-Holding GmbH, Vienna Raiffeisen Zentralbank sterreich Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna BAWAG P.S.K. Bank fr Arbeit und Wirtschaft und  sterreichische Postsparkasse Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna Raiffeisen OeKB Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Vienna Oberbank AG, Linz Bank fr Tirol und Vorarlberg Aktiengesellschaft, Innsbruck BKS Bank AG, Klagenfurt sterreichische Volksbanken-Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna Allocation of shares to the equity capital  (as at 31 December 2010) Shareholders GRI 1.2, 2.2 GRI EC 8, EC 9 2.3.1 Export Services  2.3.1.1 Risk management and financing  of exports and foreign investments  Companies that export or invest abroad may obtain  insurance from OeKB for non-marketable export risks.  Federal export guarantees – i.e., export guarantees and draft guarantees – limit the risk exposure of  companies that export or invest abroad. Authorised  by the Austrian government to offer and process  these export and draft guarantees, OeKB thus acts  as the official Austrian export credit agency (ECA).  Export guarantees are available to all large, medium,  or small-sized enterprises, whose insured business transactions have a positive impact on the Austrian  trade balance or are in the interest of Austria.  Guarantee applications are screened by OeKB and  subsequently reviewed by an advisory committee  set up within the Federal Ministry of Finance.  The guarantor is the Federal Minister of Finance.  2.3 OeKB business segments  E x p o r t  S e r v i c e s  22 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  2.3.2 Capital Market Services  2.3.2.1 Efficient securities clearing  and settlement  The order routing service provided by Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG is a platform for participation in the German financial market.  This service facilitates the link-up to all regional  stock markets for placing orders for securities  transactions.  C a p i t a l  M a r k e t  S e r v i c e s   2.3.1.2 Financing foreign operations  OeKB raises funds at attractive terms in international markets by issuing bonds. Channelled through  commercial banks, this capital is used to fund exports and investments abroad. OeKBs excellent issuer  credit ratings (AAA/Aaa) are based on the guaranteed  backing of its debt by the full faith and credit of the Austrian government. OeKB pays a fee to the Austrian government for this guarantee.  2.3.1.3 Guarantees form the basis of OeKB  financing through clients own bank  In order to be eligible for funding through the  OeKB export financing scheme, transactions require  an export guarantee from the Austrian government,  an appropriate guarantee from a credit insurer,  a guarantee from Austria Wirtschaftsservice Gesell- schaft mbH (aws) or an appropriate guarantee from  an international organisation.  2.3.1.4 Cooperation with commercial banks  and the Chamber of Commerce  OeKB is owned by commercial banks. OeKB is linked  to these shareholders by way of an efficient colla - boration system of advising on export guarantees  and through providing refinancing for export financing.  Another financing partner working with the banks  to serve small and medium-sized enterprises is ster - reichischer Exportfonds GmbH, an OeKB Group  company in which OeKB holds a 70 %-share while the Austrian Chamber of Commerce holds a 30 %-share.  2.3.1.5 Proven partners of Export Services  In the Austrian Chamber of Commerce (WKO) and  its foreign trade offices at home and abroad, Austrian  exporters enjoy outstanding worldwide support for their international activities. WKO and OeKB closely work together in making this possible. Their joint  ownership of sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH emphasises the closeness within this alliance.  Moreover, OeKB is a partner in the ongoing export  promotion drive initiated by the Austrian Federal  Ministry of Economics, Family and Youth.  2.3.1.6 International representation of interests  Internationally, OeKB is closely networking with other export credit agencies through insurance treaties and the Berne Union, the worlds leading organisation of  export credit and investment insurers. This enhances opportunities for Austrian companies in cooperation projects. 2.3.1.7 International debt rescheduling  Occasionally, a debtor country is unable to meet its payment obligations to the creditor countries. In the so-called Paris Club (an informal group of creditors),  federally guaranteed credits and foreign debt are  renegotiated and rescheduled. OeKB advises the Austrian government in this regard.   23 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  2.3.2.2 Efficient securities settlement  Since 1965, OeKB has been operating Wertpapier - sammelbank (CentralSecuritiesDepository.Austria – CSD.Austria). It is responsible for centralised  securities custody.  2.3.2.3 Auction agent for Austrian  government bonds  Debts of the Austrian government are issued primarily through an electronic auction process. Oesterreichi- sche Kontrollbank AG (OeKB) is the authorised auction agent for Austrian government bonds. Moreover, OeKB acts as paying agent. The Austrian government is the largest issuer on the Austrian bond market. Austrian government bonds are rated AAA and represent by far the most liquid issues on the market.  In its capacity of auction agent for Austrian govern- ment bonds, OeKB handles all auctions of Austrian  government bonds. Since 1998, it has been carrying out these auctions electronically via OeKBs own  auction system ADAS (Austrian Direct Auction System).  2.3.2.4 Proven services for Austrias  energy market  Acting as central and independent agent, OeKB is  responsible for credit analysis, financial clearing and risk management on behalf of AGCS Gas Clearing and Settlement AG, APCS Power Clearing and Settlement AG, Energy Exchange Austria AG (EXAA), and Clean Electricity Settlement for Austria (Abwicklungstelle fr kostrom AG – OeMAG).  2.3.3 Information services 2.3.3.1 Information broking  Research orders are carried out on behalf of external customers.  Internal and external information pools as well  as online media are utilised for this purpose  and information is provided by virtue of analyses,  studies, and country or industry reports.  I n f o r m a t i o n  S e r v i c e s 2.4.1 Scope of the report  The following Group companies participate in this  Report. The Austrian Development Bank holds an  exceptional position in this context:  Although it publishes its own, combined annual  and sustainability reports, it nevertheless relies on  OeKB location data concerning operational ecology key indicators for energy, water and waste.  2.4 Scope of the report and locations  GRI 2.4, 2.8, 3.6, 3.8, FS 11  24 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH  EMAS Environmental Management System,  employee key indicators and   Determination of environmental key indicators  EMAS Certificate: Reg. No. AT-000406 (shared  certificate with the OeKB Strauchgasse location) Location: Strauchgasse 3  Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG  EMAS Environmental Management System, employee key indicators and   Determination of environmental key indicators  EMAS Certificate: Reg. No. AT-000406  Locations: Strauchgasse 3, Am Hof 4, Wallnerstrae, Wipplingerstrae 34  Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG OeKB Versicherung AG  EMAS Environmental Management System,  employee key indicators and   Determination of environmental key indicators  EMAS Certificate: Reg. No. AT-000526  Locations: Strauchgasse 3, Linz branch offices  OeKB Business Services GmbH  EMAS Environmental Management System,  employee key indicators and   Determination of environmental key indicators  EMAS Certificate: Reg. No. AT-000406 (shared certificate with the OeKB Strauchgasse  location) Location: Strauchgasse 3  Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG  EMAS Environmental Management System,  employee key indicators and   Determination of environmental key indicators  EMAS Certificate: Reg. No. AT-000406 (shared certificate with the OeKB Strauchgasse location) Location: Strauchgasse 3   25 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  OeKB Sdosteuropa Holding Ges.m.b.H. Employee key indicators and   determination of environmental key indicators  Location: Strauchgasse 3  The following Group companies are not  included in the EMAS certification  As regards the Strauchgasse 3 and Am Hof 4  locations, the entire location is subject to the OeKB environ mental management system, including  (location-related) environmental key indicators  concerning the specific shareholdings.  Legend:   EMAS Environmental Management System,  Social key indicators   Determination of environmental key indicators (by location)  Economic key indicators  (consistent with the Groups consolidated report) PRISMA Kreditversicherungs-  Aktiengesellschaft Not included in the  OeKB management system  Location: Himmelpfortgasse 29  CCP Austria  Abwicklungsstelle fr Brsengeschfte GmbH  Employee key indicators and    determination of environmental key indicators  Location: Strauchgasse 3   26 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  2.4.2 Registered offices and locations  OeKB has its registered offices in Vienna. Except for minority shareholdings in Central and Eastern Europe, the Group structure is based exclusively in Austria, hence OeKBs business relationships with its suppliers are nearly exclusively regional. The same applies to  the employee structure.  The certification of the management systems  pursuant to EMAS and EN ISO 14001 refers to the OeKB organisation as well as to parts of the  Group and comprises all entrepreneurial activities performed at the following locations:  1010 Vienna, Am Hof 4  1010 Vienna, Strauchgasse 1–3  1010 Vienna, Wipplingerstrae 34  1010 Vienna, Wallnerstrae 3 4020 Linz, Ziegeleistrae 74  GRI 2.5, 2.8, EC 6, EC 7  2.4.2.1 Vienna location  m2 Employees 97 OeKB Business Services 4,042  Am Hof 4 m2 Employees 288 30 14 20 10 1 OeKB main location, thereof Registered offices of OeKB Versicherung Registered offices of sterreichischer Exportfonds Registered offices of  Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank Registered offices of CCP Austria  Abwicklungsstelle fr Brsengeschfte Registered offices of OeKB Sdosteuropa Holding Registered offices of OeKB Business Services*  14,738  806 402 400 85 37 Strauchgasse 3 The vaults of the central securities depository (Wert - papiersammelbank), where the majority of Austrian  securities are physically preserved, are located on two basement floors. Offices and conference rooms are  located on the buildings three floors.  97 employees work in the building Am Hof  (as at 31 December 2010). * Due to construction work, OeKB Business Services temporarily moved to the Am Hof location.  Therefore, all figures regarding employees and office space are included there.  27 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  m2 Employees – 7 1,254  475 Wipplingerstrae 34 OeKB archives and sports centre Wallnerstrae 3 Kindergarten m2 Employees 11 250 Ziegeleistrae 74 Offices of OeKB Versicherung AG  2.4.2.2 Linz location  The basement of the former stock market building at Wipplingerstrae 34 houses the archives as well as  the sports centre operated by the OeKB works council; the OeKB Kindergarten is located at Wallnerstrae 3.  The Linz Branch Office of OeKB Versicherung AG is located in leased office space.  The building at Strauchgasse 3 was constructed in  the years 1851 through 1852. With 14,738 m 2 net floor space (to the exclusion of basement and  rented business space), it is the OeKB Groups  largest location. Having initially leased only parts  of the building, OeKB has been the owner of the  building since 1981.  In addition to shops and catering businesses, there  is a hall on the ground floor where events can  be held for an audience of up to 180 persons and  a restaurant for employees is operated by Eurest.   Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  29 The epitome of all responsibility is that  of humans for their fellow humans. Hans Jonas Responsibility  We provide many central services to the Austrian economy and to the Austrian government.  We consider this a social duty, which we strive to fulfil to the joint benefit of the general  public and our Company.  We want to confirm and strengthen the trust that is put in us. Hence, in addition to all legal  requirements, we observe social aspects, preserve environmental resources, and act in  a manner, which ensures that human rights are protected.  We know that our success can only continue if we respect all stakeholders. Therefore, we explain our actions, seek the dialogue and take decisions according to the complete perspective.  We know that sustainable solutions equally benefit employees, customers and suppliers.  In joint projects, we seek to enhance sustainability in our core business, improve our  environmental performance and increase acceptance of this approach.  Work, leisure and family should properly complement and enhance one another.  We constructively design an innovative work environment that strengthens our employees,  hence our economic power.  We invest time, money and commitment in projects that ensure our Companys and our  stakeholders success in the long term.  2.6 Sustainability policy  Trust  Dialogue  Awareness  Life and work  Investments and projects  GRI 1.1, 4.8, SO 3, SO 5, FS 1  30 Transparent communication and an open dialogue  are key factors that indicate conflicts of objective  between different stakeholder groups. By discussing conflicts of objective, we strive to resolve these,  or at least clarify the various positions.  For more detailed information on the stakeholder  dialogue, see Section 1.2 Stakeholder Dialogue.  2.7 Stakeholder analysis  GRI 4.6, 4.14–4.17,  SO 1 Economy and politics  Parliament  Federal Ministry of Economics,  Family and Youth  Ministry of Life  Industriellenvereinigung  Chamber of Commerce  Governmental and  regulatory control authorities  Austrian Financial Market Authority  Oesterreichische Nationalbank  State Commissioners  International Networks  Berne Union  International Finance  Corporation – IFC  Paris Club  European Bank for Reconstruction  and Development (EBRD) European Union  OECD  UNO  UN Global Compact World Bank  OeKB-related  Customers  Employees  Proprietors  Investors  Group companies  Works council  Consultants  Suppliers  Civiol society and NGOs  Press and media  ECA Watch Austria  Transparency International  Austrian Society for  Environment and Technology  respACT austria  Reparatur- und Service-Zentrum     R.U.S.Z  Future generations  Federal Ministry of Finance  Federal Ministry of the Environment  Trade Unions and Chamber  of Labour  Scientific community  Students  Local environment  Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system   31 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  GRI 4.12, 4.13, 4.17, SO 5, FS 1 2.8 Dialogue and networking  Membership/ Participating since GUT EMAS  and ISO14001 Global Reporting Initiative workandfamily  audit  respACT Global Compact Objectives and purpose 1985 2001 2003  2005 2005 2007 Established after successful protests against the construction of  the Danube power station at Hainburg, Austria, in order to improve  communication between economy and ecology. OeKB is a founding member of the society and a member of the benchmarking for  financial service providers working group.  Further information is available at www.oegut.at Commitment to continuous improvement and further development  of the management system; environmental statement including  certification at three years intervals.  Further information is available at www.emas.gv.at International reporting standards for sustainability reports; companies can have their compliance examined by the sponsoring organisation (NGO in cooperation with UNEP). Reports in compliance with application level A+ have been prepared since the year under review 2006.  Further information is available at www.globalreporting.org Initiative of the Austrian government with the objective to increase  the compatibility of family and career; awarded the basic certificate  in 2006 and the full certificate in 2009. The relevant implementation plan is incorporated in the sustainability programme.  Further information is available at www.familieundberuf.at Leading platform of companies for corporate social responsibility  (CSR) and sustainable development in Austria.  Further information is available at www.respact.at The world-wide pact originated from a UN initiative of Kofi Annan  (at the 1999 World Economic Forum at Davos, Switzerland)  to alleviate the social and environmental impact of globalisation. Obligation to report on a regular basis. The GRI guideline forms  the basis of reporting.  Further information is available at  www.unglobalcompact.org and www.unglobalcompact.at  32 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  Membership/ Participating since Transparency International R.U.S.Z Verein zur Frderung der Sozialwirtschaft Objectives and purpose 2008 2010 Established in 1993, the association is striving to increase the  general publics sensitivity to corruption through cooperation with  various entities. The TI Austrian Chapter was established in 2005.  Further information is available at www.ti-austria.at The Reparatur- und Service-Zentrum – R.U.S.Z (repair and service  centre) was founded in 1998. Its goal is to re-integrate into the labour market persons who have been unemployed for a long time through  strategic training and further training in maintenance and repair of  electronic devices and thus additionally set an example in contrast to  the throwaway society. Besides being a member of the Association  to Promote Social Economics (Verein zur Frderung der Sozialwirtschaft), OeKB also participates in the expert council of R.U.S.Z.  Further information is available at www.rusz.at 2.9.1 Sponsoring policy  Bearing responsibility in a sustainable manner  Many of the services provided by OeKB are relevant  to the overall economy in terms of nature and  dimension. Consequently, our company bears a  specific responsibility, which we would like to extend to our sponsoring activities as well. Therefore, by  virtue of financial means or donations in kind, we  are sponsoring individuals, organisations and social  issues if supporting these emphasizes how such  responsibility is being borne.  Principles underlying our sponsoring activities:   Each of OeKBs sponsoring activities should help  us to achieve our communication targets.   As regards our sponsoring activities, projects  involving sustainable long-term cooperation take  precedence over individual activities.   The relevant financial contribution, or the scope  of a donation in kind, is geared to the specific  image benefit OeKB is able to gain through such  sponsoring cooperation.   Our partners specific considerations, such as  displaying the OeKB logo, are set forth in writing  and verified for each sponsoring activity.   Our sponsoring should promote employee  motivation and identification with OeKB.  2.9 Sponsoring GRI PR 6 GRI 4.8  33 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system   The Board of Executive Directors decides on  sponsoring activities. In specific cases, it invites  employees to participate in the prioritisation  process.  Topical issues of OeKB sponsoring are:   Disaster relief and social projects;   Sustainability and globalisation;   Education, science, communication.  2.9.2 Charitable Christmas market  On 19 November, the bears-group children of the OeKB kindergarten performed the opening ceremony of the charitable Christmas market.  The Christmas market itself provides a range of in - sti tutions with an opportunity to present their activities  at no cost and offer, against a donation, Christmas  decorations, cookies or hand-made crafts. The  participating organisations may keep all revenues  so generated.  OeKB takes care of the organisational part, deals with all legal requirements and assumes contingent liability, while UniCredit Bank Austria AG, being co-sponsor, provides insurance coverage for the booths. Four  of the five booths are provided at no cost to charitable  organisations, while the fifth booth houses a punch stall, where drinks are offered against a donation.  This, in turn, contributes to the lively atmosphere at  the Christmas market. The punch stall is operated by  OeKB employees taking turns in 2-hour shifts through  23 December, including Sundays and holidays.  People right throughout the OeKB Group and across  all levels of hierarchy were willing to join hands in  this effort. This marked the first time that 100 % of the entire period was covered by our own employees.  Further information and a list of the organisations  that were represented in 2010 are available at  weihnachtsmarkt.oekb.at  (German only) 2.9.3 Mirno More In September 2010, the mirno more Peace Fleet  set sails in Croatia for the 17th consecutive year and OeKB was on board again by way of a ship adoption. 950 participants from various countries sailed for  a week on more than 100 ships for more peace  and tolerance. After the war had broken out in former Yugoslavia, the idea at the time had been to gather  children from the various countries at war, put them  together on sailing ships and set sails under the  motto all in the same boat in order to break down  prejudice and learn to be tolerant. Founded in 1994,  the project has grown rapidly and today, according  to the media, the mirno more Peace fleet is the  largest sailing project throughout Europe for socially  disadvantaged children and youth. In September  2010, and 17 years after its founding, the project  received the highest possible international recognition on occasion of a personal reception by UN General  Secretary, Ban Ki-moon. Comprehensive information  on the peace fleet is available at  www.mirnomore.org (German only) 2.9.4 Turning the page – Future Dialogue 2035  Being a founding member of the Austrian Society  for Environment and Technology, we were particularly committed, as one of the major sponsors, to  supporting the development of strategic guidelines  for sustainable action. In several expert meetings with  representatives from the administrative, business, science and NGO sectors, constructive approaches to the major challenges of the coming years were  developed. A survey conducted among more than one thousand participants produced sufficient feedback. After a kick-off event held at the OeKB Reitersaal  in early 2010, the results were finally presented at the annual GUT reception held at the auditorium of  the Vienna Academy of Sciences in November 2010.  As a result, very specific spheres of activity were  pointed out, which provide an optimistic outlook on  the future, taking into account the justified worries  of economists, ecologists, sociologists or even simply worried citizens.  www.dasblattwenden.at (German only)  34 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  2.10 Social dimension  * Including employees posted to OeEB, OeKB Versicherung, OeCAG and C.PPA. ** The fluctuation rate is calculated by the number of terminations (excluding retirement) x 100  divided by the average number of employees. Due to the low fluctuation rate,  it is not useful to separately indicate gender and age structures. *** Only hours of training provided by external trainers are reckoned. GRI 2.8, 3.9,  LA 1, LA 2, LA 10  2.10.1 OeKB employee key indicators  As at 31/12/2006 As at 31/12/2007 As at 31/12/2008 As at 31/12/2009 As at 31/12/2010 Employees  Total  Age  Years of service  Total Executive level (Prokura) Excluding retirement Including retirement Euro per employee Hours per employee Total hours of training*** Ratio of female employees Fluctuation rate Training investment  Employees  % 100 20.69 – – – 55.36 30.36 0.77 – – – Number 401 83 375 42.35 14.91 – – – 1,465.00 45 18,067 % 100 21.89 – – – 56.20 31.48 2.97 – – – Number 379 83 350 42.42 16.49 – – – 1,711.00 41 15,841 % 100 21.15 – – – 56.32 32.73 3.56 – – – Number 364 77 339 41.86 16.10 – – – 1,305.00 39 14,076 % 100 22.43 – – – 56.48 33.33 1.91 – – – Number 370 83 342 41.33 15.29 – – – 1,180.00 34 12,701 Number 396* 86 368 42.97 15.54 – – – 1,536.00 41 16,157 % 100 21.72 – – – 56.06 30.36 1.51** 2.72 – – – Part-time employees  Converted to full-time employment   35 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  Years of service  2005–2010 OeKB 2005 2006 up to 5 years 5 to 10 years 10 to 20 years 20 to 30 years more than 30 years 2007 2008 2009 2010 140  120  100  80  60  40  20 0 Years of age  2005–2010 OeKB 180 160 140  120  100  80  60  40  20 0 2005 2006 up to 30 years 30 to 40 years 40 to 50 years 50 to 60 years over 60 years 2007 2008 2009 2010 40  30 20 10 0 under 30 years 30–40 years 41–50 years over 50 years Total Number male Age structure of OeKB employees on executive level  2010 2 2 0 17 9 20 6 39 17 female  36 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  Total number of employees  Thereof part-time employees  Converted  to full-time employment Total  Executive level (Prokura) Employee key indicators  OeKB Business Services GmbH,  sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH  and OeKB Versicherung AG  OeKB Business Services GmbH 9 3 7.64 3 employees 33.33 % 0 sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH  14 0 14.00 12 employees 85.71 % 33.33 % As at 31/12/2010 including delegated OeKB employees  The employee key indicators of Oesterreichische  Entwicklungsbank AG are included in the integrated business and sustainability report of the Austrian  Development Bank.  Ratio of female employees OeKB Versicherung AG 41 10 38.07 30 employees 73.17 % 71.43 % GRI 4.8,  LA 13, LA 14 2.10.2 Gender policy Our payroll policy strictly observes the principle  of gender equality. The initial salaries of holders  of academic degrees correspond to the market  level. These are published on the intranet, hence  transparent for all employees. Individual career  moves are independent of gender.  Equal pay for equal work is a matter of course.  Assessment of employees is based exclusively on  personal skills and professional qualification.  Similarly, hiring, promotions and salary increases  are based exclusively on professional qualification.   37 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  On 31 December 2010, the traditionally high ratio  of female employees was 56.06 %. However, the high  ratio of female executives (30.36 %) is particularly  noteworthy. Within the Group, the high ratio of female members of the executive board is remarkable as well. For example, one of the two executive board  mandates, each, of OeKB Versicherung AG  and OeKB Entwicklungsbank AG is assigned to  a female Executive Director.  Ratio of female employees (overall and on executive level) OeKB  2006–2010 (%) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 0 Total ratio of female employees Ratio of female employees on executive level 56.48 33.00 56.32 32.73 56.20 31.48 55.36 30.36 56.06 30.36 OeKB Business  Services GmbH sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH OeKB Versicherung AG 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 Total ratio of female employees Ratio of female employees on executive level 33.33 0.00 85.71 33.33 73.17 71.43 Ratio of female employees (overall and on executive level) OeKB Group  end of 2010 (%)  38 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  2.10.3 Flexible working hours –  Part-time schemes and teleworking Over the period under review, the ratio of part-time  employees was 21.72 % (2009: 20.69 %). This is  evidence that, in its capacity of employer, OeKB has  always been taking into consideration its employees family and other personal obligations.  Employees have opted for various part-time work  schemes (horizontal, vertical and mixed part-time)  for many years.  A shop agreement concerning teleworking for OeKB employees has been in place since 2009 as one of the measures taken in the context of the work andfamily audit (see below). As at 31 December 2010, twelve employees had concluded a tele working agreement and are spending an average of 1–2 working days per week at their relevant external workplaces.  2.10.4 workandfamily audit  The decision to subject OeKB to an external audit  concerning the family and career issue had been  taken as early as in summer 2005, because this was  in line with OeKBs long established approach of  taking into consideration family obligations in job  design. OeKB was awarded the basic workandfamily  certificate in September 2006 and the first full  certificate in November 2009.  Since then, a range of concrete measures have been implemented, e.g., introducing a second working- time scheme and an employee assistance programme (EAP), teleworking as well as designing and im - ple menting an information concept for employees  on maternity or extended leave. The conclusion of  a shop agreement for a sabbatical scheme had been  negiotated in December 2010; that shop agreement concerning OeKB employees entered into force  as of 1 January 2011.  GRI 4.12 OeKB Employees  as at the end of 2010 Full time 310 78.28 % Part time 86 21.72 % Total employees 396 2.10.5 Corporate kindergarten  Providing the best possible support for an optimal work-life balance has long-standing tradition at OeKB. The corporate kindergarten was established in 1993 and most certainly is an important factor in light of  the high ratio (2010: 56.06 %) of female employees, many of them working part-time.  The kindergarten is open throughout the year and  offers all-day or part-time childcare. It is operating  two groups: Children aged 2 to 3 are cared for in the  mouse group, while children aged 3 to 6 belong to  the bears group. One of the care providers being an  English native speaker, English is offered as a  second language.   39 Sustainability Report 2010 Living values – Strategy and management system  2.10.6 Health and safety  In 2010, as in previous years, OeKB offered its employees comprehensive internal employee  protection far beyond statutory requirements.  In addition to various vaccination drives,  a compre hensive eyesight test was offered again  and extended health check-ups were conducted  in cooperation with Health Consult Gesellschaft  fr Vorsorgemedizin GmbH.  2.10.7 Sports and cultural events  At the end of the day, sharing leisure activities enables and encourages employees to pursue common  objectives in corporate life. That is why we organise sports and cultural events on a regular basis for our  employees to participate in in their spare time.  Team-sports events, such as table tennis, soccer,  beach volleyball, tennis or squash, are organised on  a regular basis and enhance team spirit.  Moreover, our annual ski championships are well  appreciated by employees. In addition, we organise  regular aerobics and spinal gymnastics classes  as well as Yoga and Nordic walking for those who  are interested. Besides enhancing physical fitness  and general health, these sports also help to  increase stamina, motivation and fun at work. At  regular intervals, we offer guided tours of current  exhibitions with arts experts as well as visits to  artists studios.   GRI LA 8 2.10.8 OeKB Academy  OeKB insists that its employees professional qualifi - cations form the basis of successful business activities. The OeKB Academy and the OeKB personnel deve - lopment tool, the Assistants Academy, offer a wide  range of in-house seminars to all of the Companys  employees. In the context of the employee appraisal system, individual as well as group targets for the following year and necessary training measures are  determined and examined on an annual basis. In 2010 a total amount of EUR 608,290 had been budgeted  for maintaining and/or improving the professional  qualifications of employees. These funds were spent on subject-specific further training, executive training, personal skills and language training. In total, 16.157 hours of training were provided by external trainers,  i.e. 41 hours per employee. All data concerning  training and further education refer exclusively to OeKB employees, including those posted to subsidiaries.  The offered strategic career planning, the sustai - na bility-oriented personnel policy, and the ongoing  optimisation of quality standards by virtue of  comprehensive further training measures make OeKB  a very attractive employer on the Austrian job market.  Subsequent to the successful Trainee 2009 pilot test, two further trainees for the Capital Market  Services and Export Divisions were selected  through a multi-phase selection process. Based on  a structured training plan, these will move through  various departments over the next 18 months.  GRI LA 11, LA 12  40 What do I like about working  at OeKB? In my capacity as project adviser, I have more room to manoeuvre here  than I would have as an executive elsewhere.  Being a mother, I appreciate that it is quite easy at OeKB  to balance work and family life. Heidrun Schmid Project Adviser, Project and environmental analyses  41 O e s t e r r e i c h i s c h e  K o n t r o l l b a n k G r o u p  42 Sustainability Report 2010  43 3.1.1 Environmental impact assessment  The purpose of OeKBs environmental impact assess- ment is to verify the environmental compatibility  of transactions for which a guarantee application has been filed. The audit focuses on a projects potential ecologic impact, however, social factors are also  taken into account. This procedure is based on the so-called Common  Approaches which, having been agreed on OECD  level, set the criteria for environmental audits  and should thus create equal competitive conditions  for all export credit agencies and ensure that all  export companies in the various OECD member  states are treated equally. The Common Approaches are currently being revised, which might result  in a stronger emphasis on the social components,  such as human rights, in the future.  The assessment procedure distinguishes between three project categories:  Category A projects that require an environmental  impact assessment report. These carry the highest  risk and thus require the most comprehensive  assessment.  The potential environmentally relevant impact  of category B transactions, for which information  is required, has already been identified. Sufficient  documentation of the environmental impact is  required here as well.  Category C projects have an insignificant or  no environmental impact at all and generally do  not require any further analysis.  Category A and B projects must be reported to  OECD after guarantees have been issued.  This procedure is supplemented by a so-called  watchful eye procedure that also includes  applications which are not formally subject to an  environmental impact assessment pursuant  to the OECD Common approaches but may,  however, incur environmental risks. With regard to intensifying project monitoring,  a goal has been defined (cf. Section 6.2 –  Sustai na bility programme targets of the depart - ments).  Link to the OECD Environmental Guidelines  (Common Approaches)  http://www.oekb.at/en/export-services/ transparency-compliance/environment/ oecd-common-approaches Link to the Austrian environmental impact  assessment procedure  http://www.oekb.at/en/export-services/ transparency-compliance/environment/ environmental-assessment-procedure Link to environmental categories A and B  www.oekb.at/de/exportservice/ transparenz-compliance/ projekte-der-umweltkategorien-a-b/seiten/ default.aspx  (German only) Sustainability Report 2010 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development  3 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development  3.1 Export Services  GRI FS 3, SO 1  44 3.1.2 Assessment statistics   Sustainability Report 2010 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development  2000 2 1 – 3 – 3 – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 3 2005 2006 6 27 13 46 1 5 – – 1 9 1 16 1 2 – 1 1 2 6 – – 46 2007 13 30 6 49 2 5 – – 1 13 – 15 1 – – – 1 3 3 2 3 49 2008 11 34 6 51 4 8 – – – 4 – 23 – – – – – 4 4 1 3 51 2009 16 33 20 69 3 12 1 – 1 7 – 24 3 1 – – – 5 6 – 6 69 2010 17 33 24 74 1 16 1 – 2 17 1 15 3 2 – 1 – 1 6 2 6 74 Environmental impact assessments carried out per year, broken down by environmental category and sector  Environmental  impact assessments, individual or  in connection with  other audits  Category A  Category B  Category C  Total  Sectors  Power station, thermal  Power station,  hydro-electric  Renewable energy  Refinery (oil, gas) Chemicals (synthetics)  Paper, pulp Engineering  Iron, steel  Drinking water,  waste water  Traffic  Tunnelling  Energy transfer Waste  Construction materials  Other* Agriculture, timber  Transport infrastructure  Total  11 28 15 54 1 9 – – 1 6 1 22 – – – 2 – – 7 1 4 54 * Other:  construction machinery, training, telecommunications,  medical-technical equipment and hospitals   3.1.3.2 Rechitsa Gomel small thermal  power station  The district heat grid existing in Rechitsa, Belarus, should be converted from fossil energy carriers to  state-of-the-art biomass. Heat and electric power will be produced from local biomass and fed into the  existing grid at Rechitsa. The annual supply of biomass exceeds annual consumption. Through this project,  the consumption of fossil fuels as well as emissions  to air should decrease. 45 3.1.3 Projects having been subjected to an  environmental audit and reported to OECD  The discrepancy between the number of category A and B projects listed in the above assessment sta - tistics and that notified to OECD, as outlined below, derives from the time periods elapsed between the conclusion of the relevant assessment procedures  and actual issuance of the relevant guarantees, on the one hand, while, on the other hand, the assessment statistics includes projects that are not subject to the OECD notification requirement (watchful eye).  Sustainability Report 2010 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development  3.1.3.1 Biturox bitumen plant  Roads are being built in order to improve Moroccos  infrastructure; hence, the increasing demand in  bitumen, which cannot be satisfied by current local production. The dependency on imported bitumen  is reduced by extending the existing production  capacity and constructing a new plant to produce  bitumen according to the Biturox procedure.  Exhaust gases from the existing bitumen plant have previously been emitted to the atmosphere without  having undergone any treatment. In future, however, these will be incinerated along with the exhaust  gases created by the new plant.  Environmental relevance  Type of goods/project Applied assessment  standards  Target country  Credit period  Transaction volume  Category B  Biturox bitumen plant  World Bank  Morocco  5 years  21.0 million Environmental relevance  Type of goods/project Applied assessment  standards  Target country  Credit period  Transaction volume  Category B Organic rankine cycle  (ORC) biomass  combined heat and  power plant  World Bank Belarus 5 years 18.4 million  3.1.4 Soft Loans Soft loans are credits granted to government  institutions of certain countries at interest rates that are lower than those customary on the market in  order to en hance the recipient countries sustainable development. These countries soft-loan eligibility is determined by various criteria, such as the per-capita income according to the OECD consensus and  the provisions under the Austrian soft-loan policy.  The projects financed by Austria at soft-loan  conditions should contribute toward economic  growth, hence the sustainable development of  the recipient countries.  Sustainability aspects are thus taken into conside - ration in the assessment of a products/countrys  soft-loan eligibility and, in a broader sense, should also contribute toward improving the economic, social and ecologic conditions within the meaning of the recipient countries millennium development goals. Soft-loan  financing schemes are predominantly subject to the supplies/services coming from Austria.  A list of potential soft-loan recipient countries, most  recently including the countries of the Black Sea and Sub-Sahara regions, is available at  www.oekb.at/en/export-services/financing/ softloans/requirements www.oekb.at/de/osn/DownloadCenter/ RELEVANT/RELEVANT-1-2011.pdf  (German only) 3.1.5 Export Services  environmental workshop  The Project and Environmental Analyses Department annually holds an environmental workshop, in which  all of OeKBs relevant departments participate. The purpose of this workshop is to report on the develop- ments in international panels, exchange experiences and discuss the impact of these on daily business.  The last workshop in 2010 included a report on  the ongoing revision of the Common Approaches on  OECD level. Applicable standards and a more  comprehensive inclusion of human rights, among others, are discussed in the course of this revision.  In terms of implementation, reports on experiences with customers are presented in this forum, issues  are addressed and suggested approaches are  discussed. Moreover, the results of the stakeholder  dialogue conducted in November 2010 with  companies and non-governmental organisations  were among the issues addressed at this environ - mental workshop.  46 Sustainability Report 2010 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development   47 Sustainability Report 2010 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development  3.2.1 OeSFX The terms sustainable, ethical, or socially responsible investments (SRI) describe a type of investors  behaviour that is not merely and exclusively based on economic interests. However, investment along these lines requires precise and time-consuming market  observation, since each equity fund defines its own  exclusion criteria. The OeSFX is the first index of  sustainable equity funds in Austria, which enables the investor to compare the performance of an individual equity fund with that of the entire Austrian market  of sustainable equity funds. The criteria applied  are reviewed on a regular basis by an independent  advisory committee.  These are available at  www.oesfx.com Since the OeSFX is subject to an audit pursuant to EMAS, the advisory committees work, in turn, is  subject to review by government-certified external  auditors.  Since its launch on 30 December 2004, the per - formance of the OeSFX can be monitored by way of  direct comparison with the MSCI. The performance  of both indices before and after the crisis and  an investigation of underlying facts are the topic of  a doctoral thesis which has been tendered by OeKB.  3.2 Capital Market Services  MSCI World Equity Return (in Euro) OeSFX A handling fee of approx. 1.5 % applicable to funds is not considered in the MSCI. Values as of 28/02/2011: MSCI 1334.5 (indexed) – OeSFX 1112.5 Comparison OeKB Sustainability Fund Index (OeSFX) – MSCI 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 12/2004 06/2005 12/2005 06/2006 12/2006 06/2007 12/2007 06/2008 12/2008 06/2009 12/2009 06/2010 12/2010 Source: OeKB ProfitWeb, Bloomberg  2009 316,998 422,456 59,426 85,161 91,466 34,251,736 30,008 34.10 880,000 103.94 28.85 % 47.45 % 2010 342,390 459,237 49,844 79,313 71,983 35,802,286 20,020 22.75 880,000 81.80 21.02 % 50.24 % Core capital  Eligible equity capital  Required equity capital  Operating result  Group net income  Balance sheet total  Dividends payable  Euros per share  Number of shares  Yield per share  Return on Equity (net income/cc)  Cost/income ratio 2008 290,434 375,797 58,230 90,696 22,384 41,545,960 20,020 22.75 880,000 25.44 7.71 % 44.14 % EUR 000  In the coming years, we expect the operative result  to stabilise approximately at the 2010 level. This  corresponds to the return to standard level referred to in last years Report after excellent results were achieved in the years 2008 and 2009. We assume that the credit volume granted through  the export financing procedure will continue to slightly  decrease. However, such decline in profit should be compensated by increasing profits to be generated in the service sector (capital market and export services, in particular) and in the private credit insurance sector. 22,009 50,688 33,905 7,268 9,515 27,219 22,568 53,315 35,953 7,620 9,742 20,699 Operating expenditure  Personnel cost  Salaries  Social security contributions  Cost of pension scheme  and social benefits  Taxes  21,632 45,826 31,530 6,705 7,591 5,554 Commercial development – Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG  Cost breakdown  3.3.1 Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG 3.3 Commercial development  48 Sustainability Report 2010 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development  GRI 2.8, 3.9, EC 1  49 Sustainability Report 2010 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development  3.3.2 OeKB Versicherung AG The overall result of OeKB Versicherung AGs  business activities was quite encouraging.  The above key indicators show that an increase  in sales returns was again achieved in 2010.  For a detailed report on the commercial  develop ment of OeKB Versicherung AG, please  refer to the Annual Report 2010.  2009 20,507 188.53 % 34,560 58,748 2,398 1,660 4.81 % 39 2010 23,701 36.20 % 35,285 54,928 2,244 1,829 5.24 % 41 Premiums earned  Claims ratio  (effective claims: premiums earned)  Equity  Balance sheet total  Profit on ordinary activities  Profit for the year  ROE  Employees  2008 21,276 66.01 % 34,463 64,261 3,148 2,357 7.08 % 35 EUR 000 EUR 000 2009 1,874 3,175 2,401 43 731 738 2010 2,136 3,242 2,461 43 738 415 Operating expenditure  Personnel cost  Salaries  Other employee benefit costs Social security contributions Income tax expense 2008 Cost breakdown  Commercial development OeKB Versicherung AG  1,747 2,924 2,129 37 758 791  50 Sustainability Report 2010 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development  3.3.3 sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH In the business year 2010, sterreichischer  Exportfonds GmbH benefitted from an upturn in  the export sector. sterreichischer Exportfonds  GmbH remains a major partner of approx. 1570 Austrian small and medium size enterprises in the  export sector.  For a detailed report on the commercial  development of the OeKB Group, please refer  to the relevant annual reports.  2009 804,002 12,288 803,810 688 465 14 2010 793,011 12,581 792,733 642 465 14 Credits outstanding  Equity  Balance sheet total  Return on ordinary activities  Net income  Employees  2008 833,737 12,184 823,870 700 465 15 EUR 000  EUR 000  2009 544 1,552 923 250 379 223 2010 394 1,495 1,121 248 126 177 Operating expenditure  Personnel cost  Salaries  Social security contributions  Cost of pension scheme  and social benefits  Taxes  2008 Cost breakdown  Commercial development sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH 518 1,545 996 252 297 235  51 Sustainability Report 2010 Creating values – Business segments and commercial development  3.3.4 OeKB Business Services GmbH * Purchases and sales revenues vary according to sales revenues generated  by hard/software and carbon-dioxide emission certificates. 2009 3,678 2,048 2,319 119 94 7 2010 1,270 2,121 2,407 97 73 9 Sales revenue* Equity  Balance sheet total  Return on ordinary activities  Net income  Employees, average  2008 821 1,953 2,255 112 89 4 EUR 000  EUR 000  2009 2,779 392 295 501 25 2010 220 577 443 385 24 Purchases* Personnel cost  Thereof, salaries  Other operating costs  Taxes  2008 Cost breakdown  Commercial development OeKB Business Services GmbH 1 260 200 497 23  52 Sustainability Report 2010  53 Risk management is an integral instrument of  bank-wide governance within the OeKB Group and rests within the overall responsibility of the Board of  Executive Directors. The risk policy and strategy,  as defined by the Board, aim at securing a sustainable and stable equity yield rate as well as organic growth. The special position of OeKB as authorised agent of the Austrian government and its capacity of central provider of capital market services, in combination  with its related responsibility for the Austrian national economy, set the standards for a sound risk policy.  The loss of confidence in financial markets has been identified as being one of the reasons for the crisis. Hence, the reputation risk has moved to the  fore in relevant considerations and the focus on risk  management has been enhanced. Lowering the  reputation risk is possible only through an appropriate and responsible approach to dealing with a companys stakeholders. This approach has been included in OeKB Groups sustainability management for the past ten years; hence, its implementation is described in every section of this Report.  Dealing in a responsible manner with operational  and financial risks forms the basis of doing business  in a commercially sustainable manner. Along with  the Board of Executive Directors, which is responsible for risk management within the OeKB Group, the risk  management committee is responsible for the overall banking risk management. This committee includes  the chief risk officer, the operational risk manager,  the officer responsible for the Internal Control System (ICS), the financial risk manager and the heads of  the major business departments. The risk control  department is responsible for operational implemen - tation of the internal capital adequacy assessment  proves, while the operational risk management group, which is embedded in the organisation department,  is respon sible for the centralised monitoring of the operational risk.  Financial risk management Risk control is based on the implemented internal  capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP). While calculating the market and credit risks is based on  economic capital, calculation and management of the liquidity risk is based on cash flow and funding  projections subject to various assumed stress factors, which are compared to the counterbalancing capacity. The thus calculated survival period (period during which all payment obligations can be met in times of distress, even if it is impossible to borrow any funds  on the markets) was approx. 9 months in 2010.  In compliance with stricter supervisory control re - quirements, OeKB has extended its risk management for the sake of continuous further development of internal risk management procedures and systems. Examples in 2010 are the implementation of new  risk assessment software as well as active and passive management, extending previous cost-based costing to value-based costing, and the systematic, pro - cess-oriented enhancement and documentation of  the internal control system.  For further details on the risk management of  the OeKB Group, including comprehensive figures,  please refer to the Annual Report.  In addition, several technical terms and key indicators relating to risk management which, by nature, are  based on the principles of statistics and probability  calculus, are explained below. In doing so, we tried  to transpose statistical dimensions to the realm  of day-to-day life.  Sustainability Report 2010 Protecting values – Corporate governance and risk management  4 Protecting values – Corporate governance and risk management  4.1 Risk management  GRI 1.2, 4.11  54 Risk appetite  A credit institutions risk appetite is regularly  determined in the institutions risk policy and defines the acceptable risk threshold. This may be achieved, for example, by setting a target rating (targeted  credit standing) that is translated into a default  probability, e.g., AAA = default probability 0.01 %  = unilateral confidence level 99.99 %.  Economic capital – Value at risk  The economic capital is the capital required to enable  a company to bear potential, unexpected losses (downside risk). In practice, the dominating method  for calculating such potential losses is the value-at- risk concept. Applying this concept to the various risk  categories allows one to aggregate the credit  institutions overall VaR (= economic capital). The VaR indicates the potential maximum unexpected loss at  a defined confidence level (see above) within a defined period (e.g. one year), provided that no counteractive  measures are taken during this period. In terms of the credit risk, this is referred to as CreditVaR.  Typical distribution of credit default Typical losses are included in the loan interest  through the so-called standard risk cost; preventative measures are to be taken in the form of a credit  institutions appropriate capitalisation through own funds (CreditVaR).  Risk-bearing ability  The risk bearing ability is set for the selected security level (confidence), if the overall risk (= economic  capital) is lower than the risk cover (= own funds),  i.e., at a certain confidence level, it is assured that,  in the worst case scenario, the own funds suffice  to cover all outside creditors.  Confidence level  The confidence level (security level) is equal to the  probability at which a certain value (e.g. loss from  securities portfolio or credit portfolio) is not exceeded. In accordance with the strong need for security, the risk models usually calculate at rather high confidence levels.  However, what do high confidence levels, such as  99 %, 99.5 %, 99.9 % or even 99.99 % imply?  In the 6 of 45 lottery, the probability that a tip  includes at least five winning numbers is 0.0029 %; i.e., the confidence that a tip does not achieve at least  5 winning numbers is 99.9971 %, while the probability that a tip does not achieve even 3 winning numbers  is 97.6166 %. Hence, the probability of winning any- thing at all is rather low. Nevertheless, people play the  lottery and, due to the large number of tips, some  of the players even are winners. The same applies to companies of good credit standing. The probability  that these default is rather low; nevertheless cases of  bankruptcy and insolvency do occur from time to time.  Sustainability Report 2010 Protecting values – Corporate governance and risk management  8000 6000 4000 2000 0 99.8 % CreditVaR Expected loss   Loss of e.g. 99.8 %     55 Sustainability Report 2010 Protecting values – Corporate governance and risk management  Perhaps, a comparison with the classic sink the  ship game is even more illustrative. Draw a matrix  of 100 columns and 100 lines (instead of ten, each,  as the game goes). You thus have 10,000 boxes.  Now, draw a small ship that occupies exactly one box.  The probability that your opponent does not hit that box at the first attempt has a confidence of 99.99 %.  The graph shows ships of various sizes symbolizing the relevant indicated confidence levels.  The Austrian Corporate Governance Codex is a  guide line that provides listed Austrian corporations with  a basis for responsible company management. Com - pliance, albeit on a voluntary basis, is the prerequisite for admission to the Vienna Stock Exchanges prime market section. The Codex was published in 2002 with the active support of OeKB and is revised and amended on an annual basis in light of national and international developments.  Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG is not a listed  company. Nevertheless, it takes into consideration the rules of management accountability set forth in the Austrian Corporate Governance Codex, as far as these principles apply to the Company.  For details on the implementation of the Corporate  Governance Codex, see the Annual Report 2010,  where the   Collaboration of the Supervisory Board and  the Board of Executive Directors;   Accountability and remuneration of the Board  of Executive Directors;   Accountability and remuneration of the  Supervisory Board as well as the collaboration  of the committees of the Supervisory Board;  and   Regulations concerning transparency and  inspection  are described in more detail. The complete original text of the Codex is  available at:  www.corporate-governance.at  (German only) 4.2 Corporate governance  GRI 4.1, 4.7, 4.10 Confidence level 99.99 %  Confidence level 99.8 %  Confidence level 99 %   56 Sustainability Report 2010 Protecting values – Corporate governance and risk management  According to the Global Corruption Barometer 2010, which was published by Transparency International  in December 2010, the situation will deteriorate  in many parts of the world. Data accumulated through this instrument are based on an average population estimate and indicate expectations as regards corrup- tion and anti-corruption. A survey, which was con - ducted by the Gallup Institute in 86 countries, world- wide, upon instructions of Transparency International (TI), indicates a general rise in corruption, which is  perceived particularly by interviewees in the EU and  in North America. At the same time, however, there is  an increasing trend to no longer accept, but rather  file charges against corrupt behaviour.  Moreover, the international community is committed  to combating corruption and bribery. In the sector  of officially supported export credits, the Action State- ment on Bribery and Officially Supported Export  Credits was adopted in 2006 and transposed into the legal form of a recommendation at the end of 2006.  By virtue of this Recommendation, the OECD intends  to further strengthen the process of raising aware - ness in order to counteract corruption. In this context, the exporting companies are also encouraged to  implement internal management control systems to enable effective prevention of cases of bribery.  The Recommendation urges export credit agencies  to more effectively counteract, through additional  measures, the bribing of foreign officials on occasion  of export transactions.  Major measures are:   Information to be provided by the exporter/ applicant as to whether he, or any of his  autho rized agents, were found guilty by a domes - tic court of bribing foreign officials, or if bribery  charges have been filed, within the past  five years.   Verifying whether the exporter/applicant is  included in any of the exclusion lists maintained  by certain international financial institutions (IFI), e.g., World Bank, European Bank for Recon - struction and Development.   Applying an enhanced assessment procedure  if certain facts apply (e.g., if the exporter is  included in an IFI exclusion list, has been found guilty of bribery, or bribery charges have been filed) or if there is any evidence of bribery  with regard to the applied/approved business transaction.   This enhanced assessment procedure includes,  among others, obtaining additional information, if the applicant is mentioned in an IFI exclusion, has been found guilty of bribery or bribery charges have been filed or, as the case may be, requesting that details on commission payments (recipient, amount, purpose), if any, be provided. Sales  agent commissions of percentages in the one-digit range are deemed unproblematic, provided that these are accompanied by plausible explanations. Commissions exceeding such percentages  give rise to more detailed questioning in order  to identify underlying reasons.   Moreover, if the applicant previously has been  found guilty of bribery, further information  must be obtained as to what measures have been taken to prevent cases of bribery in the future.  The measures prescribed in this OECD Recommen - dation were implemented in early 2007.  4.3 Anti-corruption  GRI SO 3  57 Consequently,   Exporters/applicants are required to answer  additional questions included in the application form concerning the IFI exclusion list, having  been found guilty of bribery, and bribery charges,  if any, having been filed;   Export credit insurance providers must take  into consideration additional information when  processing applications.  Previously existing measures remain in place:   Notifying law enforcement authorities if bribery  is suspected;   Rejecting coverage or indemnification if bribery  was involved upon concluding the transaction. In this context, the Recommendation on Bribery,  Section 1a, as well as the OECD Guidelines for Multi - national Enterprises, Sections VI/3 and 5, expressly recommend that export companies should be made aware of the legal consequences in case of violations  of anti-corruption laws and directives. Moreover,  these legal instruments provide that the ECAs play their part in urging their customers to implement  preventative management systems enabling these to  take preventive measures in terms of anti-corruption. However, placing the main responsibility with the  export companies, all of these instruments require  the export companies to present statements of  confirmation that the relevant project transactions  were concluded in a non-corrupt manner.  However, encouraging customers to develop,  apply and document appropriate management  control systems that counteract bribery implies an  active component on the part of ECAs that in - cludes providing illustrative information and holding  practice-oriented events, trainings and workshops,  and thus contribute toward these efforts.  For this reason, OeKB will provide and update  such information on its website, take a stand against  corruption and promote anti-corruption in various events and provide trainings to its customers in  cooperation with the International Chamber of Com- merce (ICC Austria) (cf. Sustainability Programme).  Internally, this issue is already being addressed in  a fervent manner. OeKB and the Austrian Development Bank have been collaborating since early 2010 in  a newly established anti-corruption group of financial service providers; OeKB Versicherung is investigating how to organize its business procedures in compliance with the UN Global Compact Principles; and ster - reichischer Exportfonds GmbH provides on its website a pool of practical information on the dangers of  corruption and the various avenues of anti-corruption.   Further information:  http://thefightagainstcorruption.unglobalcompact.org OECD Anti Bribery Recommendation 2006 www.oekb.at/de/osn/DownloadCenter/ exportservice/internationales/oecd/ OECD-Anti-Bribery-Recommendation-2006.pdf OECD Working Group on Bribery – Annual Report www.oecd.org/dataoecd/23/20/45460981.pdf CONVENTION ON COMBATING BRIBERY OF FOREIGN PUBLIC OFFICIALS IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS and Related Documents www.oecd.org/dataoecd/4/18/38028044.pdf Video: How does the OECD fight corruption http://client.viewontv.com/oecd/ 161007_corruption/index.php Sustainability Report 2010 Protecting values – Corporate governance and risk management   58 Why did the OeKB Group  again receive awards*  for its Sustainability Report? Because, apparently, we are able to communicate that  we indeed engage in sustainable action, rather than merely  talk about sustainability and responsibility.  This includes addressing even sensitive issues, keeping  a dialogue with critical stakeholders, and providing  transparent documentation of our activities in terms of  sustainability. Even though we do not expect any awards  for this we, nevertheless, enjoy the fact that our  efforts are being recognised. Peter Klein Senior ORG/IT Manager, Capital Market Services * Austrian EMAS Award 2010 and Austrian Sustainability Reporting Award (ASRA) 2010 – read more on page 17  59 O e s t e r r e i c h i s c h e  K o n t r o l l b a n k G r o u p  60 Sustainability Report 2010 Human Rights and Corporate Values 4.4 Human Rights and Corporate Values Article 1 All human beings are born free and equal in dignity  and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience  and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.  We demand and support respect Within OeKB, mutual appreciation is a major principle  of working together and an essential contribution toward  common success. We expect this respectful attitude from one another and  support it in our relations with principals, customers, suppliers, NGOs, sponsorship partners and other stakeholders. In  doing so, we strive for a culture of dialogue as well as open  and constructive criticism. Article 2 Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as  race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national  or social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional  or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing  or under any other limitation of sovereignty. Article 7 All are equal before the law and are entitled without  any discrimination to equal protection of the law. All are entitled  to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of  this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.  We offer equal opportunities Taking into account various roles and individual strong points, our goal is to grant equal rights to all individuals who work  at OeKB. Professional qualification and social competence  are the crucial criteria of our personnel decisions. Employees  who are in need of advice and support in personal issues  receive these anonymously within the employee assistance programme (EAP). By sponsoring the Mirno More Peace Fleet, we support solidarity among disadvantaged children and youths from all walks of life. Article 3 Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security  of person.  We look out for people By sponsoring and cooperation, we support initiatives, such  as that of asylkoordination, an association that supports  the right to personal freedom. Article 4 No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery  and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms.  We buy fairly traded goods and monitor the export supply chain To us, peoples personal freedom is indefeasible. In that sense, we pay much attention to the working conditions prevailing  HR 1, HR 6, HR 7, HR 9  61 Sustainability Report 2010 Human Rights and Corporate Values in our supply chain. We thus make sure that products  and services we buy have originated under demonstrably  fair conditions. In the future, social aspects will be considered in OeKBs internal procurement of computers and other  hardware. Striving towards the wellbeing of the people who work in the OeKB Group, our efforts extend far beyond  strict industrial-safety requirements.  Article 5 No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel,  in human or degrading treatment or punishment. Article 9 No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile. Article 13 1. Everyone has the right to freedom of movement  and residence within the borders of each state. 2. Everyone has  the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return  to his country.  We want to contribute toward exporting  high standards and grand values Political arbitrariness prevails in many countries of the world. Nevertheless, commercial relationships can contribute toward supporting the local population and thus positively affect  the human rights conditions in these countries. Hence, we  pay particular attention to supporting the development by  our activities.  Article 8 Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law. Article 10 Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.  The right to an effective remedy is being observed Employees have access to legal advice not only via  institutions, such as the workers chamber (Arbeiterkammer), but also through the employee assistance programme  that is operated by an external partner on behalf of OeKB.   Article 12 No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference  with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks  upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to  the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.   We trust and protect  We trust in our employees to act with responsibility and  enhance our employees individual responsibility. The  professional handling of confidential data and classified  information is at the core of our business. Hence, data  secrecy means more to us than just a legal requirement.  Our shop agreement clearly defines the modest personal  use of IT services and the handling of usage data.   62 Sustainability Report 2010 Human Rights and Corporate Values Article 18 Everyone has the right to freedom of thought,  conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his  religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in  teaching, practice, worship and observance.  We esteem and respect different philosophies of life OeKB supports the critical minds of its employees and  remains neutral vis--vis personal philosophies and values as well as religious orientation.   Article 17 1. Everyone has the right to own property alone  as well as in association with others. 2. No one shall be arbitrarily  deprived of his property.  We respect property In addition to its monetary value, property also represents  livelihood. During project assessment, we analyse within the scope of our means deficits in the protection of rights  that exist in recipient countries and insist that incidents of dispossession, compensation and resettlement are planned and processed in compliance with human rights. In addition  to financial value, this also includes preserving and/or  restoring the affected peoples livelihood and opportunities  to generate income.  Article 16 1. Men and women of full age, without any limitation  due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to found a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage,  during marriage and at its dissolution. 2. Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending spouses.  3. The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society  and is entitled to protection by society and the State.  We are family-friendly We know that a rich personal life has a positive impact on motivation and work performance. With the audit workand - family, and other, specific measures, such as the corporate kindergarten, we enhance the compatibility of career  development and personal family life.  Article 19 Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and  expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without  interference and to seek, receive and impart information and  ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.  We respect diversity of opinion By virtue of our sponsoring activities, we support initiatives  to enhance freedom and diversity of opinion in the media.  63 Sustainability Report 2010 Human Rights and Corporate Values Article 20 1. Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful  assembly and association. 2. No one may be compelled to belong  to an association. Article 21 1. Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives.  2. Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his  country. 3. The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority  of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures.  We support democratic Processes Society and corporations benefit from people who want to actively shape their environment. The OeKB Group supports activities of the works council, employee initiatives and  the workers chamber elections and allows employees to  participate in voluntary aid activities in cases of  catastrophe.  Article 22 Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to  social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort  and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality.  We support social security  High social security and comprehensive quality of life are strong points of Austria as a commercial location.  The OeKB Group supports initiatives that strengthen social solidarity and assist people in need. In addition to pension plan contributions, OeKB offers its employees access  to private health insurance.  Article 23 1. Everyone has the right to work, to free choice  of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to  protection against unemployment. 2. Everyone, without any  discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work. 3. Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity,  and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection. 4. Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the  protection of his interests.  We pay fair salaries Employees of the OeKB Group are paid fair salaries that are in line with the market and subject to function and performance, rather than gender. Fairness also applies to procurement, which demonstrably takes into consideration social aspects and trade-union freedom in the supply chain.  Article 24 Everyone has the right to rest and leisure,  including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic  holidays with pay.  We want well-rested employees Rest and recreation of employees keep our teams  productive energy alive. The regulations governing working and vacation times were drafted in agreement with the works council and set forth in the shop agreements. By virtue of  relevant programmes, we support participation in sports and health-promoting events.   64 Sustainability Report 2010 Human Rights and Corporate Values Article 25 1. Everyone has the right to a standard of living  adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary  social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment,  sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. 2. Motherhood and childhood  are entitled to special care and assistance. All children, whether born  in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protection.  We act socially OeKB offers its employees remuneration for an adequate  standard of living. With the workandfamily audit and  the employee assistance programme, we further contribute toward our employees family requirements being met. Moreover, we support organisations and initiatives, such  as Fairtrade, that enhance cross-border social solidarity  within society and contribute toward securing an adequate  standard of living.   Article 26 1. Everyone has the right to education. Education shall  be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be  equally accessible to all on the basis of merit. 2. Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities  of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace. 3. Parents have  a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to  their children.  We support education Education is one of the keys to social and economic stability in the long term. We thus support initiatives that reinforce  the knowledge of the economic context and the personal competence of decision making in financial issues. The inter- nal transfer of knowledge, which has been intensified over  the past few years, and further training of employees enhance the expertise and experience which highlight the particular part OeKB plays in the economy.   Article 27 1. Everyone has the right freely to participate in the  cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in  scientific advancement and its benefits. 2. Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from  any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author.  We are part of culture Arts and culture are part of life. This applies to economic  life, as well. Our long-standing cooperation with the Gesell - schaft der Freunde der bildenden Knste (friends of the  arts) supports cultural creativity and brings the arts to the OeKB offices.    65 Ten years ago, Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG  was first certified pursuant to EMAS and ISO 14001. Since then, OeKB has prepared a comprehensive, internal body of rules and regulations the highest goal of which is to sustainably improve operational pro - cesses. In terms of operational ecology, key indicators have been heavily declining since the environmental management system was implemented in 2001 (water consumption per employee was reduced by nearly  50 %; electric power consumption per employee was reduced by more than 40 %). At the same time,  efforts were made to match quantitative economies  by qualitative change in a positive manner. Environ- mentally friendly alternatives in procurement, Fair  Trade and social aspects within the supply chain  of IT manufacturers are issues we consistently pursue and the results of these efforts will be incorporated  in the revised procurement guideline 2011.  Over the period under review 2010, breaches  of environmental law, of any kind, that would have  resulted in criminal or administrative legal action  did not occur. The built-up (= sealed) floor space  at these locations comprises 3,001 m 2. 5.1.1 Energy  Electric power, originally having been the most important source of energy, plays a major part in the  input-output analysis. It is an essential factor in  maintaining all operational processes and thus clearly  relevant in the analysis of carbon-dioxide emissions. For this very reason, initiatives were initiated on  a continuous basis over the past few years, to curb electric power requirements and/or stabilise these  on the lowest possible level. Following a strong  decline in consumption during the first few years,  the values first levelled and then slightly increased.  Consumption values declined over the period under  review 2010. This is particularly encouraging in light of the continuous expansion of IT infrastructure and the resulting increased need for resources. The proportion of renewable energy carriers is 90.32 % compared to overall energy consumption at all locations.  Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring values – Operational ecology  5 Measuring values – Operational ecology  5.1 Operational ecology and input-output analysis  GRI 3.6, GRI 3.9, GRI EN 1,  EN 18        >> EN 4, EN 5, EN 7 Electric power (Main locations Strauchgasse/Am Hof) District heat  (Vienna location, only) RZ Vienna 21  Linz Wallnerstr., Wipplingerstr. Gas (Vienna,  Strauchgasse, only) CO2 emissions  Energy consumption 2,948,150 1,028,261 285,170 9,182 52,420 0 – 71.30 159.27 52.79 1.63 1.31 0 286.30 2,852,215 1,215,782 297,745 9,207 52,096 0 – 71.03 124.82 21.27 1.58 1.59 0 220.29 Output 2000 Input 2000 CO2  emissions in t in kWh CO2  emissions in t in kWh CO2  emissions in t in kWh CO2  emissions in t in kWh Output 2008 Input 2008 Output 2009 Input 2009 Output 2010 Input 2010 881.74 243.16 – – 16.03 1,140.93 3,847,025 1,856,203 – – 64,914 – Energy  2,841,320 952,839 120,153 8,916 63,656 0 – 73.70 134.70 50.48 1.63 1.31 0 261.82  66 Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring values – Operational ecology  At the Vienna locations, hydro-electric power  is used exclusively and guaranteed. The proportion  of renewable energy carriers is 90.32% compared  to overall energy consumption at all locations. The usual power mix is used at the leased premises  at the Linz location and at the default data processing centre (Ausfalls rechenzentrum), which explains the  significantly higher emissions to air.  Electric power/renewable  (kWh) 2000 (342 empl.) 2007 (388 empl.) 2009 (460 empl.) 2010 (460 empl.) Per employee  Per m2 (2007: 18,520;  as of 2010: 18,780) Per working day (250) Per employee Per m2 (2007: 18,520;  as of 2010: 18,780) Per working day (250) 3,791,960 11,088 227 15,168 1,856,203 5,427 111 7,425 940,732 2,424 51 3,762 952,839 2,237 51 3,811 1,028,261 2,235 56 4,113 1,215,782 2,643 65 4,863 2,680,017 6,907 145 10,720 2,841,320 6,670 153 11,365 2,948,150 6,409 159 11,793 2,852,215 6,200 152 11,409 Heating energy (district heat)  (kWh) 2008 (426 empl.) 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 Changes in electric power consumption per employee  (kWh/employee)  67 Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring values – Operational ecology  Is the weather making our engine run hot?  The aforementioned changes in heating energy require- ments clearly show fluctuations that are caused by  factors beyond our system boundaries and set natural limits in terms of energy cost savings and reduction  of carbon-dioxide emissions. This specifically  applies to the influence of weather and average daily  temperatures, which accordingly affect heating and/ or cooling energy requirements. In addition to such  weather influence, the fact must be taken into conside- ration that, in the absence of the roof constructions insulating effect, it is impossible to lower room  temperatures on the fifth floor at the Strauchgasse  location during the nights and on weekends.  This is due to ongoing construction work at the loft conversion, since there is no other way to secure  constant room temperatures in the offices. However,  in future, this loft conversion should result reduced  district heat consumption, since roof insulation will  clearly improve, once construction work has been completed. Moreover, waste heat generated by the cooling plants in the server rooms, which has been  utilised for years at the Strauchgasse location, will  be used for heating in the additional work places as  well. Hence, the overall reduction in district heat  consumption should amount to 5 % as compared to 2009. An objective has been defined in this context  as well (cf. Sustainability programme). Target 2013 2010 2009 2008 2007 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 Changes in heating energy/district heat consumption at the Strauchgasse location  (in kWh) 2008 2009 2010 200 150 100 50 0 Carbon-dioxide emissions district heat  (tonnes CO2) Increase due to external temperatures Increase as a result  of increased consumption  68 Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring values – Operational ecology  * Zentralanstalt fr Meteorologie und Geodynamik (central institute of meteorology and geo dynamics;  national weather service of the Austrian government) ** Heating degree days – unit used to objectively assess heating energy conmsumption;  it indicates the energy required to maintain the ideal room temperature of 20C. In order to estimate the weathers actual impact on this trend, ZAMG* provides statistic data on heating degree days** in previous years.  A comparison of these data over the past two years shows that, in the period under review, heating  was necessary up until May and the next heating  degree days again occurred as early as in August.  In particular, the months of April, October and  December were noticeable colder than in 2009.  In total, the number of heating degree days rose by 10.17 % compared to 2009 which, along with the  loft conversion, has caused the observed increase  in heating energy consumption.  700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Dec Heating degree days  2009 Heating degree days in comparison 2009–2010 Heating degree days  2010 5.1.2 Water  Based on per-capita consumption, water consumption has been continuously reduced in the years 2006 through 2009. Unfortunately, this encouraging trend did not continue in 2010: Per-capita water consump- tion increased by 5,4 %. The reason for such in - crease was a faulty magnet valve at the Strauchgasse  location. Consequently, line losses occurred in the months of September and October and caused  consumption to increase by approx. 35 % compared to the previous year.  As we have pointed out in previous years, it remains impossible to obtain process water from the municipal provider. Hence, process-water lines that were laid  in the course of structural alterations are currently not in use.  However, if process water should be made available  via the municipal water supply system in the near  future, the quantitative economies over the past few years would be complemented by a qualitative  one, since precious drinking water could be saved  by using process water or grey water. GRI EN 8, EN 21 Nov Oct Sep Aug Jul Jun May Apr Mar Feb Jan  69 Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring values – Operational ecology  Per employee  Per m2 (2007: 18,520;  as of 2010: 18,780) Per working day (250) 2000 (342 empl.) 9,956,000 29,111 597 39,824 2007 (388 empl.) 6,764,000 17,432 365 27,056 2008 (426 empl.) 6,609,000 15,514 357 26,436 2009 (460 empl.) 6,830,000 14,848 369 27,320 2010 (460 empl.) 7,127,000 15,493 379 28,508 Water/waste water  (litres) 5.1.3 Paper  Despite all ideas revolving around the concept of  a paperless office, paper remained one of the major  resources for OeKBs business in 2010. Due to  the long-standing, cyclical increases and decreases  in the context of paper procurement, an absolute  increase by 5.5 % in paper procurement occurred  over the period under review.  A change in printing habits has been initiated by  providing the departments with new, multi-functional devices to replace central printers, which has kept  the increase at the usual level. A further increase  in the ratio of recycled paper to 88.7 % is rather en - couraging. GRI EN 2 Per employee  Recycled paper White paper (TCF) 2000 (342 empl.) 3,540,157 10,351 4.4 % 95.6 % 2007 (388 empl.) 3,815,000 9,832 81.8 % 18.2 % 2008 (438 empl.) 4,036,000 9,215 83.7 % 16.3 % 2009 (477 empl.) 3,834,500 8,039 86.6 % 13.4 % 2010 (467 empl.)* 4,046,500 8,665 88.7 % 11.3 % Photocopying paper  (sheets A4) * This number includes all locations and OeKB kindergarten, but not  the branch office Linz, which procures paper independently.  GRI EN 22, EN 30 70 5.1.4 Waste  The represented waste key indicators refer exclusively to the Strauchgasse location, since the OeKB Group companies are merely tenants at other locations and thus unable to determine exact figures. Nevertheless, the Am Hof location as well as the areas leased to  tenants at the Strauchgasse location are incorporated in the waste management. The increase in residual waste is due, in part, to  some tenants increased business activities as well as punch sales at the charitable Christmas market. Since the  operator of the employee restaurant at the Strauch - gasse location, EUREST, did not report any changes in the packaging used by its suppliers, the reduction in the waste glass, metal and synthetics fractions might be due either to reduced external catering or to a  decline in awareness of waste separation. Therefore, waste separation will be made an issue, again, in  2011. The increase in electronic scrap is a result of  replacing personal computers and IT hardware, which became necessary due to new operating systems  and MS Office 2010. In general, however, we continue to use IT hardware as long as possible, rather than automatically replacing it after depreciation has been completed. The cost of waste disposal amounted to EUR 75,329.96 in 2010.  Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring values – Operational ecology  Per employee  Per m2 (2007: 14,802; 2008:  14,757; as of 2009: 14,738)  Per working day (250)  Paper, and cardboard  Metal  Glass  Grease trap contents  Electronic scrap  Domestic type  commercial waste  Plastic waste  Colour residues  Accumulators and batteries  Fluorescent lamps  Fixer  Separation ratio* 2000 (267 empl.) 143,208 536 10.52 573 18.36 % 0.34 % 1.27 % 14.25 % 0.50 % 62.85 % 0.87 % 0.56 % 0.54 % 0.09 % 0.38 % 73 % 2007 (308 empl.) 112,764 366 7.65 451 45.44 % 0.95 % 3.59 % 13.71 % 1.27 % 31.72 % 3.09 % 0.16 % 0.02 % 0.05 % 0.00 % 40 % 2008 (346 empl.) 118,034 341 8.01 472 50.07 % 0.85 % 2.93 % 12.70 % 2.94 % 26.05 % 4.18 % 0.13 % 0.02 % 0.12 % 0.00 % 37 % 2009 (375 empl.) 120,286 321 8.16 481 51.66 % 0.66 % 3.55 % 10.43 % 3.83 % 25.71 % 3.80 % 0.19 % 0.06 % 0.11 % 0.00 % 29 % 2010 (363 empl.) 132,938 366 9.02 532 48.74 % 0.49 % 2.82 % 12.25 % 7.44 % 25.25 % 3.02 % 0.10 % 0.05 % 0.09 % 0.00 % 28 % Waste – Strauchgasse building  (kg) * Separation ratio: proportion of domestic type commercial waste compared to the entire waste volume,  to the exclusion of grease trap contents. The reference values concern the proportion of  domestic type commercial waste, hence, higher percentages are unfavourable.   71 Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring values – Operational ecology  Non-hazardous waste  Domestic type  commercial waste  Paper  Glass  Plastic waste  Scrap metal and metal scrap  Grease trap contents  Electronic scrap  Hazardous waste Developer, fixer  Colour residues  Accumulators, batteries  Fluorescent lamps  Construction waste  loft conversion  Debris Construction and  demolition timber Demolition rubble  Construction site waste Demolition concrete  Iron and steel waste,  contaminated  Domestic type  commercial waste  2000 90,000 26,288 1,824 1,248 480 20,410 715 540 800 774 129 – – – – – – – 2007 35,772 51,236 4,053 3,485 1,069 15,464 1,429 – 178 22 56 – – – – – – – 2008 30,749 59,104 3,460 4,938 1,008 14,996 3,470 – 149 23 137 – – – – – – – 2009 30,930 62,140 4,274 4,572 790 12,540 4,604 – 229 70 137 – – – – – – – 2010 34,900 64,799 3,744 4,014 650 16,280 9,885 – 132 73 121 59,571 35,400 513,300 76,800 24,820 6,720 1,660 Waste (output) – Vienna location  Strauchgasse building kg  72 Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring values – Operational ecology  5.1.5 Business travel  (Key indicators for all locations, combined)  Through the measures taken over the past few  years in the areas of energy and heating, business  travel has emerged as a key indicator of OeKBs  carbon-dioxide emissions. At approx. 95.04 %  of the entire traffic volume in 2010, air travel plays  a significant part.  Flights inside Europe are mainly to Brussels, Paris,  London and Frankfurt/Main. Business travel within Austria is either by railway or passenger car. GRI EN 18, EN 29 Per employee Per working day (250) 2008 (438 empl.) 1,637,075 3,738 1.62 % 95.47 % 2.91 % 6,548 2009 (477 empl.) 1,728,142 3,623 1.87 % 95.73 % 2.40 % 6,913 2010 (478 empl.) 1,667,405 3,488 2.44 % 95.04 % 2.52 % 6,670 Per employee  Railway  Airplane  Passenger car  Per working day (250) 2000 (325 empl.) Business travel  (km) 1,038,017 2,867 1.36 % 94.86 % 3.78 % 4,152 202,270 559 809 313,860 717 1,255 330,540 693 1,322 316,968 663 1,268 Carbon-dioxide emissions – Travel  (kg)  73 Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring values – Operational ecology  GRI EN 16  1,500 1,000 500 0 Changes per energy resource  (carbon-dioxide emissions, 000 tonnes) 2000 2006 2007 2008 Traffic Natural gas District heat Electric power 2009 2010 5.2 Changes in OeKBs carbon-dioxide emissions  1 km  Railway (electric)  1 km  Airplane per person  1 km  Passenger car per vehicle  1 kWh  Electric power  1 kWh  Hydro-electric power  1 kWh  District heat  1 km  Public means of transport per person:  Tramway  Omnibus  Tube  kg carbon dioxide  0.00295 0.19500 0.18900 0.17730 0.02500 0.13100 0.007 0.020 0.004 Sources  BB 2004 (exclusively electricity driven;  in 2004 hydro-electric power, only) GEMIS sterreich 4.2 Manual on emission factors in road traffic Data on Austrian electric power generation Data on large-scale hydro-electric power generation  Carbon-dioxide emissions according to data  published by Fernwrme Wien Wiener Linien 2010 Conversion table for determining carbon-dioxide emissions  All conversion factors shown have been agreed with the Austrian Federal Environmental Agency.  Carbon-dioxide emissions by originator 2010  Passenger car 1.32 % Electric power 21.05 % Air travel  51.22 % District heat  26.40 % Railway 0.02 % Energy 47.46 %   In this section, we explain the objectives  achieved over the past year. 6 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  6.1 Communication on progress  GRI EN 18, FS 7,  FS 13 Measure  Communication on progress  Objective  Avoid fire damage  Sector-specific  evaluation of soft-loan  applications  Securitising  microfinance projects  The annual fire drills were carried out;  the results were recorded and evaluated.  39 projects were evaluated and a report was prepared on the topic Monitoring Evaluation  of Soft-Loan-Projects by the Example of the Medical Technology Sector. The options of capacity building were  assessed. Our partner, EWA, requested  that the capacities of provincial government  owned companies be utilised.  An audit conducted on location by an  independent financial auditor, as required  by law since the balance sheet year 2009,  should improve the efficiency and  transparency of the business practice of our Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) in Burkina  Faso and in the Senegal. However, economic difficulties during the financial crisis and  late payments made by government-owned customers to the professionals indirectly  financed through our funds resulted in late  payments of recent credit payments.  Objectives of the departments  Fire drills Comparative visual inspection of monitoring reports 2008 and 2009 pursuant to evaluable specific  criteria Assessing the options of capacity building in Burkina Faso and  in the Senegal in cooperation with Entwicklungswerkstatt Austria  (EWA) 74 Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability   75 Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  Measure  Communication on progress   Objective  Enhance information  provided to the general public  Exchange experiences  in terms of implementing sustainable issues and  promote networking  A range of press releases were issued on  this topic in the course of the year 2010. Participated in a total of five workshops – minutes published on the website maintained by UNGC Austria Since September 2009, the banks CSR  officers (OeKB, OeNB, UniCredit Bank Austria AG, Raiffeisen Bankengruppe, BAWAG PSK AG, Kommunalkredit Austria AG, Erste Bank der oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG, Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG) have been  meeting on a regular basis to share their  experiences. It was agreed at the last meeting to intensify the cooperation. The first candidate collaborated in the Fair IT project. The second candidate will focus on OeKB Versicherung AGs business processes  in terms of sustainable orientation (UN Global Compact).  OeKB is one of the major sponsors of the GUT Future Dialogue and member of the Natural Resources and Innovation working group. The kick-off event was held on  12 April 2010 at OeKBs Reitersaal hall. The final report was presented at GUTs annual shareholders meeting.  Information and communication Provide on a regular basis internet news on sustainability issues  relating to OeKB  Participate in a workshop for new UNGC members on the preparation of sustainability reports and/or communication on progress (CoP)  Networking with other banks in terms of CSR Give interested CSR managers  an opportunity to gain insight on OeKBs management system  Collaborate on the GUT Future Dialogue 2035  76 Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  Measure  Communication on progress   Objective  Measure  Communication on progress   Objective  A shop agreement concerning the  sabbatical scheme was prepared;  this agreement entered into force on  1 January 2011. Social responsibility including measures of the workandfamily audit  Prepare the concept of a sabbatical scheme at OeKB after best practice determination; target group: all  employees (part-time and full-time)  Carry forward the objective;  Give interested fathers an opportunity to discuss their experience with  paternity leave/paternity part-time schemes  Mobility counselling  for employees of the  OeKB Group Mobile sustainability  Conservation of resources  in procurement  Not accomplished Contact was established with Verbund  (electric power provider) and district  authorities, however, without any concrete results. Hoses, pump and patching equipment are available at the reception desk. The  number of bicycles parked at the bike parking lot has noticeably increased.  In 2010, OeKB became a member of  R.U.S.Z (repair and service centre) in order  to, in its capacities as member and member  of the advisory committee, help develop  future sustainability strategies and projects. Operational ecology   An event that offers OeKB Group employees advice in terms of  sustainable mobility to be held in  co-operation with Verkehrsclub ster- reich – VC (traffic club Austria) Assess the feasibility of an  air station for bicycles at the  Am Hof square  Cooperate with the repair network  Extend the work-life balance Promote paternity leave/ paternity part-time schemes  77 Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  Measure  Communication on progress  Objective  Measure  Communication on progress  Objective  Conscious use of resources Minutes of internal meetings are  appropriately prepared, approved via  workflow and disseminated by e-mail. Ongoing  Objectives of OeKB Business Services GmbH – Operational ecology  Exclusively electronic dissemination  of drafts and final versions of project notes, documentation and similar  projects Records are consistently archived in the Groups internal electronic archives. Preventive health care  at the workplace  The cooling temperature was raised and  the issue communicated by virtue of an  intra-mail message. Raise room temperatures in  air-conditioned offices during the summer months and communicate this measure from a medical  point of view in cooperation with  the company physician  Measure  Communication on progress  Objective  Preventive health care  for employees Preventive health check-ups were offered  at the same conditions as those at OeKB.  More than 50 % of sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbHs employees made  use thereof. Several sample chairs were provided to employees for testing. However, since none  of these was unanimously approved and  since each test phase takes a certain time,  further models will be included in 2011. Information programmes and  organised preventive health  check-ups for all employees. Procure new office chairs taking  into consideration ergonomic  requirements  Objectives of sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH  78 Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  Measure  Communication on progress  Objective  Ecology-minded employees Implement the results  of the CO2-TEC project  in a marketable product Reduce business travel  A range of internal measures were taken  in terms of fair procurement, mobility  (means of public transport) and conservation  of resources (electric power consumption).  This approach is externally communicated  by displaying the EMAS logo on  documentation and in presentations.  CO2-TEC went online and may be used  by interested parties through login provided  by OeKB. www.co2-tec.com/#home A total of 24 remote presentations were  conducted up until November 2010. Based on the conversion table shown in Section 5.2 of this Report, carbon-dioxide emissions were reduced by approx.  1,140 kg of carbon dioxide.  Objectives of OeKB Business Services GmbH – Information and documentation  Reinforcing awareness of  EMAS among customers and  interested parties. Implement the CO2-TEC  (transport emission calculator)  research project and make this  web application for determining transport-related carbon-dioxide emissions available to SME  in the transport sector and to  interested environmental experts. Use remote-desktop technology  in customer presentations. Determine economised  carbon-dioxide equivalents.  79 Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  Measure  Responsible  Objective  Ethic investment included  in the Banks own portfolio Consultancy services  provided to the Federal Ministry of Finance  Enhance project monitoring Performance in practice  of ethic investments  in stocks  Bond market  Project and  environmental analyses Project and  environmental analyses Project and  environmental analyses  OeKB 06/2011 12/2011 12/2011 12/2012 12/2012 Objectives of the departments  Revise the exclusion criteria that  form part of investment criteria  and verify implementation thereof  in investments in funds as well  Participate in the revision and  implementation of the OECD – Recommendation on Environment and Officially Supported Export Credits  Cooperate with the Boltzmann Institute of Human Rights concerning the handling within OECD committees prior to and during the revision  procedure  Evaluation and follow-up, based  on available evaluation studies, of  criteria to further develop project monitoring (e.g., Evaluation of  Export Promotion in Austria. Ecological, Social and Economic Impact in Target Countries,  prepared by ETA Environmental Management/ARBOS,  January 2010) Assign a master thesis that analyses the performance of MSCI and  OeSXF prior and subsequent to the financial crisis and explains relevant underlying facts. By 6.2 Programme of ecology and sustainability  GRI EN 18, EN 26, HR 2, HR 3  80 Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  Measure  Responsible  Objective  Improve sector  reference values  Specify stakeholder  expectations  Raise awareness of global climate change  Raise awareness in terms  of sustainability Raise awareness in terms  of social differences  within society  Sustainability officer, Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety Sustainability officer,  departments Sustainability officer, Public relations  Sustainability officer, Public relations Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety, all employees Human resources, all employees 06/2011 12/2011 12/2011 12/2011 12/2011 06/2011 Information and communication  Discuss social performance  indicators and suggest the  implementation of these in the banks social ecology  benchmarking  Assign employees engaging in  academic studies to prepare  a master thesis on an OeKB-related topic; fine-tune the existing  stakeholder analysis by discussing specific expectations with relevant stakeholders Communicate the changes in  carbon-dioxide emissions on  a quarterly basis  Communicate on the intranet  preliminary results in terms  of targets relating to more than  one employee  Carry out a social project where employees donate labour  Cooking at the Crypt By  Measure  Responsible  Objective  Future generations  as stakeholders  Promote paternal leave/ paternal part-time schemes Further develop the  gender policy Sustainability officer, departments Human resources Human resources 06/2011 12/2011 12/2011 Social responsibility including measures under the workandfamily audit  Series of events on sustainable  issues with special guests for the pupils and students target groups  Give interested fathers an opportunity to discuss their experience with  paternity leave/paternity part-time schemes  Provide specific figures relating  to gender-compatible developments  at the Bank (e.g. gender ratio of employees on executive level, new hiring) By 81 Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  Measure  Responsible  Objective  Clarify various policies and regulations and offer relevant trainings at OeKB Promote fair competition through anti-corruption  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety/ORG Sustainability officer,  Public relations Sustainability officer 06/2012 06/2011 06/2012 Develop a code of conduct for the OeKB Group Revise anti-corruption contents  on the OeKB website and embed UNODC E-Tools Hold training events for customers  in cooperation with the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)  concerning how to react to corruption  By  Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  82 Measure  Responsible  Objective  Make suppliers aware  of environmental  and human rights criteria  Further improve data quality  Counter-act exploitation through traditional plantation agriculture by virtue of  own initiatives until fair-trade indoor plants become  available on the market Reduce indirect  carbon-dioxide emissions  Sustainability officer, Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety Sustainability officer,  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety Sustainability officer,  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety All employees  Sustainability officer,  BTU Travel Agents Sustainability officer,  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety Sustainability officer,  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety 12/2011 12/2011 06/2011 06/2011 06/2011 12/2011 12/2011 Operational ecology  Revise the manual of sustainable procurement  Train procurement personnel  in terms of human rights aspects  Rely upon external temperature values to standardise energy  consumption for heating and cooling Employees donate plant seedlings that are subsequently grown  by our gardener to be used in the  offices, once these have grown to  a certain size Evaluate existing calculation methods and examine the feasibility of introducing a uniform standard  for calculating air-travel related  carbon-dioxide emissions  Develop a service for implementing climate-neutral events at the Reitersaal hall  Arrange at least two OeKB events  in a climate-neutral manner By  Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  83 Measure  Responsible  Objective  Loft conversion observing ecologic criteria at  the Strauchgasse location  Reduce absolute district heat at Strauchgasse by 5 % (802,451 kWh  as at 31 December 2009) Waste prevention Assess Fair-IT criteria  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety/Construction  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety/Construction Sustainability officer,  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety Sustainability officer,  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety Sustainability officer,  Organization, construction,  environmental issues  and safety 12/2012 12/2013 12/2011 12/2011 12/2011 Realise innovative approaches  when selecting materials and  HAVCR concepts Loft conversion including the use  of waste heat and additional  measures for energy optimisation  Economy of approx. 13,000  disposable cups at the charitable Christmas market through a  cooperation with the City of Vienna Extend the useful life of fully  drained toner cartridges Incorporate the assessment  of human rights criteria into IT hardware procurement  By  Sustainability Report 2010 Shaping the future – Programme of ecology and sustainability  84 Measure  Responsible  Objective  Preventive health care  for employees Sustainability officer, Sustainability coordinator of sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH Sustainability officer, Sustainability coordinator of sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH 12/2011 12/2011 Objectives of sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH Procure new office chairs taking  into consideration ergonomic  requirements (carry forward the 2009 objective; cf. Communication of progress) Enhance internal health promotion in order to counteract the most common work-related health pro- blems By Measure  Responsible  Objective  Establish sustainability  within the Company Paper-less communication with insured parties  Sustainability coordinator  of OeKB Versicherung AG Sustainability coordinator  of OeKB Versicherung AG 06/2011 06/2011 Objectives of OeKB Versicherung AG Evaluate business processes in terms of sustainable orientation;  Address Global Compact or  other acknowledged sustainability standards Process policies in an exclusively electronic manner  By Measure  Responsible  Objective  Transfer of know how in the field of sustainable logistics Sustainability coordinator of OeKB Business Services GmbH  06/2011 Objectives of OeKB Business Services GmbH/Information and documentation  Collaborate in and complete the Sustainable Logistics green book By  Sustainability Report 2010 Certificate and validation  85 Expert organisation was commissioned as independent  environmental auditor. ETA Umweltmanagement GmbH A-1030 Vienna, Mohsgasse 32/40 Phone +43 1 5037208-0   office@eta.at  http://www.eta.at Registration no.: AT-V-0001 ETA Umweltmanagement GmbH is organisational  stakeholder (OS) of the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) and supports the GRI mission. 7 Certificate and validation  GRI 3.13 Certification  Sustainability auditors, ETA Umweltmanagement GmbH, were commissioned to   Evaluate the 2010 Sustainability Report on the basis of the underlying sustainability aspects,  data, management systems, and procedures;   Critically review the scope, balance and interpretation of representation;  Critically review the scope, balance, and interpretation of the presentation; and  Verify compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 (EMAS Regulation),  EN ISO 14001:2004; the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3) and the UN Global Compact. We have based our mandate on the current standards for the verification of sustainability  reports. These include the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3 application levels www.globalreporting.org/GRIReports/ApplicationLevels) and the guideline Providing Assurance  on Sustainability Reports issued by the Federation of European Accountants (FEE).  Our audit consisted of   Interviewing the persons responsible the contents of the Sustainability Report;  Performing random checks of the procedures and processes that lead to the preparation  of this Report;  Assessing the correct, balanced, and consistent presentation of sustainability aspects  and data;  Analysing systems for data collection and evaluation of key performance indicators  concerning the economic, social, and environmental sectors. The audit showed that the data and information concerning the ecological, social, and economic aspects of sustainability were presented in a comprehensive, balanced, and appropriate manner  and are consistent with other information and evidence provided by the Company.  An internal report with detailed recommendations on the further development of the sustainability  report was presented to management.  The present Sustainability Report is in compliance with GRI G3 application level A+.   Sustainability Report 2010 Certificate and validation  86 Validation ETA Umweltmanagement GmbH confirms that, as stated in the Sustainability Report 2010,  the organisation of the OeKB Group, including OeKB – Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (Reg. No. AT-000406),  sterreichischer Exportfonds GmbH, OeKB Business Services GmbH, OeEB – Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG and  OeKB Versicherung AG (Reg. No. AT-000526) meets the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament  and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation by organisations  in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS). By signing this statement, we confirm that the  Verification and validation were carried out in full compliance with the requirements  of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009;  Results of verification and validation confirm that there is no evidence of non-compliance  with valid environmental regulations;   Data and information included in the Environmental Statement (representing an  integral part of this Sustainability Report) reliably, plausibly and veridically illustrate  all of the Organisations activities in the stated areas. The next comprehensive sustainability report will be published in 2013.  A validated update will be published every year.  Vienna, this 15 February 2011 Dr. Christine Jasch Dr. Stefan Gara Senior verifier,  Senior verifier,  public accountant  managing director