AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 straight talking.   2010 key Figures at a glance. 	 All	earnings	targets	achieved 	 Operating	result	up	8		% 	 Dividend	of	3.50	per	share	proposed RWE Group 2010 2009 +/-  % External electricity sales volume billion kWh 311.2 282.8 10.0 External gas sales volume  billion kWh 395.4 332.0 19.1 External revenue  million 53,320 47,741 11.7 EBITDA  million 10,256 9,165 11.9 Operating result  million 7,681 7,090 8.3 Income from continuing operations before tax  million 4,978 5,598  11.1 Net income/RWE AG shareholders share in income  million 3,308 3,571  7.4 Recurrent net income  million 3,752 3,532 6.2 Return on capital employed (ROCE) % 14.4 16.3 – Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) before tax % 9.0 9.0 – Value added  million 2,876 3,177  9.5 Capital employed  million 53,386 43,597 22.5 Cash flows from operating activities  million 5,500 5,299 3.8 Capital expenditure  million 6,643 15,637  57.5 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  million 6,379 5,913 7.9 Financial assets  million 264 9,724  97.3 Free cash flow  million  879  614  43.2 Number of shares outstanding (average) thousands 533,559 533,132 0.1 Earnings per share  6.20 6.70  7.5 Recurrent net income per share  7.03 6.63 6.0 Dividend per share  3.501 3.50 – 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Net debt of the RWE Group  million 28,964 25,787 12.3 Workforce2 70,856 70,726 0.2 1  Dividend proposal for RWE AGs 2010 fiscal year, subject to approval by the 20 April 2011 Annual General Meeting. 2  Converted to full-time positions.  Power generation Conventional  generation/ nuclear power Renewable energy what we do. electricity and gas: rwe oFFers everything  FroM a single source. RWE	is	one	of	Europes	five	leading	electricity	and	gas	companies.	Through	our	 expertise	in	oil,	gas	and	lignite	production,	the	construction	and	operation	of	 conventional	and	renewables-based	power	plants,	commodities	trading	as	well	as	 electricity	and	gas	transmission	and	sales,	we	cover	the	entire	energy	value	chain.	 More	than	70,000	employees	supply	about	16	million	customers	with	electricity	and	 nearly	8	million	customers	with	gas	via	our	fully	consolidated	companies.	In	fiscal	 2010,	we	recorded	more	than	53	billion	in	revenue. Europe	is	our	market:	RWE	is	the	No.	1	power	producer	in	Germany,	No.	3	in	the	 Netherlands,	and	No.	3	in	the	UK.	We	continuously	expand	our	position	in	Central	 Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe. Our	power	plant	portfolio	and	our	investment	programme	for	building	new,	 environmentally	friendly	and	flexible	generation	capacity	are	the	main	basis	for	 growing	earnings	in	the	future.	Our	groupwide	new-build	power	plant	programme	 with	a	total	installed	capacity	of	about	12	gigawatts	is	on	schedule,	in	the	last	third	 of	its	implementation	phase.	Besides	more	efficient	and	climate	friendly	fossil		 fuel-fired	power	stations,	renewable	energy	plays	a	key	role.	Our	leading	position	 in	European	energy	trading	helps	us	make	optimal	use	of	our	power	plants	on	 the	market.	We	react	to	changes	in	customer	needs	by	offering	new	products	for	 homes,	commerce	and	industry.	In	this	context,	climate	protection	and	energy	 efficiency	are	becoming	increasingly	important. Our	gas	and	oil	production	businesses	are	displaying	above-average	growth.	In	 light	of	the	long-term	global	rise	in	demand	for	gas,	we	plan	to	steadily	increase	the	 amount	we	produce	in-house. Gas and oil  production Energy trading / gas midstream Electricity and gas networks Electricity and gas sales Customers   how we have organised ourselves. the rwe group the RWe GRoup RWE AG Germany Netherlands/ Belgium United   Kingdom Central  Eastern and  South Eastern  Europe Renewables Upstream   Gas & Oil Trading/  Gas Midstream Power   Generation Sales and  Distribution  Networks RWE Power RWE   Deutschland Essent RWE npower RWE East RWE Innogy RWE Dea RWE Supply   & Trading RWE AG Amprion Electricity transmission system operator (unbundled) NET4GAS Gas transmission system operator (Czech Republic) (unbundled) Internal services  As a major European energy utility, we have  responsibilities that go far beyond our company.   By investing billions, we are paving the way today  for tomorrows supply of energy. People need  energy. And they want this energy to be safe,  clean and affordable.  This is our core responsibility – and we need   society to support us. Now more than ever   before, the future of energy supply is a topic of  public discussion. Often, debate is dogmatic,  heated and highly emotional. RWE counters this  with verifiable facts and rational reasoning.  Because only honesty and transparency will take  us forward. That is why straight talking matters.  2 GRAFFITI IN DSSELDORF, GERMANY.  JAN EUMANN Energy utilities are frequently accused of charging customers excessive prices. ENERGY UTILITIES RIP OFF CUSTOMERS  5 	The	German	electricity	market	is	fiercely	competitive 	Government-imposed	taxes	and	levies	drive	up	end-customer	prices 	Foresighted	electricity	purchasing	avoids	price	spikes Dr.	Hanns-Ferdinand	Mller,	Spokesperson	of	the	Executive	Board	of	RWE	Vertrieb	AG The fact of the matter is that,   in Germany, two thirds of the  electricity price is influenced by   the government and regulatory  authorities.  3 END-CUSTOMER ELECTRICITY PRICES ARE   MADE UP OF PROCUREMENT AND SALES COSTS,  REGULATED NETWORK FEES AS WELL AS TAXES  AND LEVIES THE GERMAN ElEcTRiciTy MARKET is fiERcEly coMpETiTivE 	When	we	sell	the	electricity	we	generate	on	the	wholesale	market,	we	do	it	at	 prevailing	market	prices.	It	is	the	free	competition	on	open	markets,	such	as	the	 EEX	electricity	exchange,	that	establishes	the	prices,	not	RWE. 	Competition	in	the	retail	customer	sector	is	also	fierce.	Some	discounters	have	 taken	to	offering	prices	that	do	not	even	cover	their	costs.	Households	can	 choose	between	900	suppliers	and	compare	prices	and	products	on	the	internet. 	Nowadays,	switching	utilities	is	childs	play.	The	new	provider	takes	care	of	the	 formalities.	According	to	the	German	Energy	and	Water	Association,	Germanys	 accumulated	switch	rate	rose	from	7	percent	to	nearly	22	percent	between	2006	 and	2009.	An	even	larger	number	of	customers	changed	tariffs	rather	than	 suppliers. GovERNMENT-iMposED TAXEs AND lEviEs DRivE Up END-cUsToMER pRicEs 	Today,	taxes	and	levies	account	for	more	than	40	percent	of	residential	electricity	 prices.	In	addition,	grid	fees	are	subject	to	state	regulation.	These	currently	make	 up	24	percent	of	the	electricity	bill. 	The	cost	of	generating,	transmitting	and	selling	electricity	increased	by	8	percent	 between	the	liberalisation	of	the	electricity	market	in	1998	and	2010,	while	taxes	 and	levies	rose	by	131	percent. 	As	regards	the	share	of	taxes	and	levies	included	in	electricity	prices,	Germany	 ranks	second	highest	in	Europe;	only	Denmark	charges	its	customers	more. 	Consumers	subsidise	renewable	energy	via	their	electricity	bills.	The	expansion	of	 renewables	pushes	costs	up.	The	levy	imposed	by	the	German	Renewable	Energy	 Act	(REA)	now	amounts	to	3.5	euro	cents	per	kilowatt	hour.	This	is	1.5	euro	cents	 more	than	in	2010. 	However,	RWE	Vertriebs	customers	will	not	feel	the	full	impact	of	this	increase	in	 2011.	Our	kilowatt	hour	only	costs	0.8	euro	cents	more.	This	is	because	we	realised	 savings	in	electricity	procurement,	which	we	directly	pass	through	to	our	customers. 	The	REA	charges	will	continue	to	increase	significantly	in	the	next	few	years,	 especially	due	to	the	unabated	expansion	of	solar	power	production.	The	total	 estimated	for	2012	alone	is	21	billion	euros.	This	is	twice	as	much	as	in	2009.  4 foREsiGHTED ElEcTRiciTy pURcHAsiNG AvoiDs pRicE spiKEs 	Our	sales	companies	have	to	buy	electricity	at	prevailing	market	conditions,		 just	like	competitors	who	do	not	own	power	plants.	One	must	seek	to	mitigate	 price	risks	arising	from	sudden	price	spikes.	We	accomplish	this	by	making	 forward	purchases	early	on. 	Our	German	customers	can	also	benefit	from	this	hedging	strategy,	for	example	 by	opting	for	the	RWE	Strom	36max	tariff,	which	guarantees	a	fixed	price	for	 36months.	For	customers	opting	for	this	tariff,	prices	only	go	up	if	taxes	or	 levies	are	raised. AvERAGE MoNTHly ElEcTRiciTy Bill iN   foR A THREE-pERsoN HoUsEHolD   iN GERMANy (3,500KWH p.A.) Taxes and levies Electricity procurement, grid fees and sales Total electricity price 49.95 69.10 12.35 28.57 37.60 40.53 1998 2010 +131% +8% +38% iN GERMANy, 41 pERcENT of REsiDENTiAl  ElEcTRiciTy Bills coNsisT of TAXEs AND  lEviEs Source: German Energy and Water Association, 12/2010. 35% Electricity  procurement and sales  24%  State- regulated  grid fees 41% State-imposed  levies  and taxes   6 BANNERPROTESTINGAGAINSTCO2EMISSIONS.BERNDARNOLD Operating	and	building	lignite	and	hard	coal-fired	power	plants	remains	controversial	with	the	 general	public,	despite	improved	efficiencies	and	new	CO2-reduction	methods. CO2kILLS! STOPRWE ThEyARECLIMATE-kILLERS  9 	RWE	has	set	itself	ambitious	climate	protection	goals 	From	strategy	to	implementation:	we	reduce	our	emissions	by	building	new	gas	 and	coal-fired	plants 	We	invest	billions	in	renewable	energy Were reducing our carbon  footprint – at an ever increasing  speed. Dr.	Jrgen	Gromann,	President	&	CEO	of	RWE	AG  7 RWE HAs sET iTsElf AMBiTioUs cliMATE pRoTEcTioN GoAls 	The	changing	climate	is	a	global	talking	point.	Which	is	a	good	thing	–	if	talk	is	 followed	by	action.	What	applies	to	us	all	as	individuals	also	applies	to	RWE	on	a	 larger	scale. 	Reducing	our	CO2	emissions	is	a	cornerstone	of	our	strategy.	Every	year,	we	invest	 billions	to	make	our	plants	more	efficient	and	thus	more	climate-friendly. 	Where	are	we	today?	In	2010,	our	plants	produced	0.73	metric	tons	of	carbon	 dioxide	per	megawatt	hour	of	electricity,	8	percent	less	than	in	the	year	before,	 but	still	far	too	much. 	On	average,	our	competitors	produce	less	CO2	than	us.	This	clearly	provides	 the	direction	for	us,	especially	in	view	of	the	financial	risks	associated	with	high	 CO2	emissions. 	We	have	set	ourselves	a	clear	goal:	we	want	to	reduce	our	CO2	exposure	to	the	 average	levels	of	other	utilities	in	our	markets	by	2020.	We	expect	the	emission	 factor	common	on	the	market	in	2020	to	be	around	0.45	metric	tons	of	carbon	 dioxide	per	megawatt	hour. 	By	2025,	75	percent	of	our	electricity	generation	capacity	should	be	based	on	 low-emission	or	CO2-free	technologies,	broken	down	as	follows:	30	percent	 renewables,	30	percent	gas-fired	power	plants,	and	15	percent	nuclear	power. 	We	will	be	reducing	emissions	elsewhere,	too.	The	Kyoto	Protocol	provides	an	 opportunity	for	us	to	obtain	emission	certificates	for	our	own	plants	in	exchange	 for	climate	protection	measures	in	developing	and	emerging	countries.	RWE	is	one	 of	the	global	leaders	in	this	field,	currently	implementing	over	120	projects	in	 China,	India,	Egypt	and	many	other	countries. WE INVEST BILLIONS IN RENEWABLE ENERGY  AND CLIMATE-FRIENDLY POWER PLANTS RWE ElEcTRiciTy GENERATioN MiX By 2025:  75  % of iNsTAllED cApAciTy sHoUlD HAvE liTTlE oR No co2 30 %  20 %  15 %  20 %  30 %   25 %   35 % 25 % Nuclear Gas Highly efcient coal Renewables Capacity Generation  8 fRoM sTRATEGy To iMplEMENTATioN: WE REDUcE oUR EMissioNs By BUilDiNG NEW   GAs AND coAl-fiRED plANTs  	We	passed	important	milestones	on	the	road	to	climate-friendly	energy	 production	in	2010.	For	instance,	we	commissioned	new	gas-fired	power	 stations	that	are	state-of-the-art	in	terms	of	efficiency	and	reduction	of	 emissions. 	By	mid	2014,	we	want	to	commission	an	additional	12	gigawatts	of	generation	 capacity,	with	CO2-free	and	low-emissions	technologies	accounting	for	more	 than	half	of	this. 	We	invest	in	renewable	energy	as	well	as	state-of-the-art	gas	and	coal-fired	 power	stations,	which	will	edge	outdated	high-emission	plants	out	of	the	 market.	The	table	below	lists	the	respective	fossil	fuel	projects. 	Including	the	gas-fired	power	stations	commissioned	in	2010,	our	new	plants	 may	save	an	estimated	25	million	metric	tons	of	CO2	emissions	–	each	and	every	 year!	This	is	a	quarter	of	the	total	emissions	produced	by	cars	in	Germany. WE iNvEsT BillioNs iN RENEWABlE ENERGy 	An	increasing	amount	of	our	electricity	is	to	come	from	renewable	sources.		 We	will	spend	almost	four	billion	euros	on	this	until	2013.	This	makes	us	the	 biggest	German	investor	in	renewable	energy	in	Europe. 	Our	medium-term	goal:	by	2014,	we	expect	our	subsidiary	RWE	Innogy,	the	 specialist	for	renewable	energy,	to	have	4.5	gigawatts	of	installed	capacity	in	 operation	or	under	construction. 	Building	new	onshore	and	offshore	wind	farms	is	a	priority	for	us.	Our	first		 German	offshore	wind	farm	north	of	the	Isle	of	Helgoland	will	go	online	in	2013. sTATUs of RWEs poWER plANT pRoJEcTs installed capacity   capital expenditure in billions of  in MW 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014  lingen Gas 876 0.5  Neurath lignite 2,100 2.6  Hamm Hard coal 1,528 2.3  staythorpe Gas 1,650 0.8  pembroke Gas 2,188 1.2  Moerdijk 2 Gas 426 0.4  claus c Gas 1,304 1.1  Eemshaven Hard coal/biomass 1,560 2.7  Denizli Gas 775 0.5 	-4 Units	1 Units	1 	-5 Unit	G F Unit	D E Unit	A B  10 BANNERINASTREETINBIBLIS.CATRINMORITZ Peaceful	use	of	nuclear	power	has	been	publicly	discussed	for	decades.	The	debate	flared	up	 again	when	the	German	government	decided	to	extend	the	lifetime	of	nuclear	power	stations. EXTENSIONOFNUCLEARLIFETIMES=PROLONGEDDANGER  13 	Nuclear	energy	makes	a	major	contribution	to	climate	protection	and	security	of	supply 	The	continued	operation	of	German	nuclear	power	plants	has	a	dampening	effect	on	 electricity	prices 	An	increasing	number	of	countries	rely	on	nuclear	power Clean. Safe. Affordable.   Nuclear energy as a complement to  renewables is the best solution. Prof.	Dr.	Gerd	Jger,	Executive	Vice-President	of	RWE	Power	AG  11 NUclEAR ENERGy MAKEs A MAJoR coNTRiBUTioN To cliMATE pRoTEcTioN AND   sEcURiTy of sUpply  	Germany	has	set	itself	ambitious	climate-protection	goals.	By	2020,	the	 country	aims	to	reduce	greenhouse	gas	emissions	by	40	percent	compared	to	 1990	levels,	and	by	80	to	95	percent	by	2050. 	Expanding	renewable	energy	is	key	to	this.	The	goal	is	to	have	renewables	 account	for	30	percent	of	electricity	production	by	2020,	and	for	as	much	as	 80	percent	by	2050. 	None	of	this	is	possible	without	making	large	investments.	Based	on	estimates	 by	the	German	environment	ministry,	the	electricity	sector	alone	will	need	to	 invest	100	billion	euros	by	2020. 	One	thing	is	certain:	without	nuclear	power,	it	will	be	impossible	to	achieve	 Germanys	climate-protection	targets	unless	one	spends	unreasonable	sums	of	 money. THE coNTiNUED opERATioN of GERMAN NUclEAR poWER plANTs HAs A DAMpENiNG  EffEcT oN ElEcTRiciTy pRicEs 	German	nuclear	power	plants	are	world	leaders	in	terms	of	safety:	 according	to	the	International	Energy	Agency	(IEA),	they	meet	the	highest	 standards.	RWEs	existing	power	stations	already	fulfill	many	of	the	criteria		 that	have	to	be	met	by	new	builds	today. 	We	have	put	in	considerable	effort	to	reach	the	highest	safety	levels	and	 safeguard	this	position	over	the	long	term.	In	the	last	ten	years,	we	have	 invested	1.4	billion	euros	at	the	Biblis	site	alone,	where	we	implemented	a	 number	of	measures	to	increase	safety. 	Affordable	electricity	is	a	key	factor	in	selecting	Germany	as	a	location	for	 production	facilities	and	business	premises.	This	contributes	to	securing	jobs. 	Based	on	a	study	by	the	Federation	of	German	Industries	(BDI),	the	continued	 operation	of	Germanys	nuclear	power	stations	could	dampen	electricity	 wholesale	prices	by	more	than	20	percent	in	2020.	This	would	translate	into	 annual	savings	of	90	euros	for	an	average	household. THERE ARE GOOD ARGUMENTS IN FAVOUR OF USING NUCLEAR ENERGY: LOW GENERATION  COSTS, SAFE TECHNOLOGY AND HARDLY ANY CO2 EMISSIONS  12 AN iNcREAsiNG NUMBER of coUNTRiEs REly oN NUclEAR poWER 	The	future	belongs	to	energy	from	renewables.	But	what	can	be	done	in	times	 when	there	is	neither	wind	nor	sunshine? 	Nuclear	power	is	available	at	all	times.	It	is	ideally	suited	for	offsetting	 fluctuating	amounts	of	electricity	fed	into	the	grid	from	renewable	sources.	 German	reactors	can	ramp	their	output	up	or	down	by	9,600	megawatts	within	 15	minutes. 	The	realisation	that	nuclear	energy	is	making	an	important	contribution	to	 climate	protection	and	security	of	supply	is	also	being	made	on	an	international	 scale.	The	USA,	Sweden,	Switzerland	and	the	Netherlands	have	extended	the	 lifetimes	of	their	nuclear	power	stations	to	60	years. 	Countries	such	as	Italy	and	Sweden,	which	decided	to	phase	out	nuclear	energy	 years	ago,	now	actually	intend	to	build	new	plants. 	Based	on	data	published	by	business	consultancy	firm	Arthur	D.	Little,	a	total	of	 63	reactors	are	currently	under	construction	throughout	the	world,	agreements	 have	been	signed	for	another	63,	and	sites	are	already	available	for	an	additional	 121	units. 	A	solution	for	the	final	storage	of	radioactive	waste	must	finally	be	found.	In	 Germany,	responsibility	for	this	is	borne	by	the	state,	whereas	the	operators	of	 nuclear	power	plants	bear	the	costs	of	disposal. MANfRED GllNER, foRsA Eighty-one	percent	of	the	German	population	believe	 that	one	cannot	fully	renounce	nuclear	power	in		 the	energy	supply	of	the	future.	This	quota	has	risen	 significantly	since	2005	(59	percent). forsa survey in summer 2010. NUclEAR poWER AccoUNTs foR ABoUT A QUARTER of GERMAN ElEcTRiciTy 1 Preliminary. Source: German Energy and Water Association. Quota of net electricity production by fuel in Germany in 20091 16 %  6 % 13 %  18 % 23 % 24 % Nuclear Natural gas Renewables Oil, pumped storage and other Lignite Hard coal 2009: 561 billion kWh  14 LETTEROFCOMPLAINTFROMANRWECUSTOMER The	quality	of	the	service	offered	by	energy	companies	is	frequently	called	into	question,	with	customers	expressing	their	resentment. ACUSTOMERFROMGERMANyCOMPLAINSBITTERLyABOUThISBAD EXPERIENCEWIThRWESCUSTOMERSERVICEAFTERANERRONEOUSMETER READINGLEDTOUNJUSTIFIEDADMINISTRATIVEANDDEBTCOLLECTIONFEES.  	RWEs	customer	service	is	getting	better	–	and	faster	–	all	the	time 	We	offer	a	wide	range	of	products	and	local	customer	service 	Our	corporate	customers	benefit	from	made-to-measure	products 	RWE	is	a	competent	partner	to	those	who	wish	to	save	energy Achim	Sdmeier,	Executive	Vice-President	Sales	at	RWE	Vertrieb	AG Dissatisfied customers – we have  them as well. But were working on  reducing their number. 17  15 OUR SERVICE CONCEPT CONSIDERS CHANGES IN  MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE NEEDS OF OUR  CUSTOMERS RWEs cUsToMER sERvicE is GETTiNG BETTER – AND fAsTER – All THE TiME 	Those	who	want	to	survive	in	the	market	in	the	long	run	must	offer	excellent	 customer	service. 	We	believe	in	quality	and	have	invested	a	lot	to	this	end.	In	2010	alone,		 RWE	Vertrieb	expanded	its	customer	service	team	by	100	new	employees.	 Southern	Germanys	technical	inspection	authority	TV	Sd	repeatedly	 recognised	us	for	service	quality	and	customer	satisfaction. 	Today,	customer	queries	are	answered	25	percent	faster	at	RWE	Vertrieb	than		 a	year	ago. 	We	take	suggestions	and	criticism	seriously.	In	2010,	we	created	a	customer	 advisory	panel,	which	takes	on	board	the	views	of	our	residential	customers	in	 Germany	and	develops	ideas	for	solutions. 	In	the	United	Kingdom,	we	invested	200	million	pounds	in	new	billing	and	 data-management	systems,	with	a	view	to	serving	our	customers	more	quickly	 and	efficiently. 	Our	residential	customers	in	the	Netherlands	can	change	their	prepayments	for	 electricity	and	gas	online	according	to	their	needs. WE offER A WiDE RANGE of pRoDUcTs AND locAl cUsToMER sERvicE 	Our	residential	customers	in	and	outside	of	Germany	can	choose	from	a	wide	 and	diversified	suite	of	products.	The	portfolio	ranges	from	flat	rate	and	green	 power	offerings	to	online	tariffs,	e.g.	under	the	eprimo	brand. 	RWE	Vertrieb	has	increased	its	consulting	capacity	by	10	percent. 	We	enlarged	our	local	footprint	significantly:	RWE	now	has	over	70	energy	stores	 and	mobile	information	desks.	This	is	30	percent	more	than	two	years	ago. 	All	calls	placed	to	us	are	free	of	charge.	Over	the	last	few	years,	we	have	more	 than	halved	telephone	waiting	times.	In	93	percent	of	all	cases,	our	customers	 reach	a	member	of	staff	on	their	first	attempt	to	contact	RWE	Vertrieb.  16 oUR coRpoRATE cUsToMERs BENEfiT fRoM MADE-To-MEAsURE pRoDUcTs 	We	have	been	offering	our	corporate	customers	a	catalogue	of	tailor-made	energy	 services	since	2008.	We	inform	them	of	tariffs	and	provide	advice	on	ways	to	 realise	savings	when	consuming	energy.	Our	customers	can	track	their	electricity	 consumption	over	time	on	an	internet	platform. 	Furthermore,	we	offer	our	corporate	customers	variable	electricity	tariffs,	some	of	 which	are	adjusted	to	developments	on	the	electricity	exchange	on	a	weekly	basis. 	Key	accounts	in	need	of	a	stable	basis	of	calculation	can	also	find	the	product	they	 need:	long-term	electricity	contracts,	some	of	which	last	until	2037. 	We	offer	our	municipal	customers	special	partnership	concepts.	These	include	 consultancy	on	optimising	the	energy	efficiency	of	city	halls	and	other	public	 buildings. WWW.ENERGiEWElT.DE – oUR sERvicEs: sAviNG ENERGy  AT HoME NEW ENERGy-EfficiENT  BUilDiNGs MoDERNisiNG  BUilDiNGs cRAfTsMEN   AND ENERGy  coNsUlTANTs fiNANciNG   AND sUBsiDiEs lEARNiNG  ABoUT solAR  poWER RWE is A coMpETENT pARTNER To THosE WHo WisH To sAvE ENERGy 	Making	more	efficient	use	of	energy	means	reducing	costs	and	being	gentle	on	the	 environment.	We	help	our	customers	do	this,	strengthening	our	sales	position	at	 the	same	time. 	On	our	web	portal	at	www.energiewelt.de,	we	provide	advice	on	the	economic	use	 of	electricity	and	gas.	From	its	online	launch	in	October	2009	to	the	end	of	2010,	 the	portal	had	already	attracted	3.5	million	visitors.	Be	it	installing	insulation,	smart	 meters,	smart	homes,	heat	pumps,	solar	thermal	power,	combined	heat	and	power	 generation	or	energy-efficient	machines	and	devices,	there	is	something	for	 everybody. 	Established	in	2009,	RWE	Effizienz	GmbH	is	our	innovation	centre	for	energy	saving	 products	with	approximately	100	employees.	The	subsidiary	also	makes	us	a	 pioneer	in	climate-friendly	electric	cars.	In	RWE	Autostrom,	we	already	have	the	 right	product	for	those	who	charge	their	cars	instead	of	filling	up.  18 LECTURE HALL AT THE RUHR UNIVERSITY IN BOCHUM, GERMANY.  CATRIN MORITZ Some of the public vehemently criticise the energy utilities focus on profits. THE GREEd Of CORpORATES fOR pROfIT  21 Dr.	Rolf	Pohlig,	CFO	of	RWE	AG Our investors have entrusted us  with their money. It is our task to  manage it responsibly. 	Our	investors	put	their	trust	in	us 	Without	profits,	we	cannot	invest	in	tomorrows	energy	supply 	We	take	our	stakeholders	expectations	seriously 	The	value	we	create	benefits	employees,	shareholders	and	society  19 OUR INVESTORS EXPECT A SUCCESSFUL STRATEGY  AND AN ATTRACTIVE DIVIDEND. IN TURN,   THEY CONTRIBUTE TO FINANCING TOMORROWS  ENERGY SUPPLY oUR iNvEsToRs pUT THEiR TRUsT iN Us 	Energy	supply	requires	a	long-term	business	model.	We	think	and	plan	in	terms	 of	decades,	not	in	terms	of	years. 	The	profits	we	achieve	enable	us	to	earn	a	reasonable	return	on	the	capital	that	 shareholders	put	at	RWEs	disposal. 	Our	shareholders	follow	distinct	investment	strategies.	Saving	for	a	pension	 plays	a	very	important	role	among	private	shareholders.	Institutional	investors,	 such	as	pension	funds	and	municipal	shareholders,	also	tend	to	have	long-term	 horizons	and	bank	on	dividend	continuity. 	Government	measures	that	burden	our	earnings	effectively	hit	our	shareholders.	 This	applies	in	particular	to	the	new	nuclear	fuel	tax	in	Germany.	It	will	have	a	 negative	effect	of	an	average	of	600	to	700	million	euros	on	our	operating	 result,	limiting	the	funds	we	can	spend	on	investments	and	dividends. WiTHoUT pRofiTs, WE cANNoT iNvEsT iN ToMoRRoWs ENERGy sUpply 	Profits	are	the	prerequisite	for	safeguarding	the	future	of	our	company	and	its	 jobs.	Only	with	good	results	and	a	healthy	cash	flow	can	we	invest	billions	of	euros	 in	the	conversion	of	our	power	plant	fleet	and	secure	tomorrows	energy	supply. 	In	the	last	five	years,	we	spent	much	more	capital	on	property,	plant	and	 equipment	than	we	paid	in	dividends	to	shareholders.	We	intend	to	continue	 proceeding	in	this	manner.	In	so	doing,	we	are	creating	the	basis	for	future	 dividends	and	securing	the	jobs	of	our	employees.	The	regions	in	which	we	are	 active	also	benefit	from	this,	as	do	our	suppliers. 	In	2010	alone,	almost	half	our	capital	spending	on	property,	plant	and	equipment	 was	attributable	to	Germany.  20 THE vAlUE WE cREATE BENEfiTs EMployEEs, sHAREHolDERs AND sociETy 	RWE	will	invest	approximately	18	billion	euros	by	2013. 	Above	all,	the	funds	will	be	dedicated	to	the	construction	of	new	power	stations	 and	renewable	energy	as	well	as	the	expansion	and	modernisation	of	electricity	 networks	and	the	exploration	of	new	energy	sources. 	This	RWE	stimulus	package	can	do	entirely	without	state	support,	safeguards	 jobs	and	contributes	to	creating	value.	In	fiscal	2010,	16	billion	euros	in	value	 added	was	created	and	distributed	among	employees,	shareholders	and	society. WE TAKE oUR sTAKEHolDERs EXpEcTATioNs sERioUsly 	Our	goal	is	to	reconcile	entrepreneurial	action	with	our	stakeholders	 expectations.	Only	by	achieving	this	balance	can	we	ensure	the	companys	 long-term	success	and	create	value	for	our	shareholders. 	We	have	divided	our	corporate	responsibility	strategy	into	ten	fields	of	action,	 which	highlight	the	RWE	Groups	major	challenges	from	our	stakeholders	 perspective. 	Since	2010,	Executive	Board	compensation	has	also	been	aligned	with	our	 success	in	the	various	fields	of	corporate	responsibility.	This	makes	RWE	one	of	 the	first	companies	to	have	directly	linked	management	board	remuneration	to	 sustainability	goals.	 Further	information:	RWE	Corporate	Responsibility	Report www.rwe.com/responsibility iNvEsTMENTs iN THE coMpANys EARNiNG poWER  million 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Capital	expenditure	 on	property,	plant	 and	equipment 6,379 5,913 4,454 4,065 4,494 Recurrent	net	 income 3,752 3,532 3,367 2,985 2,466 Dividend	payment 1,8671 1,867 2,401 1,689 1,968 1  subject to approval by the 20 April 2011 Annual General Meeting.  22 ARTICLEINThE20OCTOBER2010ISSUEOFThEGERMANDAILyNEWSPAPERFRANkFURTERRUNDSChAU Germanys	major	power	utilities	are	repeatedly	being	accused	of	abusing	their	market	power. ELECTRICITyOLIGOPOLyRAkESINThEMONEy STUDy:MARkETPOWERDELIVERSBILLIONSINPROFITS ByJAkOBSChLANDT This	opinion	is	shared	by	consumer	advocates	and	competition	watchdogs.	In	an	interview	with	 Frankfurter	Rundschau,	Justus	Haucap,	head	of	the	monopoly	commission,	said,	The	enormous	 profits	are	not	surprising.	There	is	no	real	competition	in	the	German	power	generation	sector,	 exacerbated	by	the	extension	of	nuclear	power	plant	lifetimes. Says	Holger	Krawinkel,	energy	expert	with	the	federal	association	of	consumer	advocacy		 centres:	Competition	in	the	German	generation	market	is	a	farce.	He	added	that	the	energy	 heavyweights	have	more	market	power	than	before	deregulation	some	ten	years	ago.  25 	Electricity	prices	on	wholesale	markets	are	determined	by	supply	and	demand	in		 a	transparent	way 	Marginal	costs	are	decisive	for	the	deployment	of	power	plants 	There	is	no	evidence	of	manipulation	on	the	German	electricity	wholesale	market Market power? In Europe, we   have electricity exchanges that   work – and Germanys is the most  important one. Stefan	Judisch,	Chairman	of	the	Board	of	Directors	of	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	GmbH  23 WE FACE COMPETITION WITH CONVICTION,   AS IT ACCELERATES OUR GROWTH AND WE   EARN THE DIVIDEND FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS  THROUGH MARKET PERFORMANCE ElEcTRiciTy pRicEs oN WHolEsAlE MARKETs ARE DETERMiNED By sUpply AND DEMAND  iN A TRANspARENT WAy 	Electricity	is	a	very	special	product.	It	is	completely	homogenous	and	can	be	 produced	in	many	ways.	Because	electricity	is	almost	impossible	to	store,	it	needs	 to	be	produced	the	moment	it	is	needed,	no	more	and	no	less	than	required. 	Demand	for	electricity	fluctuates	by	the	second.	It	depends	on	a	variety	of	factors,	 such	as	the	time	of	day	or	year,	the	weather,	or	the	economic	cycle.	Industrial	 consumers	consumption	is	determined	by	capacity	utilisation,	whereas	residential	 consumption	is	driven	to	a	greater	extent	by	temperature. 	Prices	on	electricity	exchanges	can	be	extremely	volatile	within	a	single	day.	 6December	2010	was	such	a	day	(see	diagram	below).	Due	to	the	weather,	wind	 turbines	stood	still	and	solar	panels	stopped	generating	electricity,	as	they	were	 covered	in	snow.	As	the	day	progressed,	the	price	of	electricity	doubled,	then	 tripled,	and	finally	more	than	halved. 	Only	very	few	products	display	such	extreme	and	sudden	movements	in	price. 	Given	these	huge	fluctuations,	electricity	producers,	distributors	and	large	 consumers	hedge	their	electricity	price	risks	on	forward	markets. HoURly pRicEs foR ElEcTRicTy oN THE GERMAN spoT MARKET  oN 6 DEcEMBER 2010 /MWh Hours 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 Source: RWE Supply & Trading.  MARGiNAl cosTs ARE DEcisivE foR THE DEployMENT of poWER plANTs 	The	demand	for	electricity	is	met	by	a	multitude	of	plant	operators.	Plant	 deployment	depends	strictly	on	economic	criteria	based	on	short-term	variable	 costs	(marginal	costs).	These	essentially	include	the	costs	of	fuel,	such	as	coal	or	 gas,	and	the	costs	of	CO2	emission	rights. 	If	there	is	a	short-term	rise	in	demand,	additional	capacities	are	deployed	 according	to	the	respective	power	stations	marginal	cost	ranking.	In	other	 words,	the	more	cost-efficient	the	plant,	the	sooner	its	capacity	will	be	utilised. 	Electricity	from	renewable	sources	such	as	wind	or	solar	energy	is	given	priority	 in	the	electricity	grid.	This	is	mandated	by	the	legislator.	Next	in	line	are	 run-of-river	and	nuclear	plants,	which	have	low	marginal	costs,	followed	by	coal	 and	gas-fired	plants	and	finally,	in	peak	times,	oil-fired	power	stations. 	The	marginal	costs	of	the	last	power	plant	needed	to	cover	demand	for	 electricity	at	any	given	time	and	thus	ensure	grid	stability	define	the	price	per	 megawatt	hour	on	the	respective	electricity	exchange.	This	price	will	then	also	 apply	to	all	other	power	stations.	Plants	with	marginal	costs	below	this	price	 produce	electricity	–	the	others	do	not. 	If	the	electricity	price	is	higher	than	the	marginal	costs,	the	plant	operator	 achieves	a	margin,	which	is	required	to	cover	fixed	costs,	such	as	staff	costs	or	 depreciation.	Investments	in	new	power	stations	can	only	pay	off	if	the	margins	 achieved	over	the	plants	lifetime	exceed	the	fixed	costs.	 	 THERE is No EviDENcE of MANipUlATioN oN THE GERMAN ElEcTRiciTy   WHolEsAlE MARKET 	Germanys	electricity	market	is	characterised	by	a	large	variety	of	suppliers	and	 intense	competition.	Among	all	EU	electricity	markets,	the	German	market	is	the	 one	with	the	lowest	market	concentration,	both	in	terms	of	generation	and	 supply,	as	a	study	conducted	by	Capgemini	Consultants	in	November	2010	 showed. 	About	5,500	terawatt	hours	of	electricity	were	electronically	traded	in	Germany	 in	2010	–	more	than	anywhere	else	in	Europe.	This	liquidity	is	proof	of	the	high	 transparency	of	the	marketplace	and	the	trust	placed	in	it	by	traders. 	Some	270	companies	from	22	countries	conduct	their	trade	on	the	EEX	Energy	 Exchange.	Electricity	is	traded	roughly	six	to	seven	times,	both	on	the	exchange	 and	over	the	counter,	before	finally	being	delivered	to	the	customer.	This	serves	 the	purposes	of	economic	optimisation	and	risk	transfer	among	power	 producers,	sales	companies,	and	industrial	power	consumers. 	German	wholesale	electricity	prices	have	ranged	in	the	European	midfield	for	 years.	Neither	the	European	Commission	nor	the	German	Federal	Cartel	Office	or	 the	trading	monitoring	agency	established	at	the	EEX	have	ever	found	evidence	 of	market	manipulation	on	the	German	wholesale	electricity	market. 24  26 DINOSAURCARTOON.COMMISSIONEDWORkhEIkOSAkURAI Critics	believe	that	the	major	energy	utilities	are	preventing	progress	in	electricity	generation. ENERGyhEAVyWEIGhTSONThEENDANGEREDSPECIESLIST? RWEISBLOCkINGINNOVATION!  Those who accuse us of being  sluggish ignore that we actually   get things moving. 	Our	research	and	development	work	is	dedicated	predominantly		 to	climate	protection 	RWE	is	leading	the	way	in	the	field	of	electric	cars 	We	invest	in	smart	grids	to	secure	the	electricity	supply	of	the	future Dr.	Nina	Skorupska,	Chief	Technical	Officer,	Essent	N.V. 29  27 TO US, INNOVATION IS THE KEY TO MAKING  TOMORROWS ENERGY SUPPLY SMARTER   AND GENTLER ON RESOURCES AND THE  ENVIRONMENT oUR REsEARcH AND DEvElopMENT WoRK is DEDicATED pREDoMiNANTly To cliMATE  pRoTEcTioN 	We	intend	to	make	the	generation	of	electricity	from	fossil	fuels	more	efficient	 and	cleaner.	This	is	what	our	research	and	development	efforts	(R&D)	at	RWE	 focus	on. 	In	our	coal	innovation	centre	near	Cologne,	Germany,	we	work	on	technologies	 aiming	to	reduce	and	convert	carbon	dioxide.	We	plan	to	spend	a	total	of	over	 100	million	euros	on	this. 	We	also	conduct	large-scale	projects	with	partners.	One	example	is	the	Desertec	 initiative,	which	started	in	2009	and	of	which	we	are	a	founding	member.	Its	 objective	is	to	create	the	framework	conditions	for	investing	in	the	supply	of	 large	amounts	of	solar	and	wind	power	to	Europe,	the	Middle	East	and	North	 Africa. 	Via	our	Dutch	subsidiary	Essent,	we	are	already	a	leader	in	the	co-firing	of	 biomass	in	coal-fired	power	plants. CO2usage for chemical  precursors Electricitystorage  using compressed air sElEcT iNNovATioN pRoJEcTs Smartmetering  for fully transparent  electricity  consumption Electriccars Desertec  saharan electricity   for Europe Algaefarming with carbon dioxide ECOdreiproject for energy-efficient  living CO2separation in coal-fired power  plants Further	information:	www.rwe.com/innovations  WE iNvEsT iN sMART GRiDs To sEcURE THE ElEcTRiciTy sUpply of THE fUTURE 	The	energy	landscape	is	changing	rapidly.	Besides	large-scale	power	plants,	 innumerable	decentralised	solar	facilities,	wind	turbines	and	mini	biomass	power	 stations	also	generate	electricity. 	In	the	energy	grid,	the	amounts	of	electricity	fed	in	and	consumed	must	be	in	 balance	at	all	times,	in	order	to	keep	the	voltage	on	the	system	stable.	Ensuring	 this	is	a	demanding	task.	Therefore,	in	addition	to	flexible	power	stations,	we	 need	new,	smart	grids,	with	which	fluctuating	energy	flows	can	be	better	 managed. 	RWE	has	taken	on	a	leading	role	in	the	Networks	for	the	Electricity	Supply	of	the	 Future	project	promoted	by	the	German	economics	and	technology	ministry.	 Together	with	partners,	we	are	developing	concepts	to	adapt	our	networks	to	the	 supply	tasks	of	the	future. 	Flexibility	is	a	key	competence	in	tomorrows	energy	world.	Our	customers	also	 need	to	act	flexibly.	Since	January	2011,	RWE	has	been	offering	time-dependent	 tariffs,	enabling	customers	to	realise	savings	by	managing	consumption	 according	to	the	time	of	day. Further	information:	www.rwe.com/innovations 28 RWE is lEADiNG THE WAy iN THE fiElD of ElEcTRic cARs 	RWE	is	taking	CO2-free	electricity	to	the	streets.	We	are	implementing	our	largest	 pilot	project	in	the	Rhine-Ruhr	area,	our	core	region.	The	objective	is	to	have	a	 charging	infrastructure	throughout	Dortmund,	Essen	and	Mlheim,	so	that	 electric	cars	can	fill	up	with	our	electricity.	We	have	launched	another	pilot	 project	in	the	Dutch	province	of	Noord-Brabant. 	RWE	offers	electricity	for	cars	which	fully	stems	from	renewable	sources	and	is	 thus	free	of	carbon	dioxide. 	We	have	already	set	up	over	500	charging	stations	in	Germany,	and	their	number	 is	steadily	rising.	Twenty	municipal	utilities	have	already	signed	agreements	with	 us,	according	to	which	we	will	provide	them	with	charging	stations	and	electric	 cars. 	We	started	offering	mass-produced	electric	cars	in	October	2010.	Buyers	can	 order	the	Mitsubishi	i-MiEV	and	structurally	identical	models	offered	by	Citron	 and	Peugeot	as	part	of	the	e-Drive	package,	which	includes	charging	units	for	 home	use,	in	addition	to	green	electricity.	 Further	information:	www.rwe-mobility.com  30 ONLINECLIMATEPROTECTIONPORTAL.kLIMARETTER.INFO Protest	campaign	against	RWEs	investment	policy,	which	is	allegedly	not	committed	enough	to	renewable	energy. hOMEPAGEOFThEGERMANCLIMATE-PROTECTIONACTIVISTGROUPkLIMARETTER.INFO RWEFORCESRENEWABLESDEVELOPMENTTOSLOW According	to	RWE	CEO	Jrgen	Gromann,	the	energy	group	does	not	want	to	make	any	additional	investment	in	 renewables.	As	justification,	he	explained	that	the	group	was	too	negatively	affected	by	the	nuclear	fuel	tax	and	the	 nuclear	fund.	In	contrast,	according	to	a	new	study	conducted	by	the	Green	Party,	the	group	has	been	raking	in	billions	 in	profits	since	2002	and	charging	its	customers	excessive	prices. By	Johanna	Treblin Nuclear	energy	giant	RWE	intends	to	freeze	investment	in	renewables.	In	an	interview	with	Stern,	the	companys	CEO	 Jrgen	Gromann	indirectly	held	the	nuclear	fuel	tax	and	the	contributions	to	the	fund	for	renewables	responsible,	into	 which	Germanys	big	four	energy	groups	have	to	pay.  Actions speak louder than words.  We invest more than a billion euros  in renewable energy every year. 	Slowing	down	is	out	of	the	question:	RWE	is	a	pioneer	in	the	development	of		 renewable	energy 	We	invest	with	foresight	and	a	clear	focus 	Our	projects	prove	we	make	big	things	happen Prof.	Dr.	Fritz	Vahrenholt,	Chairman	of	the	Board	of	Directors	of	RWE	Innogy	GmbH 33  31 WE iNvEsT WiTH foREsiGHT AND A clEAR focUs 	RWE	has	set	itself	an	ambitious	goal:	by	2025,	we	want	30	percent	of	our	 electricity	generation	capacity	to	be	based	on	renewables. 	RWE	invests	in	almost	every	kind	of	renewable	energy	source:	onshore	and	 offshore	wind,	run-of-river,	biomass	and	solar	thermal	energy.	We	build	our	plants	 on	the	most	suitable	sites	for	each	source	in	Europe. 	Photovoltaic	generation,	for	instance,	does	not	feature	much	in	our	plans	because	 it	incurs	such	high	emissions	avoidance	costs	–	up	to	400	euros	per	metric	ton	of	 CO2	saved.	By	comparison,	for	onshore	wind	farms,	they	are	in	the	order	of	80	 euros. RENEWABLE ENERGY IS ONE OF THE   MOST IMPORTANT GROWTH AREAS FOR RWE;  MARKET LEADERSHIP IS WHAT WE AIM FOR sloWiNG DoWN is oUT of THE QUEsTioN: RWE is A pioNEER iN THE DEvElopMENT   of RENEWABlE ENERGy  	In	recent	years,	RWE	has	become	a	key	player	in	the	field	of	renewable	energy.	 RWE	Innogy,	the	company	we	founded	in	2008	and	which	already	employs	over	 1,200	people,	leads	our	efforts	in	this	area. 	RWE	Innogy	is	the	biggest	German	investor	in	renewable	energy	in	Europe.		 Since	2008,	the	company	has	more	than	doubled	its	generation	capacity:	by	the	 end	of	2010,	3.4	gigawatts	of	capacity	were	in	operation	or	under	construction.	 Another	18.2	gigawatts	are	currently	being	developed. 	RWE	Innogys	activities	focus	on	RWEs	core	markets	in	Germany,	the	UK,		 the	Netherlands	and	Poland.	Furthermore,	we	are	also	active	in	Spain,	France	 and	Italy.  oUR RENEWABlE ENERGy pRoJEcTs Inoperation:   Run-of-river power plants   Wind farms   Biomass-fired power plants Underconstructionordevelopment:     Run-of-river power plants   Wind farms   Biomass-fired power plants   solar thermal plant 32 oUR pRoJEcTs pRovE WE MAKE BiG THiNGs HAppEN 	Last	year,	we	took	some	major	steps	forward	in	expanding	our	renewable	energy	 portfolio. 	We	were	given	the	green	light	for	the	development	of	two	British	offshore	wind	 farm	projects,	Atlantic	Array	and	Dogger	Bank,	early	in	2010.	Atlantic	Array	will	 have	an	installed	capacity	of	up	to	1.5	gigawatts,	and	Dogger	Bank	–	in	which	 RWE	Innogy	holds	a	25	percent	stake	–	will	have	about	9	gigawatts. 	In	March,	we	started	the	construction	of	a	large	wood	pelletising	facility	in	 Georgia,	USA.	With	an	annual	production	of	750,000	metric	tons,	the	plant	will	 be	one	of	the	largest	and	most	modern	of	its	kind	in	the	world. 	RWE	Innogy	also	founded	a	joint	venture	for	the	construction	and	operation	of	 the	Gwynt	y	Mr	wind	farm	off	the	Welsh	coast	in	2010.	We	hold	60	percent,	the	 Munich	municipal	utility	has	a	30	percent	interest,	and	Siemens	holds	10	 percent.	Over	two	billion	euros	are	being	invested	in	Gwynt	y	Mr. 	We	also	began	construction	works	on	our	first	German	offshore	wind	farm,	called	 Nordsee	Ost.	The	plant	will	be	located	about	35	kilometres	north	of	the	Isle	of	 Helgoland	and	completion	is	planned	for	2013.	We	are	spending	around	a	billion	 euros	on	this. 	Furthermore,	in	2010,	we	commissioned	new	onshore	wind	farms	in	Italy	and	 Poland.	The	Andasol	solar	thermal	project	in	Spain,	in	which	we	have	a	stake,	has	 nearly	been	completed. 	Our	projects	speak	for	themselves.	Some	of	them	are	so	large	it	takes	a	big	 company	like	RWE	to	make	them	happen.  34 Would you like to learn more about   RWE and the energy industry? If so, visit our website:  www.rwe.com  Straight talking.    1 To our investors    Letter	from	the	CEO	 	 36 The	RWE	Executive	Board	 	 42 2010	in	brief	 	 44 RWE	on	the	capital	market	 	 46 1.0  Review of operations    51 1.1		 Strategy	and	structure	 	 52 1.2		 Economic	environment	 	 58 1.3		 Political	environment	 	 66 1.4		 Major	events	 	 69 1.5		 Notes	on	reporting	 	 74 1.6		 Business	performance	 	 76 1.7		 Financial	position	and	net	worth	 	 101 1.8		 Notes	to	the	financial	statements	 	 107 	 of	RWE	AG	(holding	company)	 	 1.9		 Innovation	 	 112 1.10		Development	of	risks	and	opportunities	 116 	 including	the	report	on	the	internal	control 	 and	risk	management	system 	 including	the	corporate	governance 	 declaration 1.11	 Outlook	for	2011	 	 127 2.0  Our responsibility    135 2.1		 Supervisory	Board	report	 	 136 2.2		 Corporate	governance	 	 140 2.3	 Compensation	report		 	 143 	 (part	of	the	review	of	operations)	 	 2.4		 Workforce	 	 152 2.5		 Sustainability	 	 154 3.0 Responsibility statement    160 4.0  Consolidated financial statements    161 4.1		 Income	statement	 	 162 4.2		 Statement	of	recognised		 	 163 	 income	and	expenses	 	 4.3		 Balance	sheet	 	 164 4.4		 Cash	flow	statement	 	 165 4.5		 Statement	of	changes	in	equity	 	 166 4.6		 Notes	 	 167 4.7		 Auditors	report	 	 227 Further information    Material	investments	 	 228 The	RWE	Groups	value	management	 	 231 Boards	 	 233 Organisation	chart	of	the	RWE	Group	 	 238 Organisation	chart	of	RWE	AG	 	 240 Glossary	 	 241 Index		 	 244 Imprint	 	 245 Five-year	overview (part	of	the	review	of	operations) Financial	calendar	2011/2012 Fold-out contents in back cover Contents Contents  Letter from the Ceo Straight	talking	is	the	theme	of	this	years	Annual	Report.	Are	power	companies	ripping	off	 customers?	Are	they	inflexible	and	do	they	hinder	progress?	Do	they	not	care	about	environmental	 and	climate	protection?	Hardly	a	day	goes	by	without	newspapers	or	the	television	levelling	 accusations	at	energy	companies.	We	at	RWE	are	also	familiar	with	such	allegations	from	face-to-face		 talks	with	customers,	politicians	and	association	representatives.	At	the	beginning	of	this	report,		 we	address	the	most	common	misconceptions	about	utilities	like	RWE	and	counter	them	with	facts.	 They	speak	in	our	favour	–	at	least	we	think	so.	But,	please	read	on	and	judge	for	yourself. Straight	talking	is	something	you	can	also	expect	of	us	when	we	report	to	you	on	the	companys	 situation.	The	fact	of	the	matter	is	that	the	regulatory	framework	conditions	of	the	energy	industry	 have	deteriorated	significantly.	So	much	so,	that	the	path	we	embarked	upon	to	cut	costs	and	improve	 efficiencies	will	not	suffice.	There	is	no	use	denying	it.	The	sea	is	getting	rougher	for	RWE.	This	has		 not	had	an	influence	on	the	financial	year	that	just	ended.	In	fact,	quite	the	opposite	is	true	–	and	that	 is	good	news:	2010	was	the	most	successful	fiscal	year	in	the	history	of	RWE.	At	7.7	billion,	the	 operating	result	was	higher	than	ever.	Compared	to	2009,	it	improved	by	8		%.	We	increased	recurrent	 net	income	by	6		%	to	3.8	billion.	Therefore,	we	slightly	exceeded	our	own	expectations. 36Letter from the Ceo RWE Annual Report 2010  Once	again,	the	main	success	factor	was	our	German	electricity	generation	business.	We	posted	 further	gains	in	this	area,	despite	prices	on	the	electricity	market	that	were	far	below	the	levels	 witnessed	before	the	onset	of	the	economic	crisis.	Credit	for	this	goes	to	our	hedging	strategy.	We	sell	 nearly	all	of	our	electricity	forward,	up	to	three	years	prior	to	delivery.	Therefore,	we	had	sold	parts	of	 our	2010	generation	before	2009,	at	market	prices	that	were	still	high.	Another	important	driver	of	 our	earnings	growth	was	the	fact	that	we	included	Essent,	the	Dutch	energy	utility	we	acquired	in	 2009,	in	our	figures	on	a	full-year	basis	for	the	first	time.	Developments	at	Essent	were	encouraging.	 In	the	meantime,	the	companys	integration	into	our	Group	has	been	completed. RWE	ranks	among	Europes	five	largest	energy	companies.	We	solidified	this	position	through	the	 acquisition	of	Essent.	But	size	is	not	an	end	to	itself.	We	leverage	our	strength	to	create	lasting	value.	 In	particular,	we	achieve	this	via	our	power	plant	modernisation	and	replacement	programme.	We	had	 set	ourselves	the	goal	of	commissioning	new	gas	and	coal-fired	power	stations	with	a	total	installed	 capacity	of	12	gigawatts	by	the	end	of	2013.	In	the	financial	year	that	just	came	to	a	close,	we	 managed	to	complete	the	first	two	large-scale	facilities:	our	combined-cycle	gas	turbine	power	plants	 in	Lingen	and	at	Staythorpe.	Their	efficiency	of	nearly	60		%	makes	them	technologically	world	class.	 Accordingly,	their	fuel	consumption	and	carbon	emissions	are	low.	We	also	maintained	our	course	for	 growth	with	respect	to	renewable	energy,	and	are	conducting	a	large	number	of	projects	in	this	field.	 It	would	go	beyond	the	scope	of	this	letter	to	mention	them	all.	However,	one	highlight	is	that	we	 started	constructing	our	first	German	offshore	wind	farm	in	2010. Letter from the Ceo37 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Nevertheless,	we	are	not	only	investing	in	electricity	generation.	A	substantial	sum	has	also	been		 set	aside	to	maintain	and	modernise	network	infrastructure,	to	build	new	gas	pipelines	and	storage	 facilities,	as	well	as	to	expand	our	gas	and	oil	production.	We	also	made	good	progress	in	this	area		 in	2010. As	you	can	tell,	the	financial	year	that	just	ended	was	very	successful.	And	of	course	we	want	you,	our	 shareholders,	to	benefit	from	this.	The	Executive	and	Supervisory	Boards	of	RWE	AG	will	propose	to	 the	Annual	General	Meeting	in	April	that	a	dividend	of	3.50	per	share	be	paid.	Based	on	the	price	of	 our	common	share	at	the	end	of	2010,	this	represents	a	dividend	yield	of	7		%.	This	places	us	in	the	top	 group	of	the	DAX. Let	us	move	from	the	past	to	the	future.	We	cannot	uphold	our	medium-term	goals,	which	we	 informed	you	about	in	February	2010.	Unfortunately,	the	reasons	for	this	lie	outside	our	sphere	of	 influence.	We	had	aimed	to	increase	our	operating	result	and	recurrent	net	income	by	an	average	of	 5		%	per	year	from	2008	to	2012.	In	addition,	we	wanted	to	close	2013	with	these	two	financials	and	 EBITDA	higher	than	2009	levels.	Today,	we	realise	that	the	economic	and	political	framework	 conditions	will	not	allow	for	this.	You	can	rest	assured	that	my	fellow	board	members	and	I	are	just	as	 disappointed	about	this	as	you	are. What	is	the	background	of	this	unforeseeable	development?	What	consequences	will	it	have? In	October,	the	German	Lower	House	decided	to	introduce	a	tax	on	nuclear	fuel.	The	levy	is	limited	to	 six	years.	It	will	curtail	our	operating	result	by	an	average	of	600	million	to	700	million	per	year	from	 2011	to	2016.	We	had	already	informed	you	about	this.	The	nuclear	fuel	tax	is	proof	of	the	fact	that	 one	can	no	longer	speak	of	reliable	political	framework	conditions	in	the	energy	industry.	We	believe	 the	levy	is	questionable	from	a	legal	point	of	view	and	are	considering	filing	a	lawsuit	against	it.	 However,	there	was	some	good	news	in	2010,	namely	the	extension	of	the	lifetimes	of	German	nuclear	 power	plants.	This	is	an	issue	to	which	I	personally	was	especially	committed,	along	with	others.	 However,	there	is	a	trade-off	for	us	as	operators,	in	particular	in	the	form	of	substantial	contributions	 to	a	state	subsidy	fund	for	renewable	energy.	On	top	of	that,	we	have	to	spend	money	on	retrofitting	 our	nuclear	facilities.	To	sum	up,	we	will	be	faced	with	significant	burdens	in	the	years	ahead,	whereas	 the	financial	advantages	of	the	lifetime	extension	will	come	to	bear	much	later	on. The	economic	framework	conditions	are	also	less	favourable	than	anticipated.	Let	us	start	by	taking	a	 look	at	wholesale	electricity	prices.	They	have	been	stagnating	at	a	low	level	since	2009,	although	 energy	fuels	such	as	coal	and	oil	have	again	risen	in	price.	At	the	same	time,	demand	for	electricity	has	 recovered.	In	Germany,	it	could	return	to	the	level	seen	before	the	economic	crisis	as	early	as	2011.	 Why	is	this	not	mirrored	by	prices	on	the	electricity	market?	To	answer	this	question,	we	must	first	take	 a	look	at	the	development	of	electricity	generation	capacity.	It	recently	posted	a	significant	rise,	and	 will	continue	its	upward	trend	over	the	medium	term.	Coal	and	gas-fired	power	stations	with	a	 combined	installed	capacity	of	more	than	12	gigawatts	are	currently	under	construction	in	Germany.	 38Letter from the Ceo RWE Annual Report 2010  In	addition,	the	renewable	generation	base	is	expanding	at	record	speed.	This	applies	especially	to	 solar	panels.	By	the	end	of	2009,	they	accounted	for	a	capacity	of	just	under	10	gigawatts	in	Germany.	 A	year	later,	this	figure	rose	to	an	incredible	17	gigawatts,	and	it	is	still	trending	upwards.	Photovoltaic	 plants,	which	are	highly	subsidised,	mostly	generate	electricity	during	peak-load	periods,	namely	 during	the	day,	when	industrial,	commercial	and	trade	energy	consumption	is	high.	Their	expansion	is	 therefore	especially	detrimental	to	gas	and	hard	coal-fired	power	stations,	which	are	typically	used	 during	peak-load	periods.	Therefore,	many	market	participants	already	anticipate	overcapacities	and	a	 substantial	need	to	shut	down	power	plants.	This	might	explain	why	there	is	still	no	upward	trend	on	 the	electricity	forward	market. However,	it	would	be	naive	to	simply	add	up	the	gigawatt	figures.	It	is	true	that	much	more	electricity	 is	produced	from	renewables	when	the	wind	blows	and	the	sun	shines.	However,	weather	conditions	 of	this	type	are	not	the	rule	in	Germany,	especially	not	in	the	winter.	In	the	event	of	a	lack	of	wind		 or	solar	energy	during	peak	periods,	coal	and	gas-fired	power	plants	as	well	as	nuclear	reactors	must	 take	over.	This	is	when	one	can	observe	extreme	price	movements,	often	from	one	hour	to	the	next.	 Therefore,	we	cannot	completely	renounce	fossil	fuel-fired	power	stations,	especially	when	it	comes		 to	flexible	plants,	the	output	of	which	can	be	rapidly	ramped	down	and	back	up	again.	Neither	 industrial	nor	residential	customers	can	do	without	this	security	of	supply.	It	is	precisely	this	security	 and	flexibility	that	distinguishes	those	of	our	plants	that	have	been	recently	built	or	are	under	 construction.	We	need	to	have	a	well	balanced	portfolio,	both	as	a	company	as	well	as	for	the	 economy	as	a	whole.	Therefore,	I	have	no	doubt	that	our	power	plant	investment	programme	will		 pay	off. The	conditions	underlying	not	only	the	electricity	sector	but	also	the	gas	business	have	become	more	 difficult.	Europe	was	recently	flooded	with	gas,	with	the	increase	in	production	of	shale	gas	in	the	 USA	being	a	contributing	factor.	The	United	States	is	evolving	from	gas	importer	to	gas	exporter.	The	 result	is	that	Europe	now	has	more	imported	gas	at	its	disposal.	On	top	of	this,	liquid	trading	markets	 are	gaining	significance	in	Europe.	This	calls	into	question	a	mechanism	that	has	provided	for	stable	 framework	conditions	for	years:	the	coupling	of	gas	to	oil	prices.	When	gas	utilities	like	RWE	concluded	 long-term	supply	contracts	with	producers	like	Gazprom	or	Statoil,	they	often	included	a	provision	that	 linked	the	gas	price	to	that	of	oil.	However,	in	the	meantime,	gas	has	become	increasingly	traded	on	 liquid	spot	markets	on	which	oil	does	not	have	a	direct	effect	on	prices.	Since	2009,	quotations	on	 these	markets	have	been	far	below	the	oil-indexed	prices.	We	can	no	longer	cover	our	purchasing	costs	 in	some	cases,	primarily	when	doing	business	with	our	key	accounts.	This	is	reflected	in	significant	 burdens	on	the	earnings	of	RWE	Supply	&	Tradings	gas	midstream	business. What	have	we	done	in	response?	Our	long-term	agreements	with	gas	suppliers	include	clauses	that	 allow	for	scheduled	and	unscheduled	contract	renegotiations	for	our	procurement	prices.	We	have	 made	consistent	and	early	use	of	them.	Our	goal	is	to	adapt	the	supply	conditions	in	order	for	them	to	 allow	us	to	continue	reselling	the	gas	profitably.	Arbitration	procedures	are	usually	initiated	in	the	 Letter from the Ceo39 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  event	that	such	talks	fail.	In	some	cases,	this	has	already	happened.	Many	of	the	results	of	the	 renegotiations	will	not	be	available	until	2012	or	2013.	They	will	be	decisive	for	the	development	of	 earnings	in	our	gas	midstream	business.	We	are	convinced	of	having	strong	arguments. This	rounds	up	my	presentation	of	our	motives	for	lowering	our	expectations.	Nevertheless,	I	see	no	 reason	to	be	pessimistic.	A	companys	success	proves	itself	especially	in	hard	times.	We	are	not	 looking	back.	We	are	rolling	up	our	sleeves	and	have	already	initiated	a	whole	host	of	measures	which	 we	will	implement	step	by	step.	We	will	present	these	measures	to	you	in	detail	later	in	this	report. Our	new	earnings	outlook	for	the	coming	years	takes	into	account	all	the	burdens	that	I	have	just	 described.	Our	forecast	for	2011	envisages	earnings	before	interest,	taxes,	depreciation	and	 amortisation	–	EBITDA	for	short	–	declining	by	some	15		%.	The	operating	result,	which	includes	 depreciation	and	amortisation,	will	decrease	by	about	20		%.	This	slightly	steeper	drop	is	due	to	the	 fact	that	our	substantial	capital	expenditure	causes	depreciation	to	grow.	We	are	in	the	middle	of	the	 biggest	growth	campaign	ever	undertaken	in	RWEs	history	and	will	commission	further	power	plants	 in	2011	and	thereafter. Recurrent	net	income,	to	which	your	dividend	is	orientated,	is	expected	to	fall	by	roughly	30		%.	Our	 outlook	is	also	cautious	over	the	medium	term.	Our	EBITDA	and	operating	result	will	be	in	the	order	of	 8	billion	and	5	billion	in	2013,	when	we	stop	receiving	free	allocated	emission	allowances.	We	 expect	recurrent	net	income	to	total	about	2	billion.	We	uphold	our	payout	ratio	of	50		%	to	60		%.	 Therefore,	you,	our	shareholders,	will	continue	to	benefit	from	at	least	half	of	our	recurrent	net	 income.	The	RWE	share	will	thus	retain	its	attractive	dividend,	despite	numerous	burdens. Our	strategic	alignment	also	remains.	We	resolutely	continue	to	modernise	our	power	stations.	 Climate	protection	and	resource	conservation	are	still	at	the	top	of	our	agenda	in	this	context,	so	 expanding	our	renewable	generation	capacity	also	remains	a	pillar	of	our	strategy.	Another	growth	 area	is	the	oil	and	gas	production	of	our	subsidiary	RWE	Dea.	At	the	same	time,	we	intend	to	broaden	 our	footprint	and	extend	our	international	reach.	In	order	to	accomplish	this,	we	need	a	strong	 balance	sheet.	A	yardstick	of	our	financial	robustness	is	the	ratio	of	net	debt	to	EBITDA,	also	known	as	 the	leverage	factor.	We	are	orientating	ourselves	towards	an	upper	limit	of	3.0.	In	the	financial	year	 that	just	ended,	it	was	2.8.	In	view	of	the	anticipated	decline	in	earnings	in	the	current	year,	however,	 we	will	exceed	this	mark	at	first.	In	order	to	return	our	leverage	factor	below	our	upper	limit	over	the	 medium	term,	we	are	considering	selling	investments	and	parts	of	companies.	We	intend	to	realise	 proceeds	of	up	to	8	billion	as	a	result.	We	have	generally	taken	account	of	these	divestments	in	our	 earnings	forecast.	Our	28	billion	capital	expenditure	programme,	which	we	had	intended	to	 40Letter from the Ceo RWE Annual Report 2010  implement	from	2010	to	2013,	will	be	reduced	by	approximately	3	billion.	As	a	result,	some	 18billion	remain	for	2011	and	the	two	following	years.	None	of	the	major	power	plant	or	network	 expansion	projects	are	affected	by	the	cuts.	Conversely,	projects	that	are	less	urgent	will	be	 postponed.	Our	package	of	measures	is	being	supplemented	by	the	expansion	of	our	efficiency- enhancement	and	cost-cutting	programme.	We	want	to	save	an	additional	200	million	on	a	 sustainable	basis	until	2012. As	you	can	see,	we	are	equipping	ourselves	for	tougher	times.	These	require	exceptional	performance,	 not	least	from	our	employees.	We	largely	have	them	to	thank	for	the	fact	that	today,	we	can	look	back	 on	the	strongest	financial	year	in	RWEs	history.	My	fellow	board	members	and	I	would	like	to	express	 our	sincere	gratitude	to	them	for	this	accomplishment.	By	uniting	our	forces,	we	will	also	master	the	 challenges	that	lie	ahead	of	us.	Whenever	one	stands	on	top	of	a	mountain,	the	only	way	to	go	is	 down.	One	must	therefore	reach	new	heights.	Our	sights	are	firmly	set	on	this	goal. My	dear	investors,	I	ask	you	to	accompany	us	on	this	journey.	We	are	all	working	hard	to	ensure	that	 RWE	remains	an	attractive	investment	for	you,	day	after	day. Sincerely	yours, Dr.	Jrgen	Gromann	 President	and	CEO	of	RWE	AG Essen,	11	February	2011 PS:	Anyone	who	writes	letters	likes	receiving	mail,	too.	Do	you	have	any	suggestions	or	points	of	view,	 perhaps	with	respect	to	our	motto	Straight	talking?	Or	would	you	like	some	more	information?		 If	so,	then	send	an	e-mail	to	straighttalking@rwe.com.	Both	RWE	and	I	personally	look	forward	to	 hearing	from	you. Letter from the Ceo41 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Dr. Jrgen Gromann  President and CEO Dr. Leonhard Birnbaum  Chief Commercial Officer The RWe execuTive BoaRd  Alwin Fitting  Labour Director Dr. Rolf Martin Schmitz  Chief Operating Officer Dr. Rolf Pohlig  Chief Financial Officer   44 2010 in Brief. JAnUARy RWE Innogy places winning   bid for further offshore wind  projects in the UK Within	the	scope	of	a	tender	process,	 the	UK	government	grants	us	permission	 to	develop	the	Atlantic	Array	and	Dogger	 Bank	projects.	We	will	initially	develop	 the	Atlantic	Array	project	alone,	which	 will	have	1.5gigawatts	in	generation	 capacity.	At	Dogger	Bank,	we	have	a	 25		%	stake	in	a	consortium	aiming	for	 9gigawatts	in	capacity.	 MARCh RWE starts construction   of a pellet factory in the USA The	wood	pelletising	plant	is	being		 built	in	the	US	state	of	Georgia.	The	 factory	will	have	an	annual	production		 of	750,000	metric	tons,	making	it	the	 biggest	and	most	modern	of	its	type	in	 the	world.	We	intend	to	use	the	pellets		 in	pure	biomass	power	plants	as	well	as	 for	co-firing	with	hard	coal.	The	facility		 is	due	to	begin	production	in	2011. APRIL RWE decides to build a   gas-fired power plant in Turkey The	775	megawatt	facility	is	being		 erected	in	Denizli	in	the	western	part		 of	the	country.	It	is	owned	by	a	joint	 venture	between	RWE	(70		%)	and	the	 Turkish	energy	company	Turcas	(30		%).	 We	estimate	the	capital	expenditure		 at	500	million.	The	power	station	is	 scheduled	to	start	commercial	operation	 in	2013. APRIL State-of-the-art gas power   plant goes online in Lingen We	commission	the	power	station		 in	the	presence	of	Germanys	current	 Federal	President,	Christian	Wulff.	The		 plant	has	an	installed	capacity	of	 876megawatts	and	its	efficiency	factor	 of	nearly	60		%	ranks	it	as	world	class.		 We	spent	some	500	million	in	capital		 on	the	station. JULy Green light for the single-largest  investment in RWE Deas history We	sign	an	agreement	with	the	Egyptian	 Oil	Minister	and	partner	companies		 for	the	development	of	gas	fields	in		 two	Mediterranean	concession	areas.	 RWEDea	will	set	aside	US$3.6billion	for	 this	over	the	next	two	decades.	The	 company	has	a	stake	of	about	40		%	in		 the	project.	Production	is	scheduled	to	 commence	by	the	end	of	2014. JUne RWE Innogy establishes joint  venture for the construction and  operation of the Gwynt y Mr  offshore wind farm Our	partners	in	the	joint	venture	are	 Stadtwerke	Mnchen	and	Siemens,		 which	hold	interests	of	30		%	and	10		%,	 respectively.	The	Gwynt	y	Mr	wind	farm	 will	have	160	turbines	and	a	total	 installed	capacity	of	576	megawatts	and	 will	be	erected	off	the	coast	of	North	 Wales.	It	is	scheduled	for	completion		 in	2014.	More	than	2	billion	will	be	 invested	in	the	facility.  45 oCtobeR German Lower House   introduces nuclear fuel tax and  lifetime extensions for nuclear  power plants The	new	levy	will	remain	in	force	through	 to	the	end	of	2016.	It	will	channel	 2.3billion	in	annual	revenues	to	the	 German	state.	We	reserve	the	right	to	 take	legal	action	against	the	tax.	The	 government	decides	to	amend	the	 German	Nuclear	Act,	which	means	that	 German	nuclear	power	stations	will	be	 allowed	to	run	for	an	average	of	twelve	 years	longer.	In	exchange,	their	 operators	will	make	payments	into	a	fund	 that	will	be	used	to	expand	renewable	 energy,	among	other	things. noveMbeR UK gas-fired power plant   commissioned At	the	end	of	November,	all	four	units		 of	the	highly	efficient	plant	at	Staythorpe	 (Nottinghamshire)	were	online	 simultaneously	for	the	first	time.	They	 have	a	combined	installed	capacity	of	 1,650	megawatts.	This	is	enough	to	 supply	nearly	two	million	homes	with	 electricity.	The	capital	expenditure	 totalled	about	800	million. DeCeMbeR Contract to sell   Thyssengas signed The	buyers	of	the	company	in	which	our	 German	long-distance	transmission	 network	is	subsumed	are	infrastructure	 funds	managed	by	the	Australian	 financial	service	provider	Macquarie.	 Every	year,	Thyssengas	transmits	almost	 10billion	cubic	metres	of	natural	gas	 through	pipes	with	an	overall	length	of	 4,100kilometres.	We	had	made	a	 commitment	to	the	EU	Commission	to	 sell	the	company. sePteMbeR RWE issues its first hybrid bond The	volume	of	1.75	billion	makes	our	 issuance	the	largest	one	of	a	security	of	 this	type	ever	placed	by	an	industrial	 enterprise	in	Europe.	It	draws	keen	 interest	from	investors.	Hybrid	bonds	are	 a	mix	of	equity	and	debt	financing.	In	the	 event	of	insolvency,	they	are	only	settled	 after	all	the	other	debt	instruments. sePteMbeR Reorganisation of activities in  Germany and Eastern Europe RWE	decides	to	pool	its	German	sales	 and	distribution	network	operations	 under	RWE	Rheinland	Westfalen	Netz	AG	 with	effect	from	1	January	2011.		 The	latter	company	now	operates	as	 RWEDeutschland	AG.	A	decision	is		 also	made	to	establish	RWE	East,	s.r.o.,	 headquartered	in	Prague,	CzechRepublic,	 to	oversee	our	companies	in	Central	 Eastern	Europe	and	Turkey	from	2011	 onwards.  Shareholders of German companies could generally be satisfied with the stock performance in  2010. Posting a gain of 16  %, the DAX 30 was the second-best performing index in Europe.  Holders of RWE stocks had less reason to be pleased. Our common shares closed the year with   a loss of 23  %. In particular, Germanys new nuclear fuel tax and low electricity and gas wholesale  prices dampened the development of RWEs share price, as these factors caused our medium-term  earnings prospects to worsen. RWE shares much weaker than the DAX.	The	German	stock	market	experienced	a	good	2010.	 Germanys	lead	index,	the	DAX,	rose	from	5,957	to	6,914	points,	posting	a	gain	of	16		%.	This	is	an	 outstanding	figure	when	compared	internationally.	For	instance,	the	DAX	clearly	distanced	the	Dow	 Jones	EURO	STOXX	50.	In	2010,	the	Eurozones	market	barometer	slipped	by	3		%.	In	fact,	the	DAX	 also	had	a	poor	start	to	the	year,	mainly	due	to	the	Greek	financial	crisis.	The	countrys	impending	 insolvency	and	the	high	budgetary	deficits	of	other	Eurozone	member	states	spurred	doubt	about	 the	currency	unions	stability.	The	situation	calmed,	thanks	to	an	EU	rescue	package.	As	the	year	 progressed,	the	robust	economy	increasingly	determined	developments	on	the	stock	market.	Investor	 sentiment	brightened	considerably,	above	all	in	Germany,	where	the	economy	displayed	especially	 dynamic	development. rWe on the CapitaL market 31 Dec  09 RWE common share 31 Mar 10 30 Jun 10 30 Sep 10 31 Dec 10 Dow Jones STOXX Utilities DAX 30 Source: Bloomberg.  20  10 0  -10 -20  -30 Performance of RWE common shares compared with the DAX 30 and the Dow Jones STOXX Utilities indices  % (average weekly gures) 46RWe on the capital market RWE Annual Report 2010  The	2010	stock	performance	was	a	less	pleasing	one	for	RWE	shareholders.	Our	common	and	 preferred	shares	ended	2010	at	49.89	and	47.99,	respectively.	The	total	return	for	the	year	as	a	 whole	(return	on	the	share	price	plus	the	dividend)	was		23		%	and		18		%.	The	development	of	our	 share	price	reflects	the	deterioration	of	our	earnings	prospects.	This	is	due	to	the	unfavourable	 development	of	electricity	and	gas	wholesale	prices	as	well	as	the	nuclear	fuel	tax	in	Germany	levied	 from	2011	onwards.	The	new	levy	was	a	major	reason	why	RWE	shares	clearly	lagged	behind	the	 European	utility	sector	index,	the	Dow	Jones	STOXX	Utilities	(	5		%).	After	the	governments	plans	in	 early	June	to	introduce	a	nuclear	fuel	tax	became	known,	the	sector	index	and	the	RWE	share	started	 to	move	in	opposite	directions.	In	the	nearly	seven	months	remaining	in	the	year,	the	Dow	Jones	 STOXX	Utilities	recorded	a	gain	of	7		%,	while	our	common	shares	recorded	a	drop	of	14		%. Monthly highs and lows (daily closing price) Monthly average Source: Bloomberg. Monthly highs and lows of the RWE common share in 2010   Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  75  70  65 60  55 50  45 68.96 63.87 65.75 65.83 68.02 62.60 59.06 55.39 56.17 54.24 51.50 51.51 50.15 49.33 47.96 48.00 49.55 51.68 52.33 53.32 56.54 60.91 62.92 61.69 TotalreturnofRWEsharesandimportantindicesuptotheendof2010 % p.a. 1 year 5 years 10 years RWE common share  22.5 0.4 4.5 RWE preferred share  18.3 3.1 8.1 DAX 30 16.1 5.0 0.7 Dow Jones EURO STOXX 50  2.8  1.9  2.7 Dow Jones STOXX 50 3.1  1.9  2.8 Dow Jones STOXX 600 11.6 0.5  0.1 Dow Jones STOXX Utilities  4.5 2.0 4.0 REXP1 4.0 4.3 5.1 1  Index for the performance of government securities on the German bond market. RWe on the capital market47 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  RWE shares better than DAX in long-term comparison.	Despite	their	weak	performance	in	2010,	 RWE	shares	delivered	a	robust	long-term	return.	Those	who	paid	10,000	to	buy	common	shares	in	 our	company	ten	years	ago	and	reinvested	their	dividends	saw	their	investments	rise	to	15,538	by	 31	December	2010.	A	cash	investment	in	our	preferred	shares	over	the	same	period	would	have	 increased	the	value	of	the	depositary	account	to	21,861.	This	corresponds	to	an	annual	average	 return	of	4.5		%	and	8.1		%,	respectively.	RWE	shares	are	therefore	among	Germanys	most	successful	 stocks	in	the	last	decade,	a	period	which	was	overshadowed	by	two	stock	market	crises.	By	 comparison,	the	DAX	rose	by	an	average	of	just	0.7		%	per	year	during	the	same	period.	This	would	 have	increased	an	initial	investment	of	10,000	to	10,747. 3.50 dividend per share proposed for 2010.	The	Supervisory	and	Executive	Boards	of	RWE	AG	 will	propose	a	dividend	of	3.50	per	share	for	fiscal	2010	to	the	Annual	General	Meeting	on	 20April2011.	Relative	to	recurrent	net	income,	this	results	in	a	payout	ratio	of	50		%.	Based	on		 the		year-end	closing	share	prices	of	our	common	and	preferred	shares,	the	dividend	yields	stood		 at	7.0		%	and	7.3		%,	respectively.	This	gives	us	a	leading	position	in	the	DAX. RWEshareindicators1 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Earnings per share    6.20 6.70 4.75 4.74 6.84 Recurrent net income per share  7.03 6.63 6.25 5.29 4.38 Cash flows from operating activities   per share    10.31 9.94 16.44 10.82 12.06 Dividend per share    3.502 3.50 4.50 3.15 3.50 Dividend payment  million 1,8672 1,867 2,401 1,689 1,968 Payout ratio3 % 50 53 71 57 80 Dividend yield on common shares4 % 7.0 5.2 7.1 3.3 4.2 Dividend yield on preferred shares4 % 7.3 5.6 8.4 3.8 4.9 Common share price End of year    49.89 67.96 63.70 96.00 83.50 High    68.96 68.58 100.64 97.90 89.85 Low    47.96 46.52 52.53 74.72 61.56 Preferred share price End of year    47.99 62.29 53.61 83.07 72.00 High    62.52 62.65 84.39 86.00 73.91 Low    44.51 41.75 37.46 66.33 54.18 Number of shares outstanding (average) thousands 533,559 533,132 538,364 562,373 562,374 Market capitalisation at the end of the year  billion 28.0 38.0 35.4 53.5 46.5 1  Based on the annual average number of shares outstanding.   2  Dividend proposal for RWE AGs 2010 fiscal year, subject to the approval of the 20 April 2011 Annual General Meeting.   3  The payout ratio is obtained by dividing the corresponding dividend payment in millions of euros by recurrent net income in millions of euros.   4  The dividend yield is obtained by dividing the corresponding dividend per share by the corresponding year-end quotation.  48RWe on the capital market RWE Annual Report 2010  Tickersymbols common shares preferred shares Reuters RWEG.DE (Xetra) RWEGpr.DE (Xetra) RWEG.f (frankfurt) RWEGpr.f (frankfurt) Bloomberg RWE Gy (Xetra) RWE3 Gy (Xetra) RWE GR (frankfurt) RWE3 GR (frankfurt) German Securities Identification Number 703 712 703 714 ISIN DE0007037129 DE0007037145 USA CUSIP No. (ADR) 74975E303 – Wide international shareholder base.	At	the	end	of	2010,	80		%	of	RWEs	562.4	million	shares	were	 owned	by	institutional	investors,	while	15		%	were	held	by	private	investors	(including	employee	 shareholders)	and	5		%	by	RWE	AG.	There	were	thus	no	changes	compared	to	the	previous	year.	 Institutional	investors	in	Germany	hold	36		%	of	the	capital	stock	(end	of	2009:	36		%),	with	those	in	 North	America,	the	United	Kingdom	and	Ireland	accounting	for	a	combined	23		%	(29		%)	and	those		 in	Continental	Europe,	excluding	Germany,	owning	17		%	(13		%).	RW	Energie-Beteiligungsgesellschaft,	 in	which	primarily	municipal	shares	are	pooled,	is	our	single	largest	shareholder,	holding	16		%.		 US-based	asset	management	company	BlackRock	Financial	Management	accounts	for	about	3		%,	 which	is	the	largest	RWE	position	outside	Germany.	Some	1		%	of	the	shares	are	under	RWE	employee	 ownership.	In	the	year	under	review,	26,279	staff	members,	or	59		%	of	those	entitled	to	subscribe,	 participated	in	our	employee	share	scheme,	subscribing	a	total	of	558,000	shares.	By	offering	this	 programme,	we	enable	our	personnel	at	German	sites	to	buy	RWE	shares	at	favourable	conditions.	 We	spent	5.8	million	on	this	in	2010.	The	free	float	of	RWE	common	shares	considered	by	Deutsche	 Brse	in	terms	of	index	weighting	was	80		%	at	the	end	of	the	year. Shareholder structure of RWE AG1  5% Own shares  14% Private shareholders 1 Percentages reect shares in the subscribed capital.   Sources: Notications of shareholdings in accordance with the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) and shareholder identication, as of the end of 2010.  1% Employee shareholders 16% RW Energie-Beteiligungsgesellschaft 80% Institutional shareholders:   36% Germany   12% USA/Canada   11% UK/Ireland   17% Continental Europe      excl. Germany     4% Rest of the world  3% BlackRock Financial Management 61% Other institutional shareholders RWe on the capital market49 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Development of the ve-year credit default swap (CDS) for RWE compared with the CDS index iTraxx Europe  in basis points (average weekly gures) 31 Dec 09 RWE 31 Mar 10 30 Jun 10 30 Sep 10 31 Dec 10 iTraxx Europe Source: Bloomberg. 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 RWE is traded on stock markets in Germany and the USA.	In	Germany,	RWE	shares	are	traded	on	 the	Frankfurt	am	Main	and	Dsseldorf	Stock	Exchanges	as	well	as	via	the	electronic	platform	Xetra.	 They	can	also	be	obtained	over	the	counter	in	Berlin,	Bremen,	Hamburg,	Hanover,	Munich	and	 Stuttgart.	Outside	Germany,	RWE	stock	is	traded	over	the	counter	in	the	United	States	via	American	 Depositary	Receipts	(ADRs),	and	not	our	shares	directly,	in	what	is	known	as	a	Level	1	ADR	 Programme.	ADRs	are	share	certificates	issued	by	US	depositary	banks,	representing	a	certain	number	 of	a	foreign	companys	deposited	shares.	Until	the	end	of	2010,	our	shares	were	also	listed	on	the		 SIX	Swiss	Exchange	in	Zurich.	We	decided	to	delist	them,	due	to	very	low	turnover. RWE maintains good creditworthiness on the capital market.	The	corporate	bond	market	was	marked	 by	mutually	opposing	trends	in	2010.	On	the	one	hand,	interbank	interest	rates	in	the	Eurozone	were	 unusually	low.	On	the	other	hand,	the	Greek	crisis	forced	bond	issuers	to	pay	higher	risk	premiums		 on	these	rates.	Hedging	credit	risk	via	credit	default	swaps	(CDSs)	also	became	more	expensive.	The	 iTraxx	Europe	index,	which	is	made	up	of	the	CDS	prices	of	125	major	European	companies,	advanced	 from	75	basis	points	to	more	than	130	basis	points	in	the	first	half	of	the	year,	before	coming	back	 down	somewhat.	It	was	marginally	above	the	100-point	mark	at	the	end	of	the	year.	Five-year	CDSs		 for	RWE	rose	from	45	to	over	80	basis	points	over	the	course	of	the	year.	However,	they	remained	low	 compared	to	those	of	other	industrial	enterprises,	proof	of	RWEs	good	creditworthiness. 50RWe on the capital market RWE Annual Report 2010  51 1.0 revieW of operations eBitda What you Can measure our suCCess By. operating resuLt reCurrent net inCome dividend effiCienCy enhanCement Forecast for 2010:	 Increase	of	5		%	to	10		% 2010 actual:	 Increase	of	12		%	to	10.3	billion	 Forecast for 2011:	 Decrease	of	about	15		% Forecast for 2010:	 Increase	of	about	5		% 2010 actual:	 Increase	of	8		%	to	7.7	billion	 Forecast for 2011:	 Decrease	of	about	20		% Forecast for 2010:	 Increase	of	about	5		% 2010 actual:	 Increase	of	6		%	to	3.8	billion Forecast for 2011:	 Decrease	of	about	30		% Forecast for 2010:	 Payout	ratio	of	50		%	to	60		%	of	recurrent	 	 net	income 2010 actual:  Payout	ratio	of	50		%	 	 (proposed	dividend:	3.50	per	share) Forecast for 2011:	 Payout	ratio	of	50		%	to	60		%	of	recurrent	 	 net	income Forecast for 2010:	 700	million	compared	to	2006 2010 actual:	 700	million	compared	to	2006 Forecast for 2011:	 900	million	compared	to	2006 oUR ResPonsIbILIty  RWE ranks among Europes five leading electricity and gas companies. We want to strengthen this  position. However, the market environment is likely to remain difficult. Competition is becoming  fiercer, and the demands placed by customers on our service levels and product offerings are  rising. Furthermore, regulatory intervention is changing established business models. At the same  time, we are witnessing low prices on the electricity and gas wholesale markets. We are tackling  these challenges by developing innovative products and services and continuing to invest in  environmentally friendly energy supplies for the future. Major challenges for power utilities. Energy	supply	requires	a	long-term	business	model.	Investments	 in	power	plants,	networks	as	well	as	oil	and	gas	production	are	usually	planned	for	decades	in		 advance	–	not	just	for	years.	Therefore,	our	strategy	builds	on	fundamental	trends.	However,	Europes	 energy	markets	are	undergoing	change,	which	requires	utilities	to	adapt	their	business	models.	This	 change	is	characterised	by:	 	 the	European	Unions	ambitious	goals	to	reduce	greenhouse	gas	emissions,	which	cause		 CO2-intensive	generation	technologies	to	be	increasingly	replaced	by	methods	that	are	more	 gentle	on	the	climate;	 	 a	persistently	substantial	need	for	investment	in	energy	infrastructure,	especially	to	convert	the	 generation	portfolio	to	accommodate	more	renewables	and	the	ensuing	need	to	modernise	and	 expand	network	infrastructure;	 	 the	increasing	need	for	flexible	power	plant	deployment,	triggered	by	the	expansion	of	renewable	 generation	and	its	strongly	fluctuating	electricity	feed-ins;	 	 the	convergence	of	regional	markets	resulting	from	increasing	international	trading	and	the	 expansion	of	cross-border	transmission	capacity;	 	 the	mounting	political	influence	exerted	on	the	supply	structure	and	price	formation	on	energy	 markets	and	the	general	publics	ever	more	frequent	resistance	to	infrastructure	projects	such	as	the	 construction	of	power	plants,	networks	and	CO2	storage	facilities;	and	 	 unexpected	structural	rifts	in	the	markets,	e.g.	the	decoupling	witnessed	since	2009	of	wholesale	 gas	prices	from	those	established	in	oil-indexed	gas	purchasing	agreements.	 Covering all stages of the value chain creates stability. This	challenging	environment	provides	new	 opportunities	for	powerful	and	broadly	positioned	market	players.	We	recognised	the	aforementioned	 challenges	early	on.	The	cornerstone	of	our	current	and	future	success	is	our	strong,	integrated	 business	model,	which	adds	substantial	value.	We	cover	all	of	the	major	stages	of	the	energy	value	 chain.	In	the	field	of	electricity,	we	are	not	simply	a	generator,	but	a	trader,	network	operator		 and	sales	company	as	well.	We	are	also	active	at	all	value-creation	stages	in	the	gas	sector,	from	the	 well	to	the	end	customer.	Thanks	to	this	structure,	we	can	flexibly	offset	market	fluctuations	in	 individual	areas. strategy and struCture 1.1 52strategy and structure RWE Annual Report 2010  Climate protection is the centrepiece of our strategy.	We	can	only	be	successful	in	the	long	run	if	we	 manage	to	provide	affordable,	safe	and	environmentally	friendly	energy.	Lowering	carbon	dioxide	 emissions	is	among	our	prime	strategic	targets.	It	provides	the	direction	for	the	modernisation	and	 expansion	of	our	generation	portfolio.	Furthermore,	by	spending	heavily	on	networks	and	pipelines,	 we	are	making	a	contribution	to	ensuring	the	reliable	supply	of	electricity	and	gas.	Another	pillar	of	 our	strategy	is	the	expansion	of	our	gas	and	oil	production.	In	addition,	we	want	to	give	our	activities	 a	stronger	regional	diversification.	The	following	guidelines	will	determine	our	action	in	the	next	few	 years:	 	 Improving our CO2 emissions balance:	Our	current	new-build	power	plant	programme,	which	is	 in	the	last	third	of	its	implementation	phase,	will	make	a	substantial	contribution	to	reducing		 our	carbon	footprint.	However,	this	will	not	be	the	end	of	the	transformation	of	our	power		 plant	portfolio.	In	the	long	run,	we	are	considering	supplementing	our	generation	base	with	 additional	state-of-the-art	combined-cycle	gas	turbine	power	stations,	as	their	ability	to	rapidly	vary	 their	load	factor	ideally	complements	renewable	energy.	The	decision	to	extend	the	lifetimes	of	 German	nuclear	power	plants	helps	us	cut	down	on	CO2.	Our	medium-term	reduction	target	 orientates	itself	towards	the	average	carbon	emissions	per	megawatt	hour	(MWh)	of	generated	 electricity.	Our	goal	is	to	use	physical	and	financial	measures	to	lower	our	CO2	intensity	to	the	 average	level	of	the	competition	in	our	markets	no	later	than	2020.	Our	assumption	is	that	the	 customary	emission	factor	in	these	markets	will	be	roughly	0.45	metric	tons	of	CO2	per	MWh	in	 2020.	By	comparison,	RWE	emitted	0.73	metric	tons	per	MWh	in	the	financial	year	that	just	ended	 (2009:	0.80	metric	tons	per	MWh).		 	 Value-added growth by expanding our renewable energy business:	RWE	Innogy	wants	to	enlarge	 its	renewable	electricity	generation	base	substantially.	The	aim	is	to	have	4.5	gigawatts	(GW)	under	 construction	or	in	operation	by	2014.	Due	to	reductions	in	capital	expenditure	and	project	delays,	 we	will	not	be	able	to	achieve	this	goal	as	early	as	2012,	which	was	our	original	plan.	The	majority	 of	the	funds	are	earmarked	for	onshore	and	offshore	wind	projects.	We	are	also	investing	in	the	 production	of	electricity	and	heat	from	biomass	and	are	investigating	the	construction	of	new	 hydroelectric	power	plants.	In	addition,	we	are	active	in	the	field	of	solar	thermal	power,	albeit	only	 on	a	small	scale.		 	 Strengthening of our upstream position:	We	want	our	annual	gas	and	oil	production	to	reach	 about	70	million	barrels	of	oil	equivalent	by	2016.	As	a	result,	we	would	produce	more	than	twice	 as	much	gas	and	oil	as	in	the	financial	year	just	ended.	We	had	originally	sought	to	achieve	this	 target	as	early	as	2015,	but	we	are	not	progressing	as	quickly	as	anticipated	at	the	outset,	mainly	 due	to	reductions	in	capital	expenditure	and	delays	in	approval	procedures.		 	 Stronger international diversification:	In	view	of	mounting	location-related	risks,	it	is	becoming	 increasingly	important	to	give	our	company	a	large	regional	footprint.	Over	two	thirds	of	our	 growth	investments	are	already	being	made	abroad.	In	2010,	the	share	of	the	operating	result	 achieved	by	our	activities	outside	Germany	amounted	to	about	a	quarter.	We	aim	to	increase	it	 significantly	over	the	medium	term. strategy and structure53 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  From strategy to implementation: the largest investment programme in RWEs history. A	main	 building	block	of	our	strategy	is	capital	expenditure	on	power	plants	and	networks.	In	the	financial	 year	that	just	ended,	we	commissioned	two	state-of-the-art	gas-fired	power	stations,	an	876	MW	 facility	in	Lingen	(Germany)	and	a	1,650	MW	plant	at	Staythorpe	(UK).	By	the	middle	of	2014,	we	 want	to	have	commissioned	about	12	GW	in	new	capacity,	with	more	than	half	of	this	being	based		 on	CO2-free	and	low-CO2	technologies.	We	largely	finance	our	capital	expenditure	with	the	earnings	 of	our	generation	and	network	activities.	However,	from	2011	onwards,	we	expect	to	experience	 substantial	earnings	shortfalls	due	to	the	introduction	of	the	nuclear	fuel	tax	in	Germany.	Persistently	 low	prices	of	electricity	and	gas	on	the	wholesale	markets	will	also	curtail	our	earnings.	This	forces		 us	to	cut	spending.	We	originally	envisaged	investing	a	total	of	28	billion	in	property,	plant	and	 equipment	from	2010	to	2013.	Now	we	plan	to	achieve	a	target	of	about	25	billion	for	that	period,	 which	equates	to	approximately	18	billion	from	2011	to	2013.	Nevertheless,	our	capital	expenditure	 programme	is	still	by	far	the	biggest	in	RWEs	history. Some 12 billion of the 18 billion in capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment  between 2011 and 2013 is earmarked for growth and replacement investments, of which:  ~28% Other ~44% CO2-free and low-            CO2 technologies ~28% Highly efcient            coal-based generation Hard coal and lignite-red power plants Networks, midstream, gas and oil production and other projects Renewables and gas-red power plants In	addition	to	power	plants	and	networks,	our	investment	activity	also	centres	on	the	expansion	of	 our	gas	and	oil	production.	More	than	3	billion	has	been	set	aside	for	this	for	the	period	from	2011	 to	2013.	Our	investment	in	the	gas	business	is	also	earmarked	for	the	construction	of	new	storage	 and	transmission	pipelines.	One	example	of	this	is	the	Nabucco	pipeline,	which	will	give	European	 customers	access	to	new	gas	sources	in	the	Caspian	region	and	the	Middle	East	via	a	new	route.	We	 are	also	on	course	for	expansion	in	activities	relating	to	the	transport	of	liquefied	natural	gas	(LNG). Above	and	beyond	this,	energy	efficiency	is	becoming	more	important	for	us.	Thanks	to	the	 innovative	products	and	services	of	RWE	Effizienz	GmbH	for	households,	corporate	customers	and	 municipal	facilities,	we	are	setting	standards	in	this	field.	 54strategy and structure RWE Annual Report 2010  Organic	growth	takes	centre	stage	for	us.	However,	this	does	not	mean	that	we	rule	out	minor	 acquisitions	which	complement	our	portfolio.	We	believe	that	Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	 Europe,	including	Turkey,	provide	particular	opportunities.	 We	measure	all	investment	projects	by	whether	they	help	us	achieve	the	aforementioned	goals.		 The	key	financial	yardstick	is	the	internal	rate	of	return	(IRR),	which	must	at	least	match	the	cost		 of	capital,	plus	a	return	premium.	The	latter	reflects	the	risk	profile	of	the	division	and	country	in	 question.	We	increased	this	premium	significantly	in	2010.	As	a	result,	some	projects	no	longer	 achieve	the	required	return	and	will	therefore	be	discontinued.	Besides	saving	funds,	this	frees		 up	room	for	more	attractive	projects. Europe remains our market. The	regional	focus	of	our	activities	is	and	will	remain	Europe.	Among	our	 core	markets	are	Germany,	the	United	Kingdom,	the	Benelux	countries	as	well	as	Central	Eastern	and	 South	Eastern	Europe.	These	markets	are	relatively	stable,	despite	the	heightened	political	risks.	In	 particular,	the	Central	Eastern	European	countries	and	Turkey	distinguish	themselves	through	good	 growth	prospects.	Due	to	the	need	of	these	countries	to	bridge	the	gap	to	the	rest	of	Europe,	their	 energy	consumption	will	rise	more	than	the	European	average.	At	the	same	time,	there	will	be	a	 substantial	need	for	investment	due	to	the	outdated	energy	infrastructure.	The	markets	of	North	 Western	Europe	continue	to	be	attractive	for	us,	although	they	still	harbour	weak	growth	potential	in	 terms	of	electricity	and	gas	consumption.	Energy	utilities	can	set	themselves	apart	in	these	markets	 by	offering	intelligent	solutions	for	increased	climate	protection	and	energy	efficiency	as	well	as	 through	tailor-made	products	and	services.	We	intend	to	establish	the	prerequisites	for	this	on	the	 strength	of	our	record	investment	programme,	thus	further	improving	our	market	share	in	the	face	of	 increasingly	fierce	competition. Norway  Poland  Algeria  Libya  Egypt  Germany  Mauritania        0.25 / 0.50   0.50 / 0.25  3.00 / 2.50  3.00 / 2.00 RWE core markets   with established market position Growth markets   under observation Additional markets especially  for renewables Additional markets especially  for upstream gas & oil forecast average growth   of electricity/gas consumption   in % p.a. (2010  2020) x /y strategy and structure55 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  As	illustrated	by	the	chart	on	page	55,	our	activities	go	beyond	our	core	regions,	particularly	in	our	 upstream	business.	We	produce	gas	and	oil	not	only	in	Europe,	but	also	in	North	Africa.	In	addition,	 we	launched	an	upstream	project	in	the	Caspian	region	and	are	looking	into	projects	in	other	areas	 around	the	world.	We	have	also	widened	our	regional	focus	in	the	expansion	of	renewable	energy.	In	 this	respect,	our	growth	strategy	includes	countries	such	as	France,	Spain	and	Italy.	It	is	natural	for	 certain	activities	to	take	place	outside	our	core	markets,	for	instance	climate	protection	measures	 within	the	scope	of	the	Kyoto	Clean	Development	Mechanism	and	Joint	Implementation	schemes.	 The	same	applies	to	our	LNG	business.	In	addition,	energy	trading	is	becoming	increasingly	global.	 This	is	a	growing	field	of	activity	for	us	in	Asia	and	North	America.	 In	our	core	markets,	we	command	a	leading	position	in	terms	of	sales	volume	with	at	least	one	of	our	 main	products,	namely	electricity	and	gas.	This	is	also	what	we	strive	for	when	entering	new	markets. Efficient structure and business management.	Our	organisation	is	the	platform	with	which	we	 achieve	our	goals,	so	it	must	adapt	itself	to	new	market	conditions	and	strategic	guidelines.		 We	constantly	work	on	making	our	Groups	structure	more	efficient.	We	also	set	the	stage	in	some	 important	respects	in	2010.	For	example,	we	pooled	the	German	sales	and	distribution	network	 businesses	in	the	new	RWE	Deutschland	AG	(formerly	RWE	Rheinland	Westfalen	Netz	AG).	Our	 activities	in	Central	Eastern	Europe	and	Turkey	were	also	reorganised.	Our	operations	in	that	region	 now	report	to	the	newly	established	RWE	East,	s.r.o.,	headquartered	in	Prague	(Czech	Republic).		 The	aforementioned	reorganisation	measures	entered	into	force	on	1	January	2011.	More	detailed	 information	can	be	found	on	page	69	of	this	report. MarketpositionsoftheRWEGroup intermsofsales Electricity Gas Germany No. 1 No. 3 United Kingdom No. 4 No. 4 Netherlands No. 2 No. 1 Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe     No. 2 in Hungary  No. 3 in slovakia  presence in the czech Republic  No. 6 in poland presence in Turkey  leading position in Hungary   No. 2 in slovakia  No. 1 in the czech Republic  – – TotalEurope No.3 No.6 56strategy and structure RWE Annual Report 2010  Value-oriented growth: our internal control instrument. RWEs	central	control	instrument	is	value	 added.	This	is	how	we	embed	our	goal	of	adding	value	over	the	long	term	in	the	Groups	and	the	 divisions	management	processes.	Value	added	is	the	return	on	capital	employed,	minus	the	cost	of	 capital.	In	addition	to	other	individually	agreed	targets,	this	added	value	is	also	the	yardstick	for	the	 performance-linked	compensation	of	our	executives	and	salaried	staff.	Details	on	RWEs	value	 management	are	described	on	pages	90	et	seq.	and	231	et	seq. strategy and structure57 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  The business cycle picked up again following 2009, the year of the crisis. Germanys economy  expanded by 3.6  %, posting especially strong growth. Signs of recovery can also be seen on the  energy markets. During periods of the year, electricity and gas consumption displayed more  dynamic development than predicted. Energy fuels such as oil and hard coal became much more  expensive. Conversely, wholesale electricity prices have so far failed to reflect this upturn. World economy gets back on track for growth. Based	on	data	currently	available	and	in-house	 estimates,	last	years	global	economic	output	was	4		%	higher	than	in	2009.	The	upswing	was	led	by	 the	emerging	economies	of	China	and	India,	with	both	countries	posting	growth	of	approximately	 10		%.	In	contrast,	the	gain	recorded	by	the	Eurozone	was	relatively	modest	at	1.7		%.	In	this	region,	 the	revitalisation	came	primarily	from	exports,	whereas	the	financial	crisis	faced	by	some	member	 states	and	declining	investments	in	construction	slowed	growth.	Driven	by	industrial	production,	 capacity	utilisation	has	also	risen.	However,	it	still	remains	much	lower	than	before	the	recession.	 In	Germany,	2010	real	gross	domestic	product	(GDP)	was	an	estimated	3.6		%	up	year	on	year.	Our	 main	market	is	thus	among	the	most	dynamic	economies	in	the	Eurozone.	The	basis	for	this	was	 exports,	traditionally	the	engine	of	Germanys	economy,	which	nearly	matched	the	pre-crisis	level.		 A	contribution	to	growth	was	also	made	by	expenditure	on	equipment	and	consumer	spending.	 Growth	rates	experienced	in	the	Netherlands	and	Belgium	were	much	lower.	According	to	our	 estimates,	they	amounted	to	1.7		%	and	2		%,	respectively.	Again,	exports	were	instrumental	in	 achieving	the	upturn.	 In	contrast,	the	UK	economy	is	much	more	dependent	on	domestic	consumption,	which	is	 significantly	affected	by	developments	on	the	real-estate	market.	The	UK	property	market	 experienced	a	crisis	in	2008	and	2009,	which	considerably	eroded	the	assets	of	many	households.		 In	the	interim,	property	prices	have	recovered.	This	and	higher	discretionary	income	were	the	 determinants	of	a	significant	revitalisation	in	consumer	spending,	which	was	still	on	the	decline		 in	2009.	GDP	rose	by	an	estimated	1.4		%	in	2010. In	our	Central	Eastern	European	markets,	Slovakia	and	Poland	posted	the	strongest	growth,	each	 expanding	by	3.7		%.	Slovakia,	which	joined	the	European	Monetary	Union	in	2009,	benefited	from	 the	euros	intermittent	weakness	and	the	ensuing	drop	in	export	prices.	Poland	is	one	of	the	EU	 countries	that	were	least	affected	by	the	recession.	Thanks	to	robust	domestic	demand,	the	countrys	 GDP	even	advanced	in	2009,	the	year	of	the	crisis.	In	2010,	the	Czech	Republic	posted	2.3		%	growth.	 In	Hungary,	measures	taken	to	consolidate	the	state	finances	slowed	economic	activity.	This	is	one	of	 the	reasons	GDP	was	only	up	an	estimated	1.1		%. eConomiC environment 1.2 RWE Annual Report 2010 58economic environment  Low temperature, low wind levels. Whereas	the	economic	trend	is	primarily	reflected	in	demand	for	 energy	among	industrial	enterprises,	residential	energy	consumption	is	significantly	influenced	by	 weather	conditions.	In	our	European	core	markets,	2010	temperatures	were	much	lower	than	a	year	 earlier.	In	Germany,	they	hit	their	lowest	level	since	1996.	The	month	of	December	was	exceptionally	 cold.	Besides	energy	usage,	electricity	supply	is	also	subject	to	weather-related	influences,	especially	 with	respect	to	wind	turbines	and	solar	panels.	In	Germany,	the	United	Kingdom	and	the	Netherlands,	 wind	levels	were	the	weakest	since	2003.	Consequently,	use	of	wind	power	capacity	was	low.	In	 Spain,	however,	wind	levels	were	higher	than	the	long-term	average. Cold weather and strong industrial activity stimulate energy consumption. The	economic	recovery	 and	cold	weather	revitalised	demand	for	energy	in	our	core	markets.	Electricity	usage	increased	 significantly	in	some	cases,	but	was	unable	to	reach	the	level	witnessed	before	the	recession.	In	 Germany,	based	on	available	data,	nearly	4		%	more	electricity	was	used	than	in	2009.	Production	 growth	in	energy-intensive	industries	played	a	major	part	in	this.	Demand	for	electricity	is	also	likely	 to	have	risen	in	the	Netherlands,	if	only	to	a	marginal	extent.	Based	on	current	information,	the	 United	Kingdom	recorded	a	gain	of	1.7		%.	The	growth	rates	we	estimated	for	our	Central	Eastern	 European	markets	are	relatively	high.	Slovakia	leads	the	way	with	5		%,	followed	by	the	Czech	Republic	 and	Poland,	each	with	4		%,	and	Hungary	with	2.7		%.	Developments	in	gas	consumption	were	even	 more	dynamic.	Gas	usage	probably	increased	by	5		%	in	Germany,	7		%	in	the	Czech	Republic,	8		%	in	 Hungary,	and	9		%	in	the	United	Kingdom.	According	to	initial	estimates,	the	Netherlands	recorded	 15		%	growth. Price recovery on crude oil markets. Despite	the	improved	macroeconomic	prospects,	prices	on	fuel	 markets	are	still	far	below	the	level	just	before	the	financial	and	economic	crises.	However,	they	have	 recovered	somewhat	compared	to	2009.	This	holds	true	especially	for	crude	oil	quotations.	A	barrel	of	 Brent	crude	traded	at	an	average	of	US$79,	which	was	much	more	expensive	than	the	previous	year	 (US$62).	Asias	fast-growing	economies	made	a	substantial	contribution	to	this	due	to	their	strong	 demand.	The	price	trend	also	reflected	the	general	expectation	of	a	cyclically-induced	rise	in	crude	oil	 consumption. End-customer gas prices down year on year. As	a	large	share	of	gas	imports	to	Continental	Europe	is	 based	on	long-term	agreements	linked	to	the	price	of	oil,	developments	on	the	oil	market	also	 influence	the	price	of	gas.	However,	this	typically	occurs	with	a	time	lag	of	several	months.	In	addition	 to	the	oil-indexed	supply	contracts,	short-term	trades	of	freely	available	quantities	also	increasingly	 determine	the	situation	on	gas	markets.	Oil	does	not	have	a	direct	impact	on	the	formation	of	prices	 for	these	transactions.	Major	trading	hubs	are	the	National	Balancing	Point	(NBP)	in	the	United	 Kingdom	and	the	Title	Transfer	Facility	(TTF)	in	the	Netherlands.	Since	2009,	prices	on	these	markets	 have	been	far	below	those	in	oil-indexed	contracts.	In	the	meantime,	some	of	these	contracts	have	 been	revised.	Certain	contingents	are	no	longer	indexed	to	oil	and	are	instead	priced	on	the	basis	of	 economic environment59 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  wholesale	spot	prices.	This	was	one	of	the	reasons	why	prices	for	gas	imports	to	Germany	declined	 slightly,	despite	higher	oil	quotations.	 One-year forward prices on the TTF gas wholesale market /MWh (average monthly gures) Forward for delivery in 2011 Forward for delivery in 2010 Forward for delivery in 2009 Trading year: 2008 Trading year: 2009 Trading year: 2010 50 40 30 20 10 0 Source: RWE Supply & Trading. Gas forward price  (TTF, left axis) Gas/oil forward price difference (right axis) Crude oil forward price  (Brent, indexed to TTF, left axis)  31 Dec 08 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 10 5 0 5 10 15 20 30 Jun 09 31 Dec 09 30 Jun 10 31 Dec 10 Crude oil (Brent) and gas (TTF wholesale market) forward prices for 2011 /MWh (average weekly gures)  Source: RWE Supply & Trading. Prices	also	fell	in	the	German	end-customer	business,	by	9		%	for	households	and	by	7		%	for	industrial	 enterprises.	Gas	also	became	much	cheaper	outside	Germany.	In	the	Czech	Republic,	the	 aforementioned	customer	groups	paid	5		%	and	4		%	less,	respectively.	The	drops	amounted	to	7		%	and	 4		%	in	the	United	Kingdom	and	9		%	and	6		%	in	the	Netherlands.	Hungary	witnessed	opposite	 developments.	Gas	bills	for	households	in	that	country	were	marginally	higher,	and	those	for	 industrial	operations	were	up	as	much	as	20		%.	The	situation	in	gas	forward	trading	was	as	follows:	 supply	contracts	for	the	coming	calendar	year	(2011	forward)	were	settled	for	an	average	of	19	per	 MWh	on	the	TTF	wholesale	market.	This	is	1	more	than	what	had	to	be	paid	for	the		 2010	forward	in	2009. 60economic environment RWE Annual Report 2010  Hard coal prices markedly higher than in 2009. In	2010,	prices	of	thermal	coal	on	international	 markets	returned	to	levels	far	above	those	witnessed	during	the	recession.	Similar	to	crude	oil,	 stimulus	was	particularly	provided	by	Asias	high	demand.	A	metric	ton	cost	an	average	of	US$93	 (including	freight	and	insurance)	in	Rotterdam	spot	trading,	31		%	up	on	2009	and	as	much	as	38		%	up	 in	euro	terms.	Sea	freight	rates	are	a	major	component	of	hard	coal	quotations.	The	standard	route	 from	South	Africa	to	Rotterdam	cost	an	average	of	US$12.50	per	metric	ton,	which	was	slightly	less	 than	the	year-earlier	level	(US$13.50).	Demand	for	sea	cargo	has	increased	considerably	as	of	late,	but	 shipping	capacity	has	also	risen.	The	price	of	hard	coal	produced	in	Germany	is	determined	by	the	 German	Federal	Office	of	Economics	and	Export	Control	(BAFA).	The	Office	orientates	itself	towards	 quotations	for	imported	hard	coal.	Therefore,	the	BAFA	price	follows	developments	on	international	 markets,	albeit	with	a	certain	time	lag.	No	average	figure	was	available	for	2010	when	this	report	 went	to	print,	but	experts	estimate	it	to	be	85	per	metric	ton	of	hard	coal	unit.	This	would	be		 6	more	than	in	the	preceding	year. Price stability in CO2 emissions trading. The	reinvigorated	industrial	business	cycle	only	made	a	small	 impression	on	European	trading	of	CO2	emission	allowances	(referred	to	as	EU	Allowances	—	EUAs).	 EUAs	for	2010	were	quoted	at	an	average	of	14.50	per	metric	ton	of	CO2	in	the	year	under	review,	 which	was	slightly	more	than	the	price	paid	for	2009	certificates	a	year	earlier	(13.40).	European	 companies	may	cover	domestic	emissions	up	to	a	predetermined	level	by	submitting	Certified	 Emission	Reductions	(CERs)	obtained	through	projects	within	the	scope	of	the	Clean	Development	 Mechanism	(CDM)	created	by	the	Kyoto	Protocol.	These	are	credits	earned	from	emission-reduction	 measures	taken	in	developing	and	newly	industrialising	countries.	CERs	have	been	quoted	at	1	to		 3	below	the	price	of	EUAs	for	quite	some	time.	Last	year,	certificates	for	2010	traded	at	an	average	 of	12.40.	The	comparable	figure	for	2009	was	11.80. CO2 certicate prices in the European emissions trading system  /metric ton of CO2 (average monthly gures) Trading year: 2008 Trading year:  2009 Trading year:  2010 30 20 10 0 Source: RWE Supply & Trading. EU Allowance (EUA)  for the corresponding trading year Certied Emission Reduction (CER)  for the corresponding trading year economic environment61 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Wholesale electricity spot prices in Germany  /MWh (average monthly gures) Trading year: 2008 Trading year: 2009 Trading year: 2010 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Base load Peak load Source: EEX energy exchange. One-year forward wholesale electricity prices in Germany /MWh (average monthly gures) Trading year: 2008 Trading year: 2009 Trading year: 2010 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Base load Peak load Source: RWE Supply & Trading. Forward for delivery in 2009 Forward for delivery in 2010 Forward for delivery in 2011 Still no upturn in electricity prices. The	rise	in	fuel	prices	was	barely	reflected	in	the	price	of	 electricity.	Only	at	the	end	of	2010	did	quotations	pick	up	slightly.	In	German	spot	trading	on	the	 European	Energy	Exchange	(EEX),	base-load	power	sold	for	an	average	of	44	per	MWh,	while			 peak-load	electricity	was	settled	for	55	per	MWh.	In	2009,	these	figures	amounted	to	39per	MWh	 and	51	per	MWh,	respectively.	In	German	forward	trading,	contracts	for	the	following	calendar	year	 (2011	forward)	averaged	50	for	base-load	power,	which	was	slightly	more	expensive	than	the	2010	 forward	a	year	earlier	(49).	Peak-load	power	actually	became	cheaper,	dropping	in	price	from	70	 per	MWh	to	65	per	MWh.	The	fact	that	electricity	forward	prices	are	persistently	low	despite	higher	 fuel	costs	is	partly	due	to	the	unexpected	significant	expansion	of	renewables	with	photovoltaics	 leading	the	way.	Based	on	information	from	the	German	environment	ministry,	total	installed	solar	 capacity	rose	by	over	7	GW	to	approximately	17	GW.	Solar	panels	largely	feed	electricity	into	the	 system	during	peak	periods.	This	decreased	the	deployment	potential	primarily	of	hard	coal	and	gas- fired	power	stations.	Moreover,	the	rise	in	solar	power	feed-ins	contributed	to	reducing	the	gap	 between	peak-load	and	base-load	quotations. 62economic environment RWE Annual Report 2010  We	sell	forward	nearly	all	of	the	output	of	our	power	plants	in	order	to	reduce	volume	and	price	risks.	 Therefore,	current	electricity	prices	only	had	a	minor	impact	on	our	income	in	the	period	under	 review.	What	is	much	more	decisive	is	the	price	at	which	we	concluded	contracts	for	delivery	in	2010	 in	preceding	years.	Since	some	of	the	sales	were	concluded	during	the	energy	market	boom,	the	 prices	fetched	were	far	above	present	levels.	Our	2010	German	generation	sold	for	an	average	of		 67	per	MWh.	The	corresponding	figure	for	our	2009	production	was	70	per	MWh.	 When	concluding	electricity	forward	sales,	we	usually	procure	fuel	or	secure	the	price	of	fuel	and	CO2	 emission	allowances	required	for	the	generation	at	the	same	time	as	signing	the	supply	agreement.	 First	and	foremost,	this	applies	to	our	hard	coal	and	gas-fired	power	plants.	The	earnings	of	these	 power	stations	are	predominantly	influenced	by	so-called	clean	dark	spreads	(hard	coal)	and	clean	 spark	spreads	(gas).	These	are	calculated	by	deducting	the	cost	of	the	respective	fuel	used	and	of	 emission	allowances	from	the	price	of	electricity.	Since	we	purchased	hard	coal	and	CO2	certificates	 on	the	forward	market	for	2010	at	prices	that	were	lower	than	for	2009,	the	spreads	we	realised	 actually	improved	somewhat.	Conversely,	the	cost	of	fuel	used	by	our	lignite-fired	and	nuclear	power	 plants	is	much	more	stable.	Therefore,	spreads	usually	trend	in	the	same	direction	as	electricity	 prices.	 Changes	in	wholesale	power	prices	generally	affect	the	German	end-customer	business	with	a	time	 lag,	because	sales	companies	buy	electricity	mostly	in	advance.	Their	procurement	costs	for	2010	 were	therefore	still	influenced	by	wholesale	prices	in	preceding	years.	Levies	included	in	power	bills	 in	accordance	with	the	German	Renewable	Energy	Act	(REA)	rose	significantly,	as	increasing	amounts	 of	electricity	are	being	fed	into	the	grid	due	to	the	progressive	expansion	of	wind,	biomass	and	—	 above	all	—	solar	generation	capacity.	Electricity	tariffs	charged	to	households	and	small	commercial	 enterprises	were	an	average	of	about	3		%	higher	than	in	2009.	Prices	paid	by	industrial	companies	 were	up	about	1		%.	The	marked	rise	in	REA	levies	will	make	electricity	more	expensive	in	2011	as	 well.	For	example,	RWE	Vertrieb,	our	largest	German	sales	company,	raised	its	basic	tariff	by	3.6		%	as	 of	1	January	2011,	meaning	it	is	passing	through	only	part	of	the	additional	burden	from	the	REA.	 In	the	UK,	our	second-largest	electricity	market,	developments	were	as	follows:	contracts	in	spot	 trading	cost	an	average	of	41	per	MWh	(48)	for	base-load	power,	4	above	the	level	in	2009.	They	 increased	in	price	from	45	per	MWh	to	47	per	MWh	(55)	for	peak-load	electricity.	The	2011	 forward	was	settled	for	45	per	MWh	(52)	of	base-load	power,	which	was	marginally	more	than	was	 paid	for	the	2010	forward	in	the	year-earlier	period.	In	contrast,	drawing	the	same	comparison,		 peak-load	power	dropped	in	price	from	53	per	MWh	to	51	per	MWh	(59).	 economic environment63 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  One-year forward wholesale electricity prices in the United Kingdom /MWh (average monthly gures) Trading year: 2008 Forward for delivery in 2009 Forward for delivery in 2010 Forward for delivery in 2011 Trading year: 2009 Trading year: 2010 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Base load Peak load Source: RWE Supply & Trading. RWE	sells	forward	most	of	its	UK	electricity	production,	similar	to	the	policy	it	pursues	in	Germany.		 As	our	UK	generation	portfolio	largely	consists	of	hard	coal	and	gas-fired	power	plants,	the	earnings	 trend	was	significantly	influenced	by	realised	clean	dark	spreads	and	clean	spark	spreads.	The	former	 were	much	smaller,	and	the	latter	slightly	bigger	than	in	2009.	The	spreads	on	short-term	spot	 market	transactions	achievable	by	operators	of	hard	coal	and	gas-fired	power	plants	remain	small.	 These	power	plants,	which	are	largely	mid-merit	and	peak-load	facilities,	are	especially	hard	hit	by	the	 fact	that	demand	for	electricity	remains	low	due	to	the	economic	situation.	 All	major	UK	energy	suppliers	lowered	their	electricity	tariffs	for	customers	in	the	last	two	years,	 some	of	them	repeatedly.	Prices	were	on	average	3		%	lower	year	on	year	for	households	and	small	 commercial	enterprises	and	down	more	than	12		%	for	industrial	and	corporate	customers.	However,	 Wholesale electricity spot prices in the United Kingdom  /MWh (average monthly gures) Trading year: 2008 Trading year: 2009 Trading year: 2010 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Base load Peak load Source: RWE Supply & Trading. 64economic environment RWE Annual Report 2010  electricity	became	more	expensive	at	the	end	of	2010.	Slightly	higher	quotations	on	the	wholesale	 market	caused	several	major	utilities	to	raise	their	tariffs	in	the	fourth	quarter.	As	of	4	January	2011,	 RWE	npower	increased	prices	for	residential	customers	by	5.1		%.	 Wholesale	electricity	prices	in	the	Netherlands	displayed	a	development	similar	to	that	in	Germany.	 End-customer	electricity	bills	shrank	by	7		%	for	households	and	nearly	5		%	for	industrial	enterprises.	 Price	adjustments	in	our	Central	Eastern	European	end-customer	markets	varied	greatly.	Residential	 electricity	bills	were	4		%	and	2		%	up	in	Poland	and	Hungary,	whereas	they	were	marginally	down	in	 Slovakia.	On	average,	industrial	customers	had	to	pay	less	than	in	2009:	5		%	in	Poland,	9		%	in	 Slovakia,	and	20		%	in	Hungary. economic environment65 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  The year under review was marked by decisions made in the field of energy policy, which will   have major ramifications. In the autumn, the German government established the cornerstones of  the countrys energy policy through to 2050. Top priority has been given to the expansion of  renewables. The autumn also saw the extension of nuclear power plant lifetimes. However, there is  a substantial trade-off for utilities, in particular due to the introduction of a nuclear fuel tax. The  framework of energy policy in the United Kingdom is also undergoing change. The UK government  plans to take measures designed to accelerate the expansion of nuclear and renewable generation  capacity. Government adopts energy concept for Germany. At	the	end	of	September,	the	German	government	 adopted	a	comprehensive	energy	concept	in	which	it	established	the	guidelines	for	an	overall	 strategy	for	an	environmentally	friendly,	reliable	and	affordable	supply	of	energy	through	to	2050.	 The	governments	aim	is	to	have	the	future	energy	mix	largely	consist	of	renewables.	In	2010,	the	 share	of	gross	electricity	consumption	accounted	for	by	renewable	energy	was	17		%.	According	to	the	 concept,	it	should	amount	to	80		%	by	2050.	The	government	believes	the	use	of	offshore	wind	 turbines	harbours	substantial	potential	and	wants	to	establish	a	5billion	credit	programme	for	the	 first	ten	offshore	wind	farms.	Nuclear	energy	has	been	classified	by	the	government	as	a	bridge	 technology,	so	the	concept	envisages	extending	the	lifetimes	of	German	nuclear	power	plants,	which	 has	now	been	given	a	legal	basis.	Moreover,	the	government	wants	to	pave	the	way	for	carbon	 capture	and	underground	storage	demonstration	projects.	Such	projects	lack	a	legal	framework	in	 Germany,	because	a	corresponding	EU	directive	is	still	to	be	translated	into	national	law.	The	 government	attaches	high	priority	to	the	expansion	of	electricity	networks	and	the	development	of	 electricity	storage	technologies.	The	primary	energy	consumption	of	existing	buildings	is	envisaged	 to	be	reduced	by	80		%	by	2050	through	refurbishment	to	maximise	energy	efficiency.	To	achieve	this	 goal,	the	government	will	build	on	incentives	provided	by	state	subsidies.	Road	traffic	is	also	being	 addressed	by	the	energy	concept.	The	aim	is	to	have	one	million	electric	cars	in	Germany	by	2020	and	 six	million	by	2030.	The	government	expects	that	German	greenhouse	gas	emissions	can	be	lowered	 by	between	80		%	and	95		%	by	2050	compared	to	1990	levels	as	a	result	of	these	and	further	 measures. German Lower House decides to introduce nuclear fuel tax and extend nuclear power plant  lifetimes. On	28	October	2010,	the	German	Lower	House	passed	the	German	Nuclear	Fuel	Tax	Act,	 which	envisages	the	introduction	of	a	tax	for	nuclear	power	plant	operators.	The	tax	amounts	to	 145per	gram	of	fissionable	material.	It	will	be	levied	from	2011	through	to	2016	and	will	be	used	to	 help	restructure	the	state	budget.	The	government	expects	2.3	billion	in	annual	revenues	from	this.	 The	tax	does	not	have	a	notable	impact	on	the	formation	of	prices	on	the	wholesale	market,	and	so	 cannot	be	passed	through	to	electricity	customers.	It	will	probably	curtail	RWEs	operating	result	by	 an	average	of	600	million	to	700	million	per	annum.	The	Nuclear	Fuel	Tax	Act	entered	into	force	 with	effect	from	1	January	2011.	We	reserve	the	right	to	take	legal	action	against	the	new	tax,	as	we	 believe	it	is	questionable	in	terms	of	constitutional	and	European	law. poLitiCaL environment 1.3 RWE Annual Report 2010 66Political environment  Also	on	28	October	2010,	the	German	Lower	House	passed	the	11th	amendment	to	the	German	 Nuclear	Energy	Act,	which	envisages	additional	generation	output	for	nuclear	power	plants,	resulting	 in	lifetime	extensions.	Facilities	commissioned	after	1980	can	continue	to	operate	for	a	maximum	of	 14	years	longer	than	previously	envisaged.	RWEs	Gundremmingen	B	/C	and	Emsland	units	fall	into	 this	category.	The	additional	production	volume	for	older	plants,	including	our	Biblis	A	/B	units,	 corresponds	to	a	lifetime	extension	of	about	eight	years.	On	the	same	day,	additional	safety	 standards	were	established	for	nuclear	power	plants	in	the	12th	amendment	to	the	German	Nuclear	 Energy	Act.	This	will	give	rise	to	investments,	the	sum	of	which	is	still	uncertain.	Both	amendments	 became	effective	in	December.	The	government	expects	that	the	laws	will	not	require	Upper	House	 approval.	However,	the	opposition	and	certain	German	states	are	of	a	different	opinion	and	have	 announced	that	they	will	file	constitutional	suits. In	light	of	the	lifetime	extensions,	operators	of	nuclear	power	plants	will	make	payments	into	a	fund	 that	is	yet	to	be	created.	It	will	be	used	to	promote	measures	taken	to	implement	the	governments	 energy	concept.	A	corresponding	agreement	with	the	government	was	signed	on	10	January	2011.		 It	envisages	that,	from	2017	onwards,	nuclear	power	plant	operators	pay	a	levy	for	all	the	electricity	 they	generate	during	the	lifetime	extensions.	It	has	been	set	at	9	per	MWh,	but	is	subject	to	 adjustment	in	line	with	the	development	of	consumer	prices	and	wholesale	electricity	quotations.	 The	levy	will	decline	if	the	nuclear	fuel	tax	is	increased	or	its	assessment	period	is	extended	beyond	 2016.	The	same	will	apply	if	the	allocated	production	volumes	from	the	lifetime	extensions	are	 changed	to	the	nuclear	power	plant	operators	disadvantage,	or	if	plant	retrofits	or	safety	features	 required	by	the	government	or	agreed	with	the	authorities	result	in	expenses	exceeding	500	million	 per	unit.	From	2011	to	2016,	nuclear	power	plant	operators	will	make		lump-sum	advance	payments	 on	the	levy,	totalling	1.4	billion	for	the	period	as	a	whole.	The	prepayments	do	not	bear	interest	and	 will	be	offset	against	the	levy	for	2017	to	2022	in	equal	instalments. Promotion of solar energy under scrutiny. The	promotion	of	solar	power	has	led	to	an	unexpected	 acceleration	of	the	construction	of	photovoltaic	plants.	Based	on	statements	made	by	the	German	 environment	ministry,	the	installed	capacity	rose	by	more	than	70		%	to	some	17	GW	in	2010.	 According	to	estimates	by	the	German	Energy	and	Water	Association,	solar	panels	account	for		 more	than	half	of	the	subsidies	paid	within	the	scope	of	the	German	Renewable	Energy	Act	(REA)	in	 2011,	although	they	only	produce	a	fifth	of	the	REA	electricity.	The	substantial	growth	in	installed	 capacity	has	led	to	an	increase	in	the	REA	levy	charged	to	electricity	consumers	via	their	power		 bills	from	2.05euro	cents	(2010)	to	3.53	euro	cents	(2011)	per	kilowatt	hour.	This	created		 huge	controversy.	The	government	cut	the	subsidy	rates	for	solar	power	by	roughly	13		%	as	of	 1January2011	and	is	preparing	to	implement	another	reduction	with	effect	from	1	July	2011.	 Furthermore,	it	will	amend	the	REA	fundamentally	as	of	1	January	2012.	 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Political environment67  Special tax for energy companies in Hungary. In	October	2010,	the	Hungarian	parliament	decided	 to	introduce	a	special	tax	for	companies	in	the	energy,	telecommunications	and	retail	sectors,	which	 will	remain	in	effect	until	2012.	It	is	estimated	to	total	600	million	per	annum.	The	tax	is	intended	to	 reduce	the	state	deficit.	The	first	payment	was	due	in	2010,	based	on	2009	revenues.	Power	utilities	 have	to	pay	1.05		%	of	their	net	revenues.	The	law	stipulates	that	the	tax	applies	not	just	to	external	 revenue,	but	also	to	all	intragroup	revenue.	In	the	year	under	review,	the	negative	impact	on	the	 earnings	of	our	Hungarian	subsidiaries	totalled	25	million.	The	tax	is	legally	debatable	and	is	being	 reviewed	by	the	EU	Commission. United Kingdom: government plans legislative package for increased climate protection. The	UKs	 general	elections	in	May	2010	resulted	in	a	conservative	/liberal	democrat	coalition.	The	two	 governing	parties	intend	to	launch	a	series	of	legislative	initiatives	designed	to	improve	the	 regulatory	framework	conditions	for	climate-friendly	electricity	generation.	The	plan	includes	taxing	 fossil	fuels	depending	on	their	carbon	intensity.	This	would	give	the	generation	of	electricity	from	 gas,	nuclear	fuel	and	renewables	another	cost	advantage	over	hard	coal,	going	above	and	beyond	 emissions	trading.	In	addition,	a	new	tariff	scheme	for	electricity	from	nuclear	reactors	and	 renewables	is	to	provide	greater	planning	certainty	for	investors.	Two	new	models	are	being	 evaluated:	a	fixed	surcharge	on	the	wholesale	price	on	the	one	hand	and	a	guaranteed	sales	price	on	 the	other.	Furthermore,	new	power	stations	would	only	be	approved	if	their	carbon	emissions	do	not	 exceed	a	cap	that	is	yet	to	be	determined.	The	government	wants	to	make	the	upper	limit	so	low	that	 only	those	power	plants	that	can	at	least	partially	capture	and	store	carbon	dioxide	emissions	can	be	 built.	In	addition,	the	government	is	weighing	up	the	introduction	of	a	capacity	market.	This	would	 mean	that	power	plant	operators	would	be	compensated	for	keeping	flexible	back-up	capacity	in	 reserve,	even	when	it	is	not	generating	electricity.	There	is	a	mounting	need	for	such	back-up	 capacity,	as	the	expansion	of	renewables	is	causing	the	amount	of	intermittent	generation		 on	the	system	to	increase.	In	December	2010,	the	UK	government	published	a	position	paper	for	 reforming	the	electricity	market.	The	general	public,	associations	and	companies	have	until	March	 2011	to	comment	on	the	reform	proposals.	On	conclusion	of	the	consultation,	the	government	 intends	to	prepare	a	bill.	The	reforms	are	to	take	effect	no	later	than	2014. RWE Annual Report 2010 68Political environment  Fiscal 2010 was not only dominated by major political decisions. We also made significant  progress in modernising our generation portfolio: over the course of the year, we commissioned  two cutting-edge gas-fired power stations. We also passed some important milestones in the  expansion of our renewable generation base. And, in the upstream business, we paved the way for  the biggest investment in RWE Deas history. German Lower House decides to introduce nuclear fuel tax and extend nuclear power plant  lifetimes. On	28	October	2010	the	German	Lower	House	passed	the	German	Nuclear	Fuel	Tax	Act.	 The	Act	envisages	the	introduction	of	a	tax	for	nuclear	power	plant	operators.	Also	on	28	October,		 the	members	of	the	Lower	House	passed	the	11th	amendment	to	the	German	Nuclear	Energy	Act.	It	 enables	the	lifetimes	of	nuclear	power	stations	to	be	prolonged	by	an	average	of	twelve	years.	The	 acts	entered	into	force	on	1	January	2011	and	14	December	2010,	respectively.	In	light	of	the	lifetime	 extensions,	operators	of	nuclear	power	plants	will	make	payments	into	a	newly	created	fund,	which	 will	be	used	to	promote	measures	taken	to	implement	the	governments	energy	concept.	The	details	 have	been	set	out	in	an	agreement	between	the	utilities	and	the	Federal	Republic	of	Germany,	which	 was	signed	on	10	January	2011.	We	have	reported	on	the	subject	in	detail	on	pages	66	et	seq. RWE purchases electricity contingent from the Stade nuclear power plant.	In	the	run-up	to	the	 11thamendment	to	the	Nuclear	Energy	Act,	we	had	already	established	the	possibility	of	slightly	 extending	the	operation	of	the	Biblis	A	nuclear	power	station.	In	May,	RWE	Power	acquired	the	 generation	allotment	of	the	decommissioned	Stade	nuclear	power	plant	from	E.ON	Kernkraft	GmbH.	 The	facility	was	online	from	1972	to	2003.	The	transferred	allotment	of	4.8	billion	kilowatt	hours	 allows	us	to	run	the	1,167	megawatt	Biblis	A	unit	at	full	load	for	about	six	months	longer. Pooling of activities in Germany and Eastern Europe.	We	have	progressed	in	creating	a	more	efficient	 Group	structure	since	2007.	In	September,	the	Executive	Board	adopted	a	number	of	reorganisation	 measures,	which	took	effect	on	1	January	2011.	The	German	sales	and	distribution	network	 businesses	were	incorporated	into	RWE	Rheinland	Westfalen	Netz	AG.	Operating	under	the	new	name	 RWE	Deutschland	AG	since	the	beginning	of	2011,	this	is	the	company	to	which	RWE	Vertrieb	 (including	eprimo,	RWEEnergiedienstleistungen	and	RWE	Aqua),	the	regional	companies,	RWE	 Effizienz,	and	the	investments	previously	held	by	RWE	Rheinland	Westfalen	Netz	have	been	assigned.	 We	also	realigned	our	Eastern	European	activities.	From	now	on	local	operations	will	be	overseen	by	 the	new	company	RWE	East,	s.r.o.,	headquartered	in	Prague,	Czech	Republic.	This	does	not	apply	to	 the	Czech	long-distance	gas	pipeline	business,	which	is	directly	assigned	to	the	area	of	responsibility	 of	the	President	and	CEO	of	RWE	AG	to	comply	with	regulatory	requirements. major events 1.4 Major events69 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Holding company Executive Board reduced to five mandates.	Dr.	Ulrich	Jobs,	the	RWE	AG	 Executive	Board	member	who	was	in	charge	of	the	operational	management	of	our	international	 business,		retired	by	mutual	agreement	with	effect	from	30	September	2010.	This	reduced	the		 size	of	the		holding	companys	Executive	Board,	which	went	hand	in	hand	with	a	redefinition	of	the	 Boards	areas	of	responsibility.	Dr.	Leonhard	Birnbaum	is	now	in	charge	of	managing	all	of		 the	Groups	commodity	positions	as	Chief	Commercial	Officer.	As	a	result,	RWE	Supply	&	Trading		 has	been	assigned	to	him,	along	with	the	following	internationally	active	companies:	RWE	Innogy,	 RWE	Dea	and	RWETechnology.	As	Chief	Operating	Officer,	Dr.	Rolf	Martin	Schmitz	now	oversees	the	 nationally	orientated	companies,	i.e.	RWE	Deutschland	and	RWE	Power,	along	with	RWEs	activities	 in	the	Netherlands	and	Belgium,	the	United	Kingdom,	and	Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe. RWE divests German long-distance gas network.	In	December,	we	signed	an	agreement	to	sell	 	Thyssengas	GmbH.	The	buyers	of	the	company,	in	which	our	German	gas	network	is	subsumed,	are	 	infrastructure	funds	managed	by	Australian	financial	services	provider	Macquarie.	In	the	meantime,	all	 of	the	required	approvals	have	been	obtained.	Thyssengas	transmits	nearly	10	billion	cubic	metres	of	 natural	gas	over	a	long-distance	network	with	an	aggregate	length	of	approximately	4,100	kilometres.	 We	had	made	a	commitment	to	the	EU	Commission	to	sell	this	activity. New gas-fired power plants commence production in Germany and the UK.	We	completed	 construction	on	the	combined-cycle	gas	turbine	(CCGT)	power	stations	in	Lingen	and	at	Staythorpe	in	 fiscal	2010.	Both	facilities	are	online.	The	dual-unit	Lingen	plant	has	an	installed	capacity	of	876	MW	 and	was	commissioned	on	14	April	in	the	presence	of	Germanys	current	Federal	President,	Christian	 Wulff.	We	spent	0.5	billion	in	capital	on	the	state-of-the-art	power	station,	which	has	an	efficiency		 of	nearly	60		%.	The	four	units	at	Staythorpe	(Nottinghamshire)	have	an	aggregate	installed	capacity		 of	1,650	MW	and	commenced	production	between	August	and	November.	They	have	an	efficiency		 of	58		%,	also	ranking	them	at	the	highest	level.	The	capex	budget	for	this	facility	amounted	to	 0.8billion. RWE decides to build a gas-fired power plant in Turkey.	In	April	2010,	we	decided	to	invest	in	a	 combined-cycle	gas	turbine	(CCGT)	power	plant	in	Denizli	(west	Turkey).	Construction	work	began	 shortly	afterwards.	The	power	station	will	have	an	installed	capacity	of	775	MW	and	is	scheduled	to	 go	online	in	2013.	It	will	be	owned	and	operated	by	a	joint	venture	between	RWE	(70		%)	and	the	 Turkish	energy	company	Turcas	(30		%).	The	investment	budget	is	expected	to	total	around	0.5	billion. 70Major events RWE Annual Report 2010  Expansion of the upstream position in Egypt.	RWE	Dea	has	paved	the	way	for	the	single-largest	 investment	in	its	history.	In	the	next	two	decades,	our	upstream	subsidiary	will	spend	US$3.6	billion	 developing	gas	fields	in	Egypts	North	Alexandria	and	West	Mediterranean	Deep	Water	concessions.	In	 July,	we	signed	the	respective	agreements	with	the	Egyptian	oil	minister,	the	Egyptian	state-owned	 company	EGPC	and	BP.	The	contracts	had	been	pre-approved	by	the	Egyptian	parliament.	Production	 is	scheduled	to	begin	by	the	end	of	2014.	The	field	development	budget	totals	about	US$9	billion,	of	 which	roughly	40		%	is	allocable	to	us	and	some	60		%	to	our	partner	BP,	who	will	assume	the	operating	 lead.	The	natural	gas	reserves	from	the	concessions	to	which	we	will	have	access	amount	to	more	than	 50	billion	cubic	metres.	The	North	Alexandria	and	West	Mediterranean	Deep	Water	concessions	are	 located	in	the	western	Nile	delta,	roughly	40	kilometres	off	the	Egyptian	coast.	The	water	in	the	area	 in	which	field	development	is	beginning	is	between	300	and	800	metres	deep.	Following	a	start-up	 phase,	RWEDeas	share	of	annual	production	is	envisaged	to	total	over	3	billion	cubic	metres	of	gas.	 Against	this	backdrop,	we	are	monitoring	Egypts	current	political	situation	very	closely. Major progress in the expansion of renewable generation capacity.	RWE	Innogy	stayed	on	course	for	 growth	in	the	field	of	renewable	energy	in	the	year	under	review.	By	the	end	of	the	year,	the	company	 had	a	renewable	generation	portfolio	of	2.3	gigawatts	(GW),	and	the	Groups	total	was	2.9	GW.	 Another	1.1	GW	is	under	construction.	In	addition,	we	are	developing	projects	with	a	combined	 installed	capacity	of	18.2	GW,	with	wind	farms	as	the	focal	point.	Furthermore,	we	are	investing	in	 electricity	and	heat	generation	from	biomass	and	–	on	a	smaller	scale	–	in	solar	thermal	power. Above	all,	we	passed	significant	milestones	in	the	expansion	of	offshore	wind	power	generation: 	 Within	the	scope	of	a	tender	process,	in	January	2010,	the	UK	government	granted	us	permission	 to	develop	the	Atlantic	Array	and	Dogger	Bank	offshore	wind	projects.	We	will	initially		develop	the	 Atlantic	Array	project	alone,	which	will	have	up	to	1.5	GW	in	generation	capacity.	For	Dogger	Bank,	 however,	we	placed	the	winning	bid	as	part	of	a	consortium	called	Forewind,	in	which	RWE	 Innogy	holds	a	25		%	stake.	Wind	turbines	with	a	total	installed	capacity	of	9	GW	are	to	be	built	in	 this	area.	 	 In	2010,	RWE	Innogy	fired	the	starting	shot	for	the	construction	of	our	first	German	offshore	wind	 farm.	Measures	to	prepare	for	construction	are	underway,	and	the	first	foundations	are	scheduled	to	 be	erected	by	the	end	of	2011.	The	wind	farm,	called	Nordsee	Ost,	is	located	some	35kilometres	 north	of	the	Isle	of	Helgoland	and	is	intended	to	have	over	48	turbines	with	a	combined	installed	 capacity	of	295	MW.	We	plan	to	complete	the	project	in	2013.	Associated	capital	spending	is	 estimated	at	1billion.	 Major events71 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  	 In	November	2010,	RWE	Innogy	and	the	partner	companies	of	the	C-Power	consortium	took	the	 	decision	to	expand	the	Belgian	Thornton	Bank	offshore	wind	farm.	A	total	of	30	MW	in		capacity	has	 been	installed	so	far.	Another	295	MW	will	be	added	by	2013.	All	of	the	required	approvals	have	 been	obtained.	Related	capital	expenditure	totals	1.3	billion.	RWE	Innogy	holds	a	26.7		%	stake	in	 the	project. RWE	Innogy	also	made	progress	in	onshore	wind	power	generation.	We	commissioned	two	new	wind	 farms	in	Italy:	San	Basilio	(25	MW)	and	Ururi	(26	MW).	We	developed	and	built	both	of	these	projects	 with	our	Italian	partner	Fri-El	Green	Power.	Two	new	RWE	Innogy	wind	farms	went	online	in	Poland	as	 well:	one	in	Piecki	(32	MW)	and	the	other	in	Tychowo	(35	MW).	Furthermore,	installations	in	France	 and	Scotland	also	began	production. RWE	Innogy	also	successfully	continued	to	expand	in	the	field	of	electricity	and	heat	generation	from	 biomass.	In	March	2010,	the	company	started	to	build	a	large-scale	wood	pelletising	plant	in	the	US	 state	of	Georgia.	The	factory	will	have	an	annual	production	of	750,000	metric	tons	and	will	be	one	of	 the	biggest	and	most	modern	of	its	type	in	the	world.	The	pellets	will	be	used	in	pure	biomass	power	 plants	as	well	as	for	the	co-firing	of	coal	and	biomass.	The	factory	is	due	to	begin	operation	in	2011,	 with	a	total	investment	of	120	million. New partnerships for the expansion of renewable energy.	In	the	financial	year	that	just	ended,	 RWEInnogy	entered	into	two	partnerships	which	are	conducting	renewable	energy	projects.	In	April	 2010,	the	Green	GECCO	joint	venture	was	established	with	26	municipal	and	regional	utilities,	with	 RWE	Innogy	owning	a	51		%	stake.	By	2020,	the	new	company	intends	to	have	invested	about	1	 billion	in	the	generation	of	electricity	and	heat	from	renewables,	both	within	and	outside	Germany.	 Another	partnership	followed	in	June	2010:	RWEInnogy	set	up	a	joint	venture	with	the	Munich	 municipal	utility	(Stadtwerke	Mnchen)	and	Siemens	to	build	and	operate	the	Gwynt	y	Mr	offshore	 wind	farm	in	the	UK.	We	own	60		%	of	the	project,	with	Stadtwerke	Mnchen	and	Siemens	holding	 stakes	of	30		%	and	10		%,	respectively.	The	investment	in	Gwynt	y	Mr	exceeds	2	billion,	including	the	 grid	connection	to	the	coast.	The	wind	farm	will	have	160	turbines,	an	installed	capacity	of	576	MW	 and	will	be	erected	off	the	coast	of	North	Wales.	Siemens	will	supply,	install	and	maintain	the	turbines	 and	has	also	been	commissioned	to	handle	the	grid	connection. RWE issues hybrid bond with record volume.	In	September	2010,	we	issued	a	hybrid	bond	with	 a	volume	of	1.75	billion.	This	was	the	largest	issuance	of	a	security	of	this	type	ever	placed	by	an	 industrial	enterprise	in	Europe.	It	drew	keen	interest	from	investors.	Further	information	on	the	hybrid	 bond	can	be	found	on	pages	102	and	195. 72Major events RWE Annual Report 2010  Major events after the period under review: Exit from the Romanian nuclear energy project.	In	January	2011,	RWE,	GDF	Suez	(France)	and	 Iberdrola	(Spain)	announced	their	exit	from	the	ongoing	Cernadova	nuclear	power	plant	project	in	 Romania.	Two	new	units,	each	with	an	installed	capacity	of	720	MW,	are	to	be	built	at	the	site.	The	 project	is	spearheaded	by	a	joint	venture,	in	which	state-owned	SN	Nuclearelectrica	owns	a	majority	 stake	and	further	European	utilities	hold	interests.	RWE	had	a	stake	of	9.15		%.	Our	withdrawal	will	not	 have	a	material	financial	impact	on	us.	The	reasons	for	our	decision	are	economic	and	market-induced	 uncertainties,	which	are	primarily	caused	by	the	after-effects	of	the	financial	crisis. RWE divests minority interest in coal-fired power plant in Rostock.	In	February	2011,	we	sold	our	 24.6		%	interest	in	a	hard	coal-fired	power	station	in	Rostock,	Germany,	to	RheinEnergie	AG.	In	addition,	 RheinEnergie	is	also	acquiring	Vattenfalls	25		%	stake.	The	remaining	50.4		%	is	still	owned	by	EnBW.	 The	power	station	has	an	electricity	generation	capacity	of	553	MW	and	supplies	district	heat	to	the	 grid	of	the	Rostock	municipal	utility	(Stadtwerke	Rostock). Major events73 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Commentary on the segment structure.	This	report	is	based	on	the	segment	structure	we	introduced	 in	the	2009	financial	statements.	The	RWE	Group	is	divided	into	seven	divisions	based	on	national	 and	functional	criteria.	We	have	made	some	adjustments	with	respect	to	the	assignment	of	activities	 among	the	divisions,	compared	to	2009.	These	predominantly	relate	to	parts	of	the	business	of	the	 Dutch	energy	utility	Essent,	which	was	acquired	at	the	end	of	September	2009.	The	following	is	an	 overview	of	the	divisions. 	 Germany:	This	division	consists	of	the	Power	Generation	and	Sales	and	Distribution	Networks	 Business	Areas.	The	first	one	includes	RWE	Powers	activities	and	the	second	one	encompasses	 RWE	Rheinland	Westfalen	Netz	AG,	which	has	been	renamed	RWE	Deutschland	AG,	including	its	 investments;	RWE	Vertrieb	(including	eprimo,	RWE	Energiedienstleistungen	and	RWE	Aqua);	 RWEEffizienz	and	the	German	regional	utilities.	The	latter	operate	their	own	electricity	generation	 facilities	to	a	small	extent,	as	well	as	managing	the	network	and	end-customer	operations.	The	 business	area	also	includes	some	non-German	activities:	our	minority	interests	in	Austrian-based	 KELAG	and	Luxembourg-based	Enovos	as	well	as	our	water	operations	in	Zagreb,	Croatia,	which	are	 run	by	RWE	Aqua.	We	assigned	Essents	German	gas	storage	activities	to	the	Sales	and	Distribution	 Networks	Business	Area	with	effect	from	1	April	2010.	 	 Netherlands	/Belgium:	This	is	the	division	under	which	we	report	on	Essent,	which	was	 consolidated	for	the	first	time	as	of	30	September	2009.	However,	in	addition	to	the	 aforementioned	reassignment,	we	made	the	following	adjustments:	in	2010,	we	started	disclosing	 Essents	wind	power	generation	under	the	Renewables	Segment	and	the	trading	business	 (including	key	account	activities)	under	the	Trading	/Gas	Midstream	Segment.	To	ensure	 transparency,	we	state	the	results	from	these	two	Essent	activities	as	a	separate	item.	Our	former	 Dutch	energy	sales	activities	(RWE	Energy	Nederland)	were	transferred	to	Essent	with	effect	from	 1October	2009.	It	has	been	assigned	to	the	Other,	consolidation	line	for	the	first	nine	months	of	 2009.	Furthermore,	the	power	plant	project	in	Eemshaven	initiated	by	RWE	Power	was	transferred	 to	Essent	in	the	third	quarter	of	2010.	We	are	building	a	hard	coal-fired	twin	unit	with		 a	net	installed	capacity	of	1,560	MW	at	the	site	in	the	province	of	Groningen.		 	 United	Kingdom:	RWE	npower	is	presented	in	this	item.	It	encompasses	our	UK	generation	and	 supply	businesses	with	the	exception	of	electricity	production	from	renewables,	which	is	overseen	 by	RWE	Innogy.		 	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe:	This	division	covers	our	companies	in	Poland,	Hungary,	 the	Czech	Republic	and	Slovakia.	We	recently	began	stating	our	Turkish	operations	as	part	of	this	 division	as	well.	We	therefore	amended	the	divisions	name	(formerly	Central	and	Eastern	Europe).	 In	Poland,	we	focus	on	electricity	supply	and	the	power	distribution	network.	In	Hungary,	we	also	 have	a	lignite-based	electricity	generation	business,	which	is	managed	by	our	subsidiary	Mtra.	Via	 minority	interests,	we	are	also	active	in	the	gas	sector	and	water	supply	business	in	Hungary.		Our	 notes on reporting 1.5 74notes on reporting RWE Annual Report 2010  Czech	activities	concentrate	on	the	supply,	distribution,	supraregional	transmission,	transit	and	 storage	of	gas.	In	Slovakia,	we	are	active	in	the	power	network	and	electricity	end-customer	 businesses	through	our	minority	interest	in	VSE	and	in	the	gas	supply	sector	via	RWE	Gas	 Slovensko.	In	Turkey,	we	are	going	to	build	a	gas-fired	power	station	with	a	partner,	which	is	 scheduled	to	begin	commercial	operation	in	2013.	 	 Renewables:	This	division	comprises	all	of	the	activities	of	RWE	Innogy,	which	specialises	in	 electricity	and	heat	generation	from	renewables.	As	mentioned	earlier,	we	started	reporting	 Essents	wind	power	generation	under	this	division	in	2010.	 	 Upstream	Gas	&	Oil:	This	segment	consists	of	RWE	Deas	business.	The	company	produces	gas	and	 oil,	focusing	on	Europe	and	North	Africa.	 	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream:	This	division	encompasses	energy	trading,	gas	midstream	activities,	and	 sales	to	our	major	German	industrial	and	corporate	customers.	Since	1	January	2010,	Essents	 energy	trading	and	key	account	operations	have	also	been	subsumed	under	this	division.	 The	Other,	consolidation	item	covers	our	electricity	transmission	system	operator,	Amprion;	the	 Group	holding	company,	RWE	AG;	our	internal	service	providers,	namely	RWE	Service,	RWE	IT	and	 RWE	Consulting;	as	well	as	RWE	Technology,	which	was	established	with	effect	from	1	January	2010.	 It	also	includes	Thyssengas,	the	assets	and	liabilities	of	which	are	classified	as	held	for	sale	on	the	 balance	sheet. notes on reporting75 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  RWE stayed on course for success in 2010. The operating result was the highest in the companys  history. Rising by 8  % compared to 2009, it exceeded our expectations. Recurrent net income,  which was up 6  %, also surpassed our forecast. Once again, our German electricity generation was  the driver of our success. In addition, we benefited from the inclusion of the Dutch utility Essent,  which we acquired in 2009, in our figures on a full-year basis for the first time. Electricity generation up 20  %.	In	the	financial	year	that	just	came	to	a	close,	the	RWE	Group	 produced	225.3	billion	kilowatt	hours	(kWh)	of	electricity,	20		%	more	than	in	2009.	In-house	 generation	and	power	purchases	combined	for	329.7	billion	kWh.	This	was	10		%	more	than	in	fiscal	 2009.	In	the	year	under	review,	32		%	of	electricity	generation	was	from	lignite,	25		%	from	hard	coal,	 20		%	nuclear,	and	19		%	gas.	The	share	of	renewable	energy	amounted	to	4		%. 	 Germany:	The	Germany	Division	produced	165.1	billion	kWh	of	electricity.	Relative	to	the	Group,	 this	corresponds	to	a	share	of	73		%.	In	addition	to	RWE	Powers	German	generation,	this	figure	 includes	small	amounts	of	electricity	produced	by	regional	companies.	It	also	encompasses	 electricity	generated	by	power	plants	not	owned	by	RWE	that	we	can	deploy	at	our	discretion	on	 the	basis	of	long-term	agreements.	These	are	primarily	hard	coal	units.	Compared	to	2009,	 generation	by	the	Germany	Division	was	up	13		%,	mostly	due	to	the	increased	availability	of	the	 Biblis	nuclear	power	plant.	In	addition,	our	contractually	secured	hard	coal-fired	power	stations	 Business performanCe 1.6 Electricityproduction bydivision Germany Netherlands /  Belgium United Kingdom central Eastern   and south Eastern  Europe Renewables RWE Group Billion kWh 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 In-house generation 165.11 146.01 14.3 4.5 34.3 26.7 5.7 5.7 5.9 4.3 225.3 187.2 Lignite 65.4 65.3 – – – – 5.6 5.6 – – 71.0 70.9 Hard coal 39.0 31.8 5.7 1.6 10.4 10.7 – – 0.1 – 55.2 44.1 Nuclear 45.2 33.9 – – – – – – – – 45.2 33.9 Gas 11.9 11.5 6.8 2.1 23.8 15.8 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 42.8 29.7 Renewable energy 1.5 1.6 1.8 0.8 – – – – 5.6 4.1 8.9 6.5 Pumped storage,   oil, other 2.1 1.9 – – 0.1 0.2 – – – – 2.2 2.1 Electricity purchased  from third parties 27.2 33.9 8.62 1.5 18.02 25.92 20.52 20.32 0.1 0.1 104.43 112.83 Total 192.3 179.9 22.9 6.0 52.3 52.6 26.2 26.0 6.0 4.4 329.7 300.0 1 Including electricity procured from power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements.     In fiscal 2010, it amounted to 25.6billion kWh, of which 23.4 billion kWh were generated from hard coal. 2  Electricity stated was fully or partially purchased through our trading business. 3 Including purchases by RWE Supply & Trading and companies subsumed under Other, consolidation (mainly Amprion). 76business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  were	also	used	much	more	than	in	2009,	as	a	result	of	the	improved	market	conditions	for	these	 facilities.	The	commissioning	of	our	new	876	MW	combined-cycle	gas	turbine	power	plant	in	Lingen	 also	had	a	positive	impact.	 	 Netherlands	/Belgium:	Essents	electricity	production	totalled	14.3	billion	kWh.	As	the	Dutch	 energy	utility	was	consolidated	on	a	twelve-month	basis	for	the	first	time,	the	preceding	years	 figure	(4.5	billion	kWh)	was	significantly	surpassed.	We	started	consolidating	Essent	as	of	 30September	2009.	Therefore,	we	only	disclosed	generation	for	the	fourth	quarter	of	2009.	 	 United	Kingdom:	The	amount	of	electricity	generated	by	RWE	npower	rose	by	28		%	to	 34.3billionkWh.	Following	maintenance	work	performed	in	the	preceding	year,	our	gas-fired	 power	plant	at	Didcot	ran	much	more	in	2010.	Furthermore,	the	new	1,650	MW	combined-cycle	 gas	turbine	power	station	at	Staythorpe	went	online	in	the	second	half	of	the	year.	Conversely,	 capacity	utilisation	at	our	hard	coal-fired	power	plants	experienced	a	marginal	market-induced	 decrease	compared	to	2009.	 	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe:	At	5.7	billion	kWh,	production	by	this	division	was	 unchanged.	It	primarily	stems	from	the	Hungarian	lignite-based	power	producer	Mtra.	 	 Renewables:	The	division	generated	5.9	billion	kWh	of	electricity,	nearly	all	of	which	came	from	 renewable	sources.	Compared	to	2009,	this	represents	an	increase	of	37		%,	which	is	primarily	due	 to	the	fact	that	we	started	stating	production	from	Essents	wind	turbines	in	this	division	in	2010.	 The	inclusion	of	Danta	de	Energas	in	our	figures	on	a	full-year	basis	for	the	first	time	also	had	a	 positive	effect.	In	May	2009,	we	had	increased	our	stake	in	the	Spanish	wind	farm	operator	from	 49.33		%	to	98.65		%.	Organic	growth	also	contributed	to	the	rise	in	generation.	For	instance,	the	 Rhyl	Flats	offshore	wind	farm	in	the	UK,	which	has	an	aggregate	installed	capacity	of	90	MW,	went	 online	in	December	2009.	 In	addition	to	our	in-house	generation,	we	procure	electricity	from	external	suppliers.	These	purchases	 totalled	104.4	billion	kWh	(2009:	112.8	billion	kWh).	This	included	electricity	fed	into	RWEs	network	 by	third	parties,	in	accordance	with	the	German	Renewable	Energy	Act	(REA). Among Europes leading electricity generators, with over 52 gigawatts in power plant capacity.	 At	the	end	of	the	2010	financial	year,	the	RWE	Group	had	an	installed	capacity	of	52.2	GW.	We	rank	 fifth	among	Europes	energy	utilities.	These	figures	include	the	contractually	secured	capacities	 mentioned	earlier	that	are	not	owned	by	RWE.	Our	electricity	generation	capacity	increased	by	 2.6GW	compared	to	2009.	Contributing	to	this,	among	other	things,	was	the	commissioning	of	our	 new	gas-fired	power	stations	in	Lingen	and	at	Staythorpe.	Hard	coal	accounts	for	the	biggest	share	of	 our	installed	capacity	at	29		%	(preceding	year:	31		%),	followed	by	gas	at	22		%	(18		%),	lignite	at	21		%	 (22		%),	and	nuclear	power	at	12		%	(13		%).	Renewables	have	a	share	of	6		%	(5		%).	The	Germany	Division	 accounts	for	65		%	of	our	power	plant	capacity,	with	the	United	Kingdom	and	Netherlands	/Belgium	 Divisions	making	up	23		%	and	6		%,	respectively. business performance77 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Specific CO2 emissions down 8  %.	In	fiscal	2010,	our	electricity	generation	operations	emitted	 164.9million	metric	tons	of	carbon	dioxide.	RWE-owned	power	plants	accounted	for	142.7	million	 metric	tons,	and	the	remaining	22.2	million	metric	tons	came	from	contractually	secured	capacity.	Our	 emissions	were	15.8	million	metric	tons,	or	11		%,	higher	year	on	year.	This	is	a	consequence	of	the	 marked	rise	in	electricity	generation	by	hard	coal	and	gas-fired	power	plants,	to	which	the	inclusion	of	 Essent	on	a	twelve-month	basis	for	the	first	time	contributed.	By	contrast,	our	specific	emission	 factor,	reflecting	the	carbon	dioxide	emissions	per	megawatt	hour	of	electricity	produced,	improved.	 It	dropped	by	8		%,	from	0.796	metric	tons	per	MWh	to	0.732	metric	tons,	because	the	share	of	CO2- free	or	low-CO2	generation	in	our	total	production	increased.	The	improved	utilisation	of	the	capacity	 of	the	Biblis	nuclear	power	station	was	one	of	the	factors. In	the	year	under	review,	we	were	allocated	free	state	emission	allowances	(known	as	EU	allowances,	 or	EUAs)	corresponding	to	115.1	million	metric	tons	in	CO2	emissions.	We	received	emissions	 allowances	for	84.9	million	metric	tons	in	Germany,	16.2	million	metric	tons	in	the	UK,	and	8.5	million	 metric	tons	in	the	Netherlands.	In	total,	the	allocation	was	far	from	being	enough	to	cover	our	 emissions.	Therefore,	we	had	to	purchase	certificates.	At	the	Group	level,	the	shortage	amounted	to	 49.8	million	metric	tons.	 Powerplantcapacity bydivision as of 31 Dec 2010, in MW Germany1 Netherlands / Belgium United Kingdom central Eastern  and south  Eastern Europe Renewables RWE Group Primary energy source Hard coal 9,673 885 4,575 – 102 15,143 Gas 5,086 1,927 4,525 147 442 11,729 Lignite 10,172 – – 763 192 10,954 Nuclear 6,295 – – – – 6,295 Renewable energy 313 331 – 1 2,302 2,947 Pumped storage, oil, other 2,489 – 2,657 – – 5,146 Total 34,028 3,143 11,757 911 2,375 52,214 1 Including capacities of power stations not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. As of 31 December 2010, these capacities       amounted to 8,672 MW, of which 6,507 MW were based on hard coal. 2 Mostly plants belonging to RWE Innogy Cogen. Emissionsbalancebycountry Germany 1 Netherlands / Belgium2 United Kingdom central Eastern   and south Eastern  Europe RWE Group Million metric tons of co2 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 CO2 emissions 130.6 123.3 8.3 2.7 18.9 16.6 7.1 6.5 164.9 149.1 Free allocation of CO2  certificates 84.9 83.1 8.5 2.4 16.2 14.9 5.5 4.8 115.1 105.2 Shortage of CO2 certificates 45.7 40.2  0.2 0.3 2.7 1.7 1.6 1.7 49.8 43.9 1 Includes power stations not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In the year under review, they      produced 22.2 million metric tons of CO2 and were allocated certificates for 19.7 million metric tons. 2  In fiscal 2009, Essent was only included on a three-month basis. 78business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  In	the	emission	trading	period	from	2008	to	2012	and	thereafter,	we	are	allowed	to	cover	a	maximum	 of	100	million	metric	tons	of	our	CO2	emissions	by	submitting	certificates	obtained	through	emission	 reductions	within	the	scope	of	Kyoto	Clean	Development	Mechanism	and	JointImplementation	 projects.	This	is	advantageous	because	the	cost	of	these	certificates	is	usually	below	the	market	price	 of	EUAs.	By	the	end	of	the	2010	financial	year,	we	had	contractually	secured	certificates	for	 68.6million	metric	tons	of	carbon	dioxide.	However,	it	cannot	be	ruled	out	that	some	projects	may	 not	be	implemented	or	that	their	emission	savings	may	lag	behind	expectations.	Taking	such	risks	into	 account,	we	estimate	that	we	will	receive	emissions	certificates	covering	41.4	million	metric	tons.	By	 the	end	of	2010,	we	had	already	received	certificates	for	14.5	million	metric	tons,	of	which	we	have	 already	used	an	equivalent	of	4.6	million	metric	tons. Marked growth of gas and oil reserves.	RWE	Dea,	our	upstream	company,	aims	to	expand	its	gas	and	 oil	production	to	roughly	70	million	barrels	of	oil	equivalent	(OE)	by	2016.	The	main	growth	projects	 we	are	implementing	are	in	North	Africa,	the	UK	North	Sea,	and	off	the	coast	of	Norway.	As	of	 31December	2010,	our	oil	and	gas	reserves	totalled	137	million	cubic	metres	of	OE,	some	70		%	up	on	 the	previous	years	level	(81	million	cubic	metres	of	OE).	The	main	reason	is	that	we	concluded	 contracts	for	the	development	of	major	gas	reserves	in	two	Egyptian	concessions	(see	page	71).	 Reserves	is	the	term	used	for	hydrocarbons	stored	under	the	ground,	the	existence	of	which	has	been	 proven,	and	the	production	of	which	is	economically	feasible	and	legally	secured.	These	are	different	 to	resources,	which	are	hydrocarbons	that	fail	to	meet	all	the	aforementioned	criteria,	or	which	have	 not	yet	been	clearly	identified	geologically.	By	the	end	of	2010,	RWE	Dea	had	91	million	cubic	metres	 of	OE	in	proven	resources	(preceding	year:	143	million	cubic	metres	of	OE). Slight decline in gas and oil production.	In	the	financial	year	that	just	ended,	RWE	Dea	produced	 2,786	million	cubic	metres	of	gas	and	2,266	thousand	cubic	metres	of	oil.	Converting	the	gas	to	oil	 equivalent	and	adding	it	to	crude	oil	production	results	in	a	total	production	of	4,963	thousand	cubic	 metres,	or	31.2	million	barrels	of	OE.	This	was	4		%	less	than	in	2009.	Gas	production	was	down	5		%.	 The	depletion	of	existing	reserves	resulted	in	a	natural	decrease	in	production,	which	primarily	related	 to	our	German	and	UK	concession	areas.	Conversely,	additional	wells	at	the	site	in	Vlkersen,	 Germany,	had	a	positive	impact.	Furthermore,	we	began	production	in	a	newly	developed	gas	field	in	 the	Norwegian	North	Sea.	Oil	volumes	were	3		%	lower	than	the	year-earlier	figure.	The	progressive	 exhaustion	of	reserves	was	felt	here	as	well,	especially	in	our	German	Mittelplate	oil	field.	Our	 concessions	in	the	Gulf	of	Suez	(Egypt)	were	also	affected.	A	positive	effect	came	from	the	 commencement	of	production	in	a	Danish	oil	field.	Furthermore,	we	took	measures	to	improve	 production	yield	in	Germany	and	Egypt. business performance79 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  	 Germany:	The	division	sold	113.1	billion	kWh	of	electricity,	5		%	more	than	in	the	preceding	year.	In	 particular,	we	sold	more	to	distributors.	Sales	to	industrial	and	corporate	customers	were	also	up,	 due	to	the	economic	recovery.	Customer	losses	in	the	residential	and	small	commercial	enterprise	 business	led	to	marginal	drops	in	volume.	By	the	end	of	2010,	the	Germany	Divisions	fully	 consolidated	companies	were	supplying	a	total	of	6,712,000	customers	with	electricity,	151,000	 fewer	than	a	year	earlier.	The	decline	related	to	RWE	Vertrieb	and	the	regional	business,	whereas	 our	discounter	eprimo	grew	its	share	of	the	market.	At	year-end,	the	company	was	serving	736,000	 electricity	customers,	which	was	110,000	more	than	in	the	prior	year.	 	 Netherlands	/Belgium:	Essent	sold	22.0	billion	kWh	of	electricity.	The	prior	years	comparable	 figure,	which	only	reflected	the	fourth	quarter,	was	6.8	billion	kWh.	As	of	31	December	2010,	 Essent	was	supplying	2,329,000	customers	with	electricity.	We	had	2,169,000	electricity	customers	 in	the	Netherlands	and	160,000	in	Belgium.	This	compares	to	2,144,000	and	172,000	in	the	 preceding	year.	 Electricity sales markedly higher due to full-year inclusion of Essent.	In	fiscal	2010,	we	supplied	 311.2	billion	kWh	of	electricity	to	external	customers.	Electricity	sales	are	typically	lower	than	 generation	levels,	mainly	due	to	transmission	losses	and	in-house	use	by	lignite	production	 operations	and	pumped	storage	power	stations.	Electricity	sales	were	10		%	up	on	2009,	in	part	 because	Essent	was	included	on	a	twelve-month	basis	for	the	first	time.	Furthermore,	we	benefited	 from	the	cyclically-induced	rise	in	demand,	especially	in	Germany. Externalelectricity salesvolume private and   commercial customers industrial and  corporate customers Distributors Electricity trading Total Billion kWh 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Germany 26.0 26.1 29.1 27.3 58.0 54.6 – – 113.1 108.0 Netherlands /Belgium 11.9 3.5 10.1 2.0 – – – 1.3 22.0 6.8 United Kingdom 19.1 20.1 30.8 29.8 – – – – 49.9 49.9 Central Eastern and   South Eastern Europe 7.9 8.7 10.2 9.0 6.5 7.1 – – 24.6 24.8 Trading /Gas Midstream – – 30.5 26.8 – – 32.8 32.6 63.3 59.4 RWEGroup1 65.3 59.3 110.8 95.7 102.3 93.9 32.8 33.9 311.2 282.8 1 Including sales of the Renewables Division and of companies stated under Other, consolidation (primarily Amprion). 80business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  	 United	Kingdom:	Electricity	sales	by	RWE	npower	amounted	to	49.9	billion	kWh,	equalling	the		 year-earlier	level.	While	our	share	of	the	industrial	and	corporate	customer	market	improved	slightly,	it	 deteriorated	in	the	residential	and	small	commercial	enterprise	sector.	As	of	31	December	2010,		 RWE	npower	served	4,003,000	electricity	customers,	144,000	fewer	than	a	year	before.	Our	share		 of	the	UK	residential	market	was	14		%.	 	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe:	We	sold	24.6	billion	kWh	of	electricity	in	this	division.	The	slight	 decline	compared	to	2009	is	due	to	the	fact	that,	in	2010,	we	started	netting	out	certain	sales	volumes	 against	wholesale	purchases.	The	cyclically-driven	rise	in	demand	had	a	positive	impact.	Moreover,	our	 electricity	customer	bases	in	Hungary	and	Poland	posted	a	marginal	increase	to	2,236,000	and	910,000,	 respectively.	We	started	marketing	electricity	in	the	Czech	Republic	at	the	beginning	of	2010.	By	year-end,	 we	were	serving	13,000	customers	in	that	country.	 	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream:	External	electricity	sales	achieved	by	this	division	totalled	63.3	billion	kWh,	7		%	up	 on	the	prior	year.	The	main	reason	is	that	we	have	been	stating	Essents	key	account	business	under	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream	since	2010.	 Electricity sales volume of the RWE Group by country in 2010 (2009)  %  2.6 (3.0) Other  7.1 (2.9) Netherlands  5.7 (6.1) Hungary 16.1 (17.7) United Kingdom 68.5 (70.3) Germany 311.2 billion kWh (282.8 billion kWh) business performance81 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Big gain in gas sales volume thanks to Essent.	External	gas	sales	amounted	to	395.4	billion	kWh,	up	 19		%	on	the	year-earlier	level.	Excluding	the	effect	of	Essents	consolidation	on	a	twelve-month	basis	 for	the	first	time,	they	would	have	risen	by	2		%.	We	benefited	from	the	increase	in	residential	demand	 for	heating	purposes,	whereas	customer	losses	in	the	Czech	Republic	had	a	counteracting	effect. 	 Germany:	The	division	sold	97.6	billion	kWh	of	gas.	Compared	to	2009,	this	represents	a	gain	of	 3		%.	Our	deliveries	to	industrial	and	corporate	customers,	households	and	small	commercial	 operations	all	rose.	The	economic	recovery	and	colder	weather	benefited	us	in	this	respect.	 Furthermore,	we	won	customers	in	these	segments.	Conversely,	we	suffered	declines	in	volume	in	 business	with	distributors,	some	of	which	switched	providers	or	started	purchasing	increasing	 amounts	of	gas	from	competitors.	At	the	balance	sheet	date,	our	fully	consolidated	German	sales	 companies	were	supplying	gas	to	1,106,000	customers.	This	is	34,000	more	than	in	the	preceding	 year.	 	 Netherlands	/Belgium:	Essent	contributed	112.8	billion	kWh	to	the	RWE	Groups	gas	sales	volume,	 which	was	much	more	than	in	2009	due	to	the	aforementioned	consolidation	effect.	The	company	 had	2,015,000	gas	customers	on	31	December	2010,	split	between	1,959,000	in	the	Netherlands	 and	56,000	in	Belgium.	The	comparable	figures	for	2009	were	1,920,000	and	59,000,	respectively.	 	 United	Kingdom:	RWE	npowers	gas	sales	amounted	to	53.3	billion	kWh,	3		%	higher	than	the	year- earlier	figure.	This	was	due	to	the	colder	weather,	however,	we	also	suffered	competition-induced	 customer	losses.	This	applies	to	business	with	industrial	enterprises	as	well	as	to	households	and	 small	commercial	operations.	By	the	end	of	the	year,	RWE	npower	was	serving	2,571,000	gas	 customers,	70,000	fewer	than	in	2009.	Customers	who	obtain	both	electricity	and	gas	from	us	 declined	by	69,000	to	2,279,000.	 Externalgassalesvolume private and     commercial customers industrial and   corporate customers Distributors Total Billion kWh 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Germany1 29.0 27.6 23.7 19.9 44.9 47.4 97.6 94.9 Netherlands /Belgium 63.8 17.9 49.0 16.2 – 2.0 112.8 36.1 United Kingdom 48.8 45.1 4.5 6.8 – – 53.3 51.9 Central Eastern and   South Eastern Europe 35.6 33.1 29.4 27.5 8.5 15.3 73.5 75.9 Upstream Gas & Oil – – 2.1 2.8 16.5 16.2 18.6 19.0 Trading /Gas Midstream – – 26.4 18.9 12.6 14.2 39.0 33.1 RWEGroup2 177.2 130.5 135.1 106.4 83.1 95.1 395.4 332.0 1 Prior-year figures adjusted due to customer reassignment. 2 Including sales volumes achieved by RWE Energy Nederland in the first three quarters of 2009. 82business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe:	Gas	sales	decreased	by	3		%	to	73.5	billion	kWh	in	this	 division,	despite	the	colder	weather.	In	the	Czech	Republic,	our	main	market,	some	of	the	 distributors	we	supply	switched	providers	or	started	diversifying	their	gas	procurement.	We	felt	the	 impact	of	the	mounting	competitive	pressure	in	that	country	in	other	customer	groups	as	well.		 The	number	of	gas	customers	we	serve	in	the	Czech	Republic	declined	by	89,000	to	2,192,000.	In	 contrast,	we	observed	a	positive	trend	in	Slovakia,	where	RWE	Gas	Slovensko,	the	sales	subsidiary	 we	founded	in	July	2008,	is	stepping	up	gas	sales	to	corporate	customers.	In	the	year	being	 reported,	the	company	achieved	sales	of	7.8	billion	kWh,	which	was	5.6	billion	kWh	more	than	in	 2009.	 	 Upstream	Gas	&	Oil:	RWE	Dea	delivered	18.6	billion	kWh	of	gas	to	external	customers,	falling	 below	the	prior-year	figure	by	2		%.	This	mirrored	the	decline	in	gas	production.	 	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream:	The	division	sold	39.0	billion	kWh	of	gas	outside	the	Group.	 RWESupply	&	Trading	focuses	on	procuring	gas	for	RWE	companies	and	therefore	predominantly	 generates	internal	sales.	The	companys	external	gas	sales	consist	of	surplus	purchases.	We		 also	generate	external	sales	within	the	scope	of	the	key	account	business	with	industrial	 enterprises.	As	mentioned	earlier,	we	also	started	stating	the	key	account	business	of	Essents	 trading	companies	under	Trading	/Gas	Midstream	in	2010.	The	reassignment	was	a	major	reason	 why	external	sales	in	the	financial	year	being	reviewed	were	up	18		%. Gas sales volume of the RWE Group by country in 2010 (2009)  %  13.5 (15.8) United Kingdom  3.2 (1.4) Others  16.6 (22.7)   Czech Republic 37.1 (43.1) Germany  29.6 (17.0) Netherlands 395.4 billion kWh (332.0 billion kWh) business performance83 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  External revenue 12  % up year on year.	In	2010,	the	RWE	Group	generated	53,320	million	in	 external	revenue,	surpassing	the	year-earlier	figure	by	12		%.	This	was	mainly	due	to	Essents	twelve- month	consolidation	for	the	first	time,	whereas	lower	gas	sales	prices	had	a	counteracting	effect.	 Foreign	exchange	effects	had	a	positive	impact	on	the	development	of	revenue,	as	our	main	foreign	 currencies	appreciated	over	the	euro.	The	British	pound	cost	an	average	of	1.17,	compared	to	1.12	 in	the	previous	year.	The	US	dollar	rose	in	price	from	0.72	to	0.76,	the	Czech	crown	from	0.038	to	 0.040,	the	Hungarian	forint	from	0.0035	to	0.0036,	and	the	Polish	zloty	from	0.23	to	0.25.	 Disregarding	material	consolidation	and	currency	effects,	revenue	was	unchanged.	 Externalrevenue  million 2010 2009 + /–  % Germany 19,528 19,386 0.7 Power Generation 1,072 1,056 1.5 Sales and Distribution Networks 18,456 18,330 0.7 Netherlands /Belgium 6,510 1,799 – United Kingdom 7,759 7,843  1.1 Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe 5,297 5,254 0.8 Renewables 366 245 49.4 Upstream Gas & Oil 1,353 1,208 12.0 Trading /Gas Midstream 7,517 6,937 8.4 Other, consolidation 4,990 5,069  1.6 RWEGroup 53,320 47,741 11.7 of which: Electricity revenue 34,803 31,225 11.5 Direct electricity tax 1,323 1,041 27.1 Gas revenue 14,491 12,443 16.5 Oil revenue 1,049 1,024 2.4 84business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  	 Germany:	External	revenue	achieved	by	this	division	totalled	19,528	million,	which	was	marginally	up	on	 2009.	Electricity	revenue	rose	by	4		%	to	14,124	million,	above	all	due	to	the	sales	increases	mentioned	 earlier.	Moreover,	there	was	a	rise	in	third-party	electricity	transit	through	our	networks.	In	the	gas	business,	 revenues	declined	by	6		%	to	3,826	million.	This	development	results	from	price	adjustments.	Our	German	 regional	utilities	lowered	their	tariffs	in	2009/2010	–	in	some	cases	several	times	–	in	order	to	pass	the	 advantages	of	the	decreasing	procurement	costs	through	to	their	customers.	 	 Netherlands	/Belgium:	The	division	posted	a	consolidation-driven	gain	in	revenue	to	6,510	million.	The	 electricity	and	gas	businesses	accounted	for	2,195	million	and	4,108	million,	respectively.	 	 United	Kingdom:	At	7,759	million,	revenue	generated	by	RWE	npower	fell	just	short	of	the	prior	years	 figure.	Excluding	currency	effects,	it	dropped	by	5		%.	Electricity	revenue	declined	by	2		%	and	by	6		%	net	of	 the	currency	impact.	Price	reductions	made	in	the	preceding	year	played	a	role.	RWE	npower	lowered	 residential	tariffs	by	an	average	of	8		%	on	31	March	2009.	Gas	revenue	recorded	a	slight	increase	to	 2,016million.	In	sterling	terms,	however,	it	decreased	by	3		%.	Again,	price	effects	were	the	determining	 factor.	RWE	npower	lowered	residential	gas	tariffs	by	an	average	of	7		%	with	effect	from	26March2010.	 	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe:	The	division	realised	5,297	million	in	revenue,	slightly	more	than	 in	2009.	Excluding	foreign	exchange	effects,	revenue	would	have	dropped	by	3		%.	Electricity	revenue	rose	by	 2		%	to	2,492	million,	whereas	net	of	currency	movements,	it	declined	by	2		%.	Price	reductions	in	the	 industrial	and	corporate	customer	account	business	played	a	role.	At	2,706	million,	gas	revenue	was	on	a	 par	year	on	year.	Excluding	the	foreign	exchange	impact,	it	decreased	by	4		%,	largely	due	to	the	 aforementioned	volume	drops	in	the	Czech	Republic.	 	 Renewables:	External	revenue	generated	by	this	division	jumped	49		%	to	366	million,	in	part	because	it	has	 included	Essents	wind	power	revenue	(76	million)	since	2010.	The	commissioning	of	new	generation	 capacity	and	the	inclusion	of	the	Spanish	wind	farm	operator	Danta	de	Energas	on	a	twelve-month	basis	for	 the	first	time	also	contributed	to	this	growth.	 	 Upstream	Gas	&	Oil:	RWE	Dea	improved	external	revenue	by	12		%	to	1,353	million,	despite	a	slight	drop	in	 production	volume.	The	company	realised	much	higher	dollar	prices	for	its	crude	oil	production	than	in	 2009.	The	appreciation	of	US	currency	over	the	euro	also	had	a	positive	impact,	whereas	lower	realised	gas	 prices	had	a	counteracting	effect.	 	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream:	External	revenue	generated	by	the	division	advanced	by	8		%	to	7,517	million.	The	 main	reason	is	that	revenue	from	Essents	trading	business	was	included	for	the	first	time	(1,505	million). business performance85 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  EBITDA  million 2010 2009 + /–  % Germany 6,728 5,811 15.8 Power Generation 4,510 3,889 16.0 Sales and Distribution Networks 2,218 1,922 15.4 Netherlands /Belgium 660 277 – United Kingdom 504 445 13.3 Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe 1,440 1,285 12.1 Renewables 211 126 67.5 of which: Essent wind activities 69 – – Upstream Gas & Oil 619 437 41.6 Trading /Gas Midstream  7 986  100.7 of which: Essent trading activities 108 – – Other, consolidation 101  202 – RWEGroup 10,256 9,165 11.9 ReconciliationofincomefromoperatingactivitiestoEBITDA  million 2010 2009 + /–  % Income from operating activities1 6,507 7,326  11.2 + Operating income from investments 345 321 7.5 + Non-operating income from investments 62  59 – – Non-operating result 767  498 – Operating result 7,681 7,090 8.3 + Operating depreciation and amortisation 2,575 2,075 24.1 EBITDA 10,256 9,165 11.9 1 See the income statement on page 162. 86business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  Operatingresult  million 2010 2009 + /–  % Germany 5,575 4,780 16.6 Power Generation 4,000 3,428 16.7 Sales and Distribution Networks 1,575 1,352 16.5 Netherlands /Belgium 391 180 117.2 United Kingdom 272 247 10.1 Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe 1,173 1,055 11.2 Renewables 72 56 28.6 of which: Essent wind activities 23 – – Upstream Gas & Oil 305 203 50.2 Trading /Gas Midstream  21 985  102.1 of which: Essent trading activities 96 – – Other, consolidation  86  416 79.3 RWEGroup 7,681 7,090 8.3 Operating result increased by 8  %.	The	RWE	Groups	earnings	improved	further	in	2010.	EBITDA	 rose	by	12		%	to	10,256	million,	with	the	operating	result	growing	by	8		%	to	7,681	million.	With	the	 exception	of	Trading	/Gas	Midstream,	all	divisions	posted	significant	gains.	We	therefore	exceeded	our	 forecast	of	February	2010.	We	had	expected	EBITDA	to	increase	by	between	5		%	and	10		%	and	the	 operating	result	to	rise	by	approximately	5		%.	In	particular,	our	Czech	gas	business	exceeded	 expectations.	Furthermore,	the	release	of	provisions	caused	the	Other,	consolidation	item	to	record	 a	bigger	improvement	than	anticipated.	Conversely,	earnings	generated	by	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	 were	even	weaker	than	expected.	Disregarding	material	consolidation	and	currency	effects,	the	 RWEGroups	EBITDA	and	operating	result	rose	by	5		%	and	3		%,	respectively. 	 Germany:	The	division	posted	an	operating	result	of	5,575	million,	up	17		%	on	the	previous	year.	 The	following	development	was	observed	in	the	Power	Generation	and	Sales	and	Distribution	 Networks	Business	Areas:	 	 Power	Generation:	Here,	we	recorded	a	gain	of	17		%	to	4,000	million.	A	major	contributor	was	our	 higher	generation	output,	which	partially	stemmed	from	the	Biblis	nuclear	power	plants	improved	 availability.	Furthermore,	we	benefited	from	price-induced	relief	with	respect	to	our	hard	coal	 purchases	(679	million).	As	mentioned	earlier,	we	had	already	sold	our	electricity	for	2010	early	on	 the	forward	market,	purchasing	the	fuel	required	to	produce	it	at	the	same	time.	We	also	bought	 emission	allowances	early	on,	realising	price	advantages	over	the	prior	year.	The	expense	associated	 business performance87 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  with	the	shortage	of	emission	allowances	therefore	decreased	by	269	million	to	689	million.	 However,	there	was	also	a	decrease	in	the	prices	we	realised	for	our	electricity	generation,	which	 averaged	67	per	MWh	(prior	year:	70per	MWh).	On	balance,	changes	in	nuclear	provisions	led	to	 burdens.	Furthermore,	the	positive	exceptional	effects	of	the	release	of	provisions	in	the	preceding	 year	did	not	recur.	They	related	to	nuclear	waste	disposal	and	the	recultivation	of	opencast	lignite	 mining	sites.	 	 Sales	and	Distribution	Networks:	This	business	area	increased	its	operating	result	by	16		%	to	 1,575million,	partly	on	the	strength	of	cost-cutting	measures.	In	the	network	business,	higher	 electricity	and	gas	throughput	caused	earnings	to	rise.	On	top	of	that,	the	cost	of	compensation	for	 grid	losses	dropped,	because	the	power	used	to	do	so	became	cheaper.	Conversely,	the	following	 issue	had	a	negative	effect:	the	German	Federal	Network	Agency	is	of	the	opinion	that	our	revenue	 from	the	network	fees	we	charged	at	the	beginning	of	network	regulation	(2005	to	2007)	was	too	 high.	The	excess	amounts	must	be	refunded	via	reduced	network	fees	from	2010	onwards.	In	the	 sales	business,	we	took	advantage	of	the	positive	effect	the	weather	had	on	gas	sales	volumes,	 while	electricity	margins	shrank.	 	 Netherlands	/Belgium:	In	this	division,	we	recorded	an	operating	result	of	391	million,	which	was	 much	higher	than	the	year-earlier	figure	(180	million)	due	to	the	consolidation	effect.	Gas	 activities	achieved	a	particularly	strong	operating	result.	The	unusually	cold	winter	weather	was	a	 contributing	factor.	However,	earnings	performance	suffered,	partially	because	the	power	plant	 project	in	Eemshaven	(Netherlands)	initiated	by	RWE	Power	was	transferred	to	Essent,	which	 refunded	RWE	Power	for	all	of	the	project	costs	incurred	since	2009.	We	are	building	a	hard	coal	 twin	unit	with	a	net	installed	capacity	of	1,560	MW	at	the	site	in	the	Province	of	Groningen.	 	 United	Kingdom:	RWE	npowers	operating	result	improved	by	10%	to	272	million.	Net	of	foreign	 exchange	effects,	the	increase	amounted	to	6		%,	which	was	mainly	attributable	to	the	supply	 business.	We	benefited	from	efficiency-enhancement	measures	and	the	weather-driven	rise	in	 demand	for	gas,	but	also	suffered	from	an	increase	in	bad	debt.	Electricity	and	gas	procurement	 prices	rose	in	the	second	half	of	the	year,	but	RWE	npower	did	not	increase	its	residential	tariffs	 until	January	2011.	RWE	npowers	generation	business	closed	the	period	being	reviewed	 significantly	down	year	on	year.	The	deterioration	in	conditions	on	the	market	for	our	hard	coal-fired	 power	stations	led	to	earnings	shortfalls,	which	could	not	be	fully	offset	by	the	increased	 generation	of	our	gas-fired	power	plants	and	cost	reductions.	 88business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe:	The	operating	result	we	achieved	in	this	division	grew	by	 11		%	to	1,173	million.	In	the	forecast	we	issued	in	February	2010,	we	had	expected	to	fall	short	of	 the	prior	years	result.	The	fact	that	we	actually	managed	to	exceed	it	substantially	is	in	part	due	to	 the	impact	of	foreign	exchange	rates.	Moreover,	contrary	to	expectations,	earnings	in	the	Czech	gas	 business	improved.	This	was	due	to	the	increase	in	network	and	sales	margins,	whereas	shortfalls	in	 sales	to	distributors	had	a	counteracting	effect.	The	earnings	contribution	made	by	our	Polish	 electricity	activities	also	grew.	We	benefited	from	one-off	effects	as	well	as	from	cost	reductions.	In	 Hungary,	we	capitalised	on	volume	and	price-induced	earnings	improvements	in	the	electricity	 business,	but	experienced	earnings	shortfalls	at	the	electricity	generator	Mtra.	Additional	burdens	 arose	from	the	retrospective	introduction	of	a	special	tax	for	energy	utilities	(25	million),	on	which	 we	reported	on	page	68.	 	 Renewables:	Here,	the	operating	result	improved	by	16	million	to	72	million.	Of	this	sum,	 23million	came	from	Essents	wind	power	activities,	which	we	stated	as	part	of	the	Renewables	 Division	in	2010.	However,	the	result	clearly	lagged	behind	expectations	because	wind	levels	in	 North	Western	Europe	were	unusually	low.	A	positive	effect	was	felt	from	the	commissioning	of	the	 Rhyl	Flats	wind	farm	off	the	coast	of	Wales	at	the	end	of	2009	and	the	inclusion	of	Danta	de	 Energas	in	our	figures	for	a	full	year	for	the	first	time.	Conversely,	anticipated	burdens	arose	in	 connection	with	RWE	Innogys	growth	strategy	as	its	ongoing	and	planned	capital	expenditure	 projects	go	hand	in	hand	with	high	run-up	costs.	 	 Upstream	Gas	&	Oil:	RWE	Dea	increased	its	operating	result	by	50		%	to	305	million	due	to	currency	 movements	and	higher	oil	prices.	In	addition,	production	levies	and	exploration	costs	declined.	The	 fact	that	production	volumes	and	gas	prices	were	lower	and	write-downs	were	higher	year	on	year	 had	a	counteracting	effect.	 	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream:	The	division	closed	the	year	under	review	with	an	operating	loss		 of	21million.	The	result	was	thus	much	lower	than	the	unusually	high	figure	posted	in	the	 previous	year	(985million).	In	energy	trading,	we	were	successful,	but	failed	to	match	the	very	 good	performance	recorded	in	2009.	There	was	an	even	steeper	drop	in	earnings	in	the	gas	 midstream	business,	which	had	benefited	from	positive	one-off	effects	a	year	earlier.	In	contrast,	 there	were	heavy	burdens	in	the	year	under	review.	This	is	because,	in	most	cases,	gas	purchases	 for	Germany	and	the	Czech	Republic	are	based	on	long-term	contracts	linked	to	the	price	of	oil,	 while	our	customers	increasingly	look	to	quotations	on	the	liquid	TTF	and	NBP	trading	hubs	(see	 page	59).	These	have	been	much	lower	than	the	oil-indexed	purchasing	prices	since	as	early	as	the	 middle	of	2009.	As	we	largely	settle	internal	gas	deliveries	under	wholesale	conditions,	the	price	 differences	have	an	impact	on	the	operating	result	of	RWE	Supply	&	Trading,	which	is	responsible	 for	gas	procurement.	A	positive	effect	on	the	Trading	/Gas	Midstream	Division	was	felt	from	the			 first-time	inclusion	of	Essents	trading	activities,	which	posted	an	operating	result	of	96	million	in	 2010. business performance89 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  RWE achieves a return on capital employed of 14.4  %.	One	of	the	main	goals	of	our	business	activity	 is	to	increase	the	companys	value.	In	order	to	accomplish	this,	we	must	earn	a	return	on	our	capital	 employed	(ROCE)	that	exceeds	the	cost	of	capital.	In	fiscal	2010,	our	ROCE	was	14.4		%,	clearly	 surpassing	the	Groups	cost	of	capital,	which	was	9.0		%	before	tax.	ROCE	minus	the	cost	of	capital,	 multiplied	by	capital	employed,	equals	absolute	value	added.	It	is	an	important	criterion	for	assessing	 investments	and	determining	our	executives	performance-linked	payments.	In	the	financial	year	that	 just	ended,	value	added	amounted	to	2,876million.	This	was	9		%	less	than	in	2009,	despite	the	 improvement	in	the	operating	result.	The	reason	for	this	is	the	increase	in	capital	employed.	Our	 intensified	investment	activity	played	a	role	on	the	one	hand,	as	new	plants	already	affect	ROCE	 during	the	construction	phase,	although	they	do	not	contribute	to	earnings	yet.	On	the	other	hand,	 we	had	only	recognised	a	quarter	of	Essents	capital	employed	in	the	previous	year,	because	the	 company	was	not	included	in	the	consolidated	financial	statements	until	the	end	of	September.		 The	development	of	value	added	was	also	influenced	by	adjustments	we	made	to	the	cost	of	capital.	 This	affects	individual	divisions,	but	not	the	Group	as	a	whole. keyfiguresforvaluemanagement operating  result  2010 capital  employed  20101 RocE  2010 capital costs  before taxes 2010 Absolute value  added 2010 Weighted  average cost  of capital  (WAcc)  before tax 2009 Absolute  value  added 2009  million  million % %  million %  million Germany 5,575 29,575 18.9 9.5 2,7652 9.5 2,1642 Power Generation 4,000 13,803 29.0 10.0 2,620 10.0 2,146 Sales and Distribution Networks 1,575 15,772 10.0 8.75 195 9.0 27 Netherlands /Belgium 391 4,564 8.6 9.5  42 9.0 56 United Kingdom 272 5,147 5.3 9.5  217 10.0  254 Central Eastern and   South Eastern Europe 1,173 5,596 21.0 8.5 697 9.0 578 Renewables 72 3,797 1.9 9.5  289 9.5  165 Upstream Gas & Oil 305 2,509 12.2 12.5  8 13.0  72 Trading /Gas Midstream  21 3,222  0.6 9.5  327 10.0 821 Other, consolidation  86  1,024 – – 297 – 49 RWEGroup 7,681 53,386 14.4 9.0 2,876 9.0 3,177 1 Averaged for the year. 2 Due to the differences in the costs of capital, this figure is not the sum of value added by Power Generation and Sales and Distribution Networks. 90business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  	 Germany:	The	biggest	contribution	by	far,	i.e.	2,765	million,	to	increasing	value	within	the	 RWEGroup	came	from	this	division.	Most	of	it	is	attributable	to	our	power	generation	activities.	 The	earnings	growth	posted	by	this	business	area	was	the	main	reason	why	value	added	rose		 by	601	million.	The	improved	earnings	of	the	sales	and	distribution	network	business	were	also		 a	factor.	 	 Netherlands	/Belgium:	Value	added	by	this	division	dropped	by	98	million	to		42	million.	Despite	 consolidation	effects,	the	operating	result	was	much	higher	than	in	the	preceding	year.	But	this	 also	applies	to	capital	employed,	which	we	had	only	considered	pro	rata	in	2009,	as	explained	 earlier.	Another	negative	effect	arose	from	the	takeover	of	the	new-build	power	plant	project	in	 Eemshaven	(	54million),	as	this	caused	capital	employed	to	rise,	while	earnings	were	burdened.	 Excluding	this	effect,	the	division	would	have	earned	back	its	cost	of	capital.	 	 United	Kingdom:	RWE	npowers	value	added	was	also	negative.	At		217	million,	however,	it	 improved	by	37	million	year	on	year.	Among	other	things,	this	was	due	to	the	improved	operating	 result.	 	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe:	At	697	million,	the	division	made	the	second-largest	 contribution	to	value	added	within	the	RWE	Group,	posting	a	gain	of	119	million	compared	to	 2009.	The	development	of	earnings	was	the	major	influential	factor.	 	 Renewables:	RWE	Innogys	value	added	fell	by	124	million	to	–289	million,	despite	improved	 earnings.	This	reflects	the	substantial	investment	in	the	expansion	of	the	generation	portfolio.	 	 Upstream	Gas	&	Oil:	Value	added	by	RWE	Dea	was	slightly	negative,	i.e.		8	million,	but	 64million	higher	than	in	2009.	The	division	benefited	from	a	vastly	improved	operating	result.	 The	rise	in	capital	employed	caused	by	capital	expenditure	had	a	counteracting	effect.	 	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream:	The	significant	drop	in	earnings	at	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	led	to	negative	 value	added	of		327	million.	However,	at	821	million,	the	prior-year	figure	had	been	unusually	 high. You	will	find	detailed	information	on	the	value	management	concept	on	pages	231	et	seq.	 Reconciliation to net income: negative special items due to commodity derivatives.	The	 reconciliation	from	the	operating	result	to	net	income	is	characterised	by	negative	one-off	effects.	 These	primarily	arose	from	the	fair	valuation	of	commodity	derivatives	and	impairments	on	our	UK	 hard	coal	and	oil-fired	power	plants.	The	positive	impact	of	the	release	of	provisions	fell	short	of	 offsetting	this.	In	consequence,	net	income	decreased	despite	the	good	operating	earnings. business performance91 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Negative	influences	occurred	especially	in	the	non-operating	result,	which	deteriorated	by	 1,265million	to		767	million.	Its	components	developed	as	follows: 	 As	in	2009,	there	were	no	notable	capital	gains.	The	single	largest	earnings	contribution	came	 from	the	sale	of	a	minority	interest	in	a	customers	power	station	in	the	Czech	Republic.	 	 The	accounting	treatment	of	derivative	transactions	had	a	negative	impact	of	337	million,	 compared	to	the	720	million	in	profit	recorded	a	year	earlier.	Pursuant	to	International	Financial	 Reporting	Standards	(IFRS),	certain	derivatives	used	to	hedge	the	prices	of	forward	contracts	 (underlying	transactions)	are	accounted	for	at	fair	value	at	their	respective	balance	sheet	date,	 whereas	the	underlying	transactions	(which	display	the	exact	opposite	development)	are	only	 recognised	as	a	profit	or	loss	when	they	are	realised.	These	timing	differences	result	in	short-term	 effects	on	earnings,	which	are	neutralised	over	time.	The	derivatives	largely	related	to	RWE	 Supply	&	Tradings	gas	midstream	business.	Moreover,	the	non-operating	result	was	negatively	 affected	because,	in	2010,	we	started	accounting	for	our	German	gas	purchasing	agreements	at	 fair	value	instead	of	as	pending	transactions.	As	commented	on	earlier,	oil-indexed	procurement	 prices	for	parts	of	our	gas	sales	are	much	higher	than	the	sales	prices	realisable	on	the	market.	 Therefore,	the	change	in	accounting	treatment	in	the	first	quarter	had	a	very	negative	effect	on	 earnings.	However,	this	impact	weakened	considerably	over	the	course	of	the	year,	as	most	of	the	 affected	contracts	were	fulfilled	and	the	influence	on	earnings	of	their	realisation	was	considered	 in	the	operating	result	of	RWE	Supply	&	Trading.	 	 The	result	stated	under	Restructuring,	other	amounted	to		498	million.	This	was	241	million	 down	on	the	year-earlier	figure,	which	included	substantial	extraordinary	income	from	the	change	 in	nuclear	and	mining	provisions	(411	million).	In	2010,	we	stopped	reflecting	such	effects,	which	 amounted	to	197	million	in	the	year	under	review,	in	the	non-operating	result,	recognising	them	 Non-operatingresult  million 2010 2009 + /–   million Capital gains 68 35 33 Goodwill impairment losses – – – Impact of commodity derivatives on earnings  337 720  1,057 Restructuring, other  498  257  241 Non-operatingresult 767 498 1,265 92business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  in	the	operating	result	instead.	A	charge	of	296	million	stemmed	from	an	impairment	recognised	 for	our	UK	hard	coal	and	oil-fired	power	stations.	Thereby,	we	acknowledged	that	the	margins	 realisable	through	these	plants	on	the	market	deteriorated	considerably.	The	earnings	trend	was	 positively	influenced	by	the	absence	of	negative	effects	from	the	preceding	year,	which	included	a	 write-down	on	our	stake	in	US-based	Excelerate	Energy	of	US$250	million	(179	million).	We	 amortised	RWE	npowers	customer	base	in	the	period	being	reviewed	by	262	million.	This	figure	 was	slightly	higher	than	in	2009	(252	million)	due	to	movements	in	foreign	exchange	rates. The	financial	result	improved	by	54	million	to		1,936	million.	Its	components	developed	as	 follows: 	 Net	interest	deteriorated	by	175	million	to		810	million.	Our	growth	investments	and	the	 acquisition	of	Essent	increased	our	need	for	financing.	We	covered	part	of	it	by	selling	securities,	 which	caused	interest	income	to	drop.	Furthermore,	we	issued	new	bonds.		 	 At	940	million,	the	interest	accretion	to	non-current	provisions	was	essentially	unchanged.	 	 The	other	financial	result,	which	includes	numerous	expense	items,	improved	by	212	million	to	 	186	million.	This	was	due	to	the	absence	of	charges	from	the	preceding	year	incurred	in	part	due	 to	the	crisis	on	financial	markets.	For	example,	we	had	realised	write-downs	on	securities	and	book	 losses	on	the	sale	of	securities.	Conversely,	we	generated	income	from	such	sales	in	2010.	 Financialresult  million 2010 2009 + /   million Interest income 448 589  141 Interest expenses  1,258  1,224  34 Netinterest 810 635 175 Interest accretion to non-current provisions  940  957 17 Other financial result  186  398 212 Financialresult 1,936 1,990 54 business performance93 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  RWE	earned	4,978	million	in	income	from	continuing	operations	before	tax,	11		%	less	than	in	2009.	 The	effective	tax	rate	dropped	from	33		%	to	28		%,	in	part	because	our	corporate	tax	credit	rose	and		 we	were	able	to	capitalise	loss	carryforwards.	After	tax,	income	from	continuing	operations	declined	 by	4		%	to	3,602	million.	Discontinued	operations	did	not	contribute	to	income	in	2010,	whereas		 the	prior-year	figure	still	included	income	from	American	Water,	which	has	since	been	sold.	The	 minority	interest	amounted	to	279	million,	7		%	higher	than	in	2009.	For	the	first	time,	we	are		 also	stating	the	minority	interest	allocable	to	the	holders	of	the	hybrid	bond	issued	in	September	 2010.	At	15million,	it	corresponds	to	the	post-tax	financing	costs	allocable	to	the	year	under	 review.	You	can	find	detailed	information	on	our	hybrid	bond	on	pages	102	and	195	of	this	report.	 The	RWE	Groups	net	income	declined	by	7		%	to	3,308	million.	Accordingly,	our	earnings		 per	share	dropped	from	6.70	to	6.20.	The	number	of	RWE	shares	outstanding	in	the	period	being	 reviewed	averaged	533.6	million	(prior	year:	533.1	million). Recurrent net income improved by 6  %.	The	yardstick	for	determining	our	dividend	is	recurrent	net	 income.	It	does	not	include	the	non-operating	result.	If	major	non-recurrent	effects	in	the	financial	 result	and	income	taxes	occur,	these	are	also	excluded.	In	the	year	under	review,	recurrent	net	 income	totalled	3,752	million,	6		%	up	year	on	year.	We	were	therefore	slightly	up	on	the	forecast	 issued	in	February	2010,	which	envisaged	an	increase	of	approximately	5		%. Reconciliationtonetincome 2010 2009 + /–  % Operating result  million 7,681 7,090 8.3 Non-operating result  million  767 498 – Financial result  million  1,936  1,990 2.7 Incomefromcontinuingoperationsbeforetax  million 4,978 5,598 11.1 Taxes on income  million  1,376  1,858 25.9 Incomefromcontinuingoperations  million 3,602 3,740 3.7 Income from discontinued operations  million – 91 – Income  million 3,602 3,831 6.0 Minority interest  million 279 260 7.3 RWE AG hybrid investors interest  million 15 – – Netincome/RWEAGshareholders'shareinnetincome  million 3,308 3,571 7.4 Recurrentnetincome  million 3,752 3,532 6.2 Earnings per share  6.20 6.70  7.5 Recurrent net income per share  7.03 6.63 6.0 Effective tax rate % 28 33 – 94business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  Efficiency-enhancement programme: target for 2010 achieved.	We	are	making	good	progress	with	 the	efficiency-enhancement	programme	we	initiated	in	2007.	By	taking	measures	to	reduce	costs	and	 increase	revenue,	we	aim	to	tap	additional	earning	potential	–	and	do	so	more	and	more	every	year.	 One	of	the	projects	goals	is	to	enhance	the	performance	of	our	German	electricity	and	gas	network	 business,	which	should	limit	the	impact	on	our	earnings	from	tariff	cuts	mandated	by	the	network	 regulator.	Further	savings	will	be	achieved	through	improvements	in	IT	services	and	purchasing	as	well	 as	the	pooling	of	back-office	functions.	Moreover,	we	intend	to	increase	revenue	by	improving	the	 availability	of	our	power	plants. By	2009,	we	had	already	achieved	a	positive	effect	on	earnings	of	450	million	through	the	 programme.	The	baseline	year	is	2006.	With	respect	to	2010,	we	had	envisaged	increasing	the	 programmes	impact	on	earnings	to	700	million.	We	have	achieved	this	target.	The	efficiency- enhancement	programme	will	run	until	the	end	of	2012	and	we	want	to	intensify	our	efforts	by	then.	 For	instance,	we	have	identified	additional	potential	for	savings	in	terms	of	project	and	material	costs.	 Furthermore,	RWE	npower	will	introduce	a	new	IT	system,	which	will	allow	the	company	to	reduce	its	 sales	costs	considerably.	Therefore,	we	can	raise	our	overall	goal	for	the	programme	by	2012.	Initially,	 we	wanted	to	achieve	positive	effects	every	year,	totalling	1.2	billion	from	2006	to	2012.	We	are	now	 targeting	a	figure	of	1.4	billion. Plannedefficiencyenhancements comparedto2006  million (accumulated) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Initial target 100 200 450 700 900 1,200 Increase 200 New target 1,400   Capitalexpenditureonproperty,plantandequipmentandonintangibleassets  million 2010 2009 + /–   million Germany 2,410 2,813  403 Power Generation 1,180 1,791  611 Sales and Distribution Networks 1,230 1,022 208 Netherlands /Belgium 1,144 156 988 United Kingdom 876 853 23 Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe 430 368 62 Renewables 614 447 167 Upstream Gas & Oil 507 855  348 Trading /Gas Midstream 4 2 2 Other, consolidation 394 419  25 RWEGroup 6,379 5,913 466 business performance95 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 8  % higher year on year.	The	RWE	Group	 spent	6,643	million	in	capital	in	the	year	under	review,	compared	to	15,637	million	in	2009.	The	 significant	decline	is	attributable	to	financial	investments,	which	barely	had	an	impact	in	2010,	after	 having	been	exceptionally	high	in	2009	(9,724	million)	due	to	the	acquisition	of	Essent.	Conversely,	 capital	expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	equipment	and	intangible	assets	rose	by	8		%	to	6,379	 million.	This	was	in	part	because	Essents	capex	was	included	on	a	twelve-month	basis	for	the	first	 time.	Nevertheless,	on	the	whole,	we	spent	a	little	less	than	expected,	due,	amongst	other	things,	to	 delays	in	the	construction	of	power	plant	projects.	In	February	2010,	we	had	forecast	Group	capital	 expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	equipment	and	intangible	assets	to	be	in	the	order	of	7.0	 billion. 	 Germany:	Capital	expenditure	by	this	division	amounted	to	2,455	million.	This	represents	a	 decrease	of	41		%	compared	to	2009.	The	divisions	business	areas	displayed	the	following	 development:	 	 Power	Generation:	Capital	spending	by	this	business	area	was	down	36		%	to	1,182	million.		 As	in	the	preceding	year,	almost	all	of	this	was	spent	on	property,	plant	and	equipment.	The	 decline	is	partly	due	to	RWEPowers	transfer	of	the	Eemshaven	power	plant	project	to	Essent.	As	 mentioned	earlier,	we	are	building	a	1,560	MW	twin-unit	hard	coal	facility	at	the	Dutch	site.	We	 completed	work	on	the	new	gas-fired	power	station	in	Lingen	in	the	year	being	reviewed.	It	has	an	 installed	capacity	of	876	MW	and	was	commissioned	in	April.	The	major	ongoing	project	is	the	 2,100	MW	dual-block	lignite-fired	power	plant	in	Neurath	near	Cologne,	Germany.	We	are	behind	 schedule,	primarily	due	to	quality-related	problems	experienced	by	suppliers.	Based	on	our	current	 planning,	both	units	will	go	online	this	year.	On	top	of	this,	RWE	Power	is	building	a	1,528	MW	 twin-unit	hard	coal	facility	in	Hamm,	Germany.	Suppliers	caused	delays	here	as	well.	Therefore,	the	 facility	will	not	go	online	until	2013.	These	new-build	power	plants	will	enable	us	to	achieve	 Capitalexpenditureonfinancialassets  million 2010 2009 + /–   million Germany 45 1,325  1,280 Power Generation 2 45  43 Sales and Distribution Networks 43 1,280  1,237 Netherlands /Belgium 3 7,794  7,791 United Kingdom 23 114  91 Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe 8 3 5 Renewables 95 286  191 Upstream Gas & Oil – – – Trading /Gas Midstream 61 141  80 Other, consolidation 29 61  32 RWEGroup 264 9,724 9,460 96business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  significant	efficiency	improvements	and	emission	reductions.	Furthermore,	the	new	units	will	be	 capable	of	switching	loads	much	faster	than	older	facilities.	This	enables	us	to	take	advantage	of	 price	fluctuations	in	electricity	spot	trading	by	making	more	flexible	use	of	our	power	plants.	These	 fluctuations	are	expected	to	become	more	frequent	in	view	of	the	rising	share	of	electricity	 production	accounted	for	by	weather-dependent	sources	such	as	wind	and	solar.	 	 Sales	and	Distribution	Networks:	We	spent	1,273	million	in	capital	on	this	business	area,	45%	less	 than	in	the	previous	year.	Capital	expenditure	on	financial	assets	declined	significantly,	following	 several	sizeable	transactions	we	had	concluded	in	2009.	These	included	the	acquisition	of	a	20%	 stake	in	the	former	RWE	Westfalen-Weser-Ems	held	by	municipal	shareholders	for	800	million.	 Capital	expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	equipment	and	intangible	assets	amounted	to	 1,230million,	20%	up	on	the	preceding	years	level.	These	funds	were	mainly	allocated	to	 upgrades	to	the	network	infrastructure.	In	addition,	we	invested	in	new	gas	storage	capacity.	 	 Netherlands/Belgium:	At	1,147	million,	capital	expenditure	by	this	division	was	86%	down	on	the	 previous	years	figure,	which	was	unusually	high	due	to	the	acquisition	of	Essent.	Including	 ancillary	purchasing	costs,	we	spent	7,794	million	on	the	acquisition	of	the	Dutch	energy	utility.	 In	contrast,	no	notable	funds	were	dedicated	to	financial	assets	in	2010.	Conversely,	capital	 expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	equipment	and	intangible	assets	totalled	1,144	million,	which	 was	over	seven	times	higher	than	in	2009.	However,	the	year-earlier	figure	only	included	fourth- quarter	spending.	The	divisions	single	largest	undertaking	is	the	power	plant	project	taken	over	 from	RWE	Power	in	Eemshaven,	the	Netherlands.	Furthermore,	Essent	is	constructing	the	Moerdijk	 2	and	Claus	C	combined-cycle	gas	turbine	power	plants.	The	former	is	being	built	directly	adjacent	 to	the	existing	Moerdijk	power	plant.	It	will	have	an	installed	capacity	of	426	MW	and	is	scheduled	 to	go	online	in	the	fourth	quarter	of	2011.	Claus	C	is	envisaged	to	have	an	installed	capacity	of	 1,304	MW	and	replace	the	existing	Claus	B	(640	MW)	gas-fired	power	station.	We	plan	to	 commission	the	plant	in	the	first	half	of	2012.	We	expect	to	spend	a	total	of	1.5	billion	on	these	 two	projects.	 	 United	Kingdom:	RWE	npower	invested	899	million,	7		%	less	than	in	2009.	Once	again,	decreasing	 spending	on	financial	assets	was	the	main	reason.	Capital	expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	 equipment	and	intangible	assets	rose	by	3		%	to	876	million.	Centre	stage	was	taken	by	the	 construction	of	two	state-of-the-art	combined-cycle	gas	turbine	power	stations.	All	four	units	at	our	 facility	at	Staythorpe	(Nottinghamshire)	went	online	between	August	and	November	2010.	It	has	an	 aggregate	installed	capacity	of	1,650	MW.	The	second	plant	is	located	at	Pembroke,	Wales.	It	will	 have	an	installed	capacity	of	2,188	MW,	and	is	scheduled	to	begin	generation	in	2012.	 	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe:	Capital	expenditure	advanced	by	18		%	to	438	million.	 It	was	almost	exclusively	used	on	property,	plant	and	equipment.	The	focus	continues	to	be	on	 measures	to	improve	electricity	and	gas	network	infrastructure.	However,	in	the	year	being	 reviewed,	we	stepped	up	our	investment	in	the	expansion	of	our	Czech	gas	storage	capacities.	 Additional	funds	were	dedicated	to	the	construction	of	a	775	MW	combined-cycle	gas	turbine	 power	station	in	the	Turkish	town	of	Denizli,	which	we	started	in	mid-2010.	 business performance97 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  	 Renewables:	RWE	Innogy	aims	to	expand	its	renewable	generation	base	significantly	and	is	making	 good	progress.	At	709	million,	capital	expenditure	in	2010	was	in	the	order	of	the	previous	year.	 Most	of	it	was	dedicated	to	property,	plant	and	equipment.	Funds	were	primarily	spent	on	building	 new	wind	power	capacity.	Our	single	largest	project	is	the	Gwynt	y	Mr	wind	farm	off	the	coast		 of	North	Wales,	which	will	have	a	total	installed	capacity	of	576	MW.	By	the	end	of	2011,	laying	of		 the	first	foundations	for	a	total	of	160	wind	turbines	should	have	commenced,	with	completion	 scheduled	for	2014.	Another	investment	is	the	planned	Nordsee	Ost	wind	farm	north	of	the	Isle	of	 Helgoland,	which	will	have	an	aggregate	installed	capacity	of	295	MW.	Construction	has	begun,	 with	the	project	due	to	be	completed	in	2013.	To	build	the	Gwynt	y	Mr	and	Nordsee	Ost	wind	 farms,	we	will	use	our	own	special	construction	ships,	for	which	we	made	down	payments	in	the	 year	under	review.	Another	major	project	is	the	expansion	of	the	Thornton	Bank	wind	farm	off	the	 Belgian	coast	from	30	MW	to	325	MW.	Furthermore,	RWE	Innogy	granted	loans	to	associated	 companies,	but	these	are	not	stated	as	capital	expenditure:	300	million	(previous	year:	 220million)	was	earmarked	for	the	Greater	Gabbard	Offshore	Winds	Ltd.	joint	venture,	which	is	 erecting	the	namesake	wind	farm	off	the	UK	coast.	We	own	50		%	of	the	company.	In	addition,	we	 invested	in	onshore	wind	energy,	for	example	at	sites	in	Poland,	Italy	and	Scotland.	Besides	wind	 power,	biomass	plays	a	significant	role	for	us.	In	the	year	being	reported,	we	began	to	construct	a	 42	MW	combined	heat	and	power	plant	in	the	Scottish	town	of	Markinch.	Moreover,	we	are	 building	several	such	facilities	at	locations	in	the	German	state	of	North	Rhine-Westphalia.	We	also	 spent	capital	on	hydroelectric	projects	in	2010,	albeit	to	a	lesser	extent,	for	example	on	the	 expansion	of	a	run-of-river	power	station	on	the	upper	Rhine.	 	 Upstream	Gas	&	Oil:	Capital	spending	at	RWE	Dea	amounted	to	507	million,	clearly	down	on		 the	previous	years	high	figure	(855	million).	The	latter	was	greatly	influenced	by	the	acquisition	 of	a	70		%	stake	in	the	Breagh	gas	field	in	the	North	Sea.	We	spent	roughly	260	million	on	it,	 whereas	we	did	not	conclude	any	transactions	of	a	similar	order	in	2010.	As	in	the	preceding	year,	 RWEDeas	focus	was	placed	on	developing	existing	reserves	and	resources.	 	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream:	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	roughly	halved	its	capital	expenditure	to	 65million.	As	in	the	preceding	year,	additions	to	Excelerate	Energys	equity	were	the	single	 largest	item.	 Other,	consolidation:	This	item	includes	423	million	in	capital	expenditure	for	2010,	largely		 relating	to	property,	plant	and	equipment.	Most	of	the	funds	were	used	by	Amprion	to	modernise	 and	expand	the	electricity	transmission	network. 98business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  Employee headcount marginally higher.	As	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	the	RWE	Group	employed	 70,856	people,	41,039,	or	58		%,	of	whom	worked	at	German	sites.	Part-time	positions	were	 calculated	in	these	figures	on	a	pro-rata	basis.	The	workforce	increased	by	130	personnel	compared	 to	31	December	2009,	due	to	operating	changes.	In	contrast,	acquisitions	and	divestments	caused	a	 net	311	employees	to	leave	the	Group.	There	were	major	shifts	of	personnel	between	the	divisions,	 because,	in	2010,	Essents	trading	business	and	wind	power	activities	were	reclassified	to	the	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream	and	Renewables	Segments,	respectively.	In	addition,	employees	transferred	 from	RWE	IT	to	RWE	npower	and	RWE	Supply	&	Trading.	As	in	previous	years,	we	trained	far	more	 people	than	required	to	cover	our	own	needs.	By	31	December	2010,	3,079	young	adults	were	in	a	 professional	training	programme	at	RWE.	Staff	figures	do	not	include	trainees. Cost reductions and efficiency improvements in Group purchasing.	RWE	Service,	our	internal	service	 provider,	is	in	charge	of	purchasing	goods	and	services.	This	does	not	include	the	procurement	of	 electricity,	commodities,	insurance	services,	or	power	plant	components	needed	for	new-build	 projects.	RWE	Service	uses	standardised	purchasing	systems	and	complies	with	the	principles	of	best	 practice.	Yet	again,	the	company	realised	substantial	savings	in	fiscal	2010.	For	instance,	it	took	 charge	of	nearly	all	purchases	of	management,	personnel,	legal	consulting	and	marketing	services.	 Moreover,	we	completed	the	integration	of	Essent	into	our	corporate	purchasing	process	and	refined	 RWE	standards	for	occupational	safety	and	sustainability	into	our	supplier	management	system. Workforce1 31 Dec  2010 31 Dec  2009 + /–  % Germany 34,184 33,605 1.7 Power Generation 15,409 15,346 0.4 Sales and Distribution Networks 18,775 18,259 2.8 Netherlands /Belgium 3,899 4,695  17.0 United Kingdom 11,711 12,224  4.2 Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe 11,163 11,289  1.1 Renewables 1,232 980 25.7 Upstream Gas & Oil 1,363 1,279 6.6 Trading /Gas Midstream 1,512 989 52.9 Other 5,7922 5,665 2.2 RWEGroup 70,856 70,726 0.2 1 Converted to full-time positions. 2 Of which 2,271 at RWE IT and 1,406 at RWE Service. business performance99 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Raw	materials	are	sourced	by	our	generation	companies	either	directly	on	the	market,	or	via	 RWESupply	&	Trading.	In	2010,	the	amount	of	hard	coal	procured	to	generate	electricity	totalled	 16.3million	metric	tons	of	hard	coal	unit	(HCU),	compared	to	16.2	million	metric	tons	in	the	previous	 year.	This	includes	coal	for	power	plants	not	owned	by	RWE	that	we	can	deploy	at	our	discretion	on	 the	basis	of	long-term	agreements.	In	the	financial	year	that	just	came	to	a	close,	RWE	Power	sourced	 12.2	million	metric	tons	of	HCU	(previous	year:	10.5	million	metric	tons),	and	RWE	npower	purchased	 2.2	million	metric	tons	(previous	year:	5.2	million	metric	tons).	Essent	accounts	for	1.8	million	metric	 tons	of	HCU	(prior	year:	0.5	million	metric	tons).	Furthermore,	the	company	used	0.8	million	metric	 tons	of	biomass	to	co-fire	at	coal	power	stations	(previous	year:	0.2	million	metric	tons).	The	slight	 increase	in	hard	coal	volumes	is	due	to	the	higher	utilisation	of	our	power	stations	in	Germany	and	 Essents	first-time	inclusion	on	a	twelve-month	basis.	A	counteracting	effect	was	felt	from	the	fact	 that	RWE	npower	largely	met	its	need	by	reducing	inventory.	We	cover	roughly	half	of	coal	demand	 from	our	own	power	plants	in	Germany	from	domestic	production	sources.	Russia	is	RWE	npowers	 major	supplier	region,	and	Essent	procures	two	thirds	of	the	hard	coal	it	uses	from	Colombia.	Biomass	 used	for	the	co-firing	of	our	Dutch	coal	power	plants	is	largely	sourced	from	North	America. RWE	sources	lignite	from	proprietary	opencast	mines.	In	the	Rhineland,	our	main	mining	region,		 we	produced	91	million	metric	tons	of	lignite	in	the	year	under	review	(previous	year:	92	million	 metric	tons).	We	used	80	million	metric	tons	to	generate	electricity	and	11	million	metric	tons	to	 manufacture	refined	products. Our	gas	purchasing	is	pooled	in	RWE	Supply	&	Trading.	In	2010,	our	procurement	volume	amounted	 to	roughly	50	billion	cubic	metres.	About	half	of	it	is	sourced	on	the	basis	of	long-term	take-or-pay	 agreements,	the	conditions	of	which	are	orientated	towards	the	development	of	oil	prices.	We	 concluded	such	supply	agreements	largely	with	companies	in	Russia,	Norway,	the	Netherlands	and	 Germany.	In	addition,	we	buy	gas	on	wholesale	markets,	namely	the	Title	Transfer	Facility	 (Netherlands)	and	the	National	Balancing	Point	(UK).	Approximately	3		%	of	our	gas	purchase	volume	 is	covered	by	in-house	production. 100business performance RWE Annual Report 2010  In fiscal 2010, we spent more on property, plant and equipment than ever before – and paid our  shareholders a large dividend. Our operating cash flow alone would not have been enough to  finance this. Our good creditworthiness enabled us to raise debt at favourable conditions. In  addition, we made use of an innovative financial tool by issuing a hybrid bond. This was the  largest issuance of a security of this type ever placed by a European industrial enterprise. Central financing through RWE AG.	The	RWE	Groups	financing	is	the	responsibility	of	RWE	AG.	 The	corporate	headquarters	does	not	usually	issue	bonds	itself,	instead	transferring	this	task	to	 Netherlands-based	RWEFinance	B.V.	Only	in	specific	cases	do	other	subsidiaries	raise	capital	directly,	 especially	if	it	is	more	advantageous	economically	to	make	use	of	local	credit	and	capital	markets.	 Furthermore,	RWEAG	acts	as	co-ordinator	when	Group	companies	assume	a	liability:	the	company			 decides	on	the	scope	of	warranties	issued	and	letters	of	comfort	signed.	Pooling	these	activities	is	a	 basic	prerequisite	for	managing	and	monitoring	financial	risks	centrally.	Moreover,	this	strengthens	 our	position	when	negotiating	with	banks,	business	partners,	suppliers	and	customers. Substantial financial flexibility.	We	primarily	meet	our	financing	needs	with	the	high	and	stable	cash	 flows	from	our	operating	activities.	In	addition,	we	have	access	to	a	number	of	flexible	financing	 instruments.	One	of	our	major	tools	is	the	Debt	Issuance	Programme	(DIP)	for	long-term	refinancing	 on	the	capital	market.	The	maximum	countervalue	of	the	bonds	that	we	can	issue	through	the	DIP	 totals	30billion.	Last,	but	not	least,	a	commercial	paper	programme	gives	us	a	maximum	of	 US$5billion	in	headroom	for	short-term	financing	on	the	money	market.	0.5	billion	in	RWE	 commercial	paper	was	outstanding	as	of	31	December	2010. A	4.0	billion	credit	line	we	obtained	in	November	2010	serves	as	an	additional	liquidity	reserve.	It	 has	a	tenor	of	an	initial	five	years	and	replaces	two	2.0	billion	lines	of	credit,	which	would	have	 expired	in	October	2011.	RWE	has	the	option	in	2011	and	2012	to	file	for	an	extension	of	the	credit	 line	until	November	2016	and	2017,	respectively. Neither	the	aforementioned	financing	instruments,	nor	the	current	credit	facilities,	contain	specific	 financial	covenants	such	as	interest	coverage,	leverage	or	capitalisation	ratios	that	could	trigger	 actions,	such	as	acceleration	of	repayment,	provision	of	additional	collateral,	or	higher	interest	 payments.	Likewise,	they	do	not	contain	rating	triggers. finanCiaL position and net Worth 1.7 Financial position and net worth101 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  RWE issues hybrid bond with record volume. In September, we issued a hybrid bond with a volume of  1.75 billion. This was the largest and lowest-interest issuance of a security of this type ever placed by  an industrial enterprise in Europe. With an annual coupon of 4.625  % and an issue price of 99.7  %, the  bond drew keen interest from investors. Hybrid bonds are a mix of equity and debt financing. In the  event of insolvency, they are settled only once all of the companys other debt instruments have been  serviced. In exchange, this paper usually has a higher coupon than conventional bonds. RWEs hybrid  bond theoretically has an unlimited tenor. However, we have the right to redeem it for the first time  after five years. Further information on the hybrid bond can be found in the notes on page 195. Total volume of bonds outstanding rises to 18.1 billion. Besides the hybrid bond, we only had  two minor issuances on the capital market in 2010, whereas we redeemed a total of 0.6 billion   in bonds. By 31 December 2010, outstanding paper including the hybrid bond had a value of  18.1billion. This is 1.7 billion more than in the previous year. The bonds are denominated in euros,  sterling, US dollars and Japanese yen. We concluded hedges to manage our currency exposure. Taking  such transactions into account, our debt broke down into 72  % in euros and 28  % in sterling. This  means that we do not have any currency exposure from capital market debt in USdollars or in yen.  Our bonds initial tenors range from 2 to 30 years. Their weighted average remaining term to maturity  at the end of 2010 was 8.1 years. The hybrid bond is not included in this figure. 1.5billion in bonds  are due for repayment in 2011.  Maturity prole of the RWE Groups capital market debt (as of 31 Dec 2010) Maturity  billion year RWE AG/RWE Finance B.V. 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 RWE AG hybrid bond (unlimited tenor, may be redeemed for the rst time in 2015) 102  Financial position and net worth RWE Annual Report 2010  RWEGroupscapitalmarketdebtasof31Dec2010 bymaturity1 2011-2014 2015-2018 2019-2023 from 2024  Nominal volume  billion 5.8 3.9 3.8 2.8 Relative share of total volume of capital market debt % 36 24 23 17 1 Excluding the hybrid bond, which has an unlimited tenor. Net debt rises to 29.0 billion.	Our	net	debt	rose	by	3.2	billion	to	29.0	billion	during	the	2010	 financial	year.	Capital	expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	equipment	played	an	especially	significant	 role,	achieving	a	new	record	high	of	6.4	billion.	The	dividend	payments	of	2.2	billion	also	made	a	 contribution.	In	addition,	provisions	for	nuclear	waste	management	increased	by	0.5	billion.	 Conversely,	cash	provided	by	operating	activities	dampened	the	rise	in	liabilities.	This	also	applies	to	 the	hybrid	bond,	which	was	issued	in	September,	because	in	determining	net	debt,	we	classify	half	of	 the	1.75	billion	in	hybrid	capital	as	equity,	in	line	with	the	procedure	followed	by	the	rating	 agencies.	In	contrast,	our	consolidated	balance	sheet	is	subject	to	International	Financial	Reporting	 Standards	(IFRS),	which	stipulate	that	the	hybrid	capital	be	fully	classified	as	equity. Netdebt  million 31 Dec  2010 31 Dec  2009 +/–  % Cash and cash equivalents 2,476 3,074  19.5 Marketable securities 3,445 3,443 0.1 Other financial assets 1,985 3,247  38.9 Financialassets 7,906 9,764 19.0 Bonds, other notes payable, bank debt, commercial paper 17,572 17,707  0.8 Other financial liabilities 2,238 2,439  8.2 Financialliabilities 19,810 20,146 1.7 Netfinancialdebt 11,904 10,382 14.7 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 3,318 3,281 1.1 Surplus of plan assets over benefit obligations 56 79  29.1 Provisions for nuclear waste management 10,010 9,491 5.5 Mining provisions 2,920 2,712 7.7 Hybrid capital (share of relevance to rating) 880 – – Net assets held for sale  12 – – NetdebtoftheRWEGroup 28,964 25,787 12.3 Financial position and net worth103 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Securing current A rating is a high priority.	Assessments	of	creditworthiness	made	by	independent	 rating	agencies	have	a	substantial	influence	on	a	companys	options	to	raise	capital.	The	better	the	 rating,	the	easier	it	is	to	gain	access	to	international	capital	markets	and	the	better	the	conditions	for	 debt	financing.	Therefore,	we	benefit	from	the	fact	that	the	two	leading	rating	agencies,	Moodys	and	 Standard	&	Poors,	have	given	RWE	high	credit	ratings.	The	following	table	provides	an	overview	of	 our	credit	ratings	at	the	end	of	January	2011: Leverage factor remains at 2.8.	We	manage	our	debt	based	on	recognised	parameters.	One	of	the	 key	figures	is	the	ratio	of	net	debt	to	EBITDA,	which	we	refer	to	as	the	leverage	factor.	This	key	 performance	indicator	is	of	more	informational	value	than	the	debt	total	as	it	reflects	the	companys	 earning	power	and,	in	turn,	the	companys	ability	to	service	the	debt.	In	February	2010,	we	set	 ourselves	the	goal	to	orientate	our	leverage	factor	towards	an	upper	limit	of	3.0.	We	hit	this	target.		 In	the	financial	year	that	just	ended,	it	was	2.8,	matching	the	2009	factor. Cost of debt slightly lower.	In	2010,	our	cost	of	debt	amounted	to	4.9		%.	This	figure	relates	to	the	 RWE	Groups	average	bonds	and	commercial	paper	outstanding,	including	interest	derivatives.	Hybrid	 capital	is	not	considered.	Our	financing	costs	were	marginally	down	on	2009	(5.0		%).	The	bonds	 issued	in	the	fiscal	year	made	a	contribution	to	this,	bearing	a	below-average	interest	rate	of	2.7		%	 (including	hedges). Creditrating Moodys standard & poors Long-term A2 / negative outlook A / negative outlook Short-term p-1 A-1 Cashflowstatement  million 2010 2009 +/–   million Cash flows from operating activities 5,500 5,299 201  of which: changes in working capital  2,349  795  1,554 Cash flows from investing activities  6,683  8,326 1,643 Cash flows from financing activities 638 4,839  4,201 Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates and other changes in value on cash and cash equivalents 6 13  7 Totalnetchangesincashandcashequivalents 539 1,825 2,364 Cash flows from operating activities 5,500 5,299 201 Minus capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and on intangible assets  6,379  5,913  466 Freecashflow 879 614 265 104Financial position and net worth RWE Annual Report 2010  Cash flows from operating activities improved by 4  %.	In	fiscal	2010,	we	generated	5,500	million	in	 cash	flows	from	operating	activities.	This	was	4		%	more	than	in	the	previous	year	(5,299	million).	The	 main	driver	was	the	good	earnings,	whereas	effects	in	working	capital	had	a	counterproductive	 impact.	Cash	outflows	for	investing	activities	totalled	6,683	million.	This	is	the	sum	by	which	our	 cash	outflows	for	investing	activities	(including	changes	in	cash	investments)	exceeded	proceeds	from	 the	disposal	of	assets	and	the	sale	of	companies.	Cash	flows	from	financing	activities	amounted	to	 638million,	despite	the	high	dividend	payment	for	the	2009	financial	year.	They	primarily	stem	from	 the	bond	issuances,	which	had	a	total	volume	of	2.1	billion.	Cash	and	cash	equivalents	declined	by	 539	million	over	the	course	of	the	year. Cash	flows	from	operating	activities,	minus	capital	expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	equipment	and	 intangible	assets,	result	in	free	cash	flow,	which	amounted	to		879	million.	This	was	lower	than	the	 year-earlier	figure,	which	was	already	negative	(	614	million).	It	reflects	our	extensive	investing	 activity. Balancesheetstructure 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009  million %  million % Assets Non-current assets 60,465 65.0 56,563 60.5 Intangible assets 17,350 18.6 17,320 18.5 Property, plant and equipment 32,237 34.6 28,627 30.6 Current assets 32,612 35.0 36,875 39.5 Receivables and other assets1 23,258 25.0 27,396 29.3 Total 93,077 100.0 93,438 100.0 Equityandliabilities Equity 17,417 18.7 13,717 14.7 Non-current liabilities 45,162 48.5 45,633 48.8 Provisions 23,485 25.2 22,315 23.9 Financial liabilities 15,908 17.1 17,019 18.2 Current liabilities 30,498 32.8 34,088 36.5 Other liabilities2 20,881 22.4 25,132 26.9 Total 93,077 100.0 93,438 100.0 1 Including financial accounts receivable, trade accounts receivable, and tax refund claims. 2  Including trade accounts payable and income tax liabilities. Financial position and net worth105 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Balance sheet structure:	equity ratio rises to 18.7  %.	As	of	31	December	2010,	the	RWE	Groups	 balance	sheet	total	amounted	to	93.1	billion.	This	is	0.3	billion	less	than	in	the	preceding	year.	 Major	changes	occurred	with	respect	to	the	derivative	positions:	they	were	each	down	3.3	billion	on	 both	the	equity	and	liabilities	side	of	the	balance	sheet.	Our	financial	accounts	receivable	from	 sureties	(margins	and	collateral)	declined	by	1.3	billion,	whereas	property,	plant	and	equipment	 rose	by	3.6	billion	year	on	year	due	to	our	extensive	investment	activity.	Changes	in	foreign	 exchange	rates	caused	the	balance	sheet	total	to	increase	by	0.7	billion.	In	the	year	being	reviewed,	 the	RWE	Groups	equity	ratio	rose	from	14.7		%	to	18.7		%.	Drivers	were	the	companys	considerable	 earning	power	and	the	issuance	of	the	hybrid	bond.	Equity	and	non-current	liabilities	covered	all	our	 non-current	assets	at	the	balance	sheet	date. 106Financial position and net worth RWE Annual Report 2010  RWE AGs role in the Group.	As	the	management	holding	company	of	the	RWE	Group,	RWE	AG	 handles	central	management	tasks.	Its	economic	situation	is	largely	determined	by	the	subsidiaries	 activities. Financial statements.	RWE	AG	prepares	its	financial	statements	in	compliance	with	the	rules	set	 out	in	the	German	Commercial	Code	and	the	German	Stock	Corporation	Act.	The	rules	of	the		 German	Accounting	Modernisation	Act	(BilMoG)	were	applied	to	the	financial	year	ending	on	 31December2010	for	the	first	time.	Adjustments	to	prior-year	figures	only	reflect	the	change	in	the	 accounting	treatment	of	our	own	shares.	The	financial	statements	are	submitted	to	Bundesanzeiger	 Verlagsgesellschaft	mbH,	Cologne,	Germany,	the	operator	of	the	electronic	Federal	Gazette	 (Bundesanzeiger)	and	published	in	the	electronic	Bundesanzeiger.	They	can	be	ordered	from	us	and	 are	also	available	on	the	internet. notes to the finanCiaL statements   of rWe ag (hoLding Company) 1.8 BalancesheetofRWEAG(abridged)1  million 31 Dec  2010 31 Dec  2009 Non-currentassets Financial assets 39,849 40,039 Currentassets Accounts receivable from affiliated companies 3,950 3,896 Other accounts receivable and other assets 876 778 Marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents 1,679 1,751 Totalassets 46,354 46,464 Equity 8,146 7,493 Provisions 4,851 7,360 Accounts payable to affiliated companies 29,462 29,966 Other liabilities  3,895 1,645 Totalequityandliabilities 46,354 46,464 1 Prior-year figures adjusted. IncomestatementofRWEAG(abridged)  million 2010 2009 Net income from financial assets 3,184 3,662 Net interest   681   1,091 Other income and expenses 1,413 982 Profitfromordinaryactivities 3,916 3,553 Extraordinary income and expenses   1 – Taxes on income   1,397   1,115 Netprofit 2,520 2,438 Profit carried forward – 7 Allocation to retained earnings   653   578 Distributableprofit 1,867 1,867 notes to the financial statements of RWe AG107 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Assets.	The	net	worth	of	RWE	AG	is	determined	by	the	management	of	investments	and	the	 performance	of	management	functions	for	the	Group	companies.	The	holding	company	holds	the	 shares	in	the	Group	companies	and	performs	financing	functions	for	them.	The	presentation	of		 the	assets	changed	due	to	the	new	rules	set	out	in	the	BilMoG.	Accordingly,	assets	used	to	hedge	 pension	obligations	are	set	off	against	the	latter.	In	the	year	under	review,	this	primarily	affected	 non-current	securities.	In	consequence,	assets	were	reduced	by	3.0	billion.	Furthermore,	28.8million	 of	our	own	shares	stated	as	current	assets	with	a	carrying	amount	of	2.0	billion	must	be	directly	set	 off	against	equity.	The	figure	stated	for	the	preceding	year	was	adjusted	accordingly.	The	1.75billion	 hybrid	bond	we	issued	in	September	2010,	which	is	classified	as	debt	in	accordance	with	German	 commercial	law,	was	largely	responsible	for	the	rise	in	other	liabilities. As	of	31	December	2010,	RWE	AGs	equity	ratio	was	17.6%.	It	exceeded	the	previous	years	adjusted	 figure	(16.1%).	0.7	billion	was	transferred	to	retained	earnings. Financial position.	One	of	RWE	AGs	key	tasks	is	to	procure	funds	for	its	subsidiaries	ongoing	business	 activities.	The	subsidiary	RWE	Finance	B.V.	handles	most	of	the	companys	external	refinancing	on	the	 capital	market	by	issuing	bonds	backed	by	RWE	AG.	As	mentioned	earlier,	RWE	AG	issued	a	hybrid	 bond	in	the	financial	year	that	just	ended.	It	has	an	unlimited	tenor	and	RWE	AG	can	redeem	it	for	the	 first	time	after	five	years.	As	of	31	December	2010,	outstanding	bonds	and	commercial	paper	issued	 by	RWE	including	the	hybrid	bond	amounted	to	18.1	billion	and	0.5billion,	respectively.	In	2010,	 RWE	took	out	a	syndicated	credit	line	with	several	banks	for	a	total	of	4.0	billion.	It	has	a	term	of	five	 years	and	replaces	two	tranches,	each	of	which	had	a	volume	of	2.0	billion	and	would	have	expired	in	 October	2011. Earnings position.	RWE	AGs	earnings	are	largely	determined	by	those	achieved	by	its	subsidiaries.	 The	net	profit	generated	in	2010	was	marginally	up	year	on	year.	Income	from	financial	assets,	which	 was	primarily	contributed	by	RWE	Power	as	well	as	the	network	and	sales	companies	in	Germany	and	 Central	Eastern	Europe,	declined	slightly.	Conversely,	net	interest	improved.	This	is	primarily	because,	 pursuant	to	the	BilMoG,	income	from	securities	held	to	hedge	pension	obligations	is	set	off	against	 interest	expenses	associated	with	provisions	for	pensions.	The	Other	income	and	expenses	item	 also	improved,	especially	as	income	tax	apportionments	from	subsidiaries	were	higher	than	in	2009.	 Accordingly,	the	tax	expense	rose	compared	to	2009.	 The	Supervisory	and	Executive	Boards	of	RWE	AG	will	propose	to	the	Annual	General	Meeting	on	 20April	2011	that	a	dividend	of	3.50	per	share	be	paid	for	fiscal	2010.	Relative	to	the	Groups	 recurrent	net	income,	this	results	in	a	payout	ratio	of	50%.	It	is	thus	at	the	low	end	of	the	target	 range	of	50%	to	60%. 108notes to the financial statements of RWe AG RWE Annual Report 2010  Takeover provisions: disclosure in compliance with Secs. 315, Para. 4 and 289, Para. 4   of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and report of the Executive Board in accordance with  Sec.176,Para. 1, Sentence 1 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).	RWE	AGs	subscribed	 capital	remained	unchanged,	consisting	of	523,405,000	no-par-value	common	shares	in	the	name	of	 the	bearer	(93.1%	of	the	subscribed	capital)	and	39,000,000	no-par-value	preferred	shares	in	the	 name	of	the	bearer	without	voting	rights	(6.9%	of	the	subscribed	capital).	The	remaining	rights	and	 obligations	are	determined	by	the	German	Stock	Corporation	Act	(AktG).	Holders	of	non-voting	 preferred	shares	have	a	right	to	a	preferred	share	of	profits	of	0.13	per	share	when	the	distributable	 profit	is	distributed.	The	composition	of	subscribed	capital	and,	above	all,	the	legal	definition	of	the	 non-voting	preferred	shares	issued	by	RWE	are	in	compliance	with	the	provisions	of	the	law	and	of	 the	Articles	of	Incorporation. In	compliance	with	Sec.	21,	Para.	1	of	the	German	Securities	Trading	Act	(WpHG),	on	21	December	 2007,	RW	Energie-Beteiligungsgesellschaft	mbH	&	Co.	KG,	Dortmund,	informed	us	that	it	held	 16.089%	of	RWE	AGs	voting	stock	at	the	time. Executive	Board	members	are	appointed	and	dismissed	in	accordance	with	Secs.	84	et	seq.	of	the	 German	Stock	Corporation	Act	(AktG)	in	connection	with	Sec.	31	of	the	German	Co-Determination	Act	 (MitbestG).	Amendments	to	the	Articles	of	Incorporation	are	made	pursuant	to	Secs.	179	et	seqq.	in	 connection	with	Sec.	16,	Para.	6	of	the	Articles	of	Incorporation	of	RWE	AG.	According	to	Sec.	16,	 Para.	6	of	the	Articles	of	Incorporation,	unless	otherwise	provided	for	by	law	or	in	the	Articles	of	 Incorporation,	the	Annual	General	Meeting	shall	adopt	all	resolutions	with	a	simple	majority	of	the	 votes	cast;	in	so	far	as	a	majority	of	the	capital	stock	represented	is	required,	the	simple	majority	 shall	suffice.	We	thus	made	use	of	the	legal	possibility	of	determining	a	different	capital	majority	for	 amendments	to	the	Articles	of	Incorporation	than	prescribed	by	law.	Amendments	to	the	Articles	of	 Incorporation	that	only	concern	the	wording,	without	changing	content,	may	be	decided	upon	by	the	 Supervisory	Board	(Sec.	10,	Para.	9	of	the	Articles	of	Incorporation). Pursuant	to	the	resolution	passed	by	the	Annual	General	Meeting	on	22	April	2010,	the	company	was	 authorised	to	purchase	shares	of	any	class	in	RWE	until	21	October	2011,	totalling	up	to	10%	of	the	 share	capital.	The	purchase	may	be	limited	to	shares	of	a	single	class.	It	is	at	the	Executive	Boards	 discretion	to	purchase	the	shares	on	the	stock	market	or	by	making	a	public	call	for	shares.	This	can	 be	done	through	the	use	of	put	or	call	options.	The	own	shares	may	then	be	called	in.	If	common	 shares	are	bought	back,	they	can	also	be	transferred	to	third	parties	within	the	scope	of	mergers	or	 acquisitions,	or	sold	in	another	manner.	A	sale	not	conducted	on	the	stock	exchange	or	via	a	tender	 to	all	shareholders	may	only	be	made	in	exchange	for	cash.	Moreover,	the	price	at	the	time	of	sale	 may	not	be	significantly	lower	than	the	stock-market	price	for	common	shares	bearing	the	same	 rights.	Common	shares	bought	back	may	be	used	to	redeem	convertible	and	option	bonds	issued	on	 the	basis	of	the	resolutions	passed	by	the	Annual	General	Meeting	held	on	22	April	2009.	The	 authorisation	may	be	exercised	in	full	or	in	part	and	also	for	partial	amounts. notes to the financial statements of RWe AG109 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Pursuant	to	the	resolution	passed	by	the	Annual	General	Meeting	on	22	April	2009,	the	Executive	 Board	was	authorised	to	issue	option	or	convertible	bonds	until	21	April	2014.	The	bonds	combined	 nominal	value	is	limited	at	6	billion.	The	shareholders	subscription	rights	can	be	waived	if	the	 bonds	are	issued	at	a	price	in	line	with	the	market	and	the	new	shares	do	not	account	for	more	than	 10%	of	the	share	capital.	The	Executive	Board	may	also	waive	the	shareholders	subscription	rights	in	 order	to	avoid	allocation	of	fractions	of	shares	that	would	result	from	the	subscription.	This	can	also	 be	done	in	order	to	offer	the	shares	to	holders	of	earlier	convertible	and	option	bonds	in	a	number	to	 which	they	would	be	entitled	on	conversion	or	exercise	of	the	option	as	shareholders.	Pursuant	to	 Sec.	4,	Para.	3a	and	3b	of	the	Articles	of	Incorporation,	143,975,680	in	conditional	capital,	divided	 among	56,240,500	common	shares	in	the	name	of	the	bearer,	may	be	used	to	exercise	convertible	 and	option	rights. Pursuant	to	Sec.	4,	Para.	2	of	the	Articles	of	Incorporation,	the	Executive	Board	is	authorised	to	in-	 crease	the	companys	capital	stock	with	the	Supervisory	Boards	approval	by	up	to	287,951,360	 until	16	April	2013	either	at	once	or	in	several	increments	through	the	issuance	of	no-par-value	 common	shares	in	the	name	of	the	bearer	in	exchange	for	contributions	in	cash	or	in	kind	(authorised	 capital).	The	shareholders	subscription	rights	can	be	waived	with	the	Supervisory	Boards	approval,	 in	order	to	avoid	allocation	of	fractions	of	shares.	The	subscription	rights	can	also	be	waived	in	order	 to	issue	shares	in	exchange	for	contributions	in	kind	within	the	scope	of	mergers	or	for	the	purpose	 of	acquiring	stakes	in	companies.	Subscription	rights	can	also	be	waived	in	the	event	of	a	cash	capital	 increase	if	the	price	at	which	the	new	shares	are	issued	is	not	significantly	lower	than	the	price	at	 which	shares	outstanding	are	traded	on	the	stock	market,	and	if	the	portion	of	the	capital	stock	 accounted	for	by	the	new	shares,	for	which	subscription	rights	are	waived,	does	not	exceed	10%	in	 total.	The	Executive	Board	shall	be	empowered,	subject	to	the	consent	of	the	Supervisory	Board,	to	 determine	the	further	details	and	conditions	of	the	share	issuance.	Shares	from	authorised	capital	 are	added	to	shares	from	conditional	capital	in	cases	where	they	are	both	issued	waiving	the	 shareholders	subscription	rights.	In	such	cases,	the	capital	stock	may	not	be	increased	by	more	than	 20%	through	the	issuance	of	new	shares. RWE	AGs	syndicated	credit	line	has	a	change	of	control	clause	including	the	following	main	 provisions:	in	the	event	of	a	change	of	control	or	majority	at	RWE,	further	drawings	are	suspended	 until	further	notice	and	the	lenders	shall	enter	into	negotiations	with	us	on	a	continuation	of	the	 credit	line.	Should	an	agreement	with	the	majority	of	the	lenders	not	be	reached	within	30	days	from	 such	a	change	of	control,	the	lenders	shall	cancel	the	line	of	credit.	RWEs	non-subordinated	bonds	 have	a	change	of	control	clause	with	the	following	essential	provisions:	in	the	event	of	a	change	of	 control	in	conjunction	with	a	drop	in	RWE	AGs	credit	rating	below	investment-grade	status,	creditors	 have	the	right	to	demand	that	their	bonds	be	redeemed.	The	redemption	amount	is	calculated	on	the	 basis	of	the	corresponding	bond	conditions.	The	hybrid	bond	has	a	change	of	control	clause	 110notes to the financial statements of RWe AG RWE Annual Report 2010  according	to	which	we	may	fully	cancel	and	redeem	the	hybrid	bond	within	a	defined	change	of	 control	period	in	the	event	of	a	change	of	control.	If	it	is	not	redeemed	and	the	credit	rating	drops	 below	investment-grade	status	during	the	change	of	control	period,	the	rate	of	remuneration	for	the	 hybrid	bond	increases	by	500	basis	points	p.a. Executive	Board	members	have	a	special	right	of	termination	in	the	event	of	a	change	of	control.	On	 execution	of	this	special	right	of	termination,	Executive	Board	members	receive	a	one-off	payment	in	 the	amount	of	the	compensation	due	until	the	end	of	the	duration	of	the	contract	originally	agreed,	 which	shall	correspond	to	at	least	twice	their	total	contractual	annual	compensation	and	shall	not	 correspond	to	more	than	three	times	their	total	contractual	annual	compensation.	This	is	in	line	with	 the	requirements	of	the	German	Corporate	Governance	Code.	Dr.	Jrgen	Gromann	was	granted	this	 special	right	of	termination	before	the	amendment	to	the	German	Corporate	Governance	Code,	which	 took	effect	in	2008.	His	employment	contract	envisages	a	one-off	payment	that	covers	all	of	the	 remuneration	due	until	the	end	of	the	contractual	term	as	well	as	the	sum	contractually	agreed	 instead	of	a	pension	commitment. Furthermore,	in	the	event	of	a	change	of	control,	retained	Executive	Board	bonuses	are	prematurely	 valued	and	possibly	paid.	This	is	done	on	the	basis	of	the	average	bonus-malus	factor	of	the	last	 three	years.	Whether	retained	bonuses	are	paid	out	and	the	amount	of	the	payout	depend	on	this	 factor.	 The	2005	long-term	incentive	plan	(Beat)	and	the	2010	RWE	performance	share	plan	(Beat	2010)	for	 the	Executive	Board	and	executives	of	RWE	AG	and	of	affiliated	companies	include	a	provision	for	a	 change	of	control.	In	such	events,	all	holders	of	performance	shares	receive	a	compensatory	 payment.	The	amount	of	the	compensatory	payment	is	determined	by	multiplying	the	price	paid	for	 RWE	shares	as	part	of	the	takeover	by	the	final	number	of	performance	shares	as	of	the	date	of	the	 takeover	offer,	in	line	with	the	corresponding	plan	conditions. The	authorisation	to	conduct	share	buybacks,	the	authorised	capital,	the	provision	governing	 changes	of	control	over	the	syndicated	credit	line	and	the	RWE	bonds	as	well	as	the	provisions	 effective	in	the	event	of	a	change	of	control	in	the	Executive	Board	members	contracts	as	well	as	in	 the	2005	long-term	incentive	plan	(Beat)	and	the	2010	RWE	performance	share	plan	(Beat	2010)	are	 in	line	with	generally	accepted	German	capital	market	standards. notes to the financial statements of RWe AG111 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Efficient, climate-friendly and intelligent – this is our vision for the energy supply of the future.   Our extensive research and development work contributes to turning this vision into reality.  However, progress in climate protection must not result in setbacks in terms of efficiency or  security of supply. Therefore, we focus on solutions that are comprehensively sustainable,   from the use of carbon dioxide as a raw material and new electricity storage technologies to  electric cars. Research and development costs up 35  %.	Our	research	and	development	(R&D)	is	designed	to	 create	solutions	for	an	environmentally	friendly,	reliable	and	affordable	supply	of	energy,	thereby	 safeguarding	our	competitiveness	over	the	long	term.	This	is	an	area	in	which	we	greatly	rely	on		 our	co-operation	with	partners	in	plant	engineering	and	the	chemical	industry	as	well	as	research	 institutes.	As	a	result,	our	range	of	action	is	larger	than	the	following	figures	might	otherwise	 indicate.	Last	financial	year,	we	spent	149	million	on	R&D,	39	million	more	than	in	2009.	Part	of	 the	reason	for	this	is	that	we	included	Essent,	and	thus	its	R&D	expenditure,	on	a	twelve-month	basis	 for	the	first	time	in	the	year	under	review.	Three	hundred	and	sixty	of	our	employees	were	solely	or	 partially	dedicated	to	R&D	work. Carbon dioxide: from pollutant to commodity.	How	can	we	reconcile	generating	electricity	from	 fossil	fuel	–	especially	coal	–	with	the	goal	of	protecting	the	climate?	An	answer	to	this	question	is	 provided	by	technologies	which	prevent	carbon	dioxide	from	power	plants	entering	into	the	 atmosphere.	What	needs	to	be	done	first	is	to	isolate	the	CO2.	Several	methods	can	be	employed	to	 do	so.	The	most	advanced	technology	by	far	is	the	separation	of	the	carbon	dioxide	from	the	flue	gas	 that	is	produced	when	coal	or	gas	is	combusted.	This	technique	is	known	as	CO2	washing.	We	built	a	 pilot	plant	at	our	Niederauem	site	to	test	it.	Since	2009,	we	have	been	testing	new	CO2	detergents	 for	large-scale	technical	use	there,	together	with	BASF	and	Linde.	The	results	are	promising:	 compared	to	the	substances	commonly	used	today,	the	new	solvents	consume	up	to	20		%	less	energy	 when	isolating	the	carbon	dioxide.	In	addition,	we	have	proven	that	they	withstand	several	wash	 cycles.	We	intend	to	test	additional	detergents	in	a	second	pilot	plant,	which	is	located	at	our	 Aberthaw	power	station	in	the	UK.	Preparations	for	construction	are	underway.	Our	goal	is	to	be	in	a	 position	to	use	CO2	washing	commercially	no	later	than	2020. innovation 1.9 Researchanddevelopment 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 R&D costs  million 149 110 105 74 73 R&D employees 360 350 330 270 273 112Innovation RWE Annual Report 2010  However,	capturing	the	carbon	dioxide	is	only	the	first	step.	In	addition,	the	gas	has	to	be	kept	from	 the	atmosphere	permanently,	for	example	by	storing	it	in	rock	formations	deep	under	the	surface	of	 the	earth.	We	are	looking	into	ways	of	separating	and	storing	carbon	dioxide	in	Eemshaven	 (Netherlands)	where	we	are	building	a	twin-unit	hard	coal-fired	power	plant	with	an	aggregate	 installed	capacity	of	1,560	MW.	We	could	supplement	it	with	a	CO2	separation	demonstration	unit	if	 we	received	support	from	an	EU	subsidy	programme.	In	Germany,	however,	there	is	still	no	legal	 framework	for	the	underground	storage	of	CO2.	Furthermore,	it	has	become	clear	that	it	meets	with	 resistance	from	local	residents.	Against	this	backdrop,	we	are	taking	another	step	forward.	We		 are	investigating	how	to	turn	a	harmful	greenhouse	gas	into	a	valuable	commodity	in	times	of	 increasingly	scarce	resources,	although	the	emission	reduction	potential	of	this	method	is	much	lower	 than	through	storage.	Our	ideas	centre	on	how	CO2	can	be	used	as	a	carbon	building	block	in	the	 fields	of	biotechnology,	chemistry	and	biology.	We	launched	three	co-operation	projects	in	2010		 to	address	this	issue.	The	first	undertaking	was	initiated	by	RWE	Power	in	January	together	with		 the	Hessian	company	BRAIN.	The	task	at	hand	is	to	use	micro-organisms	to	convert	carbon	dioxide		 into	biomass,	bio-plastics	and	chemical	intermediates.	BRAIN	is	a	leader	in	the	field	of	white	 biotechnology,	the	term	used	to	describe	the	use	of	biotechnological	methods	in	industrial	 production.	A	second	project	was	started	by	RWE	Power	in	June	2010	in	conjunction	with	Bayer	and	 the	Institute	for	Technical	and	Macromolecular	Chemistry	at	RWTH	Aachen	University.	In	this	 undertaking,	we	are	looking	into	ways	to	manufacture	plastics	from	CO2.	Germanys	federal	education	 and	research	ministry	(BMBF)	is	subsidising	this	project.	Our	project	list	is	rounded	off	by	the	third	 research	activity	we	initiated	called	CO2RRECT.	The	idea	behind	this	is	that	experts	from	RWE,	Bayer,	 Siemens	and	several	universities	and	research	centres	use	electricity	from	renewable	sources	in	order	 to	produce	hydrogen	through	electrolysis.	In	a	second	step,	the	hydrogen	is	brought	into	contact	 with	CO2.	The	result	is	chemical	intermediates	such	as	carbon	monoxide	and	formic	acid.	In	this	 manner,	carbon	dioxide	can	be	used	as	a	starting	material	for	products	in	daily	use	such	as	CDs.		 This	project	is	also	being	subsidised	by	the	BMBF. More efficient lignite-based electricity generation.	A	serious	disadvantage	in	capturing	CO2	is	 that	it	leads	to	efficiency	drops	in	electricity	generation.	It	is	therefore	all	the	more	important	that		 we	constantly	work	on	raising	the	efficiency	of	our	power	stations.	A	milestone	passed	on	the		 way	to	achieving	this	is	the	demonstration	unit	for	drying	lignite	prior	to	combustion,	which	we	 commissioned	at	our	Niederauem	site	in	2009.	The	method	employed	–	fluidised	bed	drying	with	 integrated	waste	heat	use	–	increases	the	efficiency	of	lignite-based	electricity	generation	by	up	to	 10		%.	RWE	developed	this	technology	and	had	it	patented.	Since	selling	a	license	for	the	use	of	this	 method	in	an	Australian	project,	Linde-KCA-Dresden	GmbH	and	Uhde	Services	GmbH	have	also	 obtained	our	permission	to	employ	the	technology	from	2010	onwards.	We	intend	to	market	it	 worldwide,	which	will	contribute	to	ensuring	that	the	lignite-fired	power	plants	of	other	companies	 also	have	higher	efficiencies	and	lower	emissions. Innovation113 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Energy from the force of the ocean.	Our	R&D	activity	in	the	field	of	electricity	production	also	 addresses	energy	from	renewables.	We	are	taking	various	approaches	in	this	area,	such	as	harnessing	 the	energy	of	the	sea.	In	June	2010,	RWE	Innogy	and	Voith	Hydro	decided	to	build	an	ocean	current	 power	generation	plant	in	the	waters	of	the	Orkney	Islands	(Scotland).	The	joint	venture,	named	Voith	 Hydro	Ocean	Current	Technologies,	will	install	a	marine	tidal	current	turbine	there,	with	an	installed	 capacity	of	1	MW.	We	plan	to	put	it	through	a	two-year	test	so	we	can	gain	important	expertise	 concerning	the	operation	of	this	type	of	plant.	In	addition,	we	want	to	pave	the	way	for	new	methods	 of	using	energy	from	renewables	by	providing	third	parties	with	financial	assistance	for	putting	their	 ideas	into	practice.	Via	the	subsidiary	we	established	in	October	2010,	Innogy	Venture	Capital	GmbH,	 we	acquire	stakes	in	young	companies	working	on	implementing	promising	technologies. RWE plans highly efficient compressed air storage facility. Due	to	the	rapid	rise	in	the	number	of	 wind	turbines	and	solar	panels,	electricity	on	the	system	is	increasingly	influenced	by	weather	 conditions.	However,	the	supply	of	electricity	must	always	meet	demand	in	order	for	the	grid	voltage	 to	remain	stable.	Striking	this	balance	is	becoming	an	ever-more	ambitious	task,	which	cannot	be	 accomplished	without	new	electricity	storage	techniques.	Against	this	backdrop,	RWE	Power	joined	 forces	with	the	German	Aerospace	Centre	as	well	as	General	Electric	Group	and	Zblin	to	develop	key	 components	for	an	innovative	pressurised-air	storage	facility.	If	we	accomplish	this	successfully,	the	 next	step	would	be	to	build	a	demonstration	facility	in	Stafurt	(Saxony-Anhalt).	When	electricity	 supply	is	high,	air	is	compressed	and	forced	into	subterranean	cavities,	where	it	is	stored.	This	 compressed	air	can	be	used	to	generate	electricity	when	needed.	We	plan	to	build	a	demonstration	 plant	capable	of	storing	1,000	MWh	and	an	electric	capacity	of	up	to	200	MW.	It	should	have	an	 efficiency	of	70		%.	We	intend	to	accomplish	this	by	capturing	the	heat	generated	during	the	 compression	process	and	returning	it	to	the	facilitys	energy	cycle.	It	would	be	the	first	time	this	 method	is	used	on	a	large	scale	anywhere	in	the	world. RWE conducts research on the intelligent networking of decentralised electricity sources.	In	the	 energy	world	of	the	past,	electricity	was	fed	into	the	grid	almost	exclusively	by	large-scale	power	 plants,	whereas	the	role	assumed	by	homes	was	limited	to	that	of	consumer.	In	the	meantime,	this	 picture	has	changed.	More	and	more	households	are	equipped	with	solar	panels	and	produce	 electricity	themselves,	feeding	their	surplus	energy	into	the	system.	This	translates	into	additional		 co-ordination	work	for	operators	of	medium	and	low-voltage	networks.	Therefore,	in	the	energy	 world	of	the	future,	smart	grids	will	play	a	key	role.	Networks	of	this	type	feature	new	control	 technology	enabling	a	more	efficient	use	of	their	capacity.	In	the	last	financial	year,	we	gave	the			 go-ahead	for	the	construction	of	such	an	intelligent	electricity	network	in	Bitburg	/Prm	in	Eifel	 County.	The	project	is	being	supported	by	the	German	economics	and	technology	ministry.	It	is		 being	carried	out	by	a	consortium	led	by	RWE	Deutschland	AG,	which	includes	ABB	and	Consentec		 as	well	as	Dortmund	Technical	University,	all	of	which	are	located	in	Germany. 114Innovation RWE Annual Report 2010  Another	step	towards	the	future	consists	of	forming	IT	links	between	small	decentralised	power	 producers	and	users.	Within	the	scope	of	the	EU-subsidised	PowerMatching	City	Hoogkerk	 demonstration	project	in	the	Netherlands,	we	are	testing	the	technical	prerequisites	and	commercial	 impact	of	such	networks.	For	example,	customers	can	consult	price	data	to	determine	when	to	switch	 on	their	washing	machines	or	heat	pumps.	This	brings	demand	for	electricity	more	in	line	with	supply,	 reducing	both	costs	and	system	load.	In	addition,	we	are	testing	a	novel	control	programme,	which	 conveniently	takes	automatic	energy	usage	decisions	for	customers. Charging instead of filling: the mobility of the future.	In	addition	to	smart	grids,	another	integral	 component	of	tomorrows	energy	world	is	electric	cars.	They	are	occasionally	seen	on	Germanys	 roads,	sometimes	bearing	the	RWE	logo.	The	German	government	has	set	itself	the	goal	of	having	a	 million	electric	cars	on	the	countrys	roads	by	2020.	We	are	supporting	this	undertaking	by	setting	up	 and	constantly	refining	a	network	of	charging	stations	with	a	user-friendly	billing	system.	To	 supplement	these	efforts,	we	started	investigating	with	our	partners	Renault,	RWTH	Aachen	 University	and	Aachener	Forschungsgesellschaft	Kraftfahrwesen	mbH	how	suitable	electric	cars	are	 for	commuters.	We	are	examining	how	specific	driving	styles	on	short	routes	affect	the	performance	 of	an	electric	motor.	Beside	technical	aspects,	we	want	to	use	our	study	to	analyse	customer	 acceptance	and	develop	ideas	for	new	products.	Here	again,	we	are	receiving	assistance	from	the	 realm	of	politics,	as	the	project	is	being	subsidised	by	the	German	transport,	building	and	urban	 development	ministry. Innovation115 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Traditionally, the energy sector is considered a crisis-proof industry. Nevertheless, last year, it   also experienced a rise in risks. Uncertain political framework conditions, changing market  structures and fluctuating electricity and fuel prices bring entrepreneurial challenges, making  professional risk management more important than ever. To us, the systematic recording,  assessment and control of risks is a key element of solid business management. It is equally  important to identify – and take advantage of – opportunities. Organisation of risk management in the RWE Group.	Overall	responsibility	for	the	groupwide	risk	 management	system	sits	with	the	Executive	Board	of	RWE	AG.	It	establishes	the	rules	and	minimum	 standards,	defines	the	caps	for	the	aggregated	market	and	credit	risks	and	takes	decisions	on	 transactions	that	can	result	in	substantial	risks. Within	the	scope	of	restructuring	the	RWE	Group,	we	also	refined	the	organisation	of	our	risk	 management.	The	Controlling	/Organisational	Efficiency	Department	within	the	CFOs	mandate	has	 taken	overall	responsibility	for	the	control,	steering	and	co-ordination	of	the	risk	management	system	 since	the	beginning	of	the	2011	financial	year.	This	organisational	unit	regularly	reports	on	the	 Groups	risk	situation	to	the	Executive	Board	and	the	Risk	Management	Committee. The	Risk	Management	Committee	is	in	charge	of	monitoring	and	refining	the	risk	management	 system.	It	is	composed	of	the	heads	of	the	following	RWE	AG	corporate	departments:	Commodity	 Management,	Compliance,	Controlling	/Organisational	Efficiency,	Finance,	Accounting,	Legal	/Board	 Affairs,	Audit	and	Strategy.	The	Committee	is	chaired	by	the	head	of	the	Corporate	Controlling	/ Organisational	Efficiency	Department. In	addition,	the	following	organisational	units	have	been	entrusted	with	corporate	risk	management	 tasks: Commodity	Management,	the	corporate	department	created	in	January	2011,	controls	commodity	 positions.	This	department	reports	to	the	Executive	Board	member	in	charge	of	commercial	 management.	Within	a	framework	determined	by	the	Executive	Board,	it	grants	approvals	for	 hedging	strategies	and	large	commodity	transactions.	In	addition,	it	derives	limits	for	the	commodity	 risks	of	the	operating	companies	from	the	risk	caps	established	by	the	Executive	Board. The	CFO	of	RWE	AG	is	in	charge	of	tracking	and	monitoring	commodity	risks.	In	fulfilling	this	task,	he	 is	assisted	by	the	CFOs	and	managing	directors	in	charge	of	finance	of	our	major	Group	companies.	 The	Risk	Controlling	Unit,	which	belongs	to	the	Controlling	/Organisational	Efficiency	Department,	 establishes	performance	targets	for	risk	measurement,	monitors	commodity	risks	and	reports	on	this	 to	the	Executive	Board.	This	is	how	we	ensure	that	these	risks,	which	are	very	important	to	us,	are	 closely	monitored	and	that	guidelines	are	implemented	uniformly	throughout	the	Group. deveLopment of risks and opportunities 1.10 116Development of risks and opportunities RWE Annual Report 2010  The	controlling	of	the	RWE	Groups	credit	risks	is	handled	by	the	Credit	Risk	Controlling	Unit,	which	 also	belongs	to	the	Controlling	/Organisational	Efficiency	Department. The	operating	management	of	financial	risks	at	the	RWE	AG	level	is	the	responsibility	of	the	Financial	 Controlling	Organisational	Unit,	which	belongs	to	the	Finance	Department.	Its	tasks	include	 reporting	on	currency,	interest	and	liquidity	risks. The	strategic	guidelines	for	the	management	of	our	financial	assets	(including	the	funds	of	RWE	 Pensionstreuhand	e.V.	and	RWE	Pensionsfonds	AG)	are	determined	by	the	Asset	Management	 Committee.	It	evaluates	the	earnings	prospects	and	risks	against	each	other,	selects	suitable	asset	 classes	(bonds,	stocks,	etc.)	and	decides	on	the	allocation	of	the	companys	funds	to	them.	The	 members	of	the	Asset	Management	Committee	are	the	CFO	of	RWE	AG,	the	Head	of	Corporate	 Finance	and	the	CFOs	of	RWE	Power,	RWE	Dea,	RWE	npower,	Lechwerke,	enviaM	and	Swag. Risks	in	financial	reporting	are	monitored	by	RWE	AGs	Corporate	Accounting	Department.	This	 department	also	reports	directly	to	the	CFO.	It	uses	an	internal	control	system,	which	is	described	in	 detail	on	pages	125	et	seq.	In	addition,	the	Corporate	Compliance	Department	focuses	on	ensuring	 compliance	with	RWEs	code	of	conduct	and	the	avoidance	of	corruption	risks.	It	reports	to	the	 President	and	CEO	of	RWE	AG	or,	if	members	of	the	Executive	Board	are	affected,	directly	to	the	 Chairman	of	the	Supervisory	Board	and	the	Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee. Under	the	expert	management	of	the	aforementioned	areas,	our	Group	companies	see	to	it	that	the	 risk	management	guidelines	are	implemented	throughout	the	Group. Risk management as a continuous process.	Risk	management	has	been	integrated	into	our	 operating	workflow	as	a	continuous	process.	In	the	RWE	Group,	risks	and	opportunities,	defined	as	 negative	or	positive	deviations	from	target	figures,	are	identified	and	classified	early	on.	We	evaluate	 risks	according	to	their	probability	of	occurrence	and	damage	potential	and	aggregate	them	at	the	 Group	company	or	Group	level.	Risk	monitoring	covers	the	three-year	horizon	of	our	medium-term	 planning.	However,	it	may	extend	beyond	that	for	material	strategic	risks.	Risks	that	share	the	same	 cause	are	aggregated	to	one	position.	If	a	risk	can	be	reduced,	the	residual	risk	is	reported	together	 with	the	countermeasures	already	taken.	The	damage	potential	is	defined	in	relation	to	the	operating	 result	and	equity	of	the	business	unit	concerned	and	the	Group	as	a	whole.	Using	a	risk	matrix,	the	 corresponding	risks	thus	become	visible	in	terms	of	their	probability	of	occurrence	and	potential	 damage.	We	can	derive	from	this,	among	other	things,	the	need	for	action	with	respect	to	individual	 risks.	Risks	with	a	high	probability	of	occurrence	or	damage	potential	are	mitigated	by	taking	 operational	measures.	Where	necessary,	we	account	for	them	by	taking	precautionary	steps	on	the	 balance	sheet,	e.g.	provisions.	We	evaluate	and	manage	opportunities	as	part	of	our	regular	planning	 process. Development of risks and opportunities117 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  We	prepare	standardised	reports	on	our	risks	and	opportunities	for	our	management	and	supervisory	 committees	on	a	quarterly	basis.	The	Executive	Board	of	RWE	AG	is	immediately	informed	of	 unforeseen	material	changes	to	the	risk	situation.	Our	Group	Audit	Department	regularly	appraises	 the	quality	and	functionality	of	our	risk	management	system.	Nevertheless,	we	cannot	guarantee	 with	absolute	certainty	that	all	relevant	risks	are	identified	and	that	the	controls	work.	For	example,	 human	error	can	never	be	ruled	out	completely. Overall assessment of the risk and opportunity situation by executive management.	As	an	energy	 company,	RWE	is	especially	dependent	on	reliable	political	framework	conditions	in	the	energy	 sector.	However,	these	have	recently	become	more	uncertain,	as	evidenced	by	the	introduction	of	 the	German	nuclear	fuel	tax.	State	budgetary	deficits	are	increasing	the	pressure	on	governments	in	 numerous	European	countries	to	impose	new	burdens	on	companies	such	as	energy	utilities,	which	 are	bound	to	certain	locations.	Substantial	risks	also	exist	in	connection	with	the	extension	of	nuclear	 power	plant	lifetimes	voted	for	by	the	German	Lower	House.	Important	details	which	significantly	 affect	the	profitability	and	continuing	operation	of	our	plants	remain	to	be	clarified.	It	is	also	 uncertain	whether	the	lifetime	extension	is	legally	valid.	In	addition	to	energy	policy,	the	 development	of	supply	and	demand	on	electricity	and	gas	markets	affects	our	earning	power	in	 particular.	Cyclical	influences	as	well	as	changes	in	market	structure	come	to	bear	in	this	respect.	For	 instance,	the	continued	rise	in	the	number	of	wind	turbines	and	solar	panels	is	crowding	out	 conventional	generation.	Changes	in	fuel	prices	can	have	a	substantial	impact	on	earnings	if	 electricity	quotations	do	not	move	accordingly.	We	limit	sudden	market	price	risks	by	selling	forward	 electricity	up	to	three	years	before	it	is	delivered	and	generally	hedging	the	price	of	the	fuel	and	 emission	certificates	needed	to	generate	it	on	conclusion	of	these	forward	transactions.	We	also	 hedge	via	forward	transactions	in	the	gas	business.	Risks	exist	in	this	context,	because	we	purchase	 some	of	our	gas	on	the	basis	of	long-term	contracts	linked	to	the	price	of	oil	and	the	market	price	of	 gas	has	been	decoupled	from	that	of	oil	since	the	middle	of	2009.	In	some	cases,	the	price	of	the	gas	 we	buy	is	higher	than	the	price	we	can	realise	when	we	sell	it	on.	To	obtain	better	purchasing	 conditions,	we	entered	into	contract	renegotiations	with	our	gas	suppliers.	Their	outcome	is	 uncertain.	Despite	this	and	other	imponderables,	there	are	no	identifiable	risks	that	jeopardise	the	 continued	operation	of	RWE	AG	or	the	RWE	Group. Major risk and opportunity categories.	The	following	illustrates	the	risks	and	opportunities	which	 may	have	a	substantial	impact	on	our	asset,	financial	and	earnings	positions.	They	can	be	divided	 among	the	following	categories: 	 Risks and opportunities arising from the volatility of commodity prices:	The	development	of	 	prices	on	commodity	markets	greatly	influences	our	earnings,	especially	in	the	field	of	electricity	 generation.	For	example,	decreasing	electricity	prices	or	rising	fuel	costs	may	lead	to	a	decline	in	 118Development of risks and opportunities RWE Annual Report 2010  generation	margin	contributions	and	reduce	the	value	of	our	power	plants.	RWE	Deas	upstream	 business	is	also	exposed	to	price	risks.	Moreover,	unfavourable	market	developments	can	cause		 our	electricity	and	gas	purchase	prices	to	exceed	the	prices	we	can	realise	through	sales	to		end- customers	and	distributors.	This	primarily	relates	to	those	of	our	gas	procurement	contracts	which	 are	linked	to	the	price	of	oil.	However,	the	aforementioned	risks	are	contrasted	by	the	possibility	 that	the	prices	may	develop	in	RWEs	favour.	We	assess	the	price	risks	to	which	we	are	exposed	on	 the	procurement	and	sales	markets	taking		account	of	current	forward	prices	and	expected	price	 volatility.	Commodity	and	credit	risks	faced	by	generation	and	sales	companies	are	managed	by	 following	hedging	rules	established	by	RWE	AG.	As	already	mentioned,	in	the	generation	business,	 we	limit	risks	by	selling	most	of	our	electricity	early	on,	via	forward	contracts,	and	hedging	the	price	 of	the	required	fuel	and	emission	certificates.	We	also	make	use	of	forward	markets	to	limit	risks	in	 RWEDeas	upstream	business	and	in	RWE	Supply	&	Tradings	midstream	business.	 	 RWE	Supply	&	Trading	plays	a	central	role	when	it	comes	to	managing	commodity	price	risks.	The	 company	is	the	RWE	Groups	interface	to	the	worlds	wholesale	markets	for	energy	and	energy	 	commodities.	It	markets	large	portions	of	the	Groups	generation	position	and	purchases	the	fossil	 fuels	and	CO2	emission	certificates	needed	to	produce	electricity.	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	thus	pools	 the	risk	and	value	added	from	commodity	transactions	for	the	Group	and	combines	the	expertise	 for	these	transactions	centrally.	Its	role	as	internal	transaction	partner	makes	it	easier	for	us	to	limit		 the	earnings	risks	for	the	generation	and	sales		businesses	stemming	from	price	swings	on	energy	 markets.	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	also	uses	commodity	derivatives	to	minimise	risk	in	the		procurement	 and	sales	businesses.	The	trading	activities	are	not	exclusively	orientated	towards		reducing	risks.	 RWESupply	&	Trading	undertakes	proprietary	trading	to	a	strictly	limited	extent	in		order	to	take	 	advantage	of	changes	in	prices	on	energy	markets.	 	 The	RWE	Groups	risk	management	system	for	energy	trading	is	firmly	aligned	with	best		 practice	as	applied	to	the	trading	transactions	of	banks.	Transactions	are	concluded	with	third	 parties	only	if	credit	risks	are	within	approved	limits.	Groupwide	guidelines	provide	structures		 and		processes	for	the	treatment	of	commodity	risks	and	associated	credit	risks.	The	commodity	 	positions	in	our		subsidiaries	are	constantly	monitored,	and	findings	are	reported	to	the	responsible	 committees.	Furthermore,	the	Executive	Board	of	RWE	AG	receives	detailed	updates	on	our	 	consolidated		commodity	risk		positions	on	a	quarterly	basis.	The	Group	companies	inform	the	 	Corporate	Risk		Controlling	Department	about	their		positions,	which	consolidates	them.	This	 	procedure	is	not		followed	for		market	risks		arising	in		connection	with	the	pure	trades	conducted		 by	RWESupply	&	Trading.	Such	risks	are		monitored	daily	and	stated	separately.	 	 Development of risks and opportunities119 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  The	upper	risk	limits	in	the	energy	trading	business	are	set	and	constantly	monitored	by	the	 	Executive	Board	of	RWE	AG.	Among	other	things,	we	calculate	the	Value	at	Risk	(VaR)	to	quantify	 price	risks.	In	principle,	the	VaR	figures	within	the	RWE	Group	are	based	on	a	confidence	interval	of	 95		%	and	a	holding	period	of	one	day.	This	means	that,	with	a	probability	of	95		%,	the	maximum	 daily	loss	does	not	exceed	the	VaR.	Our	central	risk	controlling	parameter	for	the	energy	trading	 	activities	of	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	is	the	Global	VaR,	which	may	not	exceed	40	million.	In	fiscal	 2010,	it	averaged	11	million,	and	the	maximum	was	17	million.	However,	our	risk	analysis	is	not	 only	based	on	the	amount	of	VaR.	We	also	factor	extreme	scenarios	into	stress	tests,		determine	the	 	influence	they	can	have	on	liquidity	and	earnings,	and	take	countermeasures		whenever	the	risks	are	 too	high.	 	 Risks and opportunities resulting from gas procurement contract price renegotiations:	Some	of	 our	gas	purchases	are	based	on	long-term	agreements	linked	to	the	price	of	oil.	However,	gas	 prices	have	been	decoupled	from	the	price	of	oil	on	international	markets	since	the	middle	of	 2009.	As	a	result,	the	gas	we	buy	is	more	expensive	than	at	the	TTF	(Netherlands)	and	NBP	(United	 Kingdom)	trading	hubs,	exposing	us	to	potential	declines	in	margins	and	customer	losses.	This	 primarily	affects	our	German	and	Czech	activities.	To	obtain	better	purchase	conditions,	we	entered	 into	contract	renegotiations	with	our	gas	suppliers,	some	of	which	have	already	turned	into	 arbitration	proceedings.	Their	outcomes	will	have	a	substantial	influence	on	our	medium-term	 earnings.	Our	expectations	are	based	on	detailed	legal	assessments	which	we	carried	out	in	the	 run-up	to	the	renegotiations.	There	is	a	risk	that	the	outcomes	of	the	price	renegotiations	may	lag	 behind	our	expectations.	But	they	may	also	offer	us	the	opportunity	to	enforce	conditions	that	are	 more	favourable	than	assumed	initially.		 	 Legal risks:	The	RWE	Groups	exposure	to	the	constant	change	in	the	political,	legal	and	social	 environment	in	which	it	does	business	can	be	expected	to	have	a	substantial	impact	on	earnings.	 Lignite	and	hard	coal	power	plants	account	for	a	significant	portion	of	our	electricity	generation	 portfolio.	The	costs	we	incur	to	purchase	CO2	certificates	are,	as	a	result,	far	above	the	sector	 average.	In	December	2008,	the	EU	member	states	agreed	that	the	Western	European	electricity	 sector	will	be	allocated	hardly	any	free	certificates	from	2013	onwards.	This	will	cause	our	CO2	 costs	to	be	much	higher	than	in	the	current	trading	period,	which	will	last	until	2012.	We	intend	to	 significantly	reduce	our	specific	carbon	dioxide	emissions	and	make	our	power	generation	portfolio	 more	efficient	through	our	investment	programme.	Furthermore,	we	limit	our	CO2	risk	by	 participating	in	climate-protection	projects	in	developing	and	newly	industrialising	countries	within	 the	scope	of	the	Kyoto	Clean	Development	Mechanism	and	Joint	Implementation	programme.	 Another	measure	involves	the	virtual	swapping	of	power	plant	capacity	with	various	contracting	 parties.	In	addition,	we	conclude	long-term	electricity	supply	agreements,	in	which	the	CO2	price	 risk	is	borne	by	the	customer,	and	purchase	CO2	certificates	for	future	periods	early	on.	 	 120Development of risks and opportunities RWE Annual Report 2010  As	a	utility,	we	plan	our	capital	expenditure	for	periods	extending	over	decades,	making	us	 especially	dependent	on	reliable	political	framework	conditions	in	the	energy	sector.	However,	 there	are	substantial	uncertainties.	In	particular,	this	affects	the	use	of	nuclear	energy	in	Germany.	 As	explained	earlier,	the	new	German	nuclear	fuel	tax	has	considerable	negative	effects	on	our	 earnings,	financial	and	capital	expenditure	planning.	However,	we	believe	that	the	legal	 admissibility	of	such	a	levy	is	fundamentally	questionable.	Substantial	uncertainty	surrounds	the	 German	Lower	Houses	decision	to	extend	the	lifetimes	of	nuclear	power	stations.	For	instance,	the	 additional	safety	requirements	for	the	plants	operation	and	the	investments	required	as	a	result	 have	yet	to	be	determined.	In	addition,	there	is	a	risk	that	the	lifetime	extension	may	be	annulled	if	 it	is	found	that	it	required	approval	from	the	German	Upper	House,	or	because	later	governments	 repeal	it.	Some	opposition	parties	and	federal	states	have	already	announced	that	they	will	file	 suits	against	the	lifetime	extension	at	the	German	Constitutional	Court.		 	 We	are	exposed	to	risks	associated	with	approvals	when	building	and	operating	production	 facilities.	This	particularly	affects	our	opencast	mines	and	power	plants.	If	their	operation	is	 interrupted	or	curtailed,	this	can	result	in	significant	production	and	earnings	shortfalls.	 Furthermore,	there	is	a	danger	of	new-build	projects	either	receiving	late	or	no	approval,	or	of	 granted	approvals	being	withdrawn.	Depending	on	the	construction	progress	made	and	the	 contractual	obligations	to	suppliers,	this	can	have	a	significant	negative	financial	impact.	We	take	 precautionary	measures	against	this	by	preparing	our	applications	for	approval	with	great	care	and	 ensuring	that	approval	processes	are	handled	competently.		 	 In	Germany,	risks	also	arise	from	the	monitoring	of	anti-competitive	pricing	practices,	the	legal	 framework	of	which	became	stricter	at	the	end	of	2007.	The	investigations	into	the	wholesale	 electricity	market	initiated	by	the	German	Federal	Cartel	Office	in	the	spring	of	2009	ended	 without	any	violation	of	antitrust	law	having	been	identified.	Legislative	initiatives	exist	at	national	 and	European	levels	aiming	to	constantly	monitor	electricity	generation	and	wholesale	electricity	 markets,	which	could	result	in	new	transparency	obligations	for	the	companies.		 	 The	incentive-based	regulation	of	our	German	electricity	and	gas	network	companies	in	effect	since	 2009	is	also	associated	with	earnings	risks.	Uncertainty	exists	in	particular	with	respect	to	the	 recognition	of	costs	and	efficiency	figures	for	the	second	regulatory	period.	Irrespective	of	this,	the	 return	on	equity	and	debt	needs	to	be	improved.	Furthermore,	the	influence	of	other	factors	used	 to	calculate	revenue	has	not	been	determined	conclusively.		 Development of risks and opportunities121 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  	 Other legal and arbitration procedures:	Individual	RWE	Group	companies	are	involved	in	litigation	 and	arbitration	proceedings	due	to	their	operations	or	sale	of	companies.	Out-of-court	claims	have	 been	filed	against	some	of	them.	Furthermore,	Group	companies	are	directly	involved	in	various	 procedures	with	public	authorities	or	are	at	least	affected	by	their	results.	However,	we	do	not	 expect	any	material	effects	on	the	RWE	Group.		 	 Conciliation	proceedings	in	connection	with	the	legal	restructuring	of	companies	are	currently	 pending.	They	were	initiated	by	outside	shareholders	in	order	to	examine	the	appropriateness	of	 conversion	ratios	or	cash	compensation.	Since	these	figures	were	calculated	by	independent	 experts,	we	believe	the	associated	risks	are	low.	If	different	legally	enforceable	decisions	are	 reached,	we	will	pay	compensation	to	the	affected	shareholders,	including	those	who	are	not	 directly	involved	in	the	conciliation	proceedings.	 	 Financial risks and opportunities:	The	volatility	of	foreign	exchange	rates,	interest	rates	and	share	 prices	can	also	have	a	significant	effect	on	our	earnings.	The	management	of	financial	risks	is	 governed	by	a	specific	guideline	and	is	the	responsibility	of	the	CFO	of	RWE	AG.	 	 Due	to	our	international	activities,	currency	risk	management	is	very	important.	Group	companies	 are	generally	obliged	to	hedge	their	currency	risks	via	RWE	AG.	The	parent	company	determines	 the	net	financial	position	for	each	currency	and	hedges	it,	if	necessary	with	external	market	 partners.	The	VaR	concept	is	one	of	the	tools	used	to	measure	and	limit	risk.	In	the	year	under	 review,	the	average	VaR	for	RWE	AGs	foreign	currency	position	was	less	than	1	million.	 	 We	also	give	significant	importance	to	the	management	of	interest	rate	risks.	We	differentiate	 between	two	risk	categories.	On	the	one	hand,	rises	in	interest	rates	can	lead	to	reductions	in	the	 price	of	securities	held	by	RWE	AG.	This	primarily	relates	to	fixed-interest	bonds.	On	the	other	 hand,	interest	rate	increases	also	cause	our	financing	costs	to	rise.	The	VaR	for	the	securities	price	 risk	of	our	capital	investments	in	2010	averaged	9	million	(previous	year:	21	million).	We	 measure	the	sensitivity	of	the	interest	expense	with	respect	to	rises	in	market	interest	rates	using	 the	Cash	Flow	at	Risk.	We	apply	a	confidence	level	of	95		%	and	a	holding	period	of	one	year.	The	 Cash	Flow	at	Risk	amounted	to	5	million	at	the	balance	sheet	date.	 	 The	securities	we	hold	in	our	portfolio	include	shares.	The	VaR	for	the	risk	associated	with	changes	 in	share	prices	averaged	11	million	(previous	year:	21	million).	 	 122Development of risks and opportunities RWE Annual Report 2010  Risks	and	opportunities	from	changes	in	the	price	of	securities	are	controlled	by	a	professional	 fund	management	system.	The	Groups	financial	transactions	are	recorded	centrally	using	special	 software	and	monitored	by	RWE	AG.	This	enables	the	balancing	of	risks	across	individual	 companies.	Range	of	action,	responsibilities	and	controls	are	set	out	in	internal	guidelines,	to	 which	our	Group	companies	are	obliged	to	adhere.	 	 Creditworthiness of business partners:	Our	business	relations	with	financial	institutions,	trading	 partners,	customers	and	suppliers	expose	us	to	credit	risks.	We	counter	them	in	part	by	closely	 tracking	the	creditworthiness	of	our	counterparties.	Credit	risk	management	is	governed	by	a	 dedicated	guideline	which	is	valid	throughout	the	Group.	Compliance	with	the	groupwide	 standards	for	measuring	and	managing	credit	risks	established	in	this	guideline	is	monitored	by	the	 Credit	Risk	Controlling	Department.	 	 We	manage	credit	risks	by	setting	limits	and	by	adjusting	them	on	a	timely	basis,	especially	in	the	 event	of	changes	in	creditworthiness.	If	necessary,	we	request	cash	collateral	or	bank	guarantees.	 We	also	take	out	credit	insurance	policies	or	make	use	of	credit	default	swaps	insofar	as	 economically	feasible.	Most	of	the	banks	and	trading	partners	with	which	we	have	credit	 relationships	are	of	good	creditworthiness.	We	determine	their	credit	standing	using	an	internal	 assessment	method.	For	banks,	we	use	external	ratings	and	an	early	warning	indicator,	which	we	 developed	in	light	of	the	financial	market	crisis.	We	sell	a	significant	portion	of	our	electricity	 generation	on	the	exchange.	The	credit	risk	for	these	sales	is	assumed	by	a	clearing	unit.	As	a	rule,	 over-the-counter	trading	transactions	are	concluded	on	the	basis	of	framework	agreements,	e.g.	 those	prescribed	by	the	European	Federation	of	Energy	Traders	(EFET).	In	addition,	we	agree	on	 collateral.	We	measure	the	credit	risks	of	the	energy	trading	and	financial	activities	on	a	daily	basis.	 	 Liquidity risk:	Liquidity	risks	consist	of	the	danger	of	our	liquidity	reserves	no	longer	being	 sufficient	to	meet	financial	obligations	in	a	timely	manner.	At	RWE,	such	obligations	result	above	 all	from	the	refinancing	of	due	financial	liabilities.	Furthermore,	we	must	put	up	collateral	if	trading	 contracts	(e.g.	with	exchanges)	marked	to	market	result	in	a	loss.	We	classify	our	liquidity	risk	as	 low.	The	basis	for	this	is	our	solid	financing.	We	have	strong	cash	flows	from	operating	activities,	 substantial	cash	and	cash	equivalents,	unused	credit	lines,	and	further	financial	latitude	through	 our	Commercial	Paper	and	Debt	Issuance	Programmes	(see	page	101).	Our	careful	planning	 ensures	that	we	are	liquid	at	all	times.	Among	other	things,	we	make	use	of	a	groupwide	 notification	system,	which	records	the	Group	companies	short,	medium	and	long-term	liquidity	 needs.	 Development of risks and opportunities123 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  	 Risks and opportunities associated with corporate strategy:	Decisions	on	capital	expenditure	on	 property,	plant	and	equipment	and	acquisitions	are	associated	with	major	risks	and	opportunities,	 due	to	the	amount	of	capital	employed	and	the	fact	that	it	is	tied	up	long	term.	When	a	company	is	 acquired,	problems	can	arise	in	relation	to	the	integration	of	employees,	processes	and	 technologies.	RWE	has	specific	accountability	provisions	and	approval	processes	in	place	to	 prepare	and	implement	strategic	decisions	concerning	capital	expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	 equipment	and	acquisitions.	Closely	monitoring	both	our	markets	and	competitors	helps	us	record	 strategic	risks	and	opportunities	adequately	and	early	on.	We	are	following	the	situation	in	North	 Africa	closely.	Most	of	our	local	capital	expenditure	is	backed	by	federal	guarantees	against	 political	risks.	 	 Continuity of business activities:	We	operate	technologically	complex	and	interconnected	 production	plants	in	all	parts	of	our	value	chain.	Uninsured	damage	can	be	incurred	by	our	lignite	 mining	equipment,	power	stations,	power	plant	components	and	grids.	There	is	an	increasing	risk	 of	outages	in	our	power	plants	due	to	the	ageing	of	their	components.	In	addition,	the	 construction	of	new	plants	can	be	delayed	due	to	accidents,	faulty	material	or	time-consuming	 approval	procedures.	Our	grid	business	is	exposed	to	the	risk	of	facilities	being	damaged	by	force	 majeure	such	as	severe	weather	conditions.	We	limit	these	risks	through	high	safety	standards	as	 well	as	regular	inspection,	maintenance	and	servicing	work.	If	economically	viable,	we	take	out	 appropriate	insurance	policies.	 	 IT security:	Our	business	processes	are	supported	by	efficient	data	processing	systems.	 Nevertheless,	we	cannot	fully	rule	out	a	lack	of	availability	of	IT	infrastructure	or	a	breach	in	the	 security	of	our	data.	We	mitigate	these	risks	by	applying	high	security	standards	as	well	as	raising	 user	awareness	and	limiting	access	privileges.	In	addition,	we	regularly	invest	in	hardware	and	 software	upgrades.	Our	IT	is	largely	based	on	standards	common	in	the	market.	Its	operations	are	 run	in	modern	data	centres.	We	have	established	a	mandatory	groupwide	process	for	managing	 risks	associated	with	engineering	IT	solutions.	 	 Human resources:	Competition	for	the	best	talent	is	becoming	increasingly	fierce.	To	secure	 and	strengthen	our	position	in	this	area,	when	recruiting	staff,	we	highlight	RWEs	attractiveness		 as	an	employer	and	strive	to	retain	experts	and	executives	over	the	long	term.	In	addition	to	 performance-based	compensation	and	progressive	employee	benefits,	we	put	a	great	deal	of	effort	 124Development of risks and opportunities RWE Annual Report 2010  into	the	varied	prospects	offered	throughout	the	RWE	Group:	trainee	programmes,	cross- disciplinary	career	paths,	assignments	in	various	European	Group	companies	as	well	as	attractive	 continued	education	and	advanced	training	offerings.	We	limit	staff	fluctuation	risks	by	ensuring	 suitable	replacements	are	in	place	and	by	early	succession	planning.	 Report on the Internal Control and Risk Management System – statements in accordance with  Sec.315, Para. 2, No. 5 and Sec. 289, Para. 5 of the German Commercial Code (HGB). Risks	 associated	with	financial	reporting	reflect	the	fact	that	our	annual	and	interim	financial	statements	 may	contain	misrepresentations	that	could	have	a	significant	influence	on	the	decisions	made	by	 their	addressees.	Our	accounting-based	internal	controlling	system	(ICS)	aims	to	detect	potential	 sources	of	error	and	limit	the	resulting	risks.	It	covers	the	financial	reporting	of	the	entire	RWE	Group.	 This	enables	us	to	ensure	with	sufficient	certainty	that	the	parent	company	and	consolidated	 financial	statements	are	prepared	in	compliance	with	statutory	regulations. The	design	of	the	accounting-related	ICS	largely	mirrors	the	organisation	of	our	accounting	and	 financial	reporting	process.	One	of	the	main	features	of	this	process	is	the	control	over	the	Group	 and	its	operating	units.	The	basis	is	provided	by	the	target	parameters	determined	by	the	Executive	 Board	of	RWE	AG.	Building	on	them	and	our	expectations	concerning	the	operating	business	trend,	 we	develop	our	medium-term	budget	once	a	year.	It	includes	the	figures	budgeted	for	the	following	 fiscal	year	as	well	as	the	figures	planned	for	subsequent	years.	We	prepare	forecasts	in	line	with	the	 budget	for	financial	years	underway.	The	Executive	Board	of	RWE	AG	and	the	management	boards	of	 its	major	subsidiaries	convene	once	a	quarter	in	order	to	evaluate	the	interim	and	annual	financial	 statements	and	update	the	forecasts. Accounting	is	mostly	handled	locally.	Occasionally,	this	function	is	performed	by	Group	companies	 for	their	subsidiaries.	Certain	processing	tasks	such	as	payroll	accounting	are	pooled	at	internal	 service	providers	like	RWE	Service	GmbH	or	are	at	least	subject	to	uniform	groupwide	quality	 standards.	As	holding	company,	RWE	AG	performs	central	accounting	tasks.	These	include	 consolidation,	the	accounting	treatment	of	provisions	for	pensions	in	Germany,	and	goodwill	 impairment	tests.	RWE	AG	is	also	in	charge	of	tasks	relating	to	the	management	and	monitoring	of	 financial	instruments,	money	transactions,	cash	investments	and	tax	group	accounting.	External	 service	providers	are	commissioned	in	certain	cases. The	CEOs	and	CFOs	or	the	managing	directors	of	major	subsidiaries	as	well	as	select	RWE	AG	 department	heads	must	take	an	internal	balance-sheet	oath	for	external	half	and	full-year	reporting.	 Development of risks and opportunities125 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Only	then	do	the	members	of	the	Executive	Board	of	RWE	AG	take	an	external	half	and	full-year	 balance-sheet	oath	and	sign	the	responsibility	statement.	Thereby,	they	confirm	that	the	prescribed	 accounting	standards	and	the	RWE	Groups	accounting	guidelines	have	been	adhered	to	and	that	the	 figures	give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	net	assets,	financial	position	and	results	of	operations. We	prepare	our	financial	statements	using	a	groupwide	reporting	system	that	we	also	use	to	prepare	 the	budgets	and	forecasts.	All	fully	consolidated	subsidiaries	use	this	system.	It	forms	the	basis	for	a	 standardised	data	reporting	process	within	the	Group.	The	financial	accounting	systems	are	largely	 maintained	by	RWE	IT	GmbH. We	identify	risks	in	financial	reporting	at	the	divisional	level	on	the	basis	of	quantitative,	qualitative	 and	process-related	criteria.	The	foundations	of	the	ICS	are	our	generally	binding	guidelines	and	 ethical	values,	which	are	also	set	out	in	RWEs	Code	of	Conduct.	Building	on	this,	the	minimum	 requirements	of	the	major	processing	steps	ensure	the	integrity	of	data	collection	and	management.	 The	risks	of	individual	balance-sheet	items	resulting	from	subjective	discretion	or	complex	 transactions	are	recorded	in	a	groupwide	risk	and	control	matrix.	Once	a	year,	we	prove	that	the	 necessary	controls	have	actually	been	implemented	and	carried	out	properly.	This	is	done	by	the	 Internal	Audit	Department,	external	auditors,	or	the	management	in	charge	of	performing	the	 controls. When	in	session,	the	Audit	Committee	of	the	Supervisory	Board	regularly	concerns	itself	with	the	 effectiveness	of	the	accounting-related	ICS.	Once	a	year,	the	CFO	of	RWE	AG	holds	a	presentation	on	 the	risks	of	financial	reporting	before	this	committee.	He	also	explains	which	control	measures	were	 taken	and	how	the	proper	implementation	of	the	controls	was	verified. Our	Group	Audit	Department	is	certified	to	the	International	Standards	for	the	Professional	Practice	of	 Internal	Auditing	of	the	Institute	of	Internal	Auditors	(IIA).	In	organisational	and	disciplinary	matters,	 it	reports	directly	to	the	CEO. Corporate Governance Declaration in accordance with Sec. 289a of the German Commercial Code  (HGB).	The	Executive	Board	of	RWE	Aktiengesellschaft	issued	a	corporate	governance	statement	in	 accordance	with	Sec.	289a	of	the	German	Commercial	Code	on	11	February	2011	and	published	it	on	 the	internet	at	www.rwe.com/corporate-governance-declaration-sec289a-HGB. 126Development of risks and opportunities RWE Annual Report 2010  Whereas the economy continues to recover, the conditions underlying our business are   becoming more difficult. Germanys new nuclear fuel tax and the unfavourable development   of electricity and gas prices will have extremely negative effects in 2011. We expect that our  operating result will be about 20  % below the record level set in 2010. By reducing capital  expenditure, making divestments and cutting more costs, we intend to stabilise our financial   and earnings power. Nevertheless, our medium-term earnings forecast is also cautious. World economy maintains course for growth.	Based	on	initial	forecasts,	global	economic	output	will	 rise	by	more	than	3		%	in	2011,	with	China	remaining	the	economys	engine.	However,	growth	in	that	 country	will	probably	slow,	as	the	government	recently	started	to	pursue	a	less	expansionary	 monetary	and	fiscal	policy.	In	the	Eurozone,	measures	to	consolidate	the	state	budgets	will	dampen	 the	upturn.	However,	given	the	increased	utilisation	of	industrial	capacity,	investing	activity	is	likely	 to	pick	up.	Economic	growth	in	the	Eurozone	may	come	close	to	last	years	level	(1.7		%).	The	 economic	forecast	for	Germany	is	somewhat	better.	The	countrys	council	of	experts	believes	that	a	 gain	of	more	than	2		%	is	possible.	As	a	result,	Germany	would	return	to	the	gross	domestic	product	 achieved	in	2008.	In	addition	to	the	traditional	driving	forces,	consumer	spending	will	also	support	 the	countrys	growth.	The	reasons	are	the	encouraging	employment	trend	and	the	rise	in	 discretionary	income.	Prognoses	for	the	Netherlands	and	Belgium	are	slightly	more	cautious,	with	 growth	anticipated	at	1.5		%.	The	same	applies	to	the	United	Kingdom.	Savings	programmes	 mandated	by	the	state	and	the	increase	in	value-added	tax	will	probably	curtail	consumer	spending.	 Initial	estimates	for	our	Central	Eastern	European	core	markets	indicate	a	continued	recovery.	Poland	 and	the	Czech	Republic	could	achieve	growth	rates	in	excess	of	3		%.	Hungarys	currently	slow	 expansion	is	likely	to	pick	up	slightly. Economy has a positive impact on energy consumption.	The	development	of	energy	usage	will	 probably	benefit	from	the	economys	positive	effects	in	2011	as	well.	We	expect	that	production	 growth	in	Germanys	energy-intensive	sectors	will	normalise	in	single-digit	percentage	territory.		 If	demand	in	the	other	consumption	sectors	remains	stable,	the	need	for	electricity	should	increase	 marginally.	In	the	United	Kingdom,	it	was	on	a	slight	decline	even	before	the	economic	crisis	due		 to	progress	made	in	terms	of	energy	efficiency.	Even	if	industrial	production	expands,	it	is	unlikely		 to	surpass	last	years	level	in	2011.	Our	forecast	for	the	Netherlands	is	similar.	In	contrast,	electricity	 consumption	in	our	Central	Eastern	European	markets	may	rise	by	more	than	2		%.	Given	the	 economys	momentum	in	these	countries,	it	should	grow	considerably	in	the	next	few	years	as	well. Since	demand	for	gas	is	more	dependent	on	temperatures	than	for	electricity,	it	is	subject	to	higher	 fluctuation	and	is	difficult	to	predict.	Excluding	potential	weather-related	effects,	German	gas	usage	 should	be	in	the	order	of	last	year.	Minor	economic	stimulus	is	expected.	However,	the	continued	 expansion	of	renewables	might	reduce	the	utilisation	of	gas	power	plant	capacities.	Gas	consumption	 in	the	Netherlands	is	also	likely	to	stagnate	if	we	exclude	weather-related	effects.	In	the	United	 outLook for 2011 1.11 outlook for 2011127 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Kingdom,	it	could	actually	drop	due	to	measures	to	improve	energy	efficiency.	Conversely,	in	our	 Central	Eastern	European	markets,	we	expect	to	see	marginal	gains.	Besides	cyclical	effects,	the	 mounting	importance	of	gas	over	other	energy	sources	will	play	a	role. Fuel expected to be more expensive than in 2010.	The	price	curve	on	international	crude	oil,	hard	 coal	and	natural	gas	markets	recently	trended	upward.	Dynamic	economic	development	displayed		 by	emerging	countries	such	as	China	and	India	was	the	main	reason.	On	top	of	this,	exceptional	 effects	on	hard	coal	came	to	bear	–	most	notably	the	flood	disaster	in	Australia,	which	brought	 operations	at	numerous	mines	to	a	halt.	On	31	January	2011,	a	metric	ton	of	thermal	hard	coal	cost	 US$122	(including	freight	and	insurance)	in	Rotterdam	spot	trading.	Monthly	forward	prices	through	 to	the	end	of	2011	witnessed	on	that	day	reveal	that	market	participants	expect	the	average	for	the	 year	as	a	whole	to	also	be	around	US$120.	This	would	represent	a	significant	rise	compared	to	2010	 (US$93).	The	situation	on	crude	oil	markets	is	similar.	At	the	end	of	January,	a	barrel	of	Brent	crude	 traded	at	US$98.	The	price	expected	for	the	full	year	is	approximately	US$100,	which	is	also	far	 above	the	2010	level	(US$79).	This	is	due	to	fears	that	the	unrest	in	North	Africa	may	curtail	oil	 supplies.	The	appreciation	of	crude	oil	will	be	reflected	on	the	Continental	European	gas	market		 with	a	time	lag,	resulting	from	the	link	to	oil	prices	in	numerous	import	agreements.	However,	the	 contracts	also	increasingly	take	developments	in	gas	spot	trading	into	account.	Corresponding	 contractual	adjustments	should	dampen	the	rise	in	import	prices.	Gas	quotations	on	Europes	major	 trading	hubs	have	risen	recently,	but	remain	clearly	below	the	price	of	oil-indexed	supply	agreements	 due	to	the	ample	supply	of	gas.	Market	signals	indicate	that	this	situation	may	persist	for	the	rest	of	 the	year.	In	European	trading	of	CO2	emission	allowances,	prices	have	been	moving	sideways	in	a	 narrow	corridor	since	2009.	At	present,	there	are	no	signs	of	prices	rising	above	or	falling	below	the	 corridor. Realised electricity price lower year on year. Quotations	on	electricity	forward	markets	stagnated	 recently,	despite	the	fact	that	fuel	has	become	more	expensive.	However,	we	assume	that	they		 will	rise	if	the	hard	coal	and	natural	gas	price	trends	currently	observed	prove	sustainable.	But	this	 would	not	have	a	notable	effect	on	our	earnings	in	2011,	as	we	have	sold	forward	nearly	all	of	our	 generation	for	this	year.	The	price	we	realised	for	our	German	production	was	below	the	comparable	 figure	of	67	per	MWh	for	2010.	Part	of	our	generation	for	the	years	ahead	has	also	already	been	 placed	on	the	market.	In	Germany,	this	applies	to	over	50		%	of	production	for	2012	and	over	10		%	for	 2013	(as	of	the	end	of	2010).	With	respect	to	forward	sales,	we	generally	purchase	or	hedge	the	 prices	of	the	fuel	required	to	generate	the	electricity	when	we	enter	into	the	agreements.	This	also	 holds	true	for	the	purchase	of	emission	allowances. 128outlook for 2011 RWE Annual Report 2010  Organic growth despite difficult framework conditions.	Climate	protection,	resource	conservation	 and	organic	growth	continue	to	top	our	agenda	as	we	maintain	our	strategic	course,	despite	difficult	 economic	and	political	conditions.	However,	we	will	slow	our	pace	somewhat.	The	burdens	stemming	 from	the	nuclear	fuel	tax	and	the	unfavourable	development	of	electricity	and	gas	prices	will	weigh	 heavily	on	us	in	the	years	to	come.	We	will	scale	back	our	capital	expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	 equipment	somewhat.	Initially,	we	had	budgeted	a	total	of	28	billion	for	the	period	from	2010	to	 2013.	We	have	subsequently	reduced	this	sum	by	about	3	billion,	which	means	that	we	plan	to	 spend	a	total	of	about	18	billion	in	2011	and	the	two	following	years.	Attractive	projects	that	are	 not	urgent	will	be	postponed,	and	we	will	fully	renounce	undertakings	that	only	stand	a	chance	of	 earning	moderate	returns.	The	cuts	will	largely	have	an	impact	after	2011.	Our	ongoing	new-build	 power	plant	projects	remain	unaffected	by	this. Fast pace of expansion of renewable energy and the upstream position.	The	increase	of	our	 generation	capacity	based	on	renewables	will	accelerate	in	the	next	few	years.	RWE	Innogy	will	invest	 an	average	of	1.2	billion	per	annum	on	this	until	2013.	New	offshore	wind	projects	are	the	focal	 point.	The	504	MW	Greater	Gabbard	wind	farm	off	the	UK	coast,	in	which	we	hold	a	stake	of	50		%,		 is	scheduled	for	completion	in	2011.	By	the	end	of	2010,	roughly	half	of	the	140	wind	turbines	had	 already	been	erected.	The	first	set	of	wind	turbines	at	our	German	Nordsee	Ost	project	will	go	online	 in	2012.	The	wind	farm	will	have	an	aggregate	installed	capacity	of	295	MW	when	it	is	completed	in	 2013.	The	576MW	Gwynt	y	Mr	wind	farm	off	the	coast	of	Wales	should	be	fully	commissioned	by	 2014.	We	will	also	expand	our	onshore	wind	power	capacity,	above	all	in	the	United	Kingdom,	Italy	 and	Poland.	Furthermore,	we	are	building	biomass	thermal	power	plants	in	the	UK	and	a	facility	for	 the	manufacture	of	wood	pellets	in	the	USA.	This	course	for	growth	will	also	be	reflected	in	the	 operating	result	of	RWE	Innogy.	We	expect	it	to	post	double-digit	percentage	annual	growth	rates	 until	2013. We	intend	to	increase	our	oil	and	gas	production	to	approximately	70	million	barrels	of	oil	equivalent	 by	2016.	RWE	Dea	will	spend	more	than	3	billion	developing	its	reserves	from	2011	to	2013.	The	 main	areas	in	Europe	are	the	UK	North	Sea	and	the	Norwegian	coast.	In	addition,	we	plan	to	set	aside	 a	large	share	of	capital	expenditure	for	North	Africa.	We	are	therefore	observing	the	regions	political	 situation	with	keen	interest. All eyes still on climate protection.	Lowering	our	carbon	emissions	remains	one	of	our	major	 strategic	goals.	Given	that	we	are	among	Europes	biggest	power	producers,	we	believe	we	shoulder	 a	special	responsibility	in	this	regard.	The	cash	flows	from	our	current	power	plant	activities	give	us	 the	financial	strength	to	manage	the	gradual	conversion	of	our	generation	portfolio	ourselves.	We	 want	to	reduce	our	CO2	exposure	to	the	level	of	an	average	competitor	in	our	markets	by	no	later	 than	2020	by	taking	emissions-reducing	and	financial	measures	(see	page	53).	In	view	of	the	high	 proportion	of	our	portfolio	accounted	for	by	lignite	and	hard	coal-fired	power	stations,	this	is	an	 ambitious	target.	Massive	investments	will	have	to	be	made	to	accomplish	this.	Of	the	just	over	 8billion	we	have	set	aside	for	the	expansion	and	modernisation	of	our	generation	portfolio	until	 outlook for 2011129 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  2013,	over	60		%	is	allocable	to	carbon-free	or	low-carbon	technologies.	The	remaining	expenditure	 has	been	earmarked	for	the	newest	generation	of	coal-fired	power	plants,	the	efficiency	of	which		 is	up	to	30		%	higher	than	that	of	their	predecessors.	Moreover,	we	are	also	spending	capital	on	 CO2reduction	projects	outside	Europe	within	the	scope	of	the	Kyoto	Clean	Development	Mechanism	 and	Joint	Implementation	scheme.	Furthermore,	we	are	looking	into	the	possibility	of	conducting	 virtual	power	plant	swaps	with	other	electricity	generators,	are	concluding	long-term	agreements	 pursuant	to	which	the	customers	bear	the	CO2	risk	for	the	electricity	they	procure,	and	we	purchase	 CO2	certificates	for	future	periods	on	the	wholesale	market. Divesting to preserve financial headroom.	The	acquisition	of	Essent	will	remain	our	biggest	growth	 step	via	a	takeover	in	the	next	few	years.	We	do	not	rule	out	further	acquisitions,	but	if	at	all,	they	 would	be	on	a	much	smaller	scale.	We	are	evaluating	how	to	grow	our	market	share	or	establish	 starting	positions	–	above	all	in	Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe	–	by	taking	interests	in	 established	local	energy	companies.	However,	as	a	rule,	we	only	consider	acquisitions	if	they	meet	our	 financial	criteria.	The	key	yardstick	is	the	internal	rate	of	return	(IRR).	It	must	at	least	match	the	cost	of	 capital	plus	a	return	premium.	However,	the	most	important	items	on	our	agenda	when	it	comes	to	 financing	our	growth	investments	and	safeguarding	our	financial	room	for	manoeuvre	are	divestments.	 By	the	end	of	2013,	we	want	to	have	sold	Group	companies	and	investments	with	a	combined	value	of	 8	billion.	By	divesting	our	long-distance	gas	transmission	operator	Thyssengas	and	our	minority	 interest	in	a	hard	coal-fired	power	plant	in	Rostock,	we	have	already	taken	the	first	few	steps	in	this	 direction. Forecast for 2011: revenue lower year on year.	Our	external	Group	revenue	is	expected	to	be	down	 on	2010.	The	main	reason	is	that	we	anticipate	that	we	will	have	to	switch	the	accounting	treatment	 of	our	electricity	transmission	system	operator,	Amprion,	over	the	course	of	the	year	to	the	equity	 method.	Should	certain	EU	unbundling	regulations	be	translated	into	German	law	in	2011,	we	would	 no	longer	be	able	to	exert	entrepreneurial	control	over	the	company.	Pursuant	to	IFRS,	this	is	a	 prerequisite	for	full	consolidation.	Companies	stated	at	equity	are	not	considered	in	external	 revenue.	They	are	factored	into	EBITDA	and	the	operating	result	based	on	their	net	income. Significant drop in earnings expected.	In	the	current	financial	year,	the	deterioration	of	economic	 and	political	framework	conditions	will	have	a	significant	impact	on	our	earnings.	Whereas	the	 considerable	decline	in	prices	on	wholesale	electricity	markets	compared	to	2008	has	not	had	a	 sizeable	effect	so	far	due	to	our	early	forward	sales,	it	will	cause	margins	to	shrink	markedly	in	2011.	 On	top	of	that,	we	will	be	faced	with	the	burdens	imposed	by	the	nuclear	fuel	tax	introduced	in	 Germany	in	2011.	Charges	in	the	gas	midstream	business	will	again	be	higher	year	on	year.	In	some	 cases,	we	still	have	to	pay	much	more	for	gas	purchases	based	on	oil-indexed	contracts	than	we	can	 realise	when	selling	it	on.	Positive	effects	on	earnings	from	ongoing	contract	renegotiations	with	our	 gas	suppliers	are	expected	to	be	felt	no	earlier	than	2012. 130outlook for 2011 RWE Annual Report 2010  We	anticipate	that	the	RWE	Groups	EBITDA	will	close	some	15		%	down	on	last	years	level	 (10,256million).	The	operating	result	(7,681	million)	is	expected	to	decline	by	approximately	20		%.	 Our	forecast	for	recurrent	net	income	(3,752	million),	the	basis	for	determining	the	dividend,	is	a	 decrease	of	about	30		%. 	 Germany:	From	our	current	perspective,	the	divisions	operating	result	is	anticipated	to	decline	 significantly.	 	 Power	Generation:	The	earnings	drop	predicted	for	the	Germany	Division	will	largely	come	from	 RWE	Power.	We	have	already	sold	forward	nearly	all	of	our	German	generation	for	the	current	year.	 The	realised	price	is	lower	than	the	67	per	MWh	recorded	in	2010.	The	nuclear	fuel	tax	levied	for	 the	first	time	in	2011	and	retrofitting	measures	at	the	Biblis	nuclear	power	station	will	also	lead	to	 earnings	shortfalls.	We	expect	that	nuclear	energy	provisions	will	provide	positive	effects	over	 2010.	 	 Sales	and	Distribution	Networks:	We	also	expect	this	business	area	to	close	with	lower	earnings.		 If	weather	conditions	normalise,	our	earnings	in	the	gas	sales	business	will	fall	short	of	last	years	 high	level.	In	addition,	we	anticipate	that	expenses	incurred	to	improve	network	infrastructure	will	 be	higher.	Conversely,	our	refunds	of	excess	fees	(see	page	88)	will	be	lower	than	in	2010.	 	 Netherlands	/Belgium:	The	operating	result	posted	by	this	division	will	close	the	year	significantly	 down	on	last	years	good	result.	This	is	primarily	because	we	transferred	parts	of	Essents	gas	 midstream	activities	to	RWE	Supply	&	Trading.	In	2010,	these	had	recorded	strong	earnings,	in	part	 due	to	the	cold	weather.	Essents	electricity	generation	is	also	expected	to	make	a	smaller	 contribution	to	earnings,	as	we	anticipate	that	the	margins	of	our	Dutch	gas	and	hard	coal-fired	 power	plants	will	shrink.	In	contrast,	IT	and	staff	cost	savings	will	have	a	positive	impact.	 Outlookfor2011 	million 2010 2011 forecast vs. 2010 External revenue 53,320 Below previous year EBITDA 10,256 Approx.  15% Operating result 7,681 Approx.  20% Germany 5,575 significantly below previous year    Power Generation 4,000 significantly below previous year    Sales and Distribution Networks 1,575 Below previous year Netherlands/Belgium 391 significantly below previous year United Kingdom 272 Above previous year Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe 1,173 significantly below previous year Renewables 72 significantly above previous year Upstream Gas & Oil 305 significantly above previous year Trading/Gas Midstream  21 significantly below previous year Recurrent net income 3,752 Approx.  30% outlook for 2011131 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  	 United	Kingdom:	We	expect	this	division	to	continue	growing	its	operating	result,	in	part	driven		 by	extensive	measures	taken	to	improve	efficiency.	Furthermore,	we	believe	that	margins	in	the	 residential	customer	business	will	recover.	RWE	npower	raised	residential	electricity	and	gas		 tariffs	by	an	average	of	5.1		%	with	effect	from	4	January	2011.	Conversely,	upfront	network		 costs	are	likely	to	rise.	In	addition,	we	expect	to	incur	higher	expenses	for	measures	to	promote	 energy	savings	in	households.	UK	utilities	are	obliged	to	do	this	within	the	scope	of	government	 programmes.	Earnings	in	the	generation	business	are	likely	to	deteriorate	again,	although	the	new	 gas-fired	power	plant	at	Staythorpe	will	contribute	to	our	electricity	production	for	a	full	year	for	 the	first	time.	Due	to	the	current	difficult	market	conditions	in	the	UK,	the	margins	of	our	hard	coal	 and	gas-fired	power	plants	will	probably	be	lower	than	in	2010.	Moreover,	the	high	level	of	capital	 expenditure	will	be	reflected	in	an	increase	in	depreciation.	 	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe:	From	our	current	perspective,	the	operating	result	 achieved	by	this	division	is	likely	to	be	much	lower	than	the	unexpectedly	good	figure	posted	last	 year.	Margins	in	the	Czech	gas	supply	and	gas	storage	businesses	are	expected	to	deteriorate.		 The	earnings	contribution	by	the	Hungarian	electricity	business	is	also	anticipated	to	be	smaller	 than	in	2010.	However,	we	predict	that	in	Poland,	we	will	benefit	from	improved	electricity		 network	margins.	 	 Renewables:	The	progressive	expansion	of	RWE	Innogys	renewable	generation	portfolio	will	add	 to	revenue,	thus	contributing	to	a	significant	improvement	in	the	operating	result.	We	expect	to		 be	able	to	complete	the	construction	of	the	Greater	Gabbard	offshore	wind	farm	over	the	course	of	 the	year.	In	addition,	we	assume	that	weather	conditions	will	normalise,	following	the	extremely	 low	wind	levels	in	2010.	This	would	also	have	a	positive	impact	on	earnings.	A	counteracting	effect	 will	stem	from	the	fact	that	ongoing	and	planned	investment	projects	are	causing	substantial		 run-up	costs.	 	 Upstream	Gas	&	Oil:	RWE	Deas	operating	result	should	improve	significantly,	as	we	anticipate	 being	able	to	realise	higher	oil	and	gas	prices.	Furthermore,	we	expect	that	higher	oil	production	 volume	and	lower	exploration	costs	will	have	a	positive	impact.	However,	our	gas	production	is	 likely	to	remain	below	the	2010	level.	This	is	a	result	of	the	natural	decline	in	production	caused	by	 the	progressive	depletion	of	existing	reserves,	mainly	affecting	gas	fields	in	Germany	and	the	 United	Kingdom.	Anticipated	production	increases	in	Norway	and	Egypt	will	have	a	positive	effect.	 	 Trading	/Gas	Midstream:	We	expect	this	division	to	close	the	year	with	another	operating	loss,	 which	might	be	more	significant	than	in	2010	(	21	million).	This	is	due	to	burdens	in	the	gas	 midstream	business.	As	explained	earlier,	since	2009,	oil-indexed	gas	purchase	prices	have	been	 much	higher	in	some	cases	than	the	sale	prices	realisable	on	the	market.	The	resulting	effects	on	 earnings	will	be	even	more	substantial	in	2011.	We	are	renegotiating	our	procurement	contracts	 with	our	gas	suppliers,	the	outcome	of	which	will	have	a	significant	influence	on	medium-term	 earnings.	However,	most	of	the	decisions	will	probably	not	be	taken	until	2012	or	2013.	We		 expect	that	the	trading	activities	of	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	will	post	a	stable	performance		 compared	to	2010.	 132outlook for 2011 RWE Annual Report 2010  Lower dividend for fiscal 2011.	Our	dividend	proposal	for	fiscal	2011	will	be	in	line	with	our	usual	 payout	ratio	of	50		%	to	60		%.	The	basis	for	calculating	the	dividend	is	recurrent	net	income.	As	set	 out	earlier,	we	expect	the	latter	to	decline	by	approximately	30		%.	Our	dividend	will	therefore	be	 lower	than	the	one	for	2010. Capex of more than 7 billion planned.	Our	capital	expenditure	on	property,	plant	and	equipment	in	 2011	will	amount	to	between	7.0	billion	and	7.5	billion.	This	would	clearly	exceed	the	record	 figure	of	6.4billion	posted	in	2010.	We	plan	to	increase	spending	above	all	in	the	Renewables,	 Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe,	Germany	and	Upstream	Gas	&	Oil	Divisions.	As	before,	the	 focus	of	the	RWE	Groups	investing	activity	in	2011	will	be	the	construction	of	highly	efficient	fossil		 fuel-fired	power	plants,	the	enlargement	of	our	renewable	generation	base,	the	modernisation	of	 network	infrastructure	and	the	development	of	oil	and	gas	fields. Leverage factor: upper limit likely to be exceeded.	Our	net	debt,	which	amounted	to	29.0	billion	at	 the	end	of	2010,	is	expected	to	continue	to	increase	over	the	course	of	the	year	due	to	our	 comprehensive	investment	programme.	We	expect	a	rise	in	the	order	of	1	billion.	This	and	the	 earnings	trend	presented	above	will	cause	the	leverage	factor,	which	reflects	the	ratio	of	net	debt	to	 EBITDA,	to	increase	considerably.	It	will	probably	exceed	the	upper	limit	of	3.0	to	which	we	are	 orientating	ourselves.	We	intend	to	return	the	leverage	factor	closer	to	this	limit	over	the	medium	 term,	in	order	to	secure	our	solid	A	rating.	The	aforementioned	capital	expenditure	cuts	and	 divestments	will	help	us	to	accomplish	this. Headcount: marginal growth expected.	Our	workforce	will	grow	somewhat	in	the	current	financial	 year,	as	a	result	of	our	investment	programme.	Jobs	are	being	created	above	all	in	the	Germany		 and	Renewables	Divisions.	A	counteracting	effect	will	come	from	the	fact	that	we	will	probably	 account	for	Amprion	at	equity	from	2011	onwards	and	therefore	no	longer	consider	the	company	 when	calculating	our	personnel	figures.	In	addition,	the	sale	of	Thyssengas	will	reduce	the	Groups	 workforce. New earnings forecast for 2012 and 2013.	In	February	2010,	we	provided	an	outlook	on	our	 medium-term	earnings	trend.	We	had	anticipated	being	able	to	increase	our	operating	result	and	 recurrent	net	income	by	an	average	of	5		%	per	year	for	the	period	until	2012.	The	baseline	year	for	 this	forecast	was	2008.	Due	to	the	unexpected	deterioration	in	economic	and	political	framework	 conditions,	we	will	not	manage	to	achieve	this	goal.	The	German	nuclear	fuel	tax	and	persistently	low	 prices	on	electricity	and	gas	wholesale	markets	will	curtail	our	earnings	also	beyond	2011.	This	will	 primarily	affect	our	German	electricity	generation	and	the	gas	midstream	business.	In	contrast,	the	 Renewables	and	Upstream	Gas	&	Oil	growth	segments	are	likely	to	continue	their	positive	earnings	 trends.	On	the	whole,	we	expect	that	the	RWE	Groups	operating	result	will	continue	to	decline	in	 2012	and	the	following	year,	albeit	not	as	much	as	in	2011. outlook for 2011133 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Therefore,	we	cannot	uphold	the	outlook	for	2013	we	published	in	February	2010,	either.	We	had	 anticipated	being	able	to	close	with	EBITDA,	an	operating	result	and	recurrent	net	income	up	on	 2009	levels.	Based	on	our	current	planning,	EBITDA	and	the	operating	result	will	be	in	the	order	of	 8billion	and	5	billion	in	2013.	The	figure	we	expect	to	post	in	terms	of	recurrent	net	income	is	 approximately	2	billion.	In	2013,	earnings	in	the	electricity	generation	business	will	again	worsen	 considerably	year	on	year,	because	we	will	no	longer	be	allocated	any	CO2	emission	allowances	free	 of	charge.	The	expected	earnings	growth	in	the	Renewables	and	Upstream	Gas	&	Oil	Divisions	will		 not	be	able	to	compensate	for	this.	We	anticipate	that	RWE	Innogys	operating	result	will	reach	 500million	after	2013,	the	year	originally	scheduled.	Our	planned	8	billion	in	divestments	have	 already	been	considered	in	the	forecast	for	2012	/2013. Dividend remains attractive.	We	uphold	our	payout	ratio	of	50		%	to	60		%	over	the	medium	term	 as	well.	This	means	that	we	still	want	to	pay	out	at	least	half	our	recurrent	net	income	to	our	 shareholders.	RWE	will	therefore	continue	to	pay	an	attractive	dividend. 134outlook for 2011 RWE Annual Report 2010  135 2.0 our responsiBiLity oUR ResPonsIbILIty  In	fiscal	2010,	the	Supervisory	Board	fulfilled	all	of	the	duties	imposed	on	it	by	German	law	and	the	 companys	Articles	of	Incorporation.	We	regularly	advised	the	Executive	Board	on	running	the	 company	and	monitored	its	measures.	In	so	doing,	we	were	consulted	on	all	fundamental	decisions.	 The	Executive	Board	informed	us	of	all	the	material	aspects	of	business	developments,	major	events	 and	transactions	regularly,	extensively	and	in	a	timely	manner,	both	in	writing	and	verbally.	We	were	 kept	abreast	of	the	earnings	situation,	risks	and	risk	management	in	an	equally	thorough	manner. The	Supervisory	Board	convened	four	ordinary	meetings	in	the	year	under	review.	None	of	the	Board	 members	attended	less	than	half	of	the	meetings.	The	average	participation	rate	was	95		%.	We	took	 our	decisions	on	the	basis	of	detailed	reports	and	draft	resolutions	submitted	by	the	Executive	Board.	 We	were	also	informed	of	projects	and	transactions	of	special	importance	or	urgency	between	 meetings.	The	Supervisory	Board	passed	the	resolutions	required	of	it	by	law	or	the	Articles	of	 Incorporation.	Where	necessary,	it	also	did	so	when	in	session.	As	Chairman	of	the	Supervisory	 Board,	I	was	constantly	in	touch	with	the	Chairman	of	the	Executive	Board	in	order	to	immediately	 discuss	events	of	material	importance	to	the	RWE	Groups	situation	and	development. Main points of debate.	One	of	the	central	topics	of	our	consultations	in	fiscal	2010	were	the	 developments	on	the	international	gas	market	and	German	energy	policy.	Extensive	debates	were	 held	on	the	extension	of	nuclear	power	plant	lifetimes	and	the	introduction	of	a	tax	on	nuclear	fuel,	 as	these	measures	have	significant	influence	on	the	RWE	Groups	earnings.	The	Executive	Board	 informed	us	about	these	steps	in	detail	and	analysed	their	implications.	In	addition,	we	repeatedly	 concerned	ourselves	with	the	Groups	new	organisational	structure,	the	status	of	new-build	power	 plant	projects	and	financing	activities.	We	closely	monitored	the	establishment	of	RWETechnology,	 the	progress	of	RWE	Innogys	projects	and	the	integration	of	Essent,	which	was	acquired	in	2009,	 into	the	RWE	Group. The	Supervisory	Board	also	held	in-depth	debates	on	the	German	Act	on	the	Appropriateness	of	 Management	Board	Compensation	(VorstAG),	which	entered	into	force	in	August	2009,	and	on	its	 effects	on	the	company.	Due	to	the	VorstAG,	it	became	necessary	to	make	adjustments	to	the	 Executive	Board	compensation	system,	for	which	the	Supervisory	Board	passed	a	resolution	at	its	 meeting	on	23	February	2010.	 	 Need	for	action	also	arose	from	the	German	Accounting	Modernisation	Act	(BilMoG),	which		 took	effect	on	29	May	2009.	The	BilMoG	tightened	the	requirements	for	the	qualification	of	the	 supervisory	boards	of	listed	corporations.	Pursuant	to	Sec.	100,	Para.	5	of	the	German	Stock	 Corporation	Act	(AktG),	at	least	one	independent	individual	possessing	expertise	in	the	field	of	 accounting	or	financial	statement	audits	must	be	appointed	to	the	supervisory	board.	In	its	February	 session,	the	Supervisory	Board	designated	Mr.	von	Boehm-Bezing	as	its	independent	financial	expert.	 2.1 supervisory Board report RWE Annual Report 2010 136supervisory board report  By	introducing	the	BilMoG,	the	German	legislator	defined	the	requirements	to	be	fulfilled	with	 respect	to	the	establishment	and	activity	of	an	audit	committee.	To	do	even	better	justice	to	these	 requirements,	we	adapted	the	Supervisory	Boards	bylaws	at	our	September	meeting. Supervisory	Board	members	disclosed	potential	conflicts	of	interest	in	some	cases	in	the	period	 under	review.	In	one	case,	this	led	to	the	Supervisory	Board	member	in	question	abstaining	from	 influencing	the	relevant	debates	and	refraining	from	casting	a	vote	during	the	passage	of	the	 corresponding	resolution. The	Executive	Board	regularly	informed	us	of	the	revenue	and	earnings,	measures	to	reduce	costs,	 and	price	developments	on	energy	markets.	In	our	session	on	17	December	2010,	following	in-depth	 consultations,	we	adopted	the	Executive	Boards	planning	for	2011	and	the	forecast	for	2012	and	 2013.	We	received	detailed	commentary	in	cases	where	there	were	deviations	from	plans	and	goals	 established	previously. Committees.	The	Supervisory	Board	has	five	committees.	Their	members	are	listed	on	page	235.	 These	committees	are	charged	with	preparing	issues	and	resolutions	of	the	Supervisory	Board	 meetings.	In	certain	cases,	they	exert	decision-making	powers	conferred	on	them	by	the	Supervisory	 Board.	The	committee	chairmen	regularly	informed	the	Supervisory	Board	of	their	work. Dr. Manfred Schneider, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of RWE AG. supervisory board report137 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  The	Executive Committee	convened	two	ordinary	meetings	in	the	2010	financial	year.	Among	other	 things,	it	did	preparatory	work	for	the	Supervisory	Board	debates	concerning	the	2009	financial	 statements	of	RWE	Aktiengesellschaft	and	the	Group,	as	well	as	the	planning	for	fiscal	2011	and	 forecasts	for	2012	and	2013. The	Audit Committee	convened	five	times.	It	discussed	the	quarterly	financial	reports,	the	financial	 statements	for	the	first	half	and	the	annual	financial	statements	at	length.	In	addition,	it	prepared	 the	award	of	the	audit	contract	to	the	independent	auditor,	including	the	priorities	of	the	audit	and	 the	fee	agreement.	Special	attention	was	also	paid	to	the	Groups	risk	management	and	the	 accounting-related	internal	controlling	system.	Furthermore,	the	committee	dealt	with	compliance	 issues	and	the	audit	results	of	the	internal	audit	department	as	well	as	its	audit	schedule.	Further	 topics	of	debate	in	fiscal	2010	were	the	implementation	of	the	BilMoG	in	accounting	terms,	the	 internal	control	system	of	RWE	Supply	&	Trading,	the	implementation	of	the	capital	expenditure	 programme,	as	well	as	the	economic	development	of	Essent	and	its	integration	into	the	Group. The	annual	and	interim	financial	statements	were	each	discussed	at	length	with	the	Executive	Board	 and	the	independent	auditor	before	they	were	published.	The	independent	auditor	was	present	at	all	 of	the	Committee	meetings,	participated	in	the	debates,	and	reported	on	his	audit	and	/or	his	audit- like	review. The	Personnel Affairs Committee	held	three	meetings.	Debates	primarily	addressed	the	 compensation	system,	the	amount	of	Executive	Board	remuneration,	the	company	pension	scheme		 as	well	as	the	new	requirements	of	the	German	Act	on	the	Appropriateness	of	Management	Board	 Compensation	(VorstAG).	Furthermore,	the	Committee	prepared	the	Supervisory	Boards	personnel- related	decisions. The	Nomination Committee	was	in	session	once,	in	order	to	prepare	the	appointment	of	 Dr.	Wolfgang	Schssel	to	the	Supervisory	Board.	A	focal	point	of	the	committees	work	in-between	 sessions	was	the	identification	of	suitable	candidates	for	potential	replacements	on	the	Supervisory	 Board. In	the	financial	year	that	just	ended,	there	was	no	reason	to	convene	the	Mediation Committee,	 which	complies	with	Sec.	27,	Para.	3	of	the	German	Co-Determination	Act	(MitbestG). Financial statements for fiscal 2010.	The	financial	statements	of	RWE	Aktiengesellschaft,	which	 were	prepared	by	the	Executive	Board	in	compliance	with	the	German	Commercial	Code	(HGB),	the	 financial	statements	of	the	Group,	which	were	prepared	in	compliance	with	International	Financial	 Reporting	Standards	(IFRSs)	pursuant	to	Sec.	315a	of	the	German	Commercial	Code	(HGB),	the	 combined	review	of	operations	for	RWE	Aktiengesellschaft	and	the	Group,	and	the	accounts	were	 scrutinised	by	PricewaterhouseCoopers	Aktiengesellschaft	Wirtschaftsprfungsgesellschaft	and		 were	issued	an	unqualified	auditors	opinion.	In	addition,	the	independent	auditor	found	that	the	 Executive	Board	had	established	an	appropriate	early	risk	detection	system.	The	auditors	were	 RWE Annual Report 2010 138supervisory board report  elected	by	the	Annual	General	Meeting	on	22	April	2010	and	commissioned	by	the	Supervisory	Board	 to	audit	the	financial	statements	of	RWE	AG	and	the	Group.	Documents	supporting	the	annual	 financial	statements,	the	annual	report	and	the	auditors	report	were	submitted	to	all	the	members	 of	the	Supervisory	Board	in	good	time.	The	Executive	Board	also	commented	orally	on	the	documents	 in	the	Supervisory	Boards	balance	sheet	meeting	of	22	February	2011.	The	responsible	independent	 auditors	reported	at	this	meeting	on	the	material	results	of	the	audit	and	were	available	to	provide	 supplementary	information.	The	Audit	Committee	had	previously	concerned	itself	in	depth	with	the	 financial	statements	of	RWE	Aktiengesellschaft	and	the	Group,	as	well	as	audit	reports,	during	its	 meeting	on	21	February	2011,	with	the	auditor	present.	It	recommended	that	the	Supervisory	Board	 approve	the	financial	statements	as	well	as	the	appropriation	of	profits	proposed	by	the	Executive	 Board. The	Supervisory	Board	thoroughly	reviewed	the	financial	statements	of	RWE	Aktiengesellschaft		 and	the	Group,	the	combined	review	of	operations	for	RWE	Aktiengesellschaft	and	the	Group,		 and	the	proposed	appropriation	of	distributable	profit.	No	objections	were	raised	as	a	result	of		 this	review.	As	recommended	by	the	Audit	Committee,	the	Supervisory	Board	approved	the		 auditors	results	of	the	audit	of	both	financial	statements	and	adopted	the	financial	statements	of	 RWEAktiengesellschaft	and	the	Group	for	the	period	ending	31	December	2010.	The	2010	annual	 financial	statements	are	thus	adopted.	The	Supervisory	Board	concurs	with	the	appropriation	of	 profits	proposed	by	the	Executive	Board,	which	envisages	a	dividend	payment	of	3.50	per	share. Changes in personnel on the Supervisory and Executive Boards.	With	effect	from	1	February	2010,	 Frithjof	Khn	was	appointed	to	succeed	Heinz-Eberhard	Holl	as	member	of	the	Supervisory	Board	by	 court	decree.	Furthermore,	as	of	1	March	2010,	Dr.	Wolfgang	Schssel	was	appointed	by	court	 decree	successor	to	Dr.	Thomas	Fischer	as	member	of	the	Supervisory	Board. Dr.	Ulrich	Jobs	retired	from	the	companys	Executive	Board	with	effect	from	the	end	of	the	day	of	 30September	2010.	On	behalf	of	the	Supervisory	Board,	I	would	like	to	take	this	opportunity	to	 thank	him	again	for	all	the	work	he	has	done	over	the	years. I	thank	the	RWE	Executive	Board	and	all	the	Groups	employees	for	the	work	they	did	in	the	financial	 year	that	just	came	to	a	close.	Their	dedication	and	expertise	made	a	decisive	contribution	to	the	 companys	commercial	success. On	behalf	of	the	Supervisory	Board	 Dr.	Manfred	Schneider	 Chairman	 Essen,	22	February	2011 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information supervisory board report139  Responsible and transparent corporate governance is one of the cornerstones of our sustained  success. Our guiding principle is always the most up-to-date version of the German Corporate  Governance Code, which was introduced in 2002. In recent years, we have always issued an  unconditional statement of compliance. New recommendations were included in the Code in   May 2010, and we intend to continue complying with them entirely in the future. The German Corporate Governance Code. Corporate	governance	defines	the	responsible	and	 transparent	management	and	monitoring	of	a	company,	focused	on	long-term	commercial	success.	 RWE	allows	itself	to	be	judged	by	this.	We	use	the	recommendations	of	the	German	Corporate	 Governance	Code	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	Code)	as	the	main	benchmark	for	this.	The	Code	 aims	to	increase	the	confidence	placed	by	domestic	and	international	investors,	customers,	employees	 and	the	public	in	German	listed	companies.	The	Government	Commission	of	the	German	Corporate	 Governance	Code	submitted	the	first	version	of	the	Code	in	February	2002.	Since	then,	the	 Commission	has	reviewed	the	Code	every	year	against	the	backdrop	of	domestic	and	international	 developments	and	adapted	it	whenever	necessary. New Code recommendations. The	German	Corporate	Governance	Code	was	again	refined	last	year.	In	 its	plenary	session	on	26	May	2010,	the	Government	Commission	added	various	details	to	the	 diversity	recommendations	for	management	and	supervisory	board	members.	In	addition,	new	 recommendations	were	adopted	in	order	to	render	supervisory	boards	more	professionally	qualified.	 The	new	version	of	the	Code	was	announced	in	the	electronic	edition	of	the	German	Federal	Gazette	 on	2	July	2010. 	 Diversity in supervisory and management boards.	The	recommendation	concerning	diversity	in	 German	supervisory	boards	(Item	5.4.1)	was	amended	to	require	supervisory	boards	to	establish	 specific	goals	regarding	their	composition.	Taking	into	account	the	companys	situation,	the	 objectives	must	consider	the	companys	international	activity,	potential	conflicts	of	interest	of	the	 supervisory	board	members	and	diversity,	as	well	as	specifying	an	age	limit.	In	particular,	women	 are	to	be	represented	appropriately.	The	Code	further	recommends	that	companies	report	on	their	 goals	concerning	the	composition	of	their	supervisory	boards	and	the	status	of	their	implementation	 in	future	corporate	governance	reports	(cf.	Item	5.4.1,	Para	3).	With	respect	to	the	staffing	of	 management	boards,	supervisory	boards	are	to	ensure	compliance	with	diversity	requirements,	with	 due	regard	to	the	appropriate	representation	of	women	(Item	5.1.2).	The	same	recommendation	 was	issued	to	management	boards	in	relation	to	the	staffing	of	management	positions	(Item	4.1.5).	 	 Rendering supervisory boards more professional.	In	addition	to	the	focus	on	diversity,	Code	 amendments	also	dealt	with	the	qualifications	of	supervisory	board	members.	The	statutory	 obligation	for	supervisory	board	members	to	independently	implement	the	continued	education	 and	advanced	training	measures	necessary	to	perform	their	duties	was	included	in	the	Code,	in	 order	to	emphasise	the	importance	of	such	measures.	The	new	rule	also	requires	companies	to	 provide	the	board	members	with	adequate	support	in	this	context	(Item	5.4.1,	Para.	4).	Pursuant	to	 another	recommendation,	supervisory	board	members	sitting	on	the	management	board	of	a	listed	 company	may	exercise	no	more	than	three	mandates	in	listed	companies	outside	their	group	of	 Corporate governanCe 2.2 140Corporate governance RWE Annual Report 2010  companies.	In	the	future,	the	limitation	will	be	expanded	to	include	mandates	in	supervisory	bodies	 of	companies,	subject	to	comparable	requirements	(Item	5.4.5). RWE	welcomes	the	Codes	new	diversity	recommendations,	but	has	complied	with	them	only	to	a	 limited	extent	so	far.	Another	recommendation	that	we	did	not	fully	adhere	to	for	a	certain	time	 relates	to	the	cap	on	the	number	of	supervisory	board	mandates.	Additional	commentary	on	the	 deviations	has	been	provided	in	the	statement	of	compliance	(see	below).	Otherwise,	we	comply	with	 all	of	the	recommendations	of	the	current	version	of	the	Code	and	take	up	its	suggestions,	with	a	few	 exceptions. Our	listed	Group	company	Lechwerke	AG	is	also	putting	the	Code	into	practice.	However,	the	specifics	 of	membership	in	the	Group	must	be	taken	into	account	in	this	context.	Lechwerke	AG	has	included	 information	on	the	deviations	from	the	Codes	recommendations	in	its	statement	of	compliance. Directors dealings and potential conflicts of interest.	Transparency	is	a	core	element	of	good	 corporate	governance.	It	is	indispensable,	especially	in	cases	where	transactions	concluded	by	the	 Executive	Board	may	lead	to	conflicts	of	interest.	We	would	like	to	highlight	the	following	aspects	of	 RWEs	corporate	governance	practice: 	 Material	transactions	concluded	between	RWE	or	a	Group	company	and	an	Executive	Board	member	 or	related	party	were	in	line	with	prevailing	market	standards.	No	conflicts	of	interest	of	members	of	 the	Executive	Board	going	above	and	beyond	this	were	notified.	No	Supervisory	Board	member	 concluded	a	contract	with	RWE	AG. 	 Executive	Board	members,	related	parties	and	one	member	of	the	Supervisory	Board	purchased	RWE	 shares	in	the	year	under	review.	No	sales	were	notified	to	us.	We	published	information	on	 transactions	notified	to	us	in	accordance	with	Sec.	15a	of	the	German	Stock	Corporation	Act	(WpHG)	 throughout	Europe.	 The	RWE	shares	and	related	financial	instruments	directly	or	indirectly	held	by	members	of	the	 Executive	and	Supervisory	Boards	account	for	less	than	1		%	of	the	shares	issued	by	RWE. We	publish	further	information	on	our	corporate	governance	practices	on	the	internet	at		 www.rwe.com	/investorrelations.	This	web	page	also	provides	access	to	our	Articles	of	Incorporation,	 the	bylaws	of	the	Supervisory	Board	and	the	Executive	Board,	RWEs	code	of	conduct,	all	the	corporate	 governance	reports	and	statements	of	compliance	as	well	as	the	corporate	governance	declaration	in	 accordance	with	Sec.	289a	of	the	German	Commercial	Code. Statement of compliance in accordance with Sec. 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act.	After	an	 orderly	audit,	the	Executive	and	Supervisory	Boards	of	RWE	AG	issued	the	following	declaration	of	 compliance: Since	its	last	statement	of	compliance	on	23	February	2010	and	until	2	July	2010,	 RWEAktiengesellschaft	complied	with	all	of	the	recommendations	of	the	Government	Commission		 of	the	German	Corporate	Governance	Code	issued	in	the	5	August	2009	version	of	the	Code.	Since	 Corporate governance141 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  3July	2010,	RWE	Aktiengesellschaft	has	complied	with	all	of	the	recommendations	of	the	version		 of	the	Code	issued	on	2	July	2010,	with	the	following	exceptions: 	 The	diversity	recommendations	set	out	in	Item	5.1.2,	Sentence	1	and	Item	5.4.1,	Paras.	2	and	3	are	 not	being	fully	complied	with	at	present.	Ensuring	diversity	is	already	common	practice	throughout	 the	Group.	Among	other	things,	we	have	had	diversity	programmes	tailored	to	increase	the	share		 of	women	in	managerial	positions	for	quite	a	while.	However,	an	overall	concept	for	achieving	 diversity	goals	when	staffing	the	Executive	Board	is	yet	to	be	created.	The	same	applies	to	the	 staffing	of	the	Supervisory	Board.	As	before,	the	Nomination	Committee	and	the	plenary	session	of	 the	Supervisory	Board	considered	the	issue	of	diversity,	RWEs	international	operations,	potential	 conflicts	of	interest,	and	the	established	age	limit	for	Supervisory	Board	members	when	selecting	 the	candidates	for	the	election	of	the	shareholder	representatives	scheduled	for	20	April	2011.	 However,	no	specific	goals	existed	that	could	have	been	considered	or	presented	in	the	Annual	 Report,	and	they	are	still	yet	to	be	established.	The	Supervisory	Board	of	RWE	AG	is	of	the	opinion	 that	creating	an	overall	concept	for	the	diversity	of	members	of	the	Executive	and	Supervisory	 Boards	and	determining	specific	goals	regarding	the	composition	of	the	Supervisory	Board	requires	 extensive	preparatory	work	and	in-depth	discussions,	which	should	be	left	to	the	Supervisory	Board,	 which	will	have	been	recomposed	after	this	years	Annual	General	Meeting.	Only	in	this	manner	can	 one	ensure	that	all	material	aspects	be	considered	and	that	both	the	concept	and	the	goals	prove	 themselves	in	practice.	In	the	current	financial	year,	the	Supervisory	Board	will	deal	with	the	issue	 extensively	and	provide	information	in	accordance	with	statutory	regulations	on	any	corresponding	 adjustments	to	RWEs	corporate	governance.	 	 RWE	Aktiengesellschaft	followed	the	recommendation	in	Item	5.4.5	to	a	limited	extent	from	 3July2010	to	21	January	2011.	Until	the	end	of	this	period,	Dr.	Ekkehard	Schulz	was	Chairman	of	 the	Executive	Board	of	ThyssenKrupp	AG	and	sat	on	the	supervisory	boards	of	two	listed	companies	 as	well	as	of	a	non-listed	company	with	similar	requirements	concurrently	to	his	membership	in	the	 Supervisory	Board	of	RWE.	As	he	has	retired	from	the	Executive	Board	of	ThyssenKrupp,	we	comply	 with	the	Codes	recommendation	unconditionally	once	again.	It	is	the	view	of	the	Supervisory	Board	 of	RWE	AG	that	it	was	in	the	companys	best	interest	to	keep	Dr.	Schulz	on	the	RWE	board.	This	 opinion	is	based	on	Dr.	Schulzs	years-long	tenure	on	RWEs	Supervisory	Board	as	well	as	on	the	 extensive	expertise	and	experience	he	possesses	by	virtue	of	his	leading	positions	in	companies	 with	international	activities.	Moreover,	the	deviation	from	the	Codes	recommendation	only	lasted	 for	a	very	short	period.	 RWE	Aktiengesellschaft On	behalf	of	the	Supervisory	Board	 On	behalf	of	the	Executive	Board Dr.	Manfred	Schneider	 	 	 Dr.	Jrgen	Gromann	 Dr.	Rolf	Pohlig Essen,	22	February	2011 142Corporate governance RWE Annual Report 2010  For us, transparent reporting on Executive and Supervisory Board compensation is one of   the core elements of good corporate governance. On the following pages, we have presented   the  principles of RWE AGs compensation system as well as its structure and the payments.   The 2010  compensation report fully complies with the recommendations of the German    Corporate  Governance Code. It is part of the combined review of operations and the corporate   governance report. Executive	Board	compensation Compensation structure. The	structure	and	amount	of	Executive	Board	member	compensation	are	 determined	by	the	Supervisory	Board	and	reviewed	on	a	regular	basis.	The	existing	compensation	 system	ensures	that	Executive	Board	members	are	compensated	in	a	manner	commensurate	with	 their	activities	and	responsibilities,	in	line	with	common	practice	within	the	Group	and	on	the	 	external	market.	It	takes	into	account	not	only	their	personal	performance,	but	also	the	companys	 business	situation,	its	performance	and	prospects	for	the	future. In	light	of	the	German	Act	on	the	Appropriateness	of	Management	Board	Compensation	(VorstAG)	 which	came	into	force	on	5	August	2009,	the	Supervisory	Board	reviewed	the	compensation	system	 and	brought	the	compensation	structure	more	in	line	with	sustainable	business	development.	On	 22April	2010,	the	updated	compensation	system	was	presented	to	the	Annual	General	Meeting,	 which	approved	it	by	a	significant	majority	vote. Short-term compensation components. The	total	cash	compensation	consists	of	a	non-performance-	 based	fixed	component	and	a	variable	performance-related	component.	If	the	degree	to	which	 	targets	have	been	achieved	is	100		%,	the	total	cash	compensation	breaks	down	into	approximately	 45		%	(formerly	40		%)	for	the	fixed	component	and	approximately	55		%	(formerly	60		%)	for	the	variable	 	component. The	variable	component	consists	of	a	company	bonus,	accounting	for	approximately	70		%,	and	an	 	individual	bonus,	accounting	for	approximately	30		%.	The	company	bonus	is	based	on	the	Groups	 value	added.	If	the	figure	budgeted	for	the	fiscal	year	in	question	is	achieved,	the	degree	to	which	 the	target	has	been	achieved	is	100		%;	the	degree	can	amount	to		between	0		%	(formerly	50		%)	and,	 as	before,	150		%.	The	personal	bonus	depends	on	the	degree	to	which	an	Executive	Board	member	 achieves	the	performance	goals	agreed	with	the	Chairman	of	the	Supervisory	Board	at	the	beginning	 of	the	financial	year.	The	maximum	degree	to	which	this	target	can	be	achieved	is	120		%. Compensation report 2.3 Compensation report143 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  In	order	to	enable	the	members	of	the	Executive	Board	to	partake	in	an	even	more	measurable	 	manner	of	both	positive	and	negative	company	performance	over	the	long	term,	payment	of	25		%of	 the	bonus	is	withheld	for	three	years.	This	corresponds	to	nearly	15		%	of	the	total	cash		compensation.	 A	review	based	on	what	is	termed	a	bonus	malus	factor	is	conducted	by	the		Supervisory	Board	at	 the	end	of	the	three-year	period,	in	order	to	determine	whether	the	Executive	Board	has	managed	the	 company	sustainably.	Only	if	this	applies	is	the	retained	bonus	paid. The	development	of	the	Groups	added	value	determines	45		%	of	the	bonus	malus	factor.	Another	 45		%	is	determined	on	the	basis	of	a	company-specific	index,	which	reflects	the	Groups	success	in	 the	field	of	corporate	responsibility	(CR).	This	CR	Index,	which	builds	on	the	sustainability	reporting	 that	has	been	a	fixture	at	RWE	for	many	years,	reflects	the	Groups	environmental	and	social	activity.	 The	remaining	10		%	of	the	bonus	malus	factor	is	determined	by	the	Group-internal	Motivation	Index,	 which	measures	employee	satisfaction	and	motivation. At	the	beginning	of	the	three-year	period,	the	Supervisory	Board	establishes	binding	target	figures	 for	value	added,	the	CR	Index,	and	the	Motivation	Index,	which	may	not	be	altered	during	the	 	observation	period.	These	target	figures	are	compared	to	the	figures	actually	achieved	at	the	end	of	 the	three-year	period.	The	bonus	malus	factor	calculated	by	this	method	determines	whether	the	 	retained	bonus	is	paid	as	well	as	its	amount.	The	better	the	figures	actually	achieved,	the	higher	the	 bonus	malus	factor.	It	may	vary	between	0		%	and	130		%. The	presented	amendments	to	the	compensation	scheme	will	be	implemented	in	accordance	with	 statutory	regulations	for	the	Chairman	of	the	Executive	Board	as	soon	as	his	contract	has	been	 	adapted.	In	particular,	the	rules	concerning	the	partial	retention	of	the	bonus	and	the	bonus	malus	 factor	do	not	apply	yet,	and	the	bonus	for	fiscal	2010	will	be	fully	paid	out	after	the	2011		Annual	 General	Meeting.	In	contrast,	the	new	rules	apply	to	the	other	members	of	the	Executive	Board	as	 they	agreed	to	an	advance	application	of	the	refined	compensation	system	with	effect	from	the	year	 under	review. In	addition	to	cash	compensation,	Executive	Board	members	receive	non-cash	remuneration	and	 	other	compensation,	consisting	primarily	of	sums	reflecting	the	use	of	company	cars	according	to	 German	fiscal	guidelines	and	accident	insurance	premiums. Compensation	also	includes	payment	for	exercising	Supervisory	Board	mandates	held	by	Executive	 Board	members	at	affiliates.	All	this	income	is	deducted	from	the	variable	compensation	and	 	therefore	does	not	increase	the	total	remuneration. RWE Annual Report 2010 144Compensation report  The	short-term	compensation	components	paid	to	members	of	the	Executive	Board	for	fiscal	2010	 were	as	follows: The	retained	25		%	of	the	bonus	is	not	included	in	2010	compensation	because	it	does	not	have	an		 impact	on	remuneration	until	the	end	of	the	three-year	period	and	only	affects	it	if	the	necessary	 	prerequisites	are	met.	The	following	presentation	is	therefore	voluntary,	and	aims	to	convey	a	 complete	picture	of	the	compensation	components. Long-term incentive compensation. With	the	exception	of	the	Chairman	of	the	Executive	Board,	 	performance	shares	were	awarded	to	members	of	the	Executive	Board	as	part	of	the	Beat	2010	 	long-term	incentive	plan	(Beat	for	short).	Performance	shares	are	granted	on	condition	that	the	 	Executive	Board	members	invest	in	RWE	common	shares	a	sum	which	is	equal	to	one-third	of	the	 Short-termExecutive Boardcompensation in2010 Non-performance- based compensation  performance-   based compensation Non-cash and other   remuneration payment for exercise   of mandates1 other payments Total  000 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Dr. Jrgen Gromann2 2,700 2,700 3,898 4,431 30 24 37 7 2,000 2,000 8,665 9,162 Dr. leonhard Birnbaum 750 680 779 1,259 24 22 0 0 0 0 1,553 1,961 Alwin fitting 769 680 794 1,246 18 16 3 13 0 0 1,584 1,955 Dr. Ulrich Jobs3 630 760 789 1,282 17 23 80 125 0 0 1,516 2,190 Dr. Rolf pohlig 840 760 809 1,340 32 31 60 67 0 0 1,741 2,198 Dr. Rolf Martin schmitz  750 453 543 742 20 12 236 97 0 0 1,549 1,304 Total 6,439 6,033 7,612 10,300 141 128 416 309 2,000 2,000 16,608 18,770 1  income from the exercise of mandates is part of variable compensation. 2  Dr. Jrgen Gromann receives an annual 2,000,000 instead of a pension commitment. 3  Dr. Ulrich Jobs retired from the Executive Board as of 30 september 2010. Bonusretention  000 2010 2009 Dr. Jrgen Gromann 0 0 Dr. leonhard Birnbaum 260 0 Alwin fitting 266 0 Dr. Ulrich Jobs1 0 0 Dr. Rolf pohlig 290 0 Dr. Rolf Martin schmitz 260 0 Total 1,076 0 1  Dr. Ulrich Jobs retired from the Executive Board as of 30 september 2010. to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Compensation report145  	value	of	the	performance	shares	granted	after	taxes.	The	shares	must	be	held	for	the	respective	Beat	 tranches	entire	waiting	period.	Any	necessary	notifications	of	directors	dealings	were	published. The	former	Beat	2005	long-term	incentive	plan	was	adapted	in	view	of	the	VorstAG.	Most	 	importantly,	the	former	waiting	period	was	extended	from	three	to	four	years,	and	additional	 exercise	dates	after	the	term	were	included.	Beat	thus	supplements	the	compensation	system		 with	an	even	longer-term	incentive	component,	rewarding	the	sustainable	contribution	made		 by	executives	to	the	companys	success	to	an	even	greater	extent.	As	before,	the	companys	 performance	is	measured	using	the	Total	Shareholder	Return	(TSR)	of	RWE	shares,	which	covers	both	 the	development	of	the	share	price	and	reinvested	dividends.	The	payout	factor	is	determined	by	 comparing	RWEsTSR	with	the	TSR	of	other	companies	in	the	Dow	Jones	STOXX	Utilities	Index. Executives	entitled	to	participate	in	Beat	receive	a	conditional	allocation	of	performance	shares	every	 year.	A	performance	share	allocated	in	the	fiscal	year	consists	of	the	conditional	right	to	receive	a	 payout	in	cash	following	a	waiting	period	of	four	(previously	three)	years.	However,	a	payout	only	 takes	place	if,	on	conclusion	of	the	waiting	period,	the	RWE	shares	performance	is	better	than	the	 performance	of	25		%	of	the	companies	in	the	peer	group,	measured	in	terms	of	their	index	weighting	 as	of	the	inception	of	the	programme.	Consequently,	the	decisive	factor	is	not	only	RWEs	position	 among	the	companies	in	the	peer	group,	but	also	which	of	the	companies	RWE	outperforms. Payment	in	the	fiscal	year	corresponds	to	the	average	RWE	share	price	during	the	last	60	(previously	 20)	trading	days	prior	to	the	expiry	of	the	programme,	the	number	of	conditionally	allocated	 	performance	shares,	and	the	payout	factor.	Payment	for	Executive	Board	members	is	limited	to	 	one-and-a-half	times	the	value	of	the	performance	shares	at	grant. Performance	shares	granted	under	Beat	in	the	year	under	review	break	down	as	follows: Long-termincentive share-basedpayment Beat 2010: 2010 tranche No. Allocation value  at grant   000  Dr. leonhard Birnbaum 28,891 750 Alwin fitting 28,891 750 Dr. Ulrich Jobs 28,891 750 Dr. Rolf pohlig 28,891 750 Dr. Rolf Martin schmitz 28,891 750 Total 144,455 3,750 RWE Annual Report 2010 146Compensation report  In	the	year	under	review,	the	2007	long-term	incentive	tranche	of	the	Beat	2005	programme	was	 paid	out	as	follows: Executive	Board	members	still	hold	performance	shares	from	the	Beat	2005	programmes	2008	and	 2009	tranches	from	Executive	Board	activity	in	previous	years.	These	allocations	are	not	part	of	total	 compensation	for	the	2010	financial	year.	Instead,	they	are	part	of	total	compensation	for	the	two	 preceding	fiscal	years.	As	such,	they	are	presented	in	the	compensation	reports	for	2008	and	2009. German	Accounting	Standard	(DRS)	17	mandates	that	the	total	expense	recognised	for	share-based	 payments	allocable	to	each	Executive	Board	member	be	disclosed	and	itemised.	Due	to	the	 	development	of	the	share	price,	no	expenses	were	recognised	for	share-based	payments	in	the	 	period	under	review.	Instead,	part	of	the	existing	provision	was	released	in	the	period	being		 reviewed	as	follows: Longtermincentive share-basedpayment Beat 2005: 2007 tranche payout  000 Alwin fitting 590 Dr. Ulrich Jobs 590 Dr. Rolf pohlig 590 Total 1,770 Allocationtoexpensesforlong-termincentive share-basedpayments2008/2009/2010tranches 2010  000 2009  000 Dr. leonhard Birnbaum  65 433 Alwin fitting  161 941 Dr. Ulrich Jobs  161 941 Dr. Rolf pohlig  161 941 Dr. Rolf Martin schmitz  29 319 Total 577 3,575 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Compensation report147  Total compensation. In	total,	the	Executive	Board	received	16,608,000	in	short-term	compensation	 components	in	fiscal	2010.	In	addition	to	this,	long-term	compensation	components	from	the	2010	 tranche	of	the	Beat	programme	amounting	to	3,750,000	were	allocated.	Total	compensation	of	the	 Executive	Board	for	fiscal	2010	therefore	amounted	to	20,358,000. Employment termination benefits. Executive	Board	members	receive	the	following	benefits	from	 RWE	when	they	retire	from	the	Board: Pension commitments. The	members	of	the	Executive	Board	–	with	the	exception	of	its	Chairman,	 Dr.Jrgen	Gromann	–	receive	pension	commitments	(direct	commitments),	which	grant	them	or	 their	surviving	dependants	entitlement	to	a	life-long	pension	or	surviving	dependants	benefits.	 These	benefits	are	due	in	the	event	of	retirement	upon	reaching	the	age	of	60	(retirement	age),	 	permanent	disability,	death	and	early	termination	or	non-extension	of	the	employment	contract	by	 the	company.	The	amount	of	qualifying	income	and	the	level	of	benefits	determined	by	the	duration	 of	service	are	taken	as	a	basis	for	each	members	individual	pension	and	surviving	dependants	 	benefits.	Profit		participation	and	other	fringe	benefits	are	not	factored	into	the	pension.	The	ceiling	 for	pension		benefits	for	members	of	the	Executive	Board	is	60		%	of	the	last	qualifying	income	on	the	 day	before	they	reach	retirement	age.	The	widows	pension	amounts	to	60		%	of	her	husbands	 pension,	the	orphans	pension	amounts	to	20		%	of	the	widows	pension.	Vested	old-age	pension	 	benefits	do	not	expire.	The	amount	of	the	old-age	pension	and	the	surviving	dependants	benefits	 are	reviewed		every	three	years,	taking	account	of	all	major	circumstances,	with	due	regard	to		 changes	in	the	cost	of	living.	Due	to	earlier	provisions,	there	are	some	differences	in	the	pension	 	commitments	in	terms	of	the	calculation	of	the	level	of	benefits,	the	crediting	of	other	pensions		 and	benefits,	and	the		adjustment	mode	selected	for	pensions	and	surviving	dependants	benefits. In	the	event	of	an	early	termination	or	non-extension	of	an	employment	contract,	Executive	Board	 members	shall	only	receive	payment	if	the	termination	or	non-extension	was	occasioned	by	the	 	company	and	effected	without	due	cause.	In	such	cases,	they	start	receiving	pension	payments	when	 they	leave	the	company,	but	no	earlier	than	on	completion	of	their	55th	year	of	age.	In	the	event	of	a	 non-extension	or	early	termination	of	an	employment	contract,	50		%	of	the	income	earned	through	 other	activities	until	the	end	of	the	Executive	Board	members	60th	year	of	age	or	the	beginning	of	 the	members	occupational	disability	is	taken	into	account	in	determining	the	pension	payments. The	service	cost	of	pension	commitments	in	fiscal	2010	totalled	776,000.	At	the	end	of	the	year	 	under	review,	the	present	value	of	the	defined	benefit	obligation	was	17,007,000.	The	following	is	 a	breakdown	of	service	costs	and	the	present	value	of	pension	benefits,	taking	into	account	both	age	 and	years	of	service. RWE Annual Report 2010 148Compensation report  With	regard	to	Executive	Board	members,	vested	pension	benefits	from	earlier	employment	and	years	 of	service	for	previous	employers	which	have	been	recognised,	are	credited	to	the	companys	pension	 payments	by	contractual	arrangement. Change of control.	Executive	Board	members	have	a	special	right	of	termination	in	the	event	that	 the	company	loses	its	independence	as	the	result	of	control	being	taken	over	by	shareholders	or	third	 parties.	In	such	cases,	they	have	the	right	to	retire	from	the	Executive	Board	within	six	months	of		 the	time	at	which	the	change	of	control	becomes	known	and	to	request	that	their	employment		 contract	be	terminated	in	combination	with	a	one-off	payment.	To	the	extent	necessary	to	ensure	the	 	companys	survival,	however,	the	Supervisory	Board	can	demand	that	the	Executive	Board	member	 remain	in	office	until	the	end	of	the	six-month	period. A	change	of	control	as	defined	by	this	provision	occurs	when	a	shareholder	or	a	group	of	 	shareholders	acting	jointly,	or	third	parties	acting	jointly,	acquire	at	least	30		%	of	the	voting	rights		 in	a	company,	or	if	any	of	the	aforementioned	can	exert	a	controlling	influence	on	the	company	in	 	another	manner.	A	controlling	influence	may	also	exist	if	one	or	several	jointly	acting	shareholders	or	 third	parties	hold	more	than	half	of	the	voting	stock	represented	at	three	consecutive	Annual	General	 Meetings.	The	aforementioned	provisions	do	not	apply	if	the	change	of	control	puts	the	control	of	 the	company	in	the	hands	of	individual	or	jointly	acting	cities	or	communities	or	companies	which	are	 majority-owned	by	an	entity	under	public	law	in	the	Federal	Republic	of	Germany. On	termination	of	their	employment	contracts,	Executive	Board	members	receive	a	one-off	payment	 in	the	amount	of	the	compensation	due	until	the	end	of	the	duration	of	the	contract	originally	 agreed,	which	shall	not	be	higher	than	three	times	their	total	contractual	annual	compensation	and	 shall	not	be	less	than	twice	their	total	contractual	annual	compensation. Pensions predicted annual pension   on reaching the company   age limit (60 years)1   000 service cost  000 Defined benefit obligation  000 Age 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Dr. leonhard Birnbaum 44 270 245 111 85 889 635 Alwin fitting 57 312 283 188 136 4,648 3,935 Dr. Ulrich Jobs2 57 302 274 149 155 4,251 3,761 Dr. Rolf pohlig 58 302 274 84 63 2,733 2,159 Dr. Rolf Martin schmitz3 53 408 370 244 0 4,486 3,713 776 439 17,007 14,203 1  Based on compensation qualifying for pensions as of 31 December 2010. 2  Dr. Ulrich Jobs retired from the Executive Board as of 30 september 2010. This led to a one-off increase in the service cost of 520,000. 3  Dr. Rolf Martin schmitzs projected pension includes pensions due from former employers. to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Compensation report149  As	regards	benefits,	effective	as	of	the	end	of	the	employment	contracts	agreed	duration,	Executive	 Board	members	are	treated	as	if	the	company	had	not	extended	their	employment	contracts	at	that	 time,	without	there	being	a	material	reason	in	the	sense	of	Section	626	of	the	German	Civil	Code	 (BGB). The	Chairman	of	the	Executive	Board,	Dr.	Jrgen	Gromann,	was	granted	a	special	right	of	 	termination	before	the	amendment	to	the	German	Corporate	Governance	Code	with	effect	from		 6	June	2008.	On	exercise	of	his	contractually	secured	special	right	of	termination,	Dr.	Gromann		 shall		receive	a	one-time	payment	that	covers	all	of	the	remuneration	due	until	the	expiry	of	his	 	employment	contract,	including	the	amount	contractually	agreed	instead	of	a	pension	commitment. In	the	event	of	a	change	of	control,	all	the	performance	shares	granted	to	the	Executive	Board	and	 entitled	executives	shall	expire.	Instead,	a	compensatory	payment	shall	be	made,	which	shall	be	 	determined	when	the	takeover	offer	is	made.	The	amount	shall	be	in	line	with	the	price	paid	for	RWE	 shares	at	the	time	of	the	takeover.	This	shall	then	be	multiplied	by	the	final	number	of	performance	 shares.	Performance	shares	shall	also	expire	in	the	event	of	a	merger	with	another	company.	In	this	 case,	the	compensatory	payment	shall	be	calculated	based	on	the	expected	value	of	the	performance	 shares	at	the	time	of	the	merger.	This	expected	value	shall	be	multiplied	by	the	number	of	 	performance	shares	granted,	pro-rated	up	to	the	date	of	the	merger. In	the	event	of	a	change	of	control,	the	Executive	Boards	retained	bonuses	are	valued	early	and,	if	 applicable,	paid	out.	This	is	done	based	on	the	average	bonus	malus	factor	for	the	last	three	years.	 The	average	calculated	by	this	method	determines	whether	the	retained	bonuses	are	paid	out	as	well	 as	the	amount	of	the	payout. Severance cap. If	an	Executive	Board	mandate	is	otherwise	terminated	early	without	due	cause,	 	Executive	Board	members	shall	receive	a	severance	payment	of	no	more	than	two	total	annual	 	compensations	and	no	more	than	the	compensation	due	until	the	end	of	the	employment	contract.	 This	rule	shall	be	applied	to	the	Chairman	of	the	Executive	Board	in	line	with	the	German	Corporate	 Governance	Code	only	once	his	contract	has	been	adapted	or	extended. Other commitments. Dr.	Ulrich	Jobs	reached	an	agreement	with	the	company	to	retire	from	the	 	Executive	Board	early,	with	effect	from	30	September	2010.	He	received	a	total	of	3,149,000,	 	consisting	of	a	base	salary	and	bonuses	for	the	period	from	1	October	2010	through	to	 31March2012,	to	which	he	was	entitled	on	the	basis	of	his	contract,	which	would	have	expired		 on	31March	2012.	He	shall	also	be	conditionally	allocated	the	same	number	of	performance	shares	 for	this	period	as	the	other	Executive	Board	members.	Performance	shares	granted	earlier	shall	 remain	valid	in	accordance	with	the	plan	conditions.	Dr.	Jobs	shall	receive	a	company	pension	from	 1April	2012	onwards,	in	line	with	the	contractual	arrangements. 150Compensation report RWE Annual Report 2010  Supervisory	Board	compensation The	compensation	of	the	Supervisory	Board	is	set	out	in	the	Articles	of	Incorporation	and	is	determined	 by	the	Annual	General	Meeting.	Supervisory	Board	members	receive	a	fixed	compensation	of	40,000	 per	fiscal	year	for	their	services	after	each	fiscal	year.	The	compensation	increases	by	225	for	every	 0.01	by	which	the	dividend	exceeds	0.10	per	common	share. The	Chairperson	of	the	Supervisory	Board	receives	three	times	and	the	Deputy	Chairperson	receives	 twice	the	aforementioned	amount.	If	a	committee	has	been	active	at	least	once	in	a	fiscal	year,	 	committee	members	receive	one-and-a-half	times	the	compensation	and	the	committee	chairperson	 receives	twice	the	compensation.	If	a	member	of	the	Supervisory	Board	holds	several	offices	on	the	 Supervisory	Board	of	RWE	AG	concurrently,	he	or	she	receives	compensation	only	for	the	highest-paid	 position.	Out-of-pocket	expenses	are	refunded. In	total,	the	emoluments	of	the	Supervisory	Board	amounted	to	3,434,000	in	fiscal	2010.	 	Additionally,	certain	Supervisory	Board	members	were	paid	compensation	totalling	243,000	for	 	exercising	mandates	at	subsidiaries. SupervisoryBoardcompensation 2010   base compensation 2010   committee compensation Total  000 fixed  variable fixed variable 2010 2009 Dr. Manfred schneider, chairman 40 77 80 153 350 292 frank Bsirske, Deputy chairman 40 77 40 77 234 234 Dr. paul Achleitner 40 77 20 38 175 175 Werner Bischoff 40 77 20 38 175 175 carl-ludwig von Boehm-Bezing 40 77 40 77 234 234 Heinz Bchel 40 77 20 38 175 175 Dieter faust 40 77 20 38 175 175 Dr. Thomas R. fischer (until 31 Jan 2010) 3 6 0 0 9 193 Andreas Henrich 40 77 0 0 117 117 Heinz-Eberhard Holl (until 31 Jan 2010) 3 6 2 3 14 175 frithjof Khn (since 1 feb 2010) 37 70 18 35 160 0 Hans peter lafos  40 77 0 0 117 21 Dr. Gerhard langemeyer 40 77 20 38 175 175 Dagmar Mhlenfeld 40 77 20 38 175 175 Dr. Wolfgang Reiniger 40 77 0 0 117 117 Gnter Reppien 40 77 20 38 175 175 Dagmar schmeer 40 77 20 38 175 175 Dr.-ing. Ekkehard D. schulz 40 77 20 38 175 175 Dr. Wolfgang schssel (since 1 Mar 2010) 34 64 0 0 98 0 Uwe Tigges 40 77 20 38 175 175 Manfred Weber 40 77 0 0 117 117 Dr. Dieter Zetsche 40 77 0 0 117 54 Total 797 1,532 380 725 3,434 3,304 Compensation report151 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  The challenges faced by RWE are bigger than ever. To overcome them, we need employees with  innovative ideas and who are willing to take initiative. Recruiting talent within and outside the  Group, developing it, and retaining it over the long term are important cornerstones of our  personnel strategy. Another task at hand is to promote flexibility and willingness to change. Only  by taking this approach can we guarantee that vacancies are filled optimally – with the right  employees, at the right time and at the right place. RWE addresses budding professionals.	Demographic	change	has	caused	the	number	of	suitable	 young	professionals	to	decrease	and	competition	for	employees	is	already	much	fiercer	than	a	few	 years	ago.	Therefore,	we	must	investigate	all	the	possibilities	of	engaging	with	talented	young	people	 and	arousing	their	interest	in	RWE.	In	particular,	the	internet	offers	a	variety	of	options.	Via	our	portal	 at	www.rwe.com/career,	we	address	pupils,	students	and	graduates	as	well	as	individuals	with	work	 experience.	The	portal	is	well	received.	It	was	ranked	fourth	among	the	web	presences	of	100	German	 companies	in	a	survey	conducted	by	the	personnel	consulting	institute	Potentialpark.	However,	 besides	communicating	via	the	internet,	it	is	also	important	to	establish	personal	contacts.	Therefore,	 we	launched	a	mobile	information	campaign	in	2010	to	target	students.	Last	year,	we	visited		 ten	universities	with	an	information	booth.	RWE	employees	explained	the	areas	of	activity	of	our	 company	as	well	as	points	of	entry.	Furthermore,	we	acquainted	the	students	with	the	energy	 industry	through	presentations	and	an	exhibition	of	technological	innovations.	More	than	4,000	 young	people	accepted	our	invitation	to	inform	themselves	about	RWE	at	these	venues.	Employer	 branding	is	another	field	in	which	we	are	active.	This	term	designates	the	use	of	concepts	from	the	 field	of	marketing	to	present	a	company	as	an	attractive	employer	and	to	distinguish	it	from	its	 competitors.	To	sharpen	our	profile	in	this	area,	we	launched	an	advertising	campaign	in	2010.	It	was	 a	great	success.	In	a	ranking	published	by	the	consulting	firm	Universum,	RWE	was	recognised	as	the	 best		up-and-comer	in	the	Most	Attractive	Employer	of	the	Year	category. Identifying and making use of our employee potential.	At	RWE,	the	search	for	talent	does	not	end	at	 the	factory	gate.	It	is	vital	for	us	to	know	our	personnels	qualifications	and	make	strategic	use	of	 them.	A	system,	in	which	we	record	and	constantly	update	the	know-how	of	our	employees,	assists	us	 to	this	end.	This	makes	it	easier	for	us	to	fill	vacancies	with	suitable	personnel	from	within	our	own	 ranks.	Our	HR	work	also	aims	to	support	those	of	our	employees	looking	for	new	challenges	within	 the	RWE	organisation,	even	going	beyond	their	Group	company	and	home	country.	This	is	why	we	 expanded	our	in-house	job	board.	Besides	giving	our	workforce	the	opportunity	to	stay	abreast	of		 the	vacancies	offered	by	our	subsidiaries,	our	employees	can	register	their	interest	in	taking	on	a		 new	task.	This	makes	it	easier	for	our	executives	to	target	employees	willing	to	change	when	staffing	 vacant	positions.	Wherever	possible	and	reasonable,	we	fill	managerial	positions	from	within	our	own	 WorkforCe 2.4 152Workforce RWE Annual Report 2010  ranks.	This	reduces	the	cost	of	acquainting	them	with	their	new	duties	and	provides	performance	 incentives	to	especially	qualified	individuals.	To	ensure	that	no	talent	remains	undetected,	our	 executive	staff	assesses	the	potential	of	their	teams	once	every	two	years.	The	division	heads	then	 convene	to	select	from	a	list	of	proposals	those	individuals	whom	they	consider	to	have	the	most	 potential.	Their	information	is	stored	in	a	database	accessible	to	all	executives	from	all	Group	 companies.	Furthermore,	the	management	boards	of	RWE	AG	and	the	Group	companies	meet	once	a	 year	to	nominate	succession	candidates	for	key	executive	positions.	Taking	this	approach	has	enabled	 us	to	staff	over	90		%	of	our	managerial	vacancies	with	internal	candidates. Opportunities through diversity.	Society	increasingly	demands	that	companies	recognise	the	 benefits	of	a	diverse	workforce.	This	is	an	area	in	which	RWE	is	pursuing	a	number	of	goals.	In	line	 with	the	international	reach	of	our	business,	we	promote	cross-country	mobility	within	the	RWE	Group	 and	respect	for	people	with	different	cultural	backgrounds.	Moreover,	we	want	to	hire	more	women	at	 RWE.	Our	aim	is	also	to	have	more	female	representation	in	executive	positions,	and	we	have	initiated	 a	special	mentoring	programme	for	this	purpose.	Among	other	things,	participants	are	shown	the	 range	of	ways	to	plan	ones	career	successfully	at	RWE.	Support	is	also	provided	by	our	international	 network	for	women	in	managerial	positions.	At	the	end	of	2010,	11		%	of	all	executive	staff	at	RWE	 was	female,	compared	to	9		%	a	year	earlier. Long-term incentives for enduring success.	Strong	retention	of	our	executives	and	high	identification	 with	company	targets	–	these	are	the	objectives	we	are	pursuing	with	our	long-term	incentive	plan,	 Beat.	Under	this	programme,	we	grant	executives	so-called	performance	shares	(see	pages	196	et	 seqq.),	which	are	paid	out	after	four	years	at	the	earliest.	The	amount	of	the	payout	depends	on	the	 development	of	RWEs	share	price	and	reinvested	dividends	compared	to	competitors.	The	payout	is	 capped,	and	poor	performance	can	cancel	it	completely.	Since	2010,	all	executives	participating	in	 Beat	have	been	obliged	to	invest	in	RWE	common	shares	a	sum	corresponding	to	one-sixth	of	the	 value	of	the	allocated	performance	shares.	This	requirement	previously	applied	only	to	members	of	 executive	and	management	boards	of	the	most	important	Group	companies.	 Good ideas pay off.	Our	groupwide	idea	management	system	provides	our	employees	with	an	 incentive	to	capitalise	on	their	experience	and	creativity	in	order	to	improve	work	processes.	In	the	 last	fiscal	year	alone,	some	6,300	ideas	were	submitted.	We	estimate	the	commercial	benefit	to	 exceed	50	million	per	year.	One	example	is	the	development	of	a	drone,	which	can	be	used	to	easily	 and	safely	monitor	poorly	accessible	areas	such	as	power	plant	boilers	and	smokestacks.	Besides	 increasing	occupational	safety,	this	saves	both	time	and	money.	In	2010,	we	rewarded	our	employees	 for	their	innovative	ideas	with	more	than	2	million	in	bonuses. Workforce153 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  Sustainable business practice pays off – for investors, customers, employees and society. It forms  the basis of lasting value creation, reliable customer relationships, attractive jobs and a strong  community. This is all indispensable for companies with a long-term orientation and regional roots  like RWE. Ten fields of action orientated towards sustainability.	We	can	only	achieve	long-term	success	as	a	 company	if	we	secure	societys	acceptance	through	responsible	action.	Our	corporate	responsibility	 (CR)	strategy	encompasses	ten	fields	of	action	in	which	we	pool	the	issues	and	challenges	that	are	 most	demanding	to	us.	We	want	everything	that	we	do	in	the	field	of	CR	to	be	transparent,	 measureable	and	binding.	Therefore,	we	have	defined	key	performance	indicators	for	each	of	the	 fields	of	action	and	set	ourselves	goals	which	we	intend	to	achieve	in	the	years	ahead.	The	extent		 to	which	we	are	successful	in	this	area	also	influences	the	compensation	of	the	Groups	Executive	 Board.	Since	2010,	25		%	of	the	bonus	payable	to	the	Executive	Board	has	been	retained	for	three	 years.	At	the	end	of	this	period,	the	Supervisory	Board	verifies	whether	the	company	developed	 sustainably.	Only	if	confirmed	is	the	retained	bonus	paid	out,	just	under	half	of	which	is	linked	to	the	 success	we	achieve	in	the	ten	CR	action	fields.	This	makes	us	one	of	the	first	companies	in	the		 DAX	to	link	executive	board	remuneration	directly	to	the	achievement	of	sustainability	goals.	 On	this	and	the	following	pages,	we	will	present	the	ten	action	fields	of	our	CR	strategy	as	well	as	 the	key	figures	we	use	to	measure	our	success	in	this	area.	Further	information	can	be	found	in	the	 report	entitled	Our	Responsibility,	which	will	be	published	in	April	2011,	and	on	the	web	at		 www.rwe.com/responsibility. (1) Climate protection.	Society	expects	us	to	come	up	with	solutions	for	protecting	the	climate.	 As	Europes	largest	emitter	of	carbon	dioxide,	we	carry	an	especially	significant	responsibility,	as		 high	emissions	result	in	high	economic	risks.	Therefore,	we	invest	billions	of	euros	expanding	our	 renewable	generation	portfolio	and	building	state-of-the-art	gas	and	coal-fired	power	stations.	This	 enables	older,	more	emission-intensive	power	plants	to	go	offline	without	jeopardising	security	of	 supply.	By	2020,	we	intend	to	have	reduced	our	CO2	exposure	to	our	competitors	average.	We	also	 want	to	accomplish	this	through	financial	hedges,	such	as	the	purchase	of	emissions	allowances	 through	climate-protection	projects	in	developing	and	emerging	countries	and	the	virtual	swap	of	 carbon-intensive	generation	capacity	for	competitors	lower-emission	capacities.	The	target	we	have	 set	ourselves	for	2013	is	to	limit	our	CO2	exposure	to	an	equivalent	of	0.67	metric	tons	for	every	 megawatt	hour	of	electricity	generated. sustainaBiLity 2.5 154sustainabilty RWE Annual Report 2010  (2) Energy efficiency.	Making	sparing	use	of	energy	is	not	only	good	for	the	climate,	but	also	 conserves	resources	and	therefore	saves	money.	We	assist	our	customers	to	this	end	in	various	ways,	 including	the	use	of	smart	meters,	automated	home	consumption	(smart	homes)	and	the	promotion	 of	electric	cars.	Our	website	at	www.energiewelt.de	includes	in-depth	advice	on	how	to	save	energy	 as	well	as	information	on	subsidy	programmes	and	manufacturer	offers.	However,	it	is	primarily	 incumbent	upon	us	as	a	company	to	make	efficient	use	of	scarce	resources.	We	are	therefore	working	 on	reducing	the	energy	consumption	of	our	vehicle	fleet	and	properties.	Nevertheless,	the	most	 important	lever	in	terms	of	energy	efficiency	are	our	power	plants.	As	set	out	earlier,	we	are	 increasingly	replacing	old	facilities	with	new	ones.	Therefore,	the	efficiency	of	our	fossil	fuel-fired	 power	stations	will	improve	markedly	in	the	next	few	years.	Our	target	for	2013	is	42.4		%.	 (3) Security of supply.	Energy	must	be	available	whenever	it	is	needed.	Our	customers	rely	on	us	to	 ensure	this	–	both	today	and	tomorrow.	Therefore,	RWE	places	great	importance	on	a	balanced	and	 widely	diversified	generation	portfolio,	including	nuclear,	coal,	gas	and	renewables.	We	also	 capitalise	on	the	advantages	of	diversity	in	gas	procurement.	Security	of	supply	does	not	build	on	 the	sources	of	energy	alone.	It	also	concerns	its	transmission	to	the	consumer.	The	objective	we	are	 pursuing	with	respect	to	electricity	is	to	keep	the	annual	average	outage	of	our	distribution	networks	 per	customer	in	Germany	below	25minutes.	In	comparison,	at	20.4	minutes,	it	was	clearly	below	this	 mark	in	2009.	Nevertheless,	we	believe	our	goal	is	ambitious,	because	the	requirements	placed	on	 the	capabilities	and	operation	of	networks	are	increasing	due	to	the	expansion	of	renewable	energy	 and	the	increasing	use	of	decentralised	power	generation	units.	Interruptions	in	the	supply	of	gas	are	 much	shorter,	because	the	gas	network	acts	as	a	buffer.	They	recently	averaged	some	three	minutes	 per	customer	per	year. (4) Pricing.	Our	customers	expect	excellent	service,	customised	offerings	and	fair	prices.	In	addition,	 they	are	more	and	more	willing	to	switch	providers.	Innovative	products	tailored	to	suit	the	needs	of	 homes	and	commercial	operations	enabled	us	to	defend	our	share	of	the	market	in	2010,	despite	 mounting	competition.	Our	aim	is	to	have	satisfied	customers	who	stay	with	us	over	the	long	term,	 perhaps	even	buying	more	than	one	product	from	us,	and	recommend	us	to	both	family	and	friends.	 In	2010,	we	started	measuring	our	success	in	this	respect	in	Germany	using	a	loyalty	index.	It	is	 based	on	surveys	of	our	residential	and	commercial	customers.	The	index	moves	on	a	scale	of	0	to	 100	points.	A	score	below	70	designates	low	satisfaction,	with	values	from	70	to	79	indicating	 mediocre	satisfaction	and	figures	above	80	representing	high	satisfaction.	We	achieved	71	points	in	 the	year	under	review.	Our	goal	for	2013	is	to	achieve	an	index	rating	of	at	least	73. sustainabilty155 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  (5) Social responsibility.	As	we	are	an	energy	company,	we	have	strong	links	with	the	communities	 at	our	sites,	some	of	which	have	been	in	existence	for	decades.	We	are	a	reliable	employer	and	 principal	in	these	communities,	where	we	work	on	social	issues.	Our	charitable	activities	are	pooled	 in	the	RWE	Foundation,	which	began	its	work	in	2009.	It	is	endowed	with	a	capital	stock	of	 56million	and	promotes	the	education,	culture,	and	social	integration	of	young	people.	Through	 our	RWE	Companius	initiative,	we	support	the	strong	effort	put	in	by	RWE	employees	for	social	 causes.	Last	year,	we	spent	2.2	million	promoting	approximately	1,800	projects.	All	these	measures	 benefit	RWE,	as	they	improve	our	acceptance	by	the	general	public.	Once	a	year,	we	commission	an	 opinion	survey	institute	to	identify	how	RWE	is	perceived	by	the	public	when	compared	to	our	major	 competitors.	In	2010,	we	had	the	best	reputation	in	our	peer	group,	a	position	we	intend	to	 maintain. (6) Demographic change.	In	view	of	the	steady	drop	in	birth	rates,	especially	in	Germany,	we	 must	see	to	it	early	on	that	we	retain	access	to	adequately	qualified	staff	over	the	long	term.	We	 already	take	advantage	of	many	ways	to	attract	young	talent	to	our	company	and	create	a	working	 environment	that	meets	their	expectations.	In	addition,	we	project	our	need	for	personnel	over	the	 long	term,	taking	into	account	the	effects	of	demographic	change	on	various	professions.	One	of	the	 tools	we	use	in	this	analysis	is	a	demographics	index,	which	measures	the	RWE	Groups	age	structure.	 The	higher	the	index	score,	the	more	evenly	the	age	groups	are	represented	in	our	Group	companies.	 The	best	possible	ranking	is	100.	In	the	financial	year	under	review,	we	achieved	a	score	of	84	points.	 We	intend	to	maintain	this	level	through	to	2013. (7) Supply chain. Our	stakeholders	increasingly	question	whether	human	rights	are	observed,	 working	conditions	are	reasonable	and	the	environment	is	being	protected	in	countries	from	which	 we	source	our	products	and	fuels.	By	implementing	a	supply	chain	management	system,	we	want		 to	ensure	that	our	business	relationships	with	external	partners	adhere	to	our	groupwide	code		 of	conduct.	The	Code	forbids	us	from	maintaining	business	relationships	with	companies	which		 are	publicly	known	to	infringe	the	fundamental	ethical	principles	set	out	by	the	UN	Global	Compact	 initiative.	This	is	how	we	mitigate	the	risk	of	misconduct	by	external	companies	affecting	our	 reputation.	Contraventions	of	the	Global	Compact	by	suppliers	of	plants	and	complex	components	 are	unlikely,	because	they	are	almost	exclusively	domiciled	in	OECD	member	states.	We	have	 established	processes	for	the	procurement	of	standard	goods	and	services	as	well	as	for	energy	fuels,	 which	enable	us	to	obtain	information	on	supplier	compliance	with	the	Global	Compact.	In	2010,	two	 thirds	of	our	business	relationships	were	already	covered	by	these	processes.	We	are	aiming	for	a	 ratio	of	95		%	by	2013. 156sustainabilty RWE Annual Report 2010  (8) Innovation. We	will	achieve	our	goals	in	the	fields	of	climate	protection,	energy	efficiency	and	 security	of	supply	only	if	we	have	access	to	cutting-edge	technologies.	This	is	why	we	assign	 significant	importance	to	research	and	development	(R&D).	We	are	conducting	over	200	projects	 along	our	entire	value	chain	–	from	raw	material	extraction	via	the	conversion,	distribution	and	 storage	of	energy	to	its	use	(see	pages	112	et	seqq.).	To	manage	our	R&D	activities,	we	set	up	a	 groupwide	innovation	management	system.	We	identify	the	most	strategically	important	issues	at	 the	beginning	of	every	year.	We	measure	our	success	by	the	degree	to	which	we	have	taken	specific	 R&D	measures	and	informed	the	public	about	our	activities.	 (9) Occupational safety and health management.	We	want	our	employees	to	return	home	as	healthy	 as	when	they	arrive	at	work.	In	order	to	do	the	best	possible	justice	to	this	ambition,	we	constantly	 work	on	improving	occupational	safety	and	health.	The	measures	taken	as	part	of	the	company	 health	management	system	launched	in	2009	are	tailored	to	maintain	staff	performance.	We	 introduced	a	Workload	Accomplishment	Index	(WAI)	in	Germany	in	2010.	The	WAI	gives	employees	a	 basis	for	systematically	assessing	–	with	the	assistance	of	a	physician	–	the	degree	to	which	they	are	 physically	and	psychologically	capable	to	do	their	work	at	present	and	in	the	future.	RWEs	culture	of	 safety	is	also	important	to	us.	To	improve	it,	we	initiated	the	Sicher	voRWEg	campaign	in	2008,	 focusing	on	executive	instruction.	This	and	a	host	of	additional	measures	have	instilled	the	work	and	 health	philosophy	into	teams	and	daily	routines.	We	measure	our	success	in	the	field	of	occupational	 safety	by	the	fact	that	accident	frequency	resulting	in	at	least	one	lost	day	of	work	per	employee	is	 steadily	declining.	In	the	year	being	reviewed,	we	experienced	3.5	for	every	million	hours	worked.	 This	means	the	accident	rate	was	down	for	the	ninth	straight	year.	We	intend	to	achieve	a	rate	below	 2.5by	2013. (10) Environmental protection.	Our	measures	for	protecting	the	environment	go	far	beyond	limiting	 carbon	dioxide	emissions.	Most	of	our	activity	is	hardly	noticed	by	the	public.	It	is	based	on	a	number	 of	legal	and	approval	requirements,	the	fulfilment	of	which	is	considered	a	matter	of	course.	To	the		 best	of	our	knowledge,	RWE	companies	did	not	violate	any	statutory	regulations	in	the	year	being	 reviewed,	meaning	our	groupwide	environmental	management	system	is	fulfilling	its	purpose.	We	 further	expanded	it	in	2010	as	we	integrated	new	subsidiaries,	in	particular	Essent.	Coverage	is	now	 at	98		%,	thereby	nearly	reaching	our	goal	of	100		%,	which	we	intend	to	achieve	by	2013.	 In	2010,	our	capital	expenditure	on	environmental	protection	measures	amounted	to	2,863	million.	 Two	thirds	of	this	sum	were	assigned	to	climate	protection,	including	investments	in	the	 modernisation	of	our	power	plants	and	the	expansion	of	our	renewable	electricity	generation	 portfolio.	A	substantial	share	of	our	environmental	expenditure	was	dedicated	to	clean	air,	including	 the	cost	of	operating	flue	gas	desulphurisation	units.	Action	we	take	to	protect	nature	and	conserve	 landscapes	mainly	encompasses	the	recultivation	of	lignite	mining	sites. sustainabilty157 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  RWE qualifies for sustainability indices.	Our	company	was	again	recognised	for	its	sustainability	 strategy.	RWE	was	included	in	the	Dow	Jones	Sustainability	Index	(DJSI),	the	renowned	index	group,	 for	yet	another	year	in	September	2010.	Selections	are	made	based	on	economic,	ecological	and	 social	criteria.	RWE	is	represented	in	the	DJSI	World	and	the	DJSI	Europe.	From	the	utility	sector,	 17and	eight	companies	qualified	for	these	indices,	respectively.	We	are	one	of	the	few	German	 companies	to	have	belonged	to	the	index	family	without	interruption	since	its	inception	in	1999.	The	 Dow	Jones	Sustainability	indices	are	established	and	published	by	Sustainable	Asset	Management	 (SAM)	in	co-operation	with	Dow	Jones	Indexes	and	STOXX	Limited.	They	are	widely	recognised	as	the	 worlds	prime	index	group	for	corporate	performance	in	the	field	of	sustainability. Sustainability indicators reflect responsible action.	As	set	out	earlier,	we	established	specific	goals	 for	each	CR	action	field.	Furthermore,	there	are	a	number	of	other	indicators	which	reflect	our	 performance	in	the	field	of	sustainable	business	management.	The	following	is	an	overview	of	some	 key	performance	indicators.	They	are	divided	into	categories,	i.e.	environment,	society	and	corporate	 governance.	The	selection	of	indicators	is	orientated	towards	the	recommendations	of	the	Society	of	 Investment	Professionals	in	Germany	(DVFA). Environmentalexpenditure cost capital expenditure Total  million 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 clean air 348 242 45 103 393 345 Nature and landscape protection 73 75 18 12 91 87 Water protection 261 105 43 22 304 127 Waste disposal 162 172 1 – 163 172 Noise abatement 18 5 3 5 21 10 Brownfield sites, soil contamination 4 5 1 1 5 6 climate protection 172 162 1,714 1,320 1,886 1,482 Total 1,038 766 1,825 1,463 2,863 2,229 158sustainabilty RWE Annual Report 2010  Field performance indicator 2010 2009 2008 2007 Environment RWE-ownedplants Nox emissions1 g/kWh 0.58 0.67 0.67 0.76 so2 emissions1 g/kWh 0.29 0.34 0.39 0.57 particulate emissions1 g/kWh 0.019 0.024 0.028 0.034 Ash1 thousand mt 7,740 7,429 6,406 6,687 Gypsum1 thousand mt 2,053 1,956 1,533 1,671 primary energy consumption2 billion kWh 403.0 368.2 396.0 411.7 Water consumption1,3 m3/MWh 1.41 1.70 1.49 1.69 specific co2 emissions mt/MWh 0.715 0.792 0.749 0.861 scope 1 co2 emissions4 million mt 144.9 135.9 147.4 155.1 Totalplants5 specific co2 emissions mt/MWh 0.732 0.796 0.768 0.866 scope 1 co2 emissions4 million mt 167.1 151.3 174.5 189.7 scope 2 co2 emissions6 million mt 3.1 3.5 3.8 3.6 scope 3 co2 emissions7 million mt 135.7 128.1 127.0 127.8 capital expenditure of the Renewables Division  million 709 733 1,102 8 share of the Groups electricity generation   accounted for by renewables % 4.09 3.5 2.4 2.4 society Employees10 70,856 70,726 65,908 63,439 share of women in the company % 26.2 26.1 25.6 25.2 share of women in executive positions % 10.8 9.011 8.9 8.9 fluctuation rate % 8.3 8.7 8.8 9.1 Training days per employee (Germany) 4.7 4.8 4.6 4.2 Health ratio % 95.6 95.4 95.4 95.6 lost-time incident frequency lTif12 3.5 4.3 5.3 6.1 fatal work-related accidents13 3 5 12 9 corporate governance share of the RWE Groups revenue earned   in countries with a high or very high risk of   corruption14 % 12.0 12.7 12.9 11.8 R&D costs  million 149 110 105 74 1  figures for 2009 adjusted due to the inclusion of Netherlands /Belgium and Hungary. 2  figures for 2009 adjusted due to the inclusion of the Netherlands /Belgium. 3  Difference between power plant water withdrawals and returns to rivers and other surface waters; excluding power plants with sea water cooling. 4  scope 1: direct co2 emissions from in-house sources (oil and gas production, gas transmission & electricity generation). 5  including power stations not under RWE ownership, but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements.  6  scope 2: indirect co2 emissions from the generation of electricity purchased from third parties which is used when being transmitted over the    RWE network (network losses). 7  scope 3: indirect co2 emissions that do not fall under scope 1 or 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties,    (including network losses in third-party networks), production and transmission of used fuel, and co2 emissions of gas sold to customers. 8  RWE innogy was established in february 2008. 9  Electricity generation based on wind (3.1 TWh), hydro (3.5 TWh) and biomass (2.3 TWh). 10 converted to full-time positions. 11 Excluding Essent. 12 sum of all accidents for every million hours worked. Excluding employees of third-party companies. 13 including employees of third-party companies. 14 countries rated lower than six on a scale of zero to ten in the corruption perceptions index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency international,     with ten corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. sustainabilty159 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information  RWE Annual Report 2010 160Responsibility statement To	the	best	of	our	knowledge,	and	in	accordance	with	the	applicable	reporting	principles,	the	consoli- dated	financial	statements	give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	assets,	liabilities,	financial	position	and	 profit	or	loss	of	the	Group,	and	the	Group	review	of	operations	includes	a	fair	review	of	the	develop- ment	and	performance	of	the	business	and	the	position	of	the	Group,	together	with	a	description	of	 the	principal	opportunities	and	risks	associated	with	the	expected	development	of	the	Group. Essen,	11	February	2011 The	Executive	Board	 responsiBiLity statement 3.0 Gromann Birnbaum Pohlig Fitting Schmitz  161 4.0 ConsoLidated finanCiaL statements ConsoLIDAteD FInAnCIAL stAteMents  RWE Annual Report 2010 162Income statement 4.1 inCome statement  million Note 2010 2009 Revenue(includingnaturalgastax/electricitytax) (1) 53,320 47,741 Natural gas tax/electricity tax (1) 2,598 1,550 Revenue (1) 50,722 46,191 changes in finished goods and work in progress  20 44 other own work capitalised 219 210 other operating income (2) 1,276 1,610 cost of materials (3) 33,176 29,838 staff costs (4) 4,873 4,610 Depreciation, amortisation, and impairment losses (5) 3,213 2,357 other operating expenses (6) 4,428 3,924 Incomefromoperatingactivitiesofcontinuingoperations 6,507 7,326 income from investments accounted for using the equity method (7) 310 131 other income from investments (7) 97 131 financial income (8) 1,248 1,699 finance costs (8) 3,184 3,689 Incomefromcontinuingoperationsbeforetax 4,978 5,598 Taxes on income (9) 1,376 1,858 Incomefromcontinuingoperations 3,602 3,740 income from discontinued operations 91 Income 3,602 3,831 of which: minority interest 279 260 of which: RWE AG hybrid capital investors interest 15 ofwhich:netincome/incomeattributabletoRWEAGshareholders 3,308 3,571 Basicanddilutedearningspercommonandpreferredsharein (28) 6.20 6.70 of which: from continuing operations in  (6.20) (6.58) of which: from discontinued operations in  (0.12)  to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information statement of recognised income and expenses163 4.2 statement of reCognised inCome and expenses 1  million Note 2010 2009 Income 3,602 3,831 currency translation adjustment 218 8 fair valuation of financial instruments available for sale (29) 2 383 fair valuation of financial instruments used for hedging purposes (29) 161 122 other comprehensive income of investments accounted   for using the equity method (pro rata) -34 36 Actuarial gains and losses of defined benefit pension plans and similar obligations 1  788 Othercomprehensiveincome 348 239 Totalcomprehensiveincome 3,950 3,592 of which: attributable to RWE AG shareholders (3,671) (3,442) of which: attributable to RWE AG hybrid capital investors (15) of which: attributable to minority interests (264) (150) 1 figures stated after taxes.  RWE Annual Report 2010 164balance sheet Assets  million Note 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Non-currentassets intangible assets (10) 17,350 17,320 property, plant and equipment (11) 32,237 28,627 investment property (12) 162 182 investments accounted for using the equity method (13) 3,694 3,736 other non-current financial assets (14) 750 709 financial receivables (15) 1,042 1,118 other receivables and other assets (16) 2,213 2,488 income tax assets 626 507 Deferred taxes (17) 2,391 1,876 60,465 56,563 Currentassets inventories (18) 3,293 3,115 financial receivables (15) 2,746 3,422 Trade accounts receivable (19) 9,485 9,530 other receivables and other assets (16) 10,484 13,784 income tax assets 543 660 Marketable securities (20) 3,196 3,290 cash and cash equivalents (21) 2,476 3,074 Assets held for sale 389 32,612 36,875 93,077 93,438 4.3 BaLanCe sheet Equityandliabilities  million Note 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Equity (22) RWE AG shareholders interest 14,574 12,792 RWE AG hybrid capital investors interest 1,759 Minority interest 1,084 925 17,417 13,717 Non-currentliabilities provisions (24) 23,485 22,315 financial liabilities (25) 15,908 17,019 other liabilities (27) 3,584 3,972 Deferred taxes (17) 2,185 2,327 45,162 45,633 Currentliabilities provisions (24) 5,572 5,829 financial liabilities (25) 3,902 3,127 Trade accounts payable (26) 8,415 9,697 income tax liabilities 90 218 other liabilities (27) 12,376 15,217 liabilities held for sale 143 30,498 34,088 93,077 93,438  to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Cash flow statement165 4.4 Cash fLoW statement  million Note (32) 2010 2009 income 3,602 3,831 Depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses/write-backs 3,184 2,464 changes in provisions 338  10 changes in deferred taxes  680 97 income from disposal of non-current assets and marketable securities  165 69 other non-cash income/expenses 1,570  357 changes in working capital  2,349  795 Cashflowsfromoperatingactivitiesofcontinuingoperations 5,500 5,299 cash flows from operating activities of discontinued operations 11 Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities 5,500 5,310 intangible assets/property, plant and equipment/investment property capital expenditure  6,379  5,913 proceeds from disposal of assets 176 103 Acquisitions and investments capital expenditure  258  8,801 proceeds from disposal of assets/divestitures 220 2,328 changes in marketable securities and cash investments  442 4,427 Cashflowsfrominvestingactivitiesofcontinuingoperations (beforetransfertocontractualtrustarrangements) 6,683 7,856 Transfer to contractual trust arrangements  470 Cashflowsfrominvestingactivitiesofcontinuingoperations (aftertransfertocontractualtrustarrangements) 6,683  8,326 cash flows from investing activities of discontinued operations  78 Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities 6,683 8,404 Net change in equity (incl. minority interest) 27 186 issuance of hybrid capital 1,738 Dividends paid to RWE AG shareholders and minority interests  2,198  2,592 issuance of financial debt 3,485 11,592 Repayment of financial debt  2,414  4,347 Cashflowsfromfinancingactivitiesofcontinuingoperations 638 4,839 cash flows from financing activities of discontinued operations 65 Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities 638 4,904 Net cash change in cash and cash equivalents  545 1,810 Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates and other changes in value on cash and cash equivalents 6 13 Net cash change in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations 2 Netchangeincashandcashequivalents 539 1,825 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the reporting period 3,074 1,249 Cashandcashequivalentsatendofthereportingperiod 2,535 3,074 of which: reported as Assets held for sale  59 Cashandcashequivalentsatendofthereportingperiod aspertheconsolidatedbalancesheet 2,476 3,074  RWE Annual Report 2010 166statement of changes in equity 4.5 statement of Changes in equity Statementof changesin equity  million Note (22) sub- scribed  capital of  RWE AG Additional paid-in  capital of  RWE AG Retained earnings  and distribut- able profit own  shares Accumulated other   comprehensive income RWEAG share- holders interest RWE AG  hybrid  capital  investors  interest Minority  interest Total currency  translation  adjust- ments fair value measure- ment of financial  instruments Available  for sale Used for  hedging  purposes Balanceat 1Jan2009 1,440 1,158 11,200 2,500 112 274 451 11,587 1,553 13,140 capital paid in 10 10 sales of own  shares  52 228 176 176 Dividends  paid 1  2,401  2,401  121  2,522 income 3,571 3,571 260 3,831 other com- prehensive  income  769 115 403 122  129  110  239 Total compre- hensive income 2,802 115 403 122 3,442 150 3,592 other changes  12  12  667  679 Balanceat 31Dec2009 1,440 1,158 11,537 2,272 227 129 573 12,792 925 13,717 capital paid in 1,738 21 1,759 Dividends  paid 1  1,867  1,867  160  2,027 income 3,308 3,308 15 279 3,602 other com- prehensive  income 14 218  30 161 363  15 348 Total compre- hensive income 3,322 218  30 161 3,671 15 264 3,950 other changes  22  22 6 34 18 Balanceat 31Dec2010 1,440 1,158 12,970 2,272 445 99 734 14,574 1,759 1,084 17,417 1 following the reclassification of minority interests to other liabilities as per iAs 32.  to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information notes167 4.6 notes RWE	AG,	headquartered	at	Opernplatz	1,	45128	Essen,	 	Germany,	is	the	parent	company	of	the	RWE	Group		 (RWE	or	Group). The	consolidated	financial	statements	for	the	period	ended	 31December	2010	were	approved	for	publication	on			 11February	2011	by	the	Executive	Board	of	RWE	AG.	The	 	statements	were	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	International	 Financial		Reporting	Standards	(IFRSs)	applicable	in	the	EU,	as	 well	as	in	accordance	with	the	supplementary	accounting	 	regulations		applicable	pursuant	to	Sec.	315a,	Para.	1	of	the	 	German	Commercial	Code	(HGB).	The	previous	years	figures	 were	calculated		according	to	the	same	principles. A	statement	of	changes	in	equity	has	been	disclosed	in	addition	 to	the	income	statement,	the	statement	of	recognised	income	 and	expenses,	the	balance	sheet	and	the	cash	flow	statement.	 The	Notes	to	the	financial	statements	also	include	segment	 	reporting. Several	balance	sheet	and	income	statement	items	have	been	 combined	in	the	interests	of	clarity.	These	items	are	stated	and	 explained	separately	in	the	Notes	to	the	financial	statements.	 The	income	statement	is	structured	according	to	the	nature	of	 expense	method. The	consolidated	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	in	 euros.	Unless	specified	otherwise,	all	amounts	are	stated	in	 	millions	of	euros	(	million). These	consolidated	financial	statements	were	prepared	for	the	 2010	fiscal	year	(1	January	to	31	December). The	Executive	Board	of	RWE	AG	is	responsible	for	the	complete- ness	and	accuracy	of	the	consolidated	financial	statements	and	 the	review	of	operations	of	the	Group,	which	is	combined	with	 the	review	of	operations	of	RWE	AG. We	employ	internal	control	systems,	uniform	groupwide	direc- tives,	and	programmes	for	basic	and	advanced	staff	training	to	 ensure	that	the	consolidated	financial	statements	and	combined	 review	of	operations	are	adequately	prepared.	Compliance	with	 legal	regulations	and	the	internal	guidelines	as	well	as	the	relia- bility	and	viability	of	the	control	systems	are	continuously	moni- tored	throughout	the	Group. In	line	with	the	requirements	of	the	German	Corporate	Control	 and	Transparency	Act	(KonTraG),	the	Groups	risk	management	 system	enables	the	Executive	Board	to	identify	risks	at	an	early	 stage	and	initiate	countermeasures,	if	necessary. The	consolidated	financial	statements,	the	combined	review	of	 operations	and	the	report	of	the	independent	auditor	are	dis- cussed	in	detail	by	the	Audit	Committee	and	at	the	Supervisory	 Boards	meeting	on	financial	statements	with	the	independent	 auditor	present.	The	results	of	the	Supervisory	Boards	examina- tion	are	presented	in	the	report	of	the	Supervisory	Board	(pages	 136	to	139	of	this	Annual	Report). Basis of presentation  168  Notes RWE Annual Report 2010 In addition to RWE AG, the consolidated financial statements  contain all material German and foreign companies which RWE  AG controls directly or indirectly. Material associates and mate- rial joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates which  are of secondary importance from a Group perspective are   accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. Subsidiaries which are  not included in the scope of consolidation account for less than  1  % of the Groups revenue, income and debt. Subsidiaries with  negative income or equity are generally fully consolidated. The information pursuant to Sec. 313, Para. 2 of the German  Commercial Code (HGB), which forms part of the Notes to the  consolidated financial statements, is not included in the printed  version. The information can be found on our companys   website at www.rwe.com. Material consolidated  investments  Corporate acquisitions. On 30 September 2009, RWE acquired  100% of the Dutch power utility Essent N. V.s voting stock.  The accounting treatment of the business acquisition was final- ised as of 30September 2010, without any adjustments to the  preliminary accounting treatment as of 31December 2009. Assets and liabilities held for sale / Discontinued operations. In 2009, RWE made a commitment to the EU Commission   to sell its interests in Thyssengas GmbH, which operates   RWEs  long-distance gas transmission network in Germany.   RWE  concluded a contract on the sale of its 100% stake in   Thyssengas GmbH in December 2010, subject to the approval  and investments accounted for using the equity method are  listed on pages 228 to 230 of this Annual Report. In the year under review, 11 companies domiciled in Germany  and 18 outside of Germany were consolidated for the first time.  17 companies, three of which were headquartered in Germany,  are no longer included in the scope of consolidation; 20 com- panies were merged, of which 13 were domiciled in Germany.  Furthermore, seven associates (of which two in Germany) were  accounted for using the equity method for the first time. In   respect of companies accounted for using the equity method in  the previous year, four were sold, including one headquartered  in Germany; one company abroad was merged and seven   companies were no longer accounted for using the equity  method, of which six were headquartered in Germany. First- time consolidation and deconsolidation generally take place  when control is transferred. Scope of consolidation Scope of consolidation Germany 31 Dec 2010 Foreign  countries   31 Dec 2010 Total 31 Dec 2010 Total 31 Dec 2009 Fully consolidated companies 204 241 445 453 Investments accounted for using the equity method 69 52 121 126 of the EU Commission and the anti-trust authorities. The   anti-trust authorities and the EU Commission granted approval  in December 2010 and late January 2011, respectively. The   assets and liabilities of  Thyssengas are stated as held for sale  as of 31 December 2010. Thyssengas is included under   Other /consolidation in the  segment reporting. The following table presents the assets and liabilities of   Thyssengas which are held for sale: Key figures for Thyssengas  million 31 Dec 2010 Non-current assets 296 Current assets 93 Non-current liabilities 36 Current liabilities 107  notes169 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information In	the	previous	year,	American	Water	Works	Company	Inc.	 (American	Water),	Wilmington/Delaware,	USA,	was	stated	as	a	 discontinued	operation.	Figures	for	the	activities	of	American	 Water	during	the	period	of	full	consolidation	(January	to	March	 2009)	are	presented	in	the	following	table: Moreover,	after	deconsolidation	due	to	loss	of	the	voting	 	majority	in	American	Water,	42	million	resulting	from	the	sale,	 	2million	in	fair	value	adjustments	and	26	million	in	income	 from		investments	were	reported	in	income	from	discontinued	 operations	in	the	previous	year. Changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation	resulted	in	a	decrease		 of	111	million	in	non-current	assets	(including	deferred	taxes),	 and	61	million	in	cash	and	cash	equivalents,	and	an	increase		 of	482	million	in	current	assets	(excluding	cash	and	cash	equiv- alents)	as	well	as	an	increase	of	57	million	in	non-current	and	 current	liabilities.	These	figures	each	include	the	mutually	offset- ting	effects	of	items	reported	as	Assets	and	liabilities	held	for	 sale. The	total	sales	price	for	divested	subsidiaries	amounted	to	 227million	(previous	year:	222	million),	which	was	paid	in	 cash	or	cash	equivalents. Effects	of	changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation	have	been	 	stated	in	the	Notes	insofar	as	they	are	of	particular	importance. keyfiguresforAmericanWater  million Jan - Mar   2009 Revenue 426 Expenses/income  323 ordinary income from discontinued operations  before tax 103 Taxes on income  39 income 64 fair value adjustments  39 income from discontinued operations 25  170notes RWE Annual Report 2010 The	financial	statements	of	German	and	foreign	companies	 	included	in	the	scope	of	the	Groups	financial	statements	are	 prepared	using	uniform	accounting	policies.	On	principle,	sub- sidiaries	whose	fiscal	years	do	not	end	on	the	Groups	balance- sheet	date	(31	December)	prepare	interim	financial	statements	 as	of	this	date. Business	combinations	are	reported	according	to	the	acquisi- tion	method.	This	means	that	capital	consolidation	takes	place	 by	offsetting	the	purchase	price,	including	the	amount	of	the	 minority	interest,	against	the	acquired	subsidiaries	revalued	 net	assets	at	the	time	of	acquisition.	In	doing	so,	minority	 	interest	is	generally	measured	at	the	prorated	value	of	the	 	subsidiaries	identifiable	net	assets.	Subsidiaries	identifiable	 assets,		liabilities	and	contingent	liabilities	are	measured	at	full	 fair		value,	regardless	of	the	amount	of	the	minority	interest.	 	Intangible	assets	are		reported	separately	from	goodwill	if		 they	are	separable	from	the	company	or	if	they	stem	from	a	 	contractual	or	other	right.	In	accordance	with	IFRS	3,	no	new	 	restructuring	provisions	are	recognised	within	the	scope	of	the	 purchase	price	allocation.	If	the	purchase	price	exceeds	the	 	revalued		prorated	net	assets	of	the	acquired	subsidiary,	the		 difference	is	capitalised	as	goodwill.	If	the	purchase	price	is	 lower,	the		(negative)	difference	from	first-time	consolidation		 is	included	in	income. Capitalised	goodwill	is	not	amortised:	it	is	tested	for	impair- ment	once	every	year,	or	more	frequently	if	there	are	indica- tions	of	impairment.	In	the	event	of	deconsolidation,	residual	 carrying	amounts	of	capitalised	goodwill	are	taken	into	account	 when	calculating	income	from	disposals.	Changes	in	share	own- ership	which	do	not	alter	the	ability	to	control	the	subsidiary	 are	recognised	without	an	effect	on	income.	If	shares	in	a	sub- sidiary	are	sold	resulting	in	a	change	in	control,	the	remaining	 shares	are	revalued	with	an	effect	on	income. Expenses	and	income	as	well	as	receivables	and	payables	 	between	consolidated	companies	are	eliminated.	Intra-group	 profits	and	losses	are	eliminated. For	investments	accounted	for	using	the	equity	method,	good- will	is	not	reported	separately,	but	rather	included	in	the	value	 recognised	for	the	investment.	In	other	respects,	the	consolida- tion	principles	described	above	apply.	Goodwill	is	not	amor- tised.	If	impairment	losses	on	the	equity	value	become	neces- sary,	we	report	such	under	income	from	investments	accounted	 for	using	the	equity	method.	The	financial	statements	of	invest- ments	accounted	for	using	the	equity	method	are	prepared	 	using	uniform	accounting	policies. Consolidation principles  notes171 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information In	their	individual	financial	statements,	the	companies	measure	 non-monetary	foreign	currency	items	at	the	balance-sheet	date	 using	the	exchange	rate	in	effect	on	the	date	they	were	initially	 recognised.	Monetary	items	are	converted	using	the	exchange	 rate	valid	on	the	balance-sheet	date.	Exchange	rate	gains	and	 losses	from	the	measurement	of	monetary		balance-sheet	items	 in	foreign	currency	occurring	up	to	the		balance-sheet	date	are	 recognised	in	the	income	statement		under	other	operating	 	income	or	expenses. Functional	foreign	currency	translation	is	applied	when	convert- ing	the	financial	statements	of	companies	outside	of	the	euro	 area.	As	the	principal	foreign	enterprises	included	in	the	consol- idated	financial	statements	conduct	their	business	activities	 	independently	in	their	national	currencies,	their	balance-sheet	 items	are	translated	into	euros	in	the	consolidated	financial	 statements	using	the	average	exchange	rate	prevailing	on	the	 balance-sheet	date.	This	also	applies	for	goodwill,	which	is	 viewed	as	an	asset	of	the	economically	autonomous	foreign	 	entity.	We	report	differences	to	previous-year	translations	in	 other	comprehensive	income	without	an	effect	on	income.	 	Expense	and	income	items	are	translated	using	annual	average	 exchange	rates.	When	translating	the	adjusted	equity	of	foreign	 companies	accounted	for	using	the	equity	method,	we	follow	 the	same	procedure. The	following	exchange	rates	(among	others)	were	used	as	a	 basis	for	foreign	currency	translations: Foreign currency translation Exchangerates in  Average year-end 2010 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 1 Us dollar 0.76 0.72 0.75 0.69 1 pound sterling 1.17 1.12 1.16 1.13 100 czech korunas 3.96 3.77 3.99 3.78 100 Hungarian forints 0.36 0.35 0.36 0.37 1 polish zloty 0.25 0.23 0.25 0.24  172notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Intangible assets	are	accounted	for	at	amortised	cost.	With	the	 exception	of	goodwill,	all	intangible	assets	have	finite	useful	 lives	and	are	amortised	using	the	straight-line	method.	Useful	 lives	and	methods	of	amortisation	are	reviewed	on	an	annual	 basis. Software	for	commercial	and	technical	applications	is	amortised	 over	three	to	five	years.	Operating	rights	refer	to	the	entirety	 of	the	permits	and	approvals	required	for	the	operation	of		 a	power	plant.	Such	rights	are	generally	amortised	over		 the		economic	life	of	the	power	plant,	using	the	straight-line	 	method.	Easement	agreements	in	the	electricity	and	gas	 	business,	and	other	easement	rights,	generally	have	useful	lives	 of	up	to	20	years.	Concessions	in	the	water	business	generally	 have	terms	of	up	to	25	years.	Capitalised	customer	relations		 are		amortised	over	a	period	of	up	to	ten	years.	Useful	lives		 and	methods	of	amortisation	are	reviewed	on	an	annual	basis. Goodwill	is	not	amortised;	instead	it	is	subjected	to	an	impair- ment	test	once	every	year,	or	more	frequently	if	there	are	indi- cations	of	impairment. Development	costs	are	capitalised	if	a	newly	developed	 	product	or	process	can	be	clearly	defined,	is	technically	feasible	 and	it	is	the	companys	intention	to	either	use	the	product	or	 process	itself	or	market	it.	Furthermore,	asset	recognition	 	requires	that	there	be	a	sufficient	level	of	certainty	that	the	 	development	costs	lead	to	future	cash	inflows.	Capitalised	 	development	costs	are	amortised	over	the	time	period	during	 which	the	products	are	expected	to	be	sold.	Research	expendi- tures	are	recognised	as	expenses	in	the	period	in	which	they	 are	incurred. An	impairment	loss	is	recognised	for	an	intangible	asset,	if		 the	recoverable	amount	of	the	asset	is	less	than	its	carrying	 amount.	A	special	regulation	applies	for	cases	when	the	asset		 is	part	of	a	cash-generating	unit.	Such	units	are	defined	as	the	 smallest	identifiable	group	of	assets	which	generates	cash	 	inflows;	these	inflows	must	be	largely	independent	of	cash	 	inflows	from	other	assets	or	groups	of	assets.	If	the	intangible	 asset	is	a	part	of	a	cash-generating	unit,	the	impairment	loss		 is	calculated	based	on	the	recoverable	amount	of	this	unit.		 If	goodwill	was	allocated	to	a	cash-generating	unit	and	the	 	carrying	amount	of	the	unit	exceeds	the	recoverable	amount,	 the	allocated	goodwill	is	initially	written	down	by	the	 	difference.	Impairment	losses	which	must	be	recognised	in	 	addition	to	this	are	taken	into	account	by	reducing	the	carrying	 amount	of	the	other	assets	of	the	cash-generating	unit	on	a	 prorated	basis.	If	the	reason	for	an	impairment	loss	recognised	 in	prior	years	has	ceased	to	exist,	a	write-back	is	performed.	 The		increased	carrying	amount	resulting	from	the	write-back	 may	not,	however,		exceed	the	amortised	cost.	Impairment	 	losses	on	goodwill	are	not	reversed. Property, plant and equipment	is	stated	at	depreciated	cost.	 Borrowing	costs	are	capitalised	as	part	of	the	assets	cost,	if	 they	are	incurred	directly	in	connection	with	the	acquisition	or	 production	of	a	qualified	asset	for	which	a	considerable	 	period	of	time	is	required	to	prepare	the	asset	for	use	or	sale.		 If	necessary,	the	cost	of	property,	plant	and	equipment	may	 contain	the	estimated	expenses	for	the	decommissioning	of	 plants	or	site	restoration.	Maintenance	and	repair	costs	are	 	recognised	as	expenses. Exploratory	wells	are	accounted	for	at	cost,	according	to	the	 successful	efforts	method,	meaning	that	expenses	for	explora- tion	activities	are	only	capitalised	for	successful	projects,	for	 	example	when	wells	specifically	lead	to	the	discovery	of	crude	 oil	or	natural	gas.	Seismology	and	geology	expenditures	are	 recognised	as	expenses.	Within	the	framework	of	the	unit-of- production	method,	we	do	not	depreciate	or	amortise	capital- ised	exploration	expenses	in	the	exploration	phase,	but	rather	 	after	production	begins.	Exploration	assets	are	tested	for	 	impairment	as	soon	as	facts	and	information	indicate	that	the	 carrying	value	exceeds	the	recoverable	amount. With	the	exception	of	land	and	leasehold	rights,	as	a	rule,	 	property,	plant	and	equipment	is	depreciated	using	the	 straight-line	method,	unless	in	exceptional	cases	another	 	depreciation	method	is	better	suited	to	the	usage	pattern.		 We	calculate	the	depreciation	of	RWEs	typical	property,	plant	 and	equipment	according	to	the	following	useful	lives,	which	 apply	throughout	the	Group: Accounting policies  notes173 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Property,	plant	and	equipment	held	under	a	finance	lease	is	 capitalised	at	the	fair	value	of	the	leased	asset	or	the	present	 value	of	the	minimum	lease	payments,	depending	on	which	is	 lower.	They	are	depreciated	using	the	straight-line	method	over	 the	expected	useful	life	or	the	lease	term,	whichever	is	shorter. Impairment	losses	and	write-backs	on	property,	plant	and	 equipment	are	recognised	according	to	the	principles	described	 for	intangible	assets. Investment property	consists	of	all	real	property	held	to	earn	 rental	income	or	for	long-term	capital	appreciation	rather	than	 for	use	in	production	or	for	administrative	purposes.	This	prop- erty	is	measured	at	depreciated	cost.	Transaction	costs	are	also	 included	in	the	initial	measurement.	Depreciable	investment	 property	is	depreciated	over	7	to	75	years	using	the	straight- line	method.	Fair	values	of	investment	property	are	stated	in	 the	Notes	and	are	determined	using	internationally	accepted	 valuation	methods	such	as	the	discounted	cash	flow	method	or	 are	derived	from	the	current	market	prices	of	comparable	real	 estate. Impairment	losses	and	write-backs	for	investment	property	are	 also	recognised	according	to	the	principles	described	for	intan- gible	assets. Investments accounted for using the equity method	are	initial- ly	accounted	for	at	cost	and	thereafter	based	on	the	carrying	 amount	of	their	prorated	net	assets.	The	carrying	amounts	are	 increased	or	reduced	annually	by	prorated	profits	or	losses,	div- idends	and	all	other	changes	in	equity.	Goodwill	is	not	reported	 separately,	but	rather	included	in	the	recognised	value	of	the	 investment.	Goodwill	is	not	amortised.	An	impairment	loss	is	 recognised	for	investments	accounted	for	using	the	equity	 method,	if	the	recoverable	amount	is	less	than	the	carrying	 amount. Other financial assets	are	comprised	of	shares	in	non-consoli- dated	subsidiaries	and	in		associates/joint	ventures	not	account- ed	for	using	the	equity	method,	as	well	as	other	investments	 and	non-current	marketable	securities;	these	assets	are	shown	 in	the	category	Available	for	sale.	This	category	includes	 	financial	instruments	which	are	neither	loans	or	receivables,		 nor	financial	investments	held	to	maturity,	and	which	are	not	 	measured	at	fair	value	through	profit	or	loss.	Initially	and	in	the	 following	periods,	they	are	recognised	at	fair	value	as	long	as	 such	can	be	determined	reliably.	They	are	initially	measured	on	 their	settlement	date.	Unrealised	gains	and	losses	are	stated	as	 other	comprehensive	income,	with	due	consideration	of	any	 	deferred	taxes.	Gains	or	losses	are	recognised	in	the	income	 statement	upon	sale	of	the	financial	instruments.	If	there	are	 objective,	material	indications	of	a	reduction	in	the	value	of		 an	asset,	an	impairment	loss	is	recognised	with	an	effect	on	 	income.	If	a	debtor	is	experiencing	significant	financial	difficul- ties,	or	is	delinquent	on	payments	of	interest	or	principal,	this	 can	be	an	indication	of	impairment	of	the	financial	asset	in	 question.	The	same	is	true	when	there	is	no	longer	an	active	 market	for	a	financial	asset. Receivables	are	comprised	of	financial receivables, trade   accounts receivable	and	other receivables.	With	the	exception	 of	financial	derivatives,	receivables and other assets	are	stated	 at	amortised	cost.	Allowances	for	doubtful	accounts	are	based	 on	the	actual	default	risk.	As	a	rule,	the	amounts	of	receivables	 are	corrected	through	the	use	of	an	allowance	account,	in	ac- cordance	with	internal	Group	guidelines.	Prepayments	received	 from	customers	for	consumption	which	is	yet	to	be	metered	 and	billed	are	netted	out	against	trade	accounts	receivable	of	 the	utilities. Loans	reported	under	financial	receivables	are	stated	at	amor- tised	cost.	Loans	with	interest	rates	common	in	the	market		 are	shown	on	the	balance	sheet	at	nominal	value;	as	a	rule,	 	however,	non-interest	or	low-interest	loans	are	disclosed	at	 their	present	value	discounted	using	an	interest	rate	commen- surate	with	the	risks	involved. Usefullifeinyears Buildings 7 – 75 Technical plants Thermal power plants 10 – 40 Wind turbines up to 20 Electricity grids 20 – 45 Water main networks 20 – 80 Gas and water storage facilities 15 – 50 Gas distribution facilities 14 – 40 Mining facilities 3 – 25 Mining developments 33 – 35 Wells in Upstream Gas & oil up to 29  174notes RWE Annual Report 2010 CO2	emission	allowances	are	accounted	for	as	intangible	assets	 and	reported	under	other	assets.	Allowances	which	are	pur- chased	and	allowances	allocated	free	of	charge	are	both	stated	 at	cost	and	are	not	amortised. Deferred taxes	result	from	temporary	differences	in	the	carry- ing	amount	in	the	separate	IFRS	financial	statements	and	the	 tax	base,	and	from	consolidation	procedures.	Deferred	tax	 	assets	also	include	tax	reduction	claims	resulting	from	the	 	expected	utilisation	of	existing	loss	carryforwards	in	subse- quent	years.	Deferred	taxes	are	capitalised	if	it	is	sufficiently	 certain	that	the	related	economic	advantages	can	be	used.	 Their	amount	is	assessed	based	on	the	tax	rates	applicable	or	 expected	to	be	applicable	in	the	specific	country	at	the	time		 of	realisation.	The	tax	regulations	valid	or	adopted	as	of	the	 	balance-sheet	date	are	key	considerations	in	this	regard.		 The	tax	rate	used	to	calculate	deferred	taxes	in	Germany	is	 31.2		%(previous	year:	30.9		%).	This	is	derived	from	the	pre- vailing	15		%corporate	tax	rate,	the	5.5		%	solidarity	surcharge,	 and	the	Groups	average	local	trade	tax	rate	in	Germany,	which	 was		adjusted	during	the	year	under	review.	Deferred	tax	assets	 and	deferred	tax	liabilities	are	netted	out	for	each	company	 and	/or	tax	group. Inventories	are	assets	which	are	held	for	sale	in	the	ordinary	 course	of	business	(finished	goods	and	goods	for	resale),	which	 are	in	the	process	of	production	(work	in	progress	–	goods	and	 services)	or	which	are	consumed	in	the	production	process	or	in	 the	rendering	of	services	(raw	materials	including	nuclear	fuel	 assemblies	and	excavated	earth	for	lignite	mining). Insofar	as	inventories	are	not	acquired	primarily	for	the	purpose	 of	realising	a	profit	on	a	short-term	resale	transaction,	they	are	 carried	at	the	lower	of	cost	or	net	realisable	value.	Production	 costs	reflect	the	full	costs	directly	related	to	production	and	are	 determined	based	on	normal	capacity	utilisation.	In		addition		 to	directly	allocable	costs,	production	costs	include	adequate	 	portions	of	required	materials	and	production	overheads,	 	including	production-related	depreciation.	Borrowing	costs,	 however,	are	not	capitalised	as	part	of	the	cost.	The		valuation		 is	generally	based	on	average	values.	The	usage	of	excavated	 earth	for	lignite	mining	is	calculated	using	the	FIFO	method. If	the	net	realisable	value	of	inventories	written	down	in	earlier	 periods	has	increased,	the	reversal	of	the	write-down	is	recog- nised	as	a	reduction	of	the	cost	of	materials. Nuclear	fuel	assemblies	are	stated	at	depreciated	cost.	Depreci- ation	is	determined	by	operation	and	capacity,	based	on	con- sumption	and	the	reactors	useful	life. Inventories	which	are	acquired	primarily	for	the	purpose	of	 	realising	a	profit	on	a	short-term	resale	transaction	are	stated	 at	their	net	realisable	value	less	distribution	costs.	Changes	in	 value	are	recognised	with	an	effect	on	income. Securities	classified	as	current	marketable securities	essentially	 consist	of	marketable	securities	held	in	special	funds	as	well	as	 fixed-interest	securities	which	have	a	maturity	of	more	than	 three	months	and	less	than	one	year	from	the	date	of	acquisi- tion.	All	of	these	securities	are	classified	as	Available	for	sale	 and	are	stated	at	fair	value.	The	transaction	costs	directly	asso- ciated	with	the	acquisition	of	the	financial	asset	are	included	in	 the	initial	measurement;	these	securities	are	initially	measured	 on	their	settlement	date.	Unrealised	gains	and	losses	are	 	included	in	other	comprehensive	income,	with	due	considera- tion	of	any	deferred	taxes.	Gains	or	losses	are	recognised	in	the	 income	statement	at	the	time	of	sale.	If	there	are	objective,	 	material	indications	of	a	reduction	in	value,	an	impairment	loss	 is	recognised	with	an	effect	on	income. Financial	assets	are	derecognised	when	the	contractual	rights	 to	cash	flows	from	the	asset	expire	or	if	the	entity	transfers	the	 financial	asset.	The	latter	applies	when	substantially	all	the	risks	 and	rewards	of	ownership	of	the	asset	are	transferred,	or	the	 entity	no	longer	has	control	of	the	asset. Cash and cash equivalents	consist	of	cash	on	hand,	demand	 deposits	and	current	fixed-interest	securities	with	a	maturity	of	 three	months	or	less	from	the	date	of	acquisition. Assets	are	stated	under	Assets held for sale	if	they	can	be	 sold	in	their	present	condition	and	their	sale	is	highly	probable.	 Such	assets	may	be	certain	non-current	assets,	asset	groups	 (disposal	groups)	or	operations	(discontinued	operations).	 Liabilities	intended	to	be	sold	in	a	transaction	together	with	  notes175 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information 	assets	are	a	part	of	a	disposal	group	or	discontinued	opera- tions,	and	are	reported	separately	under	Liabilities held for  sale. Non-current	assets	held	for	sale	are	no	longer	depreciated	or	 amortised.	They	are	recognised	at	fair	value	less	costs	to	sell,	as	 long	as	this	amount	is	lower	than	the	carrying	amount. Gains	or	losses	on	the	valuation	of	specific	assets	held	for	sale	 and	of	disposal	groups	are	stated	under	income	from	continu- ing	operations	until	final	completion	of	the	sale. The	item	Income	from	discontinued	operations	in	the	income	 statement	includes	income	from	operating	activities	as	well	as	 gains	or	losses	resulting	from	recognition	at	fair	value	or	from	 the	disposal	of	activities. The	groupwide	stock	option	plans	are	accounted	for	as	cash- settled	share-based payment.	At	the	balance-sheet	date,	a	 	provision	is	recognised	in	the	amount	of	the	prorated	fair	value	 of	the	payment	obligation.	Changes	in	the	fair	value	are	recog- nised	with	an	effect	on	income.	The	fair	value	of	options	is	 	determined	using	generally	accepted	valuation	methodologies. Provisions	are	recognised	for	all	legal	or	constructive	obliga- tions	to	third	parties	which	exist	on	the	balance-sheet	date	and	 relate	to	past	events,	and	with	regard	to	which	it	is	probable	 that	an	outflow	of	resources	will	be	required,	and	the	amount	 of	which	can	be	reliably	estimated.	Provisions	are	carried	at	the	 prospective	settlement	amount	and	are	not	offset	against	 	reimbursement	claims.	If	the	provision	to	be	measured	involves	 a	large	number	of	items,	the	obligation	is	estimated	by	weight- ing	all	possible	outcomes	by	their	probability	of	occurrence	 	(expected	value	method). All	non-current	provisions	are	recognised	at	their	prospective	 settlement	amount,	which	is	discounted	as	of	the	balance-sheet	 date.	In	the	determination	of	the	settlement	amount,	any	cost	 increases	likely	to	occur	up	until	the	time	of	settlement	are	 	taken	into	account. If	necessary,	the	cost	of	property,	plant	and	equipment	may	 contain	the	estimated	expenses	for	the	decommissioning	of	 plants	or	site	restoration,	for	which	decommissioning,	restora- tion	and	similar	provisions	are	recognised.	If	changes	in	the	 	discount	rate	or	changes	in	the	estimated	timing	or	amount	of	 the	payments	result	in	changes	in	the	provisions,	the	carrying	 amount	of	the	respective	asset	is	adjusted	by	the	same	 amount.	If	the	decrease	in	the	provision	exceeds	the	carrying	 amount	of	the	underlying	asset,	the	excess	is	recognised	imme- diately	through	profit	or	loss. As	a	rule,	releases	of	provisions	are	credited	to	the	expense	 	account	on	which	the	provision	was	originally	recognised. Provisions	for	pensions	and	similar	obligations	are	recognised	 for	defined	benefit	plans.	These	are	obligations	of	the	company	 to	pay	future	and	ongoing	post-employment	benefits	to	 	entitled	current	and	former	employees	and	their	surviving	 	dependents.	In	particular,	the	obligations	refer	to	retirement	 pensions.	Individual	commitments	are	generally	calculated	ac- cording	to	the	employees	length	of	service	and	compensation. Provisions	for	defined	benefit	plans	are	based	on	the	actuarial	 present	value	of	the	respective	obligation.	This	is	measured	 	using	the	projected	unit	credit	method.	This	benefit	/years-of- service	method	not	only	takes	into	account	the	pension	bene- fits	and	benefit	entitlements	known	as	of	the	balance-sheet	 date,	but	also	anticipated	future	increases	in	salaries	and	 	pension	benefits.	The	calculation	is	based	on	actuarial	reports,	 taking	into	account	appropriate	biometric	parameters	(for	 	Germany,	in	particular	the	Richttafeln	2005	G	by	Klaus	 Heubeck).	The	provision	derives	from	the	balance	of	actuarial	 present		value	of	the	obligations	and	the	fair	value	of	the	plan	 assets.	The	service	cost	is	disclosed	in	staff	costs.	The	interest	 cost	and	expected	return	on	plan	assets	are	included	in	the	 	financial		result. Actuarial	gains	and	losses	are	fully	recognised	in	the	fiscal	year	 in	which	they	occur.	They	are	reported	as	a	component	of	other	 comprehensive	income	outside	of	profit	or	loss	in	the	state- ment	of	recognised	income	and	expenses	and	immediately	 	assigned	to	retained	earnings.	They	remain	outside	profit	or	 loss	in	subsequent	periods	as	well. In	the	case	of	defined	contribution	plans,	the	enterprises	 	obligation	is	limited	to	the	amount	it	contributes	to	the	plan.	 Contributions	to	the	plan	are	reported	under	staff	costs.  176notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Waste	management	provisions	in	the	nuclear	energy	sector	are	 based	on	obligations	under	public	law,	in	particular	the	German	 Atomic	Energy	Act,	and	on	restrictions	stipulated	in	operating	 licenses.	These	provisions	are	measured	using	estimates,	which	 are	based	on	and	defined	in	contracts,	on	information	from	 	internal	and	external	specialists	and	expert	opinions,	as	well	as	 on	data	from	the	German	Federal	Office	for	Radiation	Protec- tion	(BfS). Obligations	existing	as	of	the	balance-sheet	date	and	identifi- able	when	the	balance	sheet	is	being	prepared	are	recognised	 as	provisions	for	mining	damage	to	cover	land	recultivation	and	 remediation	of	mining	damage	that	has	already	occured	or	 been	caused.	The	provisions	must	be	recognised	due	to	obliga- tions	under	public	law,	such	as	the	German	Federal	Mining	Act,	 and	formulated,	above	all,	in	operating	schedules	and	water	 law	permits.	Provisions	are	generally	recognised	based	on	the	 	increase	in	the	obligation,	e.g.	in	line	with	lignite	production.	 Such	provisions	are	measured	at	full	expected	cost	or	according	 to	estimated	compensation	payments. Furthermore,	provisions	are	made	owing	to	obligations	under	 public	law	to	dismantle	production	facilities	and	fill	wells.	The	 amount	of	these	provisions	is	determined	on	the	basis	of	total	 cost	estimates,	which	reflect	past	experience	and	the	compara- tive	rates	determined	by	the	German	Association	of	Oil	and	 Natural	Gas	Production	Industry.	An	analogous	approach	is	 	taken	for	foreign	subsidiaries. A	provision	is	recognised	to	cover	the	obligation	to	deliver	CO2	 emission	allowances	to	the	respective	authorities;	this	provision	 is	measured	at	the	carrying	amount	of	the	CO2	allowances	 	capitalised	for	this	purpose.	If	a	portion	of	the	obligation	is	not	 covered	with	the	available	allowances,	the	provision	for	this	 portion	is	measured	using	the	market	price	of	the	emission	 	allowances	on	the	reporting	date. Liabilities	consist	of financial liabilities, trade accounts payable	 and	other liabilities.	Upon	initial	recognition,	liabilities	are	 	stated	at	fair	value	including	transaction	costs	and	are	carried	 at	amortised	cost	in	the	periods	thereafter	(except	for	 	derivative	financial	instruments).	Liabilities	from	finance	lease	 agreements	are	measured	at	the	lower	of	fair	value	of	the	 leased		asset	or	the	present	value	of	minimum	lease	payments. Deferred	income	and	prepayments	from	customers	are	recog- nised	as	liabilities	under	other	liabilities.	Deferred	income	 	includes	advances	and	contributions	in	aid	of	construction	and	 building	connection	that	are	carried	as	liabilities	by	the	utilities	 and	which	are	generally	amortised	and	included	in	income	over	 the	useful	life	of	the	corresponding	asset.	Deferred	income	also	 includes	taxable	and	non-taxable	government	grants	for	capital	 expenditure	on	non-current	assets,	which	are	generally	recog- nised	as	other	operating	income	in	line	with	the	assets	depre- ciation. Certain	minority	interests	are	also	presented	under	other	liabili- ties.	Specifically,	this	pertains	to	purchase	price	obligations	 from	rights	to	tender	minority	interests	(put	options). Derivative financial instruments	are	recognised	as	assets	or	 	liabilities	and	measured	at	fair	value,	regardless	of	their	 	purpose.	Changes	in	this	value	are	recognised	with	an	effect	on	 income,	unless	the	instruments	are	used	for	hedge	accounting	 purposes.	In	such	cases,	recognition	of	changes	in	the	fair	value	 depends	on	the	type	of	hedging	transaction. Fair	value	hedges	are	used	to	hedge	assets	or	liabilities	carried	 on	the	balance	sheet	against	the	risk	of	a	change	in	their	fair	 value.	Hedges	of	unrecognised	firm	commitments	are	also	 	recognised	as	fair	value	hedges.	For	fair	value	hedges,	changes	 in	the	fair	value	of	the	hedging	instrument	as	well	as	the	fair	 value	of	the	respective	underlying	transactions	are	recognised	 in	the		income	statement.	This	means	that	gains	and	losses	from	 the	fair	valuation	of	the	hedging	instrument	are	allocated	to	 the	same	line	items	of	the	income	statement	as	the	gains	or	 losses	from	the	underlying	hedged	transaction	or	portions	 thereof.	In	the	event	that	unrecognised	firm	commitments	are	 hedged,	changes	in	the	fair	value	of	the	firm	commitments	with	 regard	to	the	hedged	risk	result	in	the	recognition	of	an	asset	 or		liability	with	an	effect	on	income. Cash	flow	hedges	are	used	to	hedge	the	risk	of	variability	in	 cash	flows	related	to	an	asset	or	liability	carried	on	the	balance	 sheet	or	related	to	a	highly	probable	forecast	transaction.	If	a	 cash	flow	hedge	exists,	unrealised	gains	and	losses	from	the	 hedging	instrument	are	initially	stated	as	other	comprehensive	 income.	Such	gains	or	losses	are	recognised	in	the	income	 statement	when	the	hedged	underlying	transaction	has	an	 	effect	on	income.	If	forecast	transactions	are	hedged	and	such	  notes177 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information transactions	lead	to	the	recognition	of	a	financial	asset	or	finan- cial	liability	in	subsequent	periods,	the	amounts	that	were	rec- ognised	in	equity	until	this	point	in	time	are	recognised	in	the	 income	statement	in	the	period	during	which	the	asset	or	liabil- ity	affects	the	income	statement.	If	the	transactions	result	in	 the	recognition	of	non-financial	assets	or	liabilities,	for	example	 the	acquisition	of	property,	plant	and	equipment,	the	amounts	 recognised	in	equity	without	an	effect	on	income	are	included	 in	the	initial	cost	of	the	asset	or	liability. The	purpose	of	hedges	of	a	net	investment	in	a	foreign	entity	is	 to	hedge	the	currency	risk	from	investments	with	foreign	func- tional	currencies.	Unrealised	gains	and	losses	from	hedges	are	 recognised	in	other	comprehensive	income	until	disposal	of	the	 foreign	unit. IAS	39	stipulates	the	conditions	for	the	recognition	of	hedging	 relationships.	Amongst	other	things,	the	hedging	relationship	 must	be	documented	in	detail	and	be	effective.	According	to	 IAS	39,	a	hedging	relationship	is	effective	when	the	changes	 in	the	fair	value	of	the	hedging	instrument	are	within	80		%	to	 125		%,	both	prospectively	and	retrospectively,	of	the	opposite	 change	in	the	fair	value	of	the	hedged	item.	Only	the	effective	 portion	of	a	hedge	is	recognised	in	accordance	with	the	 	preceeding	rules.	The	ineffective	portion	is	recognised	immedi- ately	in	the	income	statement	with	an	effect	on	income. Contracts	that	were	entered	into	and	continue	to	be	held	for	 the	purpose	of	receipt	or	delivery	of	non-financial	items	in	 	accordance	with	the	companys	expected	purchase,	sale	or	 	usage	requirements	(own-use	contracts)	are	not	accounted	for	 as	derivative	financial	instruments,	but	rather	as	executory	 	contracts.	If	the	contracts	contain	embedded	derivatives,	the	 derivatives	are	accounted	separately	from	the	host	contract,	if	 the	economic	characteristics	and	risks	of	the	embedded	deriva- tives	are	not	closely	related	to	the	economic	characteristics	and	 risks	of	the	host	contract.	Written	options	to	buy	or	sell	a	non- financial	item	which	can	be	settled	in	cash	are	not	own-use	 	contracts. Contingent liabilities	are	possible	obligations	to	third	parties	 or	existing	obligations	which	will	probably	not	lead	to	outflow	 of	economic	benefits	or	the	amount	of	which	cannot	be	meas- ured	reliably.	Contingent	liabilities	are	only	recognised	on	the	 balance	sheet,	if	they	were	assumed	within	the	framework	of	a	 business	combination.	The	amounts	disclosed	in	the	Notes	 	correspond	to	the	exposure	at	the	balance-sheet	date. Management judgements in the application of accounting  policies.	Management	judgements	are	required	in	the	applica- tion	of	accounting	policies.	In	particular,	this	pertains	to	the	fol- lowing	items: 	 With	regard	to	certain	contracts	a	decision	must	be	made	as	 to	whether	they	are	to	be	treated	as	derivatives	or	as	so- called	own-use	contracts,	and	be	accounted	for	as	executory	 contracts. 	 Financial	assets	must	be	allocated	to	the	categories	Held	to	 maturity	investments,	Loans	and	receivables,	Financial	 assets	available	for	sale,	and	Financial	assets	at	fair	value	 through	profit	or	loss. 	 With	regard	to	Financial	assets	available	for	sale	a	decision	 must	be	made	as	to	if	and	when	reductions	in	value	are	to	be	 recognised	as	impairments	with	an	impact	on	income. 	 With	regard	to	assets	held	for	sale,	it	must	be	determined	if	 they	can	be	sold	in	their	current	condition	and	if	the	sale	of	 such	is	highly	probable.	If	both	conditions	apply,	the	assets	 and	any	related	liabilities	must	be	reported	and	measured	as	 Assets	held	for	sale	or	Liabilities	held	for	sale,	 respectively. Management estimates and judgements.	Preparation	of	 	consolidated	financial	statements	pursuant	to	IFRS	requires	 	assumptions	and	estimates	to	be	made,	which	have	an	impact	 on	the	recognised	value	of	the	assets	and	liabilities	carried	on	 the	balance	sheet,	on	income	and	expenses	and	on	the	 	disclosure	of	contingent	liabilities. Amongst	other	things,	these	assumptions	and	estimates	relate	 to	the	accounting	and	measurement	of	provisions.	With	regard	 to	pension	provisions	and	similar	obligations,	the	discount	 	factor	and	the	expected	return	on	plan	assets	are	important	 	estimates.	The	discount	factor	for	pension	obligations	is	deter- mined	on	the	basis	of	yields	on	high	quality,	fixed-rate	corpo- rate	bonds	on	the	financial	markets	as	of	the	balance-sheet	 date.	In	Germany,	an	increase	or	decrease	of	one	percentage	 point	in	the	discount	factor	would	result	in	a	reduction	of	 1,314	million	(previous	year:	1,287	million)	or	an	increase		 of	1,672	million	(previous	year:	1,638	million),	respectively,	 in	the	present	value	of	the	obligations	of	the	pension	plans.		 For	the	Group	companies	in	the	UK,	identical	changes	in	the	 	discount	factor	would	reduce	or	increase	pension	obligations	 by	627	million	(previous	year:	529	million)	or	798	million	 (previous	year:	653	million),	respectively.	However,	as	the	 commitments	stemming	from	company	pension	plans	are	  178notes RWE Annual Report 2010 	primarily	covered	by	funds	and	the	value	of	most	plan	assets	 typically	exhibits	negative	correlation	with	the	market	yields	of	 fixed-interest	securities,	the	pension	provisions		as	determined	 taking	into	account	the	existing	plan	assets		only	depend	on	 the	prevailing	level	of	market	interest	rates	to	a	limited	degree. For	the	accounting	of	business	combinations,	the	identifiable	 assets,	liabilities	and	contingent	liabilities	are	recognised	at		 fair	value	as	of	the	date	of	acquisition.	In	this	regard,	the	most	 	important	estimates	relate	to	the	determination	of	the	fair	 	value	of	these	items	as	of	the	acquisition	date.	Fair	value	is	 	calculated	either	on	the	basis	of	reports	of	independent	exter- nal	valuation	experts	or	internal	analyses	using	suitable	valua- tion	techniques.	Amongst	other	things,	special	attention	is	paid	 to	the	projection	of	future	cash	flows	and	determination	of	the	 discount	rate. The	impairment	test	for	goodwill	is	based	on	certain	assump- tions	pertaining	to	the	future,	which	are	regularly	adjusted. Deferred	tax	assets	are	recognised	if	realisation	of	future	tax	 benefits	is	probable.	Actual	future	income	for	tax	purposes	and	 hence	the	actual	realisability	of	deferred	tax	assets,	however,	 may	deviate	from	the	estimation	made	when	the	deferred	taxes	 are	capitalised. Further	information	on	the	assumptions	and	estimates	upon	 which	these	consolidated	financial	statements	are	based	can	be	 found	in	the	explanations	of	the	individual	items. All	assumptions	and	estimates	are	based	on	the	circumstances	 and	forecasts	prevailing	on	the	balance-sheet	date.	Further- more,	as	of	the	balance-sheet	date	realistic	assessments	of	 overall	economic	conditions	in	the	sectors	and	regions	in	which	 the	Group	conducts	operations	are	taken	into	consideration	 with	regard	to	the	prospective	development	of	business.	Actual	 amounts	may	deviate	from	the	estimated	amounts	if	the	overall	 conditions	develop	differently	than	expected.	In	such	cases,	the	 assumptions,	and,	if	necessary,	the	carrying	amounts	of	the	 	affected	assets	and	liabilities	are	adjusted. As	of	the	date	of	preparation	of	the	consolidated	financial	 statements,	it	is	not	presumed	that	there	will	be	a	material	 change	in	the	assumptions	and	estimates. Capital management.	RWEs	capital	management	is	deter- mined	by	the	Groups	strategic	objectives	and	focuses	on	 	increasing	the	value	of	the	business	over	the	long	term.	To	 achieve	this	goal,	the	RWE	Group	endeavours	to	constantly	 	optimise	its	existing	operations,	to	safeguard	its	market	 	position	by	offering	competitive	products	and	services	and,		 if	necessary,	to	optimise	its	portfolio	via	value-creating	 	acquisitions	and	divestitures. RWE	manages	its	capital	structure	on	the	basis	of	financial	indi- cators.	One	key	indicator	is	the	debt	factor	(leverage	factor),	 which	is	calculated	using	net	debt.	Net	debt	is	calculated	by	 adding	material	non-current	provisions	as	well	as	one	half	of	 the	issued	hybrid	capital	to	net	financial	debt	and	subtracting	 the	surplus	of	plan	assets	over	benefit	obligations.	The	debt	 factor	is	the	ratio	of	net	debt	to	EBITDA.	For	the	year	under	 	review,	this	factor	was	2.8	(previous	year:	2.8).	The	debt	factor	 is	not	to	exceed	3.0	over	the	long	term,	thus	supporting	a	solid	 credit	rating. We	place	great	importance	on	maintaining	a	solid	credit	rating	 and	thus	ensuring	financial	flexibility.	The	credit	rating	is	influ- enced	by	a	number	of	qualitative	and	quantitative	factors.	 These	include	aspects	such	as	the	amount	of	cash	flows	and	 debt	as	well	as	market	conditions,	competition,	and	the	politi- cal	framework. The	issuance	of	a	1.75	billion	hybrid	bond	in	September	2010	 also	had	a	beneficial	effect	on	the	rating.	One	half	of	the	hybrid	 capital	is	classified	as	equity	by	the	two	leading	rating	agen- cies,	Moodys	and	Standard	&	Poors.	As	a	result,	the	debt	indi- cators	relevant	to	the	rating	are	better	than	they	would	be	if	a	 traditional	bond	had	been	issued. At	present,	Moodys	and	Standard	&	Poors	assign	the	ratings	 A2	and	A,	both	with	a	negative	outlook,	to	the	non-subordinat- ed	bonds	issued	by	RWE	AG	and	by	RWE	Finance	B.V.	with	a	 guarantee	by	RWE	AG.	RWE	thus	continues	to	have	investment- grade	ratings.	The	short-term	credit	ratings	are	P-1	and	A-1.		 We	are	committed	to	maintaining	our	good	credit	ratings.  notes179 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information The	International	Accounting	Standards	Board	(IASB)	and	the	 IFRS	Interpretations	Committee	(IFRS	IC)	have	approved	several	 amendments	to	existing	International	Financial	Reporting	 Standards	(IFRSs)	and	adopted	several	new	IFRSs	and	interpre- tations,	which	became	effective	for	the	RWE	Group	as	of	fiscal	 2010: IFRS 3 (2008) Business Combinations	contains	amended	 regulations	on	the	accounting	of	business	combinations.	Com- pared	to	the	original	version	of	IFRS	3,	the	changes	relate	to	 the	scope	of	application	and	the	treatment	of	step	acquisitions.	 IFRS	3	(2008)	also	contains	a	new	option	for	companies:	non- controlling	interests	can	be	measured	at	fair	value	or	at	the	pro- portionate	share	of	net	assets	individually	for	each	transaction.	 Depending	on	which	option	a	company	exercises,	any	goodwill	 is	recognised	in	full	or	only	in	proportion	to	the	majority	own- ers	interest.	The	changes	will	have	a	corresponding	impact	on	 the	accounting	treatment	of	business	transactions. IAS 27 (2008) Consolidated and Separate Financial State- ments:	In	particular,	by	revising	IAS	27,	the	IASB	changed	the	 regulations	for	the	treatment	of	transactions	with	non-control- ling	interests	of	a	group.	Transactions	which	result	in	a	parent	 company	changing	its	ownership	interest	in	a	subsidiary	with- out	a	loss	of	control	are	to	be	accounted	for	as	equity	trans- actions	without	an	effect	on	profit	or	loss.	Regulations	for	treat- ment	in	the	event	of	a	loss	of	control	over	a	subsidiary	were	 also	changed:	the	standard	regulates	how	deconsolidation	 gains	or	losses	are	to	be	calculated	and	how	residual	ownership	 interest	in	the	former	subsidiary	is	to	be	measured	following	a	 partial	sale.	The	changes	will	thus	affect	the	accounting	treat- ment	of	certain	business	transactions. The	following	standards	and	interpretations,	which	are	 	appli	cable	for	the	first	time	in	fiscal	2010,	do	not	have	a	 	material		impact	on	the	RWE	Groups	consolidated	financial	 statements. 	 Improvements	to	International	Financial	Reporting	Standards	 (2009) 	 IFRS	1	(restructured	in	2008)	–	First-time	Adoption		 of		International	Financial	Reporting	Standards 	 Amendment	to	IFRS	1	(2009)	–	Additional	Exemptions		 for	First-time	Adopters 	 Amendment	to	IFRS	2	(2009)	–		Group	Cash-settled	 	Share-based	Payment	Transactions 	 Amendment	to	IAS	39	(2009)	–	Eligible	Hedged	Items 	 IFRIC	12	–	Service	Concession	Arrangements 	 IFRIC	15	–	Agreements	for	the	Construction	of	Real	Estate 	 IFRIC	16	–	Hedges	of	a	Net	Investment	in	a	Foreign	Operation 	 IFRIC	17	–	Distributions	of	Non-cash	Assets	to	Owners 	 IFRIC	18	–	Transfers	of	Assets	from	Customers Changes in accounting policies  180notes RWE Annual Report 2010 New accounting policies The	IASB	and	the	IFRS	IC	have	adopted	further	standards	and	 interpretations,	which	are	not	yet	mandatory	in	the	EU.	These	 standards	and	interpretations	are	presented	below.	EU	 	endorsement	is	still	pending	in	some	cases.	We	are	currently	 	reviewing	what	effects	they	will	have	on	the	RWE	Groups	 	consolidated	financial	statements. IFRS 9 (2009)Financial Instruments	replaces	the	previous	 regulations	of	IAS	39	on	the	classification	and	measurement	of	 financial	assets	and	liabilities.	IFRS	9	(2009)	becomes	effective	 for	the	first	time	for	fiscal	years	starting	on	or	after	1	January	 2013. IAS 24 (2009) Related Party Disclosures	essentially	simpli- fies	reporting	on	related	companies	which	are	controlled	or	 	significantly	influenced	by	the	state.	IAS	24	(2009)	becomes	 	effective	for	the	first	time	for	fiscal	years	starting	on	or	after	 1January	2011. Amendment to IAS 32 (2009) Classification of Rights Issues	 addresses	the	issuers	accounting	treatment	of	certain	rights,	 options	or	warrants	denominated	in	a	foreign	currency.	In	the	 future,	these	instruments	must	be	classified	as	equity.	The	new	 regulations	become	effective	for	the	first	time	for	fiscal	years	 starting	on	or	after	1	February	2010. With	regard	to	the	following	standards	and	interpretations,	 which	are	not	yet	applicable	in	fiscal	2010,	it	is	already	foresee- able	that	these	will	have	no	material	impacts	on	the	 RWEGroups	consolidated	financial	statements: 	 Improvements	to	IFRS	(2010) 	 Amendment	to	IFRS	1	(2010)	–	Limited	Exemption	from	Com- parative	IFRS	7	Disclosures	for	First-time	Adopters 	 Amendment	to	IFRS	1	(2010)	–	Severe	Hyperinflation	and	Re- moval	of	Fixed	Dates	for	First-time	Adopters 	 Amendment	of	IFRS	7	(2010)	–	Financial	Instruments:	Disclo- sures 	 Amendment	to	IAS	12	(2010)	–	Deferred	Tax:	Recovery	of	 	Underlying	Assets 	 Amendment	to	IFRIC	14	(2009)	–	Prepayments	of	a	Minimum	 Funding	Requirement 	 IFRIC	19	–	Extinguishing	Financial	Liabilities	with	Equity	 	Instruments  notes181 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information (1) Revenue   As	a	rule,	revenue	is	recorded	when	the	services	or	goods	have	 been	delivered	and	the	risks	have	been	transferred	to	the	 	customer. To	improve	the	presentation	of	business	development,	we	 	report	revenue	generated	by	energy	trading	operations	as	net	 figures,	reflecting	realised	gross	margins.	By	contrast,	we	state	 electricity,	gas,	coal	and	oil	transactions	that	are	subject	to	 physical	settlement	as	gross	figures.	Energy	trading	revenue	is	 generated	by	the	segment	Trading	/Gas	Midstream.	In	fiscal	 2010,	gross	revenue	(including	energy	trading)	totalled	 114,682	million	(previous	year:	98,013	million). A	breakdown	of	revenue	by	division	and	geographical	region		 is	contained	in	the	segment	reporting	on	pages	219	to	222.	 Revenue	increased	by	a	net	total	of	5,016	million	as	a	result		 of	first-time	consolidations	and	deconsolidations. The	item	natural	gas	tax	/electricity	tax	comprises	the	taxes	 paid	directly	by	Group	companies.	Changes	in	the	scope	of	 	consolidation	resulted	in	an	increase	of	775	million	in	this	 item. Income	from	the	disposal	of	non-current	financial	assets	and	 loans	is	disclosed	under	income	from	investments	if	it	relates	to	 investments;	otherwise	it	is	recorded	as	part	of	the	financial	 	result	as	is	the	income	from	the	disposal	of	current	marketable	 securities. An	increase	of	134	million	in	other	operating	income	is	 	attributable	to	changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation. (2) Other operating income Notes to the Income Statement Otheroperatingincome  million 2010 2009 Release of provisions 97 826 cost allocations/refunds 218 95 Disposal and write-back of current assets excluding marketable securities 51 22 Disposal and write-back of non-current assets including income from deconsolidation 139 135 income from derivative financial instruments 322 compensation for damage/insurance benefits 10 35 Rent and lease 28 27 Miscellaneous 411 470 1,276 1,610 The	cost	of	raw	materials	also	includes	expenses	for	the	use	 and	disposal	of	spent	nuclear	fuel	assemblies. Costofmaterials  million 2010 2009 cost of raw materials and of goods   for resale 29,169 26,170 cost of purchased services 4,007 3,668 33,176 29,838 (3) Cost of materials Cost	of	materials	in	exploration	activities	amounted	to	 85	million	in	the	reporting	period	(previous	year:	 133million). A	total	of	61,362	million	in	energy	trading	revenue	 (previous	year:	50,272	million)	was	netted	out	against	 cost	of	materials.	Changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation	 resulted	in	an	increase	of	2,863	million	in	the	cost	of	 materials.  182notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Exploration	activities	resulted	in	other	operating	expenses	of	 57	million	(previous	year:	76	million). (6) Other operating expenses Otheroperatingexpenses  million 2010 2009 Maintenance and renewal obligations 917 829 Additions to provisions 271 104 concessions, licenses and other contractual obligations 515 540 structural and adaptation measures 196 71 legal and other consulting and data processing services 295 327 Disposal of current assets and decreases in values   (excluding decreases in the value of inventories and marketable securities) 380 242 Disposal of non-current assets including expenses from deconsolidation 102 127 insurance, commissions, freight and similar distribution costs 235 252 General administration 224 192 Advertising 241 236 Expenses from derivative financial instruments 70 159 lease payments for plant and grids as well as rents 123 100 postage and monetary transactions 86 82 fees and membership dues 89 48 Exchange rate losses 52 17 other taxes (primarily on property) 79 49 Miscellaneous 553 549 4,428 3,924 An	increase	of	434	million	in	other	operating	expenses	is	 	attributable	to	changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation. The	RWE	Groups	average	personnel	headcount	amounted	to	 71,001	(previous	year:	68,828	excluding	American	Water).	This	 figure	is	arrived	at	by	conversion	to	full-time	positions,	meaning	 that	part-time	and	fixed-term	employment	relationships	are	 	included	in	accordance	with	the	ratio	of	the	part-time	work	or	 the	duration	of	the	employment	to	the	annual	employment	 time.	Of	the	total	average	personnel	headcount,	55,224	were	 staff	covered	by	collective	or	other	agreements	(previous	year:	 54,107)	and	15,777	were	staff	who	were	not	covered	by	collec- tive	agreements	(previous	year:	14,721).	In	addition,	2,800	 trainees	were	employed	on	average	(previous	year:	2,756).	 Trainees	are	not	included	in	the	personnel	headcount. An	increase	of	278	million	in	staff	costs	is	attributable	to	 changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation. (5) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses  Depreciation	and	impairment	losses	on	property,	plant	and	 equipment	amounted	to	2,600	million	(previous	year:	 1,900million)	and	to	10	million	(previous	year:	8	million)		 on	investment	property.	Intangible	assets	were	written	down	by	 603	million	(previous	year:	449	million),	of	which	314mil- lion	(previous	year:	272	million)	pertained	to	customer	bases	 of	acquired	enterprises.	Exploration	activities	resulted	in	 	depreciation,	amortisation	and	impairment	losses	of	5	million	 (previous	year:	1	million)	on	property,	plant	and	equipment	 and	intangible	assets. Impairment	losses	were	recognised	in	the	reporting	period.	 These	impairment	losses	amounted	to	471	million	(previous	 year:	14	million)	on	property,	plant	and	equipment,	3million	 (previous	year:	0	million)	on	investment	property	and			 37million	(previous	year:	5	million)	on	intangible	assets	 (without	goodwill). Depreciation,	amortisation	and	impairment	losses	increased		 by	216	million	as	a	result	of	changes	in	the	scope	of	consoli- dation. Staffcosts  million 2010 2009 Wages and salaries 3,946 3,761 cost of social security, pensions   and other benefits 927 849 4,873 4,610 (4) Staff costs  notes183 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information (7) Income from investments   Income	from	investments	includes	all	income	and	expenses	 which	have	arisen	in	relation	to	operating	investments.	It	is	 comprised	of	income	from	investments	accounted	for	using		 the	equity	method	and	other	income	from	investments. Income	from	investments	includes	impairment	losses	on	other	 financial	assets	in	the	amount	of	3	million	(previous	year:	 4million)	and	impairment	losses	on	loans	to	investments	 amounting	to	16	million	(previous	year:	16	million). During	the	year	under	review,	additions	of	71	million	were	 	recognised	in	relation	to	Krntner	Energieholding	Beteiligungs	 GmbH,	Austria,	and	Stadtwerke	Duisburg	AG,	both		investments	 accounted	for	using	the	equity	method,	based	on	increases	in	 The	financial	result	breaks	down	into	net	interest,	interest	 	accretion	to	provisions,	other	financial	income	and	other	 	finance	costs. company	value,	while	an	impairment	of	40	million	was	recog- nised	on	Fri-EI	S.p.A.,	Italy,	an	investment	accounted	for	using	 the	equity	method,	due	to	slower-than-anticipated	 	development	of	the	companys	projects.	In	light	of	the	difficult	 conditions	on	the	liquefied	natural	gas	(LNG)	market,	an	impair- ment	of	105	million	was	recognised	in	the	previous	year	on	 	Excelerate	Energy	LP,	USA,	an	investment	accounted	for	using	 the	equity	method. Incomefrominvestments  million 2010 2009 Incomefrominvestmentsaccountedforusingtheequitymethod 310 131 of which: additions/amortisation/impairment losses on investments accounted for using the equity method (24) ( 111) income from non-consolidated subsidiaries  1 29 of which: amortisation/impairment losses on non-consolidated subsidiaries ( 2) income from other investments 53 51 of which: impairment of shares in other investments ( 3) ( 2) income from the disposal of investments 34 97 Expenses from the disposal of investments 64 income from loans to investments 27 53 Expenses from loans to investments 16 35 Otherincomefrominvestments 97 131 407 262 Financialresult  million 2010 2009 interest and similar income 448 589 other financial income 800 1,110 Financialincome 1,248 1,699 interest and similar expenses 1,258 1,224 interest accretion to provisions for pensions and similar obligations (including capitalised surplus of plan assets) 147 176 provisions for nuclear waste management as well as to mining provisions 623 567 other provisions 170 214 other finance costs 986 1,508 Financecosts 3,184 3,689 1,936 1,990 (8) Financial result  184notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Interest	accretion	to	provisions	contains	the	reversal	allocable	 to	the	current	year	of	the	discounting	of	non-current	provisions	 from	the	annual	update	of	the	present	value	calculation.	It	is	 	reduced	by	the	projected	income	on	plan	assets	for	the	cover- age	of	pension	obligations. Net	interest	essentially	includes	interest	income	from	interest- bearing	securities	and	loans,	income	and	expenses	relating	to	 marketable	securities,	and	interest	expenses. Furthermore,	taxes	in	the	amount	of	9	million	were	offset	 	directly	against	equity	in	relation	to	hybrid	capital. The	financial	result	also	contains	all	other	financial	income	and	 finance	costs	which	cannot	be	allocated	to	net	interest	or	to	 	interest	accretion	to	provisions. Other	financial	income	includes	161	million	in	gains	realised	 from	the	disposal	of	marketable	securities	(previous	year:	 292million).	Other	finance	costs	include	0	million	(previous	 year:	51	million)	in	write-downs	of	marketable	securities	due	to	 decreases	in	their	fair	value	and	44	million	(previous	year:	 441	million)	in	realised	losses	from	the	disposal	of	marketable	 securities. Of	the	deferred	taxes,	 586	million	is	related	to	temporary	 	differences	(previous	year:	5	million). Current	taxes	on	income	contain	26	million	in	net	tax	expens- es	(previous	year:	130	million)	relating	to	prior	periods. Due	to	the	utilisation	of	tax	loss	carryforwards	unrecognised	in	 prior	years,	current	taxes	on	income	were	reduced	by	32	mil- lion	(previous	year:	4	million). During	the	period	under	review,	equity	increased	by	8	million	 (previous	year:	251	million)	by	offsetting	deferred	taxes	with	 other	comprehensive	income,	as	follows: Interestresultbycategory  million 2010 2009 loans and receivables 359 357 financial assets available for sale 89 232 financial liabilities carried at   (amortised) cost  1,258  1,224 810 635 Taxesonincome  million 2010 2009 current taxes on income 2,056 1,761 Deferred taxes  680 97 1,376 1,858 Incometaxesrecognisedinother comprehensiveincome  million 2010 2009 fair valuation of financial instruments  available for sale 34  9 fair valuation of financial instruments used  for hedging purposes 6  58 Actuarial gains and losses of defined ben- efit pension plans and similar obligations  32 318 Income 8 251 Netinterest  million 2010 2009 interest and similar income 448 589 interest and similar expenses 1,258 1,224 810 635 (9) Taxes on income Net	interest	stems	from	financial	assets	and	liabilities,	which	 are	allocated	to	the	following	categories:	  notes185 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Taxreconciliation  million 2010 2009 Incomefromcontinuingoperationsbeforetax 4,978 5,598 Theoreticaltaxexpense 1,555 1,729 Differences from foreign tax rates  142  169 Tax effects on Tax-free domestic dividend income  76  95 Tax-free foreign dividend income  28  32 other tax-free income  11  14 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 132 72 Accounting for associates using the equity method (including impairment losses on associates goodwill) 16 69 Unutilisable loss carryforwards / utilisation of unrecognised loss carryforwards /   write-downs on loss carryforwards / recognition of loss carryforwards  122 55 income on the disposal of investments  12  36 changes in domestic tax rates  10 changes in foreign tax rates  56 other 130 279 Effectivetaxexpense 1,376 1,858 Effective tax rate in % 27.6 33.2  186notes RWE Annual Report 2010 (10) Intangible assets  Notes to the Balance Sheet Intangibleassets    million Development costs concessions,  patent rights,  licenses and  similar rights customer relationships  and similar  assets Goodwill prepayments Total Cost Balance at 1 Jan 2010 475 3,734 2,790 13,258 2 20,259 Additions/disposals due to changes in the scope of  consolidation 16 1 2 130 149 Additions 112 165 1 278 Transfers 2 1  1 2 currency translation adjustments 11 21 74 192 298 Disposals 9 93 2 104 Balance at 31 Dec 2010 607 3,829 2,866 13,578 2 20,882 Accumulatedamortisation/impairmentlosses Balance at 1 Jan 2010 223 968 1,742 6 2,939 Additions/disposals due to changes in the scope of  consolidation 7 10  1 16 Amortisation/impairment losses in the reporting period 69 220 314 603 Transfers 1 1 currency translation adjustments 6 7 52 65 Disposals 9 83 92 Balance at 31 Dec 2010 297 1,122 2,107 6 3,532 Carryingamounts Balance at 31 Dec 2010 310 2,707 759 13,572 2 17,350 Cost Balance at 1 Jan 2009 316 1,999 2,164 9,152 4 13,635 Additions/disposals due to changes in the scope of  consolidation 55 1,297 470 3,871  2 5,691 Additions 104 499 1 604 currency translation adjustments 19 19 156 235  1 428 Disposals 19 80 99 Balance at 31 Dec 2009 475 3,734 2,790 13,258 2 20,259 Accumulatedamortisation/impairmentlosses Balance at 1 Jan 2009 169 898 1,360 6 2,433 Additions/disposals due to changes in the scope of  consolidation  1  22 12  11 Amortisation/impairment losses in the reporting period 48 129 272 449 currency translation adjustments 9 7 98 114 Disposals 2 44 46 Balance at 31 Dec 2009 223 968 1,742 6 2,939 Carryingamounts Balance at 31 Dec 2009 252 2,766 1,048 13,252 2 17,320  notes187 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information In	the	reporting	period,	the	RWE	Groups	total	expenditures	on	 research	and	development	amounted	to	149	million	(previous	 year:	110	million).	Development	costs	of	112	million	were	 capitalised	(previous	year:	104	million). As	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	the	carrying	amount	of	intangible	 assets	related	to	exploration	activities	amounted	to	374	million	 (previous	year:	415	million). Goodwill	breaks	down	as	follows: In	the	reporting	period,	goodwill	increased	by	130	million.		 An	increase	in	current	redemption	liabilities	from	put	options		 resulted	in	an	adjustment	without	an	effect	on	income	of	 213million	to	the	goodwill	of	the	segment	Sales	and	Distribu- tion	Networks.	Declines	in	goodwill	primarily	resulted	from	the	 reporting	of	Thyssengas	as	Assets	and	liabilities	held	for	sale	 (77	million).	In	respect	of	additions	to	goodwill	in	the	previous	 year	(3,871million),	3,435	million	resulted	from	the	acquisi- tion	of	Essent.	With	the	assignment	of	Essents	trading	activi- ties	and	wind	power	generation	to	the	segments	Trading	/Gas	 Midstream	and	Renewables,	goodwill	of	510	million	and	 285million,		respectively,	was	allocated	to	these	segments.	 Goodwill	of	43million	was	allocated	to	the	segment	Sales	and	 Distribution	Networks,	based	on	the	assignment	of	Essents	gas	 storage	activities. In	the	third	quarter	of	each	fiscal	year,	the	regular	impairment	 test	is	performed	to	determine	if	there	is	any	need	to	write	 down	goodwill.	In	order	to	carry	out	this	impairment	test,	good- will	is	allocated	to	the	cash-generating	units	at	the	segment	lev- el.	The	impairment	test	involves	determining	the	recoverable	 amount	of	the	cash-generating	units,	which	is	defined	as	the	 higher	of	fair	value	less	costs	to	sell	or	value	in	use.	The	fair	 	value	reflects	the	best	estimate	of	the	price	that	an	independ- ent	third	party	would	pay	to	purchase	the	cash-generating	unit	 as	of	the	balance-sheet	date.	Value	in	use	is	the	present	value	 of	the	future	cash	flows	which	are	expected	to	be	generated	 with	a	cash-generating	unit. Fair	value	is	assessed	from	an	external	perspective	and	value	in	 use	from	a	company-internal	perspective.	We	determine	both	 variables	using	a	business	valuation	model,	taking	into	account	 planned	future	cash	flows.	These	cash	flows,	in	turn,	are	based	 on	the	business	plan,	as	approved	by	the	Executive	Board		 and	valid	at	the	time	of	the	impairment	test,	and	pertain	to	a	 	detailed	planning	period	of	up	to	five	years.	In	certain		justifiable	 cases,	a	longer	detailed	planning	period	is	taken	as	a	basis,	 	insofar	as	this	is	necessary	due	to	economic	or	regulatory	 	conditions.	The	cash	flow	plans	are	based	on	experience	as	well	 as	on	expected	market	trends	in	the	future.	If	available,	market	 	transactions	in	the	same	sector	or	third-party	valuations	are	 	taken	as	a	basis	for	determining	fair	value. Mid-term	business	plans	are	based	on	country-specific	assump- tions	regarding	the	development	of	key	economic	indicators	 such	as	gross	domestic	product,	consumer	prices,	interest	rate	 levels	and	nominal	wages.	These	estimates	are,	amongst	others,	 derived	from	macroeconomic	and	financial	studies. The	key	planning	assumptions	for	the	business	segments	active	 in	Europes	electricity	and	gas	markets	are	estimates	relating	to	 the	development	of	wholesale	prices	for	electricity,	crude	oil,	 natural	gas,	coal	and	CO2	emission	allowances,	retail	prices	for	 electricity	and	gas,	and	the	development	of	market	shares	and	 regulatory	framework	conditions. The	discount	rates	used	for	business	valuations	are	determined	 on	the	basis	of	market	data.	With	regard	to	cash-generating	 units,	during	the	period	under	review	they	ranged	from	6.25		%	 to	9.00		%	after	tax	(previous	year:	6.5		%	to	9.0		%)	and	from	 8.0		%	to	16.5		%	before	tax	(previous	year:	8.8		%	to	15.6		%). Goodwill  million 31 Dec  2010 31 Dec  2009 Germany 4,186 3,937 power Generation (404) (404) sales and Distribution Networks (3,782) (3,533) Netherlands/Belgium 2,665 3,504 United Kingdom 2,968 2,877 central Eastern and south Eastern Europe 2,048 1,956 Renewables 736 441 Upstream Gas & oil 25 26 Trading/Gas Midstream 944 434 others 77 13,572 13,252  188notes RWE Annual Report 2010 For	the	extrapolation	of	future	cash	flows	going	beyond	the	 	detailed	planning	horizon,	we	assumed	constant	growth	rates	 of	0.0		%	to	1.0		%	(previous	year:	0.0		%	to	1.0		%).	These	figures	 are	derived	from	experience	and	future	expectations	for	the	 	individual	divisions	and	do	not	exceed	the	long-term	average	 growth	rates	in	the	markets	in	which	the	Group	companies	are	 active.	In	calculating	cash	flow	growth	rates,	the	capital	expen- ditures	required	to	achieve	the	assumed	cash	flow	growth	are	 subtracted. As	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	both	the	fair	values	less	costs		 to	sell	and	the	values	in	use	were	higher	than	the	carrying	 amounts	of	the	cash-generating	units.	These	surpluses	react	 very	sensitively	to	changes	in	the	discount	rate,	the	growth	rate	 and	the	operating	result	after	taxes	in	terminal	value	as	key	 measurement	parameters. Of	all	the	segments,	United	Kingdom	and	Netherlands	/Belgium	 exhibited	the	smallest	surpluses	of	recoverable	amount	over	car- rying	amount. The	goodwill	allocated	to	the	segment	United	Kingdom	amount- ed	to	2,968	million	as	of	31	December	2010.	The	impairment	 test	showed	a	recoverable	amount	which	exceeded	the	carrying	 amount	by	1.1	billion.	Valuation	of	the	segment	United	King- dom	was	calculated	using	a	discount	rate	of	6.75		%	and	a	 growth	rate	of	1.0		%.	An	increase	in	the	discount	rate	by	more	 than	1.21	percentage	points	to	above	7.96		%,	the	assumption	 of	a	negative	growth	rate	higher	than	1.53		%	or	a	decrease	of	 more	than	85	million	in	the	operating	result	after	taxes	in	 	terminal	value	would	result	in	the	recoverable	amount	being	 lower	than	the	carrying	amount	of	the	cash-generating	unit	 United	Kingdom. The	goodwill	allocated	to	the	segment	Netherlands	/Belgium	 amounted	to	2,665	million.	The	recoverable	amount	exceeded	 the	carrying	amount	by	0.9	billion.	Impairment	would	have	 been	necessary	if	the	calculations	had	used	a	discount	rate	 	increased	by	more	than	0.42	percentage	points	to	above	6.67		%,	 a	growth	rate	decreased	by	more	than	0.69	percentage	points	 to	below	0.31		%	or	an	operating	result	reduced	by	more	than	 61	million	in	terminal	value.  notes189 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Property,plantandequipment  million land,  land rights  and buildings  incl.  buildings on  third-party  land Technical plant and machinery other  equipment,  factory and office equipment prepay-  ments plants under con-  struction Total Cost Balance at 1 Jan 2010 6,959 64,004 2,079 1,869 4,593 79,504 Additions /disposals due to changes in the scope of consolidation  39  729 1 112  60  715 Additions 285 1,908 171 681 3,198 6,243 Transfers 73 1,737 52  7  1,914  59 currency translation adjustments 32 380 18  3 60 487 Disposals 77 704 133 54 968 Balance at 31 Dec 2010 7,233 66,596 2,188 2,652 5,823 84,492 Accumulateddepreciation/impairmentlosses Balance at 1 Jan 2010 3,566 45,747 1,559 5 50,877 Additions /disposals due to changes in the scope of consolidation  20  601  2  623 Depreciation /impairment losses in the reporting period 208 2,195 162 35 2,600 Transfers  40  40 currency translation adjustments 13 204 13 230 Disposals 44 609 129 782 Write-backs 5 2 7 Balance at 31 Dec 2010 3,678 46,934 1,603 40 52,255 Carryingamounts Balance at 31 Dec 2010 3,555 19,662 585 2,652 5,783 32,237 Cost Balance at 1 Jan 2009 6,612 58,519 1,942 1,024 2,953 71,050 Additions /disposals due to changes in the scope of consolidation 89 2,291 36  1 789 3,204 Additions 164 1,951 161 859 2,317 5,452 Transfers 129 1,360 28  13  1,535  31 currency translation adjustments 26 376 22 93 517 Disposals 61 493 110 24 688 Balance at 31 Dec 2009 6,959 64,004 2,079 1,869 4,593 79,504 Accumulateddepreciation/impairmentlosses Balance at 1 Jan 2009 3,441 44,342 1,501 1 3 49,288 Additions /disposals due to changes in the scope of consolidation 10 14  1  1 22 Depreciation /impairment losses in the reporting period 167 1,582 149 2 1,900 Transfers  14  14 currency translation adjustments 8 209 16 233 Disposals 35 400 106 541 Write-backs 11 11 Balance at 31 Dec 2009 3,566 45,747 1,559 5 50,877 Carryingamounts Balance at 31 Dec 2009 3,393 18,257 520 1,869 4,588 28,627 (11) Property, plant and equipment	  190notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Of	the	additions	/disposals	due	to	changes	in	the	scope	of	con- solidation,	2,947	million	was	related	to	Essent	in	the	previous	 year. The	carrying	amount	of	property,	plant,	and	equipment	for	 	exploration	activities	was	346	million	(previous	year:			 354million). Property,	plant	and	equipment	were	subject	to	restrictions	in	 the	amount	of	1,026	million	(previous	year:	1,137million)	in	 As	of	31	December	2010,	the	fair	value	of	investment	property	 amounted	to	257	million	(previous	year:	254	million).	Of	this,	 85	million	(previous	year:	80	million)	is	based	on	valuations	 by	independent	appraisers.	Rental	income	in	the	reporting	peri- the	form	of	land	charges	and	chattel	mortgages.	Of	the	carry- ing	amount	of	property,	plant	and	equipment,	136	million	 (previous	year:	74	million)	was	attributable	to	assets	leased	 under	finance	leases.	These	assets	were	principally	comprised	 of	technical	plant	and	equipment	with	a	total	value	of	127	mil- lion	(previous	year:	64	million).	Disposal	of	property,	plant	 and	equipment	resulted	from	the	sale	or	decommissioning	of	 plants. od	amounted	to	23	million	(previous	year:	23	million).		 Direct	operating	expenses	totalled	14	million	(previous	year:	 11million). Investmentproperty  million Cost Balance at 1 Jan 2009 366 Additions /disposals due to changes in the scope of  consolidation  1 Transfers 31 currency adjustments 1 Disposals 19 Balance at 31 Dec 2009 378 Accumulateddepreciation/impairmentlosses Balance at 1 Jan 2009 186 Depreciation /impairment losses in the reporting period 8 Transfers 14 Disposals 12 Balance at 31 Dec 2009 196 Carryingamounts Balance at 31 Dec 2009 182 (12) Investment property  Investmentproperty  million Cost Balance at 1 Jan 2010 378 Additions /disposals due to changes in the scope of  consolidation Transfers 40 currency adjustments Disposals 17 Balance at 31 Dec 2010 401 Accumulateddepreciation/impairmentlosses Balance at 1 Jan 2010 196 Depreciation /impairment losses in the reporting period 10 Transfers 40 Disposals 7 Balance at 31 Dec 2010 239 Carryingamounts Balance at 31 Dec 2010 162  notes191 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information (13) Investments accounted for using the equity method  The	following	summaries	present	the	key	items	from	the	bal- ance	sheets	and	income	statements	of	companies	accounted	 for	using	the	equity	method: (14) Other non-current financial assets  As	of	31	December	2010,	the	fair	value	of	investments	account- ed	for	using	the	equity	method	for	which	quoted	market	prices	 exist	amounted	to	2	million	(previous	year:	2	million). Non-current	securities	primarily	consist	of	fixed-interest	market- able	securities	and	shares	of	listed	companies.	Long-term	 	securities	amounting	to	189million	(previous	year:	95mil- lion)	were	deposited	in	a	trust	account	for	RWE	AG	and	it	subsi- diaries	to	cover	credit	balances	stemming	from	the	block	model	 for	pre-retirement	part-time	work,	pursuant	to	Sec.	8a	of	the	 Pre-Retirement	Part-Time	Work	Act	(AltTZG). In	respect	of	joint	ventures,	4,280	million	of	assets	(previous	 year:	3,457	million)	and	1,831	million	of	liabilities	(previous	 year:	1,569	million)	were	non-current. Investmentsaccountedforusingtheequitymethod  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Total of which:   joint ventures Total of which:   joint ventures Equity Assets 24,436 4,524 24,312 3,739 liabilities 17,078 3,564 13,997 2,573 7,358 960 10,315 1,166 Adjustment to RWE interest and equity method  3,664  477  6,579  583 3,694 483 3,736 583 Incomefrominvestmentsaccountedforusingtheequitymethod  million 2010 2009 Total of which:   joint ventures Total of which:   joint ventures Revenue 15,814 480 18,882 253 income 840  207 1,277  185 Adjustment to RWE interest and equity method  530 105  1,146 23 310 102 131 162 Othernon-currentfinancialassets  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Non-consolidated subsidiaries 145 170 other investments 356 386 Non-current securities 249 153 750 709  192notes RWE Annual Report 2010 The	carrying	values	of	exchange-traded	derivatives	with	netting	 agreements	are	offset. Changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation	increased	other	receiva- bles	and	other	assets	by	13	million. (15) Financial receivables  Financialreceivables  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Non-current current Non-current current loans to non-consolidated subsidiaries and investments 809 994 806 487 collateral for trading activities 674 2,022 other financial receivables Accrued interest 114 127 Miscellaneous other financial receivables 233 964 312 786 1,042 2,746 1,118 3,422 As	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	financial	receivables	from	associ- ates	amounted	to	2,195	million	(previous	year:	1,470mil- lion). Companies	of	the	RWE	Group	deposited	collateral	for	the	trad- ing	activities	stated	above	for	exchange-based	and	over-the- With	the	exception	of	derivatives,	the	financial	instruments	 	reported	under	other	receivables	and	other	assets	are	meas- ured	at	amortised	cost.	Derivative	financial	instruments	are	 stated	at	fair	value. counter	(OTC)	transactions.	These	deposits	ensure	that	the	 	obligations	from	the	transactions	are	discharged	even	if	the	 	development	of	prices	is	not	favourable. (16) Other receivables and other assets Otherreceivablesandotherassets  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Non-current current Non-current current Derivatives 1,696 7,222 1,769 10,433 surplus of plan assets over benefit obligations 56 79 prepayments for items other than inventories 769 714 co2 emission allowances 983 1,117 prepaid expenses 178 162 Miscellaneous other assets 461 1,332 640 1,358 2,213 10,484 2,488 13,784  notes193 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information The	capitalised	tax	reduction	claims	from	loss	carryforwards	 	result	from	the	expected	utilisation	of	previously	unused	tax	 loss	carryforwards	in	subsequent	years. Realisation	of	these	tax	carryforwards	is	guaranteed	with	suffi- cient	certainty.	At	the	end	of	the	reporting	period,	corporate	 	income	tax	loss	carryforwards	and	trade	tax	loss	carryforwards	 for	which	no	deferred	tax	claims	have	been	recognised	amount- ed	to	660	million	and	266	million,	respectively	(previous	 year:	372	million	and	187	million).	25	million	of	these	 	income	tax	loss	carryforwards	apply	to	the	next	five	years. The	other	loss	carryforwards	can	essentially	be	used	for	an	 	unlimited	period. In	the	year	under	review,	deferred	tax	expenses	of	37	million	 arising	from	the	translation	of	foreign	financial	statements	were	 offset	against	equity	(previous	year:	63	million). (17) Deferred taxes Deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities	principally	stem	from	the	fact	 that	measurements	in	the	IFRS	statements	differ	from	measure- ments	in	the	tax	bases,	as	a	result	of	deviations	in	valuations.	 2,558	million	and	2,496	million	of	the	gross	deferred	tax	 	assets	and	liabilities,	respectively,	will	be	realised	within	twelve	 months	(previous	year:	2,473	million	and	2,603	million). The	following	is	a	breakdown	of	deferred	tax	assets	and	liabili- ties	by	item: Deferredtaxes  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Assets liabilities Assets liabilities Non-current assets 412 2,856 517 2,678 current assets 267 1,756 381 2,009 Exceptional tax items 239 267 Non-current liabilities provisions for pensions 641 24 581 114 other non-current provisions 2,079 17 1,752 168 current liabilities 2,291 740 2,092 594 5,690 5,632 5,323 5,830 Tax loss carryforwards corporate income tax (or comparable foreign income tax) 142 47 Trade tax 6 9 Grosstotal 5,838 5,632 5,379 5,830 Netting -3,447 -3,447 -3,503 -3,503 Nettotal 2,391 2,185 1,876 2,327  194notes RWE Annual Report 2010 (18) Inventories  Inventories  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Raw materials, incl. nuclear fuel assemblies and earth excavated for lignite mining 2,373 2,125 Work in progress - goods 25 27 Work in progress - services 88 82 finished goods and goods for resale 788 857 prepayments 19 24 3,293 3,115 Inventories	were	not	subject	to	any	restrictions	on	disposal	and	 there	were	no	further	obligations. The	carrying	amount	of	inventories	acquired	for	resale	purposes	 was	627million	(previous	year:	245million). Changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation	resulted	in	a	decrease	of	 12	million	in	inventories. (19) Trade accounts receivable  As	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	trade	accounts	receivable	from	 associates	amounted	to	241	million	(previous	year:	292	mil- lion). Trade	accounts	receivable	decreased	by	76	million	due	to	 changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation. (20) Marketable securities  The	total	value	of	current	marketable	securities	was	3,196	mil- lion	(previous	year:	3,290	million),	consisting	of	fixed-	interest	 marketable	securities	of	2,670	million	(previous	year:	 2,642million)	with	a	maturity	of	more	than	three	months		 from	the	date	of	acquisition,	and	stocks	and	profit-participation	 	certificates	of	526	million	(previous	year:	648	million).	 	Marketable	securities	are	stated	at	fair	value.	As	of	31	Decem- ber	2010,	the	average	return	on	fixed-interest	securities	was	 2.1		%	(previous	year:	2.1		%).	Securities	in	the	amount	of	 812million	(previous	year:	649	million)	were	deposited	with	 clearing	banks	as	collateral.	 (21) Cash and cash equivalents RWE	keeps	demand	deposits	exclusively	for	short-term	cash	 	positions	and	only	at	banks	with	a	minimum	credit	rating	of			 A-	/A3	from	one	of	the	two	renowned	rating	agencies,	Moodys	 or	Standard	&	Poors.	As	in	the	previous	year,	interest	rates	are	 maintained	at	market	levels. (22) Equity  A	breakdown	of	equity	is	shown	on	page	166. The	subscribed	capital	of	RWE	AG	is	structured	as	follows: Cashandcashequivalents  million 31 Dec   2010 31 Dec  2009 cash and demand deposits 2,317 2,113 Marketable securities and other cash  investments (maturity less than three  months from the date of acquisition) 159 961 2,476 3,074 Subscribedcapital 31 Dec 2010 Number of shares 31 Dec 2009 Number of shares 31 Dec 2010 carrying  amount 31 Dec 2009 carrying  amount in 000 in % in 000 in %  million  million common shares 523,405 93.1 523,405 93.1 1,340 1,340 preferred shares 39,000 6.9 39,000 6.9 100 100 562,405 100.0 562,405 100.0 1,440 1,440  notes195 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Common	and	preferred	shares	are	no-par-value	bearer	share	 certificates.	Preferred	shares	have	no	voting	rights.	Under	cer- tain	conditions,	preferred	shares	are	entitled	to	payment	of	a	 preference	dividend	of	0.13	per	share,	upon	allocation	of	the	 companys	profits. Pursuant	to	a	resolution	passed	by	the	Annual	General	Meeting	 on	17	April	2008,	the	Executive	Board	of	RWE	AG	was	author- ised	to	increase	the	companys	capital	stock,	subject	to	the	Su- pervisory	Boards	approval,	by	up	to	287,951,360.00	until	 16April	2013,	through	the	issuance	of	new,	bearer	common	 shares	in	return	for	contributions	in	cash	or	in	kind	(authorised	 capital).	In	certain	cases,	the	subscription	rights	of	sharehold- ers	can	be	waived,	with	the	approval	of	the	Supervisory	Board. Pursuant	to	a	resolution	passed	by	the	Annual	General	Meeting	 on	22	April	2009,	the	Executive	Board	was	further	authorised		 to	issue	option	or	convertible	bonds	until	21	April	2014.	The	 	total	nominal	value	of	the	bonds	is	limited	to	6,000	million.	 	Shareholders	subscription	rights	may	be	waived	under	certain	 conditions.	The	Annual	General	Meeting	decided	to	establish	 143,975,680	in	conditional	capital	divided	into	56,240,500	 bearer	common	shares,	in	order	to	redeem	the	bonds.	Shares	 from	the	authorised	capital	are	to	be	deducted	from	the	shares	 from	the	conditional	capital,	insofar	as	they	are	both	issued	 with	a	waiver	of	shareholders	subscription	rights.	Accordingly,	 the	share	capital	may	not	be	increased	by	more	than	20		%	by	 the	issue	of	new	shares. Pursuant	to	a	resolution	passed	by	the	Annual	General	Meeting	 on	22	April	2010,	the	company	was	authorised	to	purchase	 shares	of	any	class	in	RWE	totalling	up	to	10		%	of	the	compa- nys	capital	stock	until	21	October	2011.	Share	buy-backs	may	 also	be	conducted	with	put	or	call	options.	Furthermore,	the	 resolution	also	authorises	the	Executive	Board	to	withdraw	own	 shares,	without	requiring	an	additional	resolution	by	the	Annu- al	General	Meeting	or	–	under	certain	conditions	and	waiver	of	 shareholders	subscription	rights	–	to	sell	them	to	third	parties. On	31	December	2010,	RWE	AG	held	28,846,473	no-par-value	 common	shares	in	RWE	AG	(31	December	2009:	28,846,473).	 The	acquisition	costs	of	own	shares	amounting	to	2,272mil- lion	were	deducted	from	the	carrying	amount	of	equity		(31De- cember	2009:	2,272	million).	As	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	 they	accounted	for	73,846,970.88	of	the	companys	share	 capital.	This	is	equivalent	to	5.13		%	of	subscribed	capital. In	September	2010,	RWE	AG	issued	a	hybrid	bond	with	a	nomi- nal	volume	of	1.75	billion.	The	bond,	which	is	subordinated	to	 all	other	creditor	securities,	is	a	perpetual	and	may	be	called	 only	by	RWE	AG	on	specific,	contractually	agreed	call	dates	or	 occasions.	It	bears	an	interest	rate	of	4.625		%	p.a.	until	the	first	 call	date,	which	is	in	2015.	If	the	bond	is	not	called	as	of	this	 date,	its	interest	rate	until	the	next	call	date,	which	is	in	2020,	 will	be	the	sum	of	the	then	applicable	five-year	interbank	rate	 and	a	credit	spread	of	265	basis	points.	If	it	is	not	called	as	of	 that	date,	either,	it	will	be	converted	into	a	variable-interest	 bond	with	an	annual	call	right	and	an	interest	rate	equalling		 the	12-month	EURIBOR	plus	365	basis	points.	Interest	pay- ments	may	be	deferred	under	certain	conditions,	especially	if	 the		Executive	and	Supervisory	Boards	propose	to	the	Annual	 	General	Meeting	that	a	dividend	not	be	paid.	Deferred	interest	 payments	must	be	made	up	for	when	payment	of	a	dividend	is	 proposed	again.	After	ten	years,	the	hybrid	bond	may	only	be	 redeemed	by	issuing	equity	or	equity-like	financial	instruments,	 for	example	new	hybrid	bonds.	At	the	first	call	date,	which	is	 	after	five	years,	the	hybrid	bond	may	be	redeemed	without	 	restrictions	with	respect	to	the	follow-up	financing. Pursuant	to	IAS	32,	the	issued	hybrid	bond	must	be	classified	 as	equity.	Proceeds	from	the	bond	issue	were	reduced	by	the	 capital	procurement	costs	and	added	to	equity,	taking	account	 of	taxes.	Interest	due	to	bondholders	will	be	booked		directly	 against	equity,	after	deduction	of	taxes.	The	first	interest	 	payment	comes	due	on	28	September	2011. Accumulated other comprehensive income	reflects	changes	in	 the	fair	values	of	financial	instruments	available	for	sale,	cash	 flow	hedges	and	hedges	of	the	net	investment	in	foreign	enti- ties,	as	well	as	changes	stemming	from	foreign	currency	transla- tion	adjustments	from	foreign	financial	statements. Dividend proposal We	propose	to	the	Annual	General	Meeting	that	RWE	AGs	dis- tributable	profit	for	fiscal	2010	be	appropriated	as	follows: Distribution	of	a	dividend	of	3.50	per	individual	dividend- bearing	share: Dividend 1,867,454,844.50 profit carryforward 38,966.69 Distributable profit 1,867,493,811.19  196notes RWE Annual Report 2010 The	dividend	proposal	takes	into	account	the	non-dividend- bearing	shares	held	by	the	company	as	of	31	December	2010.	 The	number	of	dividend-bearing	shares	may	decline	before	the	 Annual	General	Meeting	if	further	own	shares	are	purchased.	 Conversely,	the	number	of	dividend-bearing	shares	may	rise	if	 own	shares	are	sold	prior	to	the	Annual	General	Meeting.	In	 these	cases,	based	on	an	unchanged	dividend	per	dividend- bearing	share,	an	adjusted	proposal	for	the	appropriation	of	the	 distributable	profit	will	be	made	to	the	Annual	General	Meeting,	 in	which	the	total	amount	of	the	appropriation	is	reduced	by	 the	partial	amount	that	would	be	distributable	for	the	own	 shares	additionally	purchased	between	1	January	2011	and	the	 date	of	the	proposal	for	the	appropriation	of	distributable	profit	 and	is	increased	by	the	partial	amount	that	is	distributable	for	 the	own	shares	sold	between	1	January	2011	and	the	date	of	 the	proposal	for	the	appropriation	of	distributable	profit.	The	 profit	carryforward	will	increase	or	decline	by	these	partial	 amounts. Based	on	a	resolution	of	RWE	AGs	Annual	General	Meeting	on	 22	April	2010,	the	dividend	for	fiscal	2009	amounted	to	3.50	 per	dividend-bearing	common	and	preferred	share.	The	divi- dend	payment	to	shareholders	of	RWE	AG	totalled	1,867	mil- lion. Minority interest  The	share	ownership	of	third	parties	in	Group	entities	is	 	presented	in	this	item. Significant	minority	interests	are	essentially	held	in	the	 	Hungarian	energy	utilities	and	in	the	Czech	gas	companies.	 (23) Share-based payment  In	the	year	under	review,	the	groupwide	share-based	payment	 systems	for	executives	of	RWE	AG	and	subordinate	affiliates	 consisted	of	the	following:	Beat	2005	and	Beat	2010.	If	the	 	persons	holding	notional	stocks	are	not	employed	by	RWE	AG,	 the	expenses	associated	with	the	exercise	of	the	performance	 shares	are	borne	by	the	respective	Group	company. Beat2005 2007 tranche 2008 tranche 2009 tranche Grant date 1 Jan 2007 1 Jan 2008 1 Jan 2009 Number of conditionally   granted performance shares   1,468,132 1,668,836 3,251,625 Term 3 years 3 years 3 years pay-out conditions Automatic pay-out, if  following a waiting period of three years  an outperformance compared  to 25  % of the peer group of the Dow Jones sToXX Utilities index has been achieved, measured  in terms of their index weighting as of the inception of the programme. Measurement of outper- formance is carried out using Total shareholder Return (TsR), which takes into account both the  development of the share price together with reinvested dividends. Determination of payment 1. Determination of the index weighting of the peer group companies which exhibit a lower TsR  than RWE at the end of the term. 2. performance factor is calculated by squaring this percentage rate and multiplying it by 1.25. 3. Total number of performance shares which can be paid out is calculated by multiplying the  performance shares conditionally granted by the performance factor. 4. payment corresponds to the final number of performance shares valued at the average RWE  share price during the last 20 exchange trading days prior to expiration of the programme.  The payment is limited to twice the value of the performance shares as of the grant date. change in corporate control /merger  if during the waiting period there is a change in corporate control, a compensatory payment is  made. This is calculated by multiplying the price paid in the acquisition of the RWE shares by  the final number of performance shares. The latter shall be determined as per the plan condi- tions with regard to the time when the bid for corporate control is submitted.  in the event of merger with another company, the compensatory payment shall be calculated  on the basis of the fair value of the performance shares at the time of the merger multiplied  by the prorated number of performance shares corresponding to the ratio between the total  waiting period and the waiting period until the merger takes place.  form of settlement cash settlement  notes197 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Beat2010 2010 tranche; Waiting period: 3 years 2010 tranche; Waiting period: 4 years Grant date 1 Jan 2010 1 Jan 2010 Number of conditionally  granted performance shares   784,421   1,012,331 Term 3 years 5 years pay-out conditions Automatic pay-out, if  following a waiting period   of three years (valuation date: Dec 31 of the third  year)  an outperformance compared to at least 25  %  of the peer group of the Dow Jones sToXX  Utilities  index has been achieved, measured in terms of  their index weighting as of the issue of the tranche.   Measurement of outperformance is carried out using  Total shareholder Return (TsR), which takes into  account both the development of the share price  together with reinvested dividends. possible pay-out on three exercise dates (valuation  dates: Dec 31 of the fourth year, June 30 and Dec  31 of the fifth year) if  as of the valuation date  an  outperformance compared to at least 25  % of the  peer group of the Dow Jones sToXX Utilities index  has been achieved, measured in terms of their index  weighting as of the issue of the tranche. Measure- ment of outperformance is carried out using Total  shareholder Return (TsR), which takes into account  both the development of the share price together  with reinvested dividends. Automatic pay-out  occurs on the third valuation date; the number of   performance shares available for pay-out can be freely  chosen on the first and second valuation date. Determination of payment 1. Determination of the index weighting of the peer group companies which exhibit a lower TsR than RWE at  the valuation date. 2. The total number of performance shares which can be paid out is determined on the basis of a linear   payment curve. if the index weighting of 25  % is outperformed, 7.5  % of the conditionally-granted   performance shares can be paid out. Another 1.5  % of the performance shares granted can be paid out   for each further percentage point above and beyond the index weighting of 25  %. 3. payment corresponds to the number of payable performance shares valued at the average RWE share price  during the last 60 exchange trading days prior to the valuation date. The payment is limited to twice the  value of the performance shares as of the grant date. change in corporate control /merger  if during the waiting period there is a change in corporate control, a compensatory payment is made. This  is calculated by multiplying the price paid in the acquisition of the RWE shares by the final number of per- formance shares which have not been used. The latter shall be determined as per the plan conditions with  regard to the time when the bid for corporate control is submitted.  in the event of merger of RWE AG with another company, the performance shares shall expire and a   compensatory payment shall be made. first, the fair value of the performance shares as of the time of  merger shall be calculated. This fair value is then multiplied by the number of performance shares granted,  reduced pro-rata. The reduction factor is calculated as the ratio of the time from the beginning of the total  waiting period until the merger takes place to the entire waiting period of the programme, multiplied  by the ratio of the performance shares not yet used as of the time of the merger to the total number of  performance shares granted at the beginning of the programme. personal investment As a prerequisite for participation, plan participants must demonstrably invest one sixth of the gross grant  value of the performance shares before taxes in RWE common shares and hold such investment for the waiting  period of the tranche in question. form of settlement cash settlement The	fair	value	of	the	performance	shares	conditionally	granted	 in	the	Beat	programme	amounted	to	25.96	per	share	as	of		 the	grant	date	for	the	2010	tranche	(four-year	waiting	period),	 28.80	per	share	for	the	2010	tranche	(three-year	waiting	 	period),	11.93	per	share	for	the	2009	tranche,	and	22.25		 per	share	for	the	2008	tranche.	These	values	were	calculated	 	externally	using	a	stochastic,	multivariate	Black-Scholes	 	standard	model	via	Monte	Carlo	simulations	on	the	basis		 of	one	million	scenarios	each.	In	the	calculations,	due		 consideration	was	taken	of	the	maximum	payment	stipulated		 in	the		programmes	conditions	for	each	conditionally	granted	 	performance	share,	the		remaining	term,	the	discount	rates	for	 the	remaining	term,	the	current	prices	of	the	underlying	shares,	 the	related		volatilities	and	correlations,	and	the	expected	 	dividends	of	RWEAG	and	of	peer	companies.  198notes RWE Annual Report 2010 PerformanceSharesfromBeat2005 2007 tranche 2008 tranche 2009 tranche outstanding at the start of the fiscal year 1,447,103 1,662,036 3,243,641 Granted change (granted /expired)  10,011    16,832 paid out -1,447,103 outstanding at the end of the fiscal year 0 1,652,025 3,226,809 payable at the end of the fiscal year 0 1,652,025 0 PerformanceSharesfromBeat2010 2010 tranche; Waiting period: 3 years 2010 tranche; Waiting period: 4 years outstanding at the start of the fiscal year Granted 784,421 1,012,331 change (granted /expired)  11,934  13,439 paid out outstanding at the end of the fiscal year 772,487 998,892 payable at the end of the fiscal year 0 0 In	the	year	under	review,	the	number	of	performance	shares		 developed	as	follows: The	remaining	contractual	term	amounted	to	four	years	for	the	 2010	tranche	with	four-year	waiting	period,	two	years	for	the	 2010	tranche	with	three-year	waiting	period	and	one	year	for	the	 2009	tranche.	The	contractual	term	for	the	2008	tranche	ended	 upon	completion	of	the	year	under	review;	the	payment	amount	 is	16.70	per	performance	share. In	the	year	under	review,	the	number	of	outstanding	options	 from	the	Sharesave	Scheme	developed	as	follows: In	addition	to	the	above,	there	were	the	following	share-based	 payment	systems	with	equity	settlement	for	executives	and	 	employees	at	RWE	Npower	plc.,	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	GmbH,	 RWEIT	UK	Ltd.	und	RWE	Npower	Renewables	Ltd.	(Sharesave	 Scheme): RWENpowerplc./RWESupply&TradingGmbh/ RWEITUkLtd./RWENpowerRenewablesLtd. sharesave scheme Tranches 2006  2010 Number of options granted per tranche 247,119  404,796 Term 3 years Waiting period 3 years Exercise price 36.47  50.24 form of settlement Existing shares OptionsfromtheSharesaveScheme Tranches  2006 to 2010 outstanding at the start of the fiscal year 745,672 Granted 404,796 Exercised  141,014 Expired  93,755 outstanding at the end of the fiscal year 915,699 Exercisable at the end of the fiscal year 88,874  notes199 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information In	fiscal	2010,	the	total	income	for	the	groupwide	share-based	 payment	systems	amounted	to	7	million	(previous	year:	total	 expense	of	46	million).	As	in	the	previous	year,	the	claims	 were	settled	in	cash	only.	As	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	provi- sions	for	cash-settled	share-based	payment	programmes	 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations.	The	company	 pension	plan	consists	of	defined	contribution	and	defined	 	benefit	plans. In	the	reporting	period,	50	million	(previous	year:	24	million)	 was	paid	into	defined	contribution	plans.	This	sum	includes	 payments	made	by	RWE	for	a	benefit	plan	in	the	Netherlands	 which	covers	the	commitments	of	various	employers.	This	fund	 (24) Provisions amounted	to	44	million	(previous	year:	79	million).	The	 	intrinsic	value	of	the	cash-settled	share-based	payment	trans- actions	exercisable	or	payable	as	of	the	balance-sheet	date	 amounted	to	28	million	(previous	year:	28	million). does	not	provide	the	participating	companies	with	information	 allowing	for	the	pro-rata	allocation	of	commitments,	plan	assets	 and	service	cost.	In	RWEs	consolidated	financial	statements,	 the	contributions	are	recognised	analogously	to	a	defined	 	contribution	plan. Provisions	for	defined	benefit	plans	are	determined	using	actu- arial	methods.	The	following	assumptions	are	applied: Provisions  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Non-current current Total Non-current current Total provisions for pensions and similar obligations 3,318 3,318 3,281 3,281 provisions for taxes 3,194 407 3,601 2,796 316 3,112 provisions for nuclear waste management 9,686 324 10,010 9,250 241 9,491 provisions for mining damage 2,822 98 2,920 2,618 94 2,712 19,020 829 19,849 17,945 651 18,596 other provisions staff-related obligations (excluding restructuring) 901 747 1,648 793 850 1,643 Restructuring obligations 456 139 595 386 142 528 purchase and sales obligations 820 867 1,687 1,210 887 2,097 Uncertain obligations in the electricity business 451 337 788 449 389 838 Environmental protection obligations 133 49 182 127 26 153 interest payment obligations 714 27 741 564 24 588 obligations to deliver co2 emission allowances /   certificates for renewable energies 972 972 1,242 1,242 Miscellaneous other provisions 990 1,605 2,595 841 1,618 2,459 4,465 4,743 9,208 4,370 5,178 9,548 23,485 5,572 29,057 22,315 5,829 28,144 Calculationassumptions in % 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Germany foreign1 Germany foreign1 Discount factor 5.25 5.30 5.25 5.70 compensation increase 2.75 4.90 2.75 5.20 pension increase 1.00  1.50 3.30 1.00  1.50 3.50 Expected return on plan assets 5.75 5.50 5.75 5.25 1 pertains to benefit commitments to employees of the RWE Group in the UK.  200notes RWE Annual Report 2010 The	expected	return	on	plan	assets	was	determined	depending	 on	the	specific	asset	categories.	The	expected	return	on	equity	 investments	is	based	on	the	long-term	average	performance	 	observed	for	the	industries	and	geographical	markets	involved,	 taking	into	account	the	current	composition	of	the	equity	port- folio.	For	fixed-interest	securities,	the	expected	return	was	 	derived	from	appropriately	selected	trading	prices	and	indices,	 Excluding	taxes,	as	of	31	December	2010	cumulative		actuarial	 gains	/losses	amounted	to		6,254	million	(31December	2009:	 	6,287	million). in	accordance	with	accepted	methods.	The	expected	return		 on	real	estate	was	calculated	taking	into	consideration	the	 	marketing	possibilities,	which	are	determined	by	contractual	 	obligations	and	local	market	conditions. Provisions	for	pensions	are	broken	down	as	follows: Provisionsforpensionsandsimilarobligations(fundedandunfundedplans)  million 31 Dec   2010 31 Dec  2009 present value of funded benefit obligations 15,170 14,588 fair value of plan assets 13,833 13,139 Netbalanceforfundedplans 1,337 1,449 capitalised surplus of plan assets over benefit obligations 56 79 Provisionrecognisedforfundedplans 1,393 1,528 Provisionrecognisedforunfundedplans 1,925 1,753 3,318 3,281 Developmentofplanassets  million fair value 2010 2009 Balance at 1 Jan 13,139 11,030 Expected return on plan assets 730 660 Employer contributions to funded plans 166 826 Employee contributions to funded plans 16 13 Benefits paid by funded plans  871  786 Actuarial gains (losses) of funded plans 541 1,162 currency translation adjustments 124 234 changes in the scope of consolidation  12 Balanceat31Dec 13,833 13,139  notes201 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information In	2010,	the	actual	returns	on	plan	assets	amounted	to	 1,271million	(previous	year:	1,822	million). Compositionofplanassets(fairvalue)  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Germany1 foreign2 Total Germany1 foreign2 Total Equity instruments 2,783 781 3,564 3,042 270 3,312 interest-bearing instruments 4,537 2,856 7,393 5,208 3,052 8,260 Real estate 166 196 362 78 80 158 Mixed funds3 947 947 Alternative investments 918 439 1,357 742 360 1,102 other4 155 55 210 135 172 307 9,506 4,327 13,833 9,205 3,934 13,139 1 plan assets in Germany primarily pertain to assets of RWE AG and of various Group companies which are managed by RWE pensionstreuhand e.v. as a trust,     as well as to assets of RWE pensionsfonds AG. 2 foreign plan assets pertain to the assets of a UK pension fund for covering benefit commitments to employees of the RWE Group in the UK. 3 containing dividend- and interest-bearing instruments. 4 includes reinsurance claims against insurance companies and other fund assets of provident funds. Compositionofplanassets(targetedinvestmentstructure) in % 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Germany1 foreign2 Germany1 foreign2 Equity instruments 23.4 17.5 28.4 6.9 interest-bearing instruments 54.3 67.5 59.3 77.6 Real estate 2.3 5.0 2.3 2.0 Mixed funds3 10.0 Alternative investments 10.0 10.0 10.0 9.1 other4 4.4 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 1 plan assets in Germany primarily pertain to assets of RWE AG and of various Group companies which are managed by RWE pensionstreuhand e.v. as a trust,     as well as to assets of RWE pensionsfonds AG. 2 foreign plan assets pertain to the assets of a UK pension fund for covering benefit commitments to employees of the RWE Group in the UK. 3 containing dividend- and interest-bearing instruments. 4 Does not include reinsurance claims against insurance companies and other fund assets of provident funds, as such do not fall under the scope of portfolio     management as a whole. Developmentofpensionclaims  million present value 2010 2009 Balance at 1 Jan 16,341 13,768 current service cost 201 143 interest cost 877 836 contributions by employees 16 13 Actuarial gains (losses) 508 2,268 Benefits paid  979  908 past service cost 7  36 currency translation adjustments 145 252 changes in the scope of consolidation  21 5 Balanceat31Dec 17,095 16,341  202notes RWE Annual Report 2010 In	fiscal	2010,	past	service	costs	contained	increased	benefit	 commitments	in	the	United	Kingdom	(22	million)	and	corre- sponding	reductions	in	Germany.	In	the	previous	year,	such	 costs	consisted	mainly	of	plan	curtailments. The	present	value	of	pension	claims,	less	the	fair	value	of	the	 plan	assets,	equals	the	net	amount	of	funded	and	unfunded	 pension	plans.	The	following	developments	have	been	seen	 over	the	last	five	years: For	the	same	period,	the	following	experience	adjustments	 were	made	to	the	present	values	of	the	pension	claims	and	the	 fair	values	of	the	plan	assets: Expensesforpensionprovisions  million 2010 2009 service cost 201 143 interest cost 877 836 Expected return on plan assets  730  660 Amortisation of past service cost 7  36 355 283 If	the	experience	adjustments	pertain	to	the	present	values	of	 pension	claims,	then	they	are	part	of	the	actuarial	gains	or	 	losses	on	the	pension	claims	for	the	year	in	question.	If	they	 pertain	to	the	fair	values	of	plan	assets,	then	they	are	to	be	 equated	with	the	actuarial	gains	or	losses	arising	on	the	plan	 assets	for	the	year	in	question. Payments	for	defined	benefit	plans	are	expected	to	amount	to	 309	million	in	fiscal	2011. Experienceadjustments  million 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 present value of pension claims  199  451  40 367 38 fair value of plan assets 541 1,162  2,107  494  69 Netamountoffundedandunfundedpensionplans  million 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 present value of pension claims 17,095 16,341 13,768 15,733 17,955 fair value of plan assets 13,833 13,139 11,030 12,675 6,119 Balance 3,262 3,202 2,738 3,058 11,836  notes203 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Roll-forwardofprovisions  million Balance at  1Jan   2010 Additions Unused amounts released interest accretion / change in discount rate changes in the scope ofconso- lidation, currency adjust- ments, transfers Amounts used Balance at  31Dec  2010 provisions for pensions 3,281 203 151  511  266 3,318 provisions for taxes 3,112 1,133  22  54  568 3,601 provisions for nuclear waste management 9,491 180 472  1  132 10,010 provisions for mining damage 2,712 117  61 151 64  63 2,920 18,596 1,633 83 774 42 1,029 19,849 other provisions staff-related obligations   (excluding restructuring) 1,643 845  197 34 23  700 1,648 Restructuring obligations 528 161  21 47 8  128 595 purchase and sales obligations 2,097 612  401 40  81  580 1,687 Uncertain obligations in the electricity  business 838 114  18 16  134  28 788 Environmental protection obligations 153 41  1 2  1  12 182 interest payment obligations 588 180  8 2  17  4 741 obligations to deliver co2 emission allow- ances /certificates for renewable energies 1,242 1,028  31  10  1,257 972 Miscellaneous other provisions 2,459 647  356 29 89  273 2,595 9,548 3,628 1,033 170 123 2,982 9,208 Provisions 28,144 5,261 1,116 944 165 4,011 29,057 of which: changes in the scope   of consol idation ( 61) 1 incl. treatment of actuarial gains and losses as per iAs 19.93A. Provisions for nuclear waste management are	almost	exclu- sively	recognised	as	non-current	provisions,	and	their	settle- ment	amount	is	discounted	to	the	balance-sheet	date.	From	the	 	current	perspective,	the	majority	of	utilisation	is	anticipated	to	 occur	in	the	years	2020	to	2050.	As	in	the	previous	year,	the	 discount	factor	was	5.0		%.	Volume-based	increases	in	the	provi- sions	are	measured	at	their	present	value.	In	the	reporting	 	period,	they	amounted	to	92	million	(previous	year:	122	mil- lion).	Further	additions	of	88	million	in	provisions	(previous	 year:		release	of	388	million)	stem	from	the	fact	that	current	 estimates	project	a	net	increase	in	anticipated	waste	disposal	 costs	(previous	year:	decrease).	Additions	to	provisions	for	nu- clear	waste	management	primarily	consist	of	an	interest	accre- tion	of	472	million	(previous	year:	446	million).	833	million	 in	prepayments,	primarily	to	foreign	reprocessing	companies	 and	to	the	German	Federal	Office	for	Radiation	Protection	(BfS)	 for	the	construction	of	final	storage	facilities,	were	deducted	 from	these	provisions	(previous	year:	796	million). In	terms	of	their	contractual	definition,	provisions	for	nuclear	 waste	management	break	down	as	follows: Provisionsfornuclearwastemanagement  million 31 Dec  2010 31 Dec  2009 provisions for nuclear obligations,   not yet contractually defined 7,977 7,557 provisions for nuclear obligations,   contractually defined 2,033 1,934 10,010 9,491  204notes RWE Annual Report 2010 In	respect	of	the	disposal	of	spent	nuclear	fuel	assemblies,	the	 provisions	for	obligations	which	are	not	yet	contractually	de- fined	cover	the	estimated	long-term	costs	of	direct	final	storage	 of	fuel	assemblies,	which	is	currently	the	only	possible	disposal	 method	in	Germany,	as	well	as	the	costs	for	the	disposal	of	 	radioactive	waste	from	reprocessing,	which	essentially		consist	 of	costs	for	transport	from	centralised	storage	facilities	and	the	 plants	intermediate	storage	facilities	to	reprocessing	plants	 and	final	storage	as	well	as	conditioning	for	final	storage	and	 containers.	These	estimates	are	mainly	based	on	studies	by	in- ternal	and	external	experts,	in	particular	by	GNS	Gesellschaft	 fr	Nuklear-Service	mbH	in	Essen,	Germany.	With	regard	to	the	 decommissioning	of	nuclear	power	plants,	the	costs	for	the	 post-operational	phase	and	dismantling	are	taken	into	consid- eration,	on	the	basis	of	data	from	external	expert	opinions	pre- pared	by	NIS	Ingenieurgesellschaft	mbH,	Alzenau,	Germany,	 which	are	generally	accepted	throughout	the	industry	and	are	 updated	continuously.	Finally,	this	item	also	covers	all	of	the	 costs	of	final	storage	for	all	radioactive	waste,	based	on	data	 provided	by	BfS. Provisions	for	contractually	defined	nuclear	obligations	are	 	related	to	all	nuclear	obligations	for	the	disposal	of	fuel	assem- blies	and	radioactive	waste	as	well	as	for	the	decommissioning	 of	nuclear	power	plants,	insofar	as	the	value	of	said	obligations	 is	specified	in	contracts	under	civil	law.	They	include	the	antici- pated	residual	costs	of	reprocessing,	return	(transport,	contain- ers)	and	intermediate	storage	of	the	resulting	radioactive	 waste,	as	well	as	the	additional	costs	of	the	utilisation	of	urani- um	and	plutonium	from	reprocessing	activities.	These	costs	are	 based	on	existing	contracts	with	foreign	reprocessing	compa- nies	and	with	GNS.	Moreover,	these	provisions	also	take	into	 	account	the	costs	for	transport	and	intermediate	storage	of	 spent	fuel	assemblies	within	the	framework	of	final	direct	 	storage.	The	power	plants	intermediate	storage	facilities	are	 	licensed	for	an	operational	period	of	40	years.	These	facilities	 commenced	operations	between	2002	and	2006.	Furthermore,	 the	amounts	are	also	stated	for	the	conditioning	and	intermedi- ate	storage	of	radioactive	operational	waste,	which	is	primarily	 performed	by	GNS. With	due	consideration	of	the	German	Atomic	Energy	Act	(AtG),	 in	particular	to	Sec.	9a	of	AtG,	the	provision	for	nuclear	waste	 management	breaks	down	as	follows: Provisions for mining damage	also	consist	almost	entirely	of	 non-current	provisions.	They	are	reported	at	the	settlement	 amount	discounted	to	the	balance-sheet	date.	As	in	the	previ- ous	year,	we	use	a	discount	factor	of	5.0		%.	In	the	reporting	 	period,	additions	to	provisions	for	mining	damage	amounted	to	 117	million	(previous	year:	165	million).	Of	this,	an	increase	 of	67million	(previous	year:	84	million)	was	capitalised			 under	property,	plant	and	equipment.	The	interest	accretion		 of	the	additions	to	provisions	for	mining	damage	amounted	to	 151million	(previous	year:	121	million).	 Provisions for restructuring pertain	mainly	to	measures	for	 	socially	acceptable	payroll	downsizing	from	previous	years. Provisionsfornuclearwastemanagement  million 31 Dec  2010 31 Dec  2009 Decommissioning of nuclear facilities 4,490 4,626 Disposal of nuclear fuel assemblies 4,831 4,303 Disposal of radioactive operational waste 689 562 10,010 9,491 (25) Financial liabilities Financialliabilities  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Non-current current Non-current current Bonds payable (incl. other notes payable) 14,864 1,496 15,904 640 commercial paper 493 238 Bank debt 293 426 411 514 other financial liabilities collateral for trading activities 567 945 Miscellaneous other liabilities 751 920 704 790 15,908 3,902 17,019 3,127  notes205 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Financial	liabilities	to	associates	totalled	187	million	(previous	 year:	186	million). 15,679	million	of	the	non-current	financial	liabilities	were	inter- est-bearing	liabilities	(previous	year:	16,802	million).	Bank	debt	 mainly	stemmed	from	the	former	activities	of	acquired	compa- nies. Changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation	caused	financial	liabilities	 to	decline	by	3	million. The	outstanding	bonds	payable	were	issued	by	RWE	AG	or		 RWE	Finance	B.V. The	following	overview	shows	the	key	data	on	the	major	bonds	 payable	as	of	31	December	2010: Bondspayable issuer outstanding   amount carrying   amount coupon in % Maturity RWE finance B.v. 1,500 million 1,496 million 2.5 september 2011 RWE finance B.v. 1,808 million 1,823 million 6.125 october 2012 RWE finance B.v. Us$ 250 million  187 million 2.0 february 2013 RWE finance B.v. 630 million  731 million 6.375 June 2013 RWE finance B.v. 1,000 million 996 million 5.75 November 2013 RWE finance B.v. 530 million 529 million 4.625 July 2014 RWE finance B.v. 2,000 million  1,986 million 5.0 february 2015 RWE finance B.v. 850 million  853 million 6.25 April 2016 RWE AG 100 million 100 million variable1 November 2017 RWE finance B.v. 980 million 979 million 5.125 July 2018 RWE finance B.v. 1,000 million 991 million 6.625 January 2019 RWE finance B.v. 570 million  665 million 6.5 April 2021 RWE finance B.v. 1,000 million 997 million 6.5 August 2021 RWE finance B.v. 500 million  575 million 5.5 July 2022 RWE finance B.v. 488 million  564 million 5.625 December 2023 RWE finance B.v. 760 million  885 million 6.25 June 2030 RWE AG 600 million 594 million 5.75 february 2033 RWE finance B.v. 1,000 million  1,143 million 6.125 July 2039 RWE AG 160 million2 156 million 4.762 february 2040 other (incl. other notes payable) various 110 million various various Bondspayable(incl.othernotespayable) 16,360million 1 interest payment dates: 15 May /15 Nov. 2 After swap into euro.  206notes RWE Annual Report 2010 During	the	reporting	period,	smaller	issues	were	placed	on	the	 European	capital	market,	within	the	framework	of	our	commer- cial	paper	programme.	Up	to	0.5	billion	was	raised	within	the	 framework	of	this	programme	(previous	year:	2.1	billion).	The	 interest	rates	on	the	instruments	ranged	between	0.4		%	and	 1.3		%	(previous	year:	0.8		%	and	3.1		%). Above	and	beyond	this,	other	financial	liabilities	include	collat- eral	for	trading	activities. 47	million	(previous	year:	199	million)	of	the	financial	liabili- ties	are	secured	by	mortgages,	and	107	million	(previous	year:	 19	million)	by	similar	rights. The	principal	component	of	social	security	liabilities	are	the	 amounts	payable	to	social	security	institutions. Changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation	decreased	other	liabili- ties	by	6	million. Other	financial	liabilities	contain	finance	lease	liabilities.	Lease	 agreements	principally	relate	to	capital	goods	in	the	electricity	 business. Liabilities	arising	from	finance	lease	agreements	have	the		 following	maturities: (26) Trade accounts payable Accounts	payable	to	associates	amounted	to	115	million	(pre- vious	year:	55	million). Exploration	activities	accounted	for	liabilities	of	21	million	 (previous	year:	84	million). Changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation	resulted	in	a	5	million	 decline	in	trade	accounts	payable. Liabilitiesfromfinance leaseagreements  million Maturities of minimum lease payments 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Nominal value Discount present  value Nominal    value Discount present   value Due in the following year 8 8 9 9 Due after 1 to 5 years 29 1 28 30 1 29 Due after 5 years 101 2 99 43 2 41 138 3 135 82 3 79 (27) Other liabilities Otherliabilities  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Non-current current Non-current current Tax liabilities 1,055 988 social security liabilities 44 45 55 56 Restructuring liabilities 98 42 129 61 Derivatives 910 7,036 1,360 9,852 Deferred income 1,894 299 1,911 268 Miscellaneous other liabilities 638 3,899 517 3,992 3,584 12,376 3,972 15,217  notes207 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Miscellaneous	other	liabilities	include	1,775	million	(previous	 year:	1,562	million)	in	current	redemption	liabilities	from	put	 options	on	minority	interests. (28) Earnings per share Basic	and	diluted	earnings	per	share	are	calculated	by	dividing	 the	net	income	attributable	to	the	shares	by	the	average	 number	of	shares	outstanding;	own	shares	are	not	taken	into	 account	in	this	calculation.	The	earnings	per	share	are	the	same	 for	both	common	and	preferred	shares. (29) Reporting on financial instruments  Financial	instruments	are	divided	into	non-derivative	and	deriv- ative. Non-derivative	financial	assets	essentially	include	other	non- current	financial	assets,	accounts	receivable,	marketable	securi- ties	and	cash	and	cash	equivalents.	Financial	instruments	in	the	 category	Available	for	sale	are	recognised	at	fair	value,	and	 other	non-derivative	financial	assets	at	amortised	cost.	On	the	 liabilities	side,	non-derivative	financial	instruments	principally	 include	liabilities	recorded	at	amortised	cost. The	maximum	default	risk	corresponds	to	the	carrying	amount	 of	the	financial	assets.	If	default	risks	associated	with	financial	 assets	are	identified,	they	are	recognised	through	impairment. Fair	values	are	derived	from	the	relevant	stock	market	quota- tions	or	are	measured	using	generally	accepted	valuation	meth- ods. Prices	on	active	markets	(e.g.	exchange	prices)	are	drawn	upon	 for	the	measurement	of	commodity	derivatives.	If	no	prices	are	 available,	for	example	because	the	market	is	not	sufficiently	 	liquid,	the	fair	values	are	determined	on	the	basis	of	generally	 	accepted	valuation	methods.	In	doing	so,	we	draw	on	prices	on	 active	markets	as	much	as	possible.	If	such	are	not	available,	 company-specific	planning	estimates	are	used	in	the	measure- ment	process.	These	estimates	contain	all	of	the	market	factors	 which	other	market	participants	would	take	into	account	in	the	 course	of	price	determination. Forwards,	futures,	options	and	swaps	involving	commodities	 are	recognised	at	their	fair	values	as	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	 insofar	as	they	fall	under	the	scope	of	IAS	39.	Exchange-traded	 products	are	measured	using	the	published	closing	prices	of	 the	relevant	exchange.	For	non-exchange	traded	products,	 Deferredincome  million 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Non-current current Non-current current Advances and contributions in aid of construction and building connection 1,614 160 1,709 168 Government grants for non-current assets Taxable 10 2 12 1 Non-taxable 1 1 other 269 137 189 99 1,894 299 1,911 268 Other information Earningspershare 2010 2009 Net income attributable to  RWE AG shareholders  million 3,308 3,571 Number of shares outstanding (weighted average) thousands 533,559 533,132 Basic and diluted   earnings per common   and preferred share  6.20 6.70 Dividend per share  3.501 3.50 1 proposal for fiscal 2010.  208notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Fairvaluehierarchy  million Total   2010 level 1 level 2 level 3 Total 2009 level 1 level 2 level 3 other financial assets 750 67 237 446 709 42 145 522 Derivatives (assets) 8,918 8,304 614 12,202 11,744 458 securities 3,196 992 2,204 3,290 1,102 2,188 Derivatives (liabilities) 7,946 7,748 198 11,212 10,941 271 Redemption liabilities   from put options 1,775 1,775 1,562 1,562 measurement	is	based	on	publicly	available	broker	quotations	 or,	if	such	quotations	are	not	available,	on	generally	accepted	 valuation	methods.	The	fair	value	of	certain	long-term	procure- ment	or	sales	contracts	is	determined	using	recognised	valua- tion	models,	on	the	basis	of	internal	data	if	no	market	data	are	 available. Forward	purchases	and	sales	of	shares	of	listed	companies	are	 measured	on	the		basis	of	the	spot	prices	of	the	underlying	 shares,	adjusted	for	the	relevant	time	component. For	derivative	financial	instruments	which	we	use	to	hedge	 	interest	risks,	the	future	payment	flows	are	discounted		 using	the	current	market	interest	rates	corresponding	to	the	 	remaining	maturity,	in	order	to	determine	the	fair	value	of	the	 hedging		instruments	as	of	the	balance-sheet	date. The	fair	value	of	financial	instruments	reported	under	other	 	financial	assets	and	securities	is	the	published	exchange	price,	 insofar	as	these	instruments	are	traded	on	active	markets.	The	 fair	value	of	non-traded	debt	and	equity	instruments	is	deter- mined	on	the	basis	of	discounted	expected	payment	flows.	 	Current	market	interest	rates	corresponding	to	the	remaining	 maturity	are	used	for	discounting. The	following	overview	presents	the	main	parameters	for	the	 measurement	of	financial	instruments	measured	at	fair	value	in	 the	fair	value	hierarchy	prescribed	by	IFRS	7.	In	accordance	with	 IFRS	7,	the	individual	levels	of	the	fair	value	hierarchy	are	de- fined	as	follows: Level	1:	Measurement	using	(unadjusted)	prices	of	identical	 	financial	instruments	quoted	on	active	markets; Level	2:	Measurement	on	the	basis	of	input	parameters	which	 are	not	the	quoted	prices	from	Level	1,	but	which	can	be	 	observed	for	the	financial	instrument	either	directly	(i.e.	as	 price)	or	indirectly	(i.e.	derived	from	prices); Level	3:	Measurement	using	factors	which	cannot	be	observed	 on	the	basis	of	market	data.  notes209 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information The	development	of	the	fair	values	of	Level	3	financial	instru- ments	is	presented	in	the	following	table: The	other	change	in	derivatives	(liabilities)	amounting	to	 646million	mainly	stems	from	the	first-time	fair	value	meas- urement	of	gas	supply	contracts	which	were	previously	classi- fied	as	own-use	contracts. Level3financialinstruments: Developmentin2010  million Balance at   1 Jan 2010 changes in the  scope of  consolidation,  currency  adjustments  and other changes Balance at   31 Dec 2010 Recognised in  profit or loss Not recognised  in profit or loss  (oci) With a cash  effect other financial assets 522  141 65 446 Derivatives (assets) 458 69 40 47 614 Derivatives (liabilities) 271 646  65  108  546 198 Redemption liabilities from put options 1,562 213 1,775 Level3financialinstruments: Developmentin2009  million Balance at  1 Jan 2009 changes in the  scope of  consolidation,  currency  adjustments  and other changes Balance at   31 Dec 2009 Recognisedin  profit or loss Not recognised  inprofitorloss  (oci) With a cash  effect other financial assets 345  1 178 522 Derivatives (assets) 363 456  177  35  149 458 Derivatives (liabilities) 67 278  18  9  47 271 Redemption liabilities from put options 1,294 268 1,562 Level3financialinstruments: Amountsrecognisedinprofitorloss  million Total  2010 of which:   attributable to  financial instruments  held at the  balance-sheet date Total  2009 of which:   attributable to  financial instruments  held at the   balance-sheet date Revenue 210 210 58 58 cost of materials  16  13  217  217 other operating expenses  60  60 income from investments  1 134 137 160 159  210notes RWE Annual Report 2010 The	following	impairments	were	recognised	on	financial	assets	 which	fall	under	the	scope	of	IFRS	7	and	are	reported	under	the	 balance-sheet	items	stated	below: Impairmentsonfinancialassets in2010  million other non-current  financial assets financial  receivables Trade accounts  receivable other receivables  and other assets Total Balance at 1 Jan 2010 123 344 531 4 1,002 Additions 3 18 259 2 282 Transfers 33  1  2 5 35 currency translation adjustments 11 11 Disposals 13 83 456 5 557 Balanceat31Dec2010 146 278 343 6 773 Impairmentsonfinancialassets in2009  million other non-current  financial assets financial  receivables Trade accounts  receivable other receivables  and other assets Total Balance at 1 Jan 2009 257 178 510 2 947 Additions 19 27 143 2 191 Transfers  149 157  8 currency translation adjustments 19 19 Disposals 4 18 133 155 Balanceat31Dec2009 123 344 531 4 1,002  notes211 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information As	of	the	cut-off	date,	there	were	unimpaired,	past	due	receiva- bles	falling	under	the	scope	of	IFRS	7	in	the	following	amounts: Financial	assets	and	liabilities	can	be	broken	down	into	catego- ries	with	the	following	carrying	amounts: Receivables,pastdue andnotimpaired Gross  amount as  of 31 Dec  2010 Receivables,  past due,  impaired Receivables not impaired, past due by:  million less than  30 days 31 to 60  days 61 to 90  days 91 to 120  days over 120  days financial receivables 4,065 53 5 Trade accounts receivable 9,829 1,160 785 94 53 39 120 other receivables and other assets 9,731 5 1 1 3 23,625 1,218 786 94 53 40 128 Receivables,pastdue andnotimpaired Gross  amount as  of 31 Dec  2009 Receivables,  past due,  impaired Receivables not impaired, past due by:  million less than  30 days 31 to 60  days 61 to 90  days 91 to 120  days over 120  days financial receivables 4,883 48 11 5 Trade accounts receivable 10,060 921 724 77 49 40 154 other receivables and other assets 13,215 5 1 1 1 28,158 974 736 78 49 40 160 Carryingamountsbycategory  million 31 Dec  2010 31 Dec  2009 financial assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss 6,040 9,502 of which: held for trading (6,040) (9,502) financial assets available for sale 3,947 3,998 loans and receivables 16,553 18,150 financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss 6,503 8,574 of which: held for trading (6,503) (8,574) financial liabilities carried at (amortised) cost 28,019 29,380  212notes RWE Annual Report 2010 The	carrying	amounts	of	financial	assets	and	liabilities	within	 the	scope	of	IFRS	7	basically	correspond	to	their	fair	values.	The	 only	deviation	is	for	bonds,	commercial	paper	and	other	finan- cial	liabilities,	where	the	carrying	amount	of	19,810	million	 The	net	result	as	per	IFRS	7	essentially	includes	interest,	divi- dends	and	results	from	the	measurement	of	financial	instru- ments	at	fair	value.	 In	fiscal	2010,	changes	of		91	million	after	taxes	in	the	value	of	 financial	assets	available	for	sale	were	recognised	in	accumulat- ed	other	comprehensive	income	without	an	effect	on	income	 (previous	year:	193	million).	Above	and	beyond	this,	89	mil- lion	in	changes	in	the	value	of	financial	instruments	available	 for	sale	which	had	originally	been	recognised	without	an	effect	 on	income	were	realised	as	income	(previous	year:	expense	of	 190million). As	a	utility	enterprise	with	international	operations,	the	RWE	 Group	is	exposed	to	credit,	liquidity	and	market	risks	in	its	ordi- nary	business	activity.	In	particular,	market	risks	stem	from	 changes	in	commodity	prices,	exchange	rates,	interest	rates	 and	share	prices. We	limit	these	risks	via	systematic,	groupwide	risk	manage- ment.	The	key	instruments	include	hedging	transactions.	The	 range	of	action,	responsibilities	and	controls	are	defined	in	 binding	internal	directives. Derivative	financial	instruments	are	used	to	hedge	currency,	 commodity	and	interest	rate	risks	from	operations	as	well	as	 risks	from	cash	investments	and	financing	transactions.	The	 (previous	year:	20,146	million)	deviates	from	the	fair	value	of	 21,444	million	(previous	year:	21,605	million). The	following	net	results	from	financial	instruments	as	per	 IFRS7	were	recognised	in	the	income	statement: 	instruments	most	commonly	used	are	foreign	exchange	for- wards	and	options,	interest	rate	swaps,	interest	rate	currency	 swaps,	and	commodity	forwards,	options,	futures	and	swaps.	 Additionally,	derivatives	may	be	used	for	proprietary	trading	 purposes	within	defined	limits. Detailed	information	on	the	risks	of	the	RWE	Group	and	on	the	 objectives	and	procedures	of	the	risk	management	is	presented	 in	the	chapter	Development	of	risks	and	opportunities	in	the	 review	of	operations. Hedge	accounting	pursuant	to	IAS	39	is	applied	primarily	for	 hedges	of	currency	risks	from	net	investments	in	foreign	enti- ties	with	foreign	functional	currencies,	for	foreign-currency	 items	and	interest	rate	risks	from	non-current	liabilities,	as	well	 as	for	price	risks	from	sales	and	purchase	transactions. Fair value hedges	are	mainly	used	to	hedge	fixed-interest	loans	 and	liabilities	against	market	price	risks.	The	objective	of	the	 hedge	is	to	transform	fixed-interest	instruments	into	variable- rate	instruments,	thereby	hedging	their	fair	value.	Instruments	 used	are	interest	rate	swaps	and	interest	rate	currency	swaps.	 In	the	case	of	fair	value	hedges,	both	the	derivative	as	well	as	 the	underlying	hedged	transaction	are	measured	at	fair	value	 with	an	effect	on	income.	As	of	the	reporting	date,	the	fair	 	value	of	instruments	used	as	fair	value	hedges	amounted	to	 99million	(previous	year:	74	million). Netgain/lossonfinancialinstrumentsasperIFRS7  million 2010 2009 financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss  813  17 of which: held for trading ( 813) ( 17) financial assets available for sale 292 169 loans and receivables 286 423 financial liabilities carried at (amortised) cost  1,741  1,327  notes213 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information In	the	year	under	review,	losses	of	26	million	(previous	year:	 27	million)	were	recognised	from	adjustment	of	the	carrying	 amounts	of	the	underlying	transactions,	while	a	gain	of	 24million	(previous	year:	24	million)	stemming	from	changes	 in	the	fair	value	of	the	hedges	was	recognised.	Both	of	these	 are	reported	in	the	financial	result. Cash flow hedges	are	primarily	used	to	hedge	against	foreign	 currency	and	price	risks	from	future	sales	and	purchase	transac- tions.	Hedging	instruments	consist	of	foreign	exchange	for- wards	and	options,	and	commodity	forwards,	options,	futures	 and	swaps.	The	effective	portion	of	changes	in	the	fair	value	of	 the	hedge	instruments	is	disclosed	under	other	comprehensive	 income	until	the	underlying	transaction	is	realised.	Ineffective	 changes	in	value	are	recognised	in	profit	or	loss.	The	hedges	 contribution	to	income	from	accumulated	other	comprehensive	 income	is	recognised	in	the	income	statement	when	the	under- lying	transaction	is	realised.	As	of	the	reporting	date,	the	rec- ognised	fair	value	of	instruments	used	as	cash	flow	hedges	 amounted	to	61	million	(previous	year:		269	million). The	future	sales	and	purchase	transactions	hedged	with		 cash	flow	hedges	are	expected	to	be	realised	in	the	following	 15years	and	recognised	in	profit	or	loss. In	the	year	under	review,	changes	of	1,310	million	after	taxes	 in	the	fair	values	of	instruments	used	for	cash	flow	hedges	 	(previous	year:	1,214	million)	were	disclosed	under	accumulat- ed	other	comprehensive	income	without	an	effect	on	income.	 These	changes	in	value	reflect	the	effective	portion	of	the	 hedges. An	expense	of	2	million	was	recognised	with	an	effect	on	 	income	in	relation	to	the	ineffective	portions	of	cash	flow	 	hedges	(previous	year:	15	million). Above	and	beyond	this,	changes	of	1,152	million	after	taxes		 in	the	value	of	cash	flow	hedges	which	had	originally	been	 	recognised	without	an	effect	on	income	were	realised	as	 	income		(previous	year:	1,111	million)	during	the	reporting	 	period. Furthermore,	in	the	period	under	review	the	cost	of	non-finan- cial	assets	was	increased	by	188	million	(previous	year:	 	increase	of	128	million)	by	changes	in	the	value	of	cash	flow	 hedges	reported	in	other	comprehensive	income	and	not	recog- nised	in	profit	or	loss. Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity	are	used	to	 hedge	the	foreign	currency	risks	of	net	investment	in	foreign	 entities	with	foreign	functional	currencies.	We	use	bonds	with	 various	terms	in	the	appropriate	currencies	and	interest	rate	 currency	swaps	as	hedging	instruments.	Exchange	rate	changes	 on	bonds	used	for	hedging	purposes	and	changes	in	the	fair	 value	of	interest	rate	currency	swaps	are	recognised	under	for- eign	currency	translation	adjustments	in	other	comprehensive	 income.	As	of	the	reporting	date,	the	negative	fair	value	of	the	 bonds	amounted	to	2,103	million	(previous	year:	2,038	mil- lion)	and	the	positive	fair	value	of	the	swaps	amounted	to	 284million	(previous	year:	226	million). During	the	year	under	review,	an	expense	of	1	million	(previ- ous	year:	4	million)	was	recognised	with	an	effect	on	income	 in	relation	to	the	ineffective	portions	of	hedges	of	net	invest- ment	in	foreign	entities. Market risks	stem	from	fluctuations	in	prices	on	financial	 	markets.	Changes	in	exchange	rates,	interest	rates	and	share	 prices	can	have	an	influence	on	the	Groups	results.	Due	to	the	 RWE	Groups	international	profile,	exchange	rate	management	 is	a	key	issue.	Sterling	and	US	dollar	are	two	important	 	currencies	for	the	RWE	Group.	Fuels	are	traded	in	these	two	 	currencies,	and	RWE	also	does	business	in	the	UK	currency	area.	 Group	companies	are	required	to	hedge	all	currency	risks	via	 RWE	AG.	The	net	financial	position	for	each	currency	is	deter- minded	by	RWE	AG	and	hedged	with	external	market	partners	 if	necessary. Interest	rate	risks	stem	primarily	from	financial	debt	and	the	 Groups	interest-bearing	investments.	We	hedge	against	nega- tive	changes	in	value	caused	by	unexpected	interest-rate	move- ments	using	non-derivative	and	derivative	financial	instru- ments. Opportunities	and	risks	from	changes	in	the	values	of	securities	 are	controlled	by	a	professional	fund	management	system.	The	 Groups	financial	transactions	are	recorded	using	centralised	 risk	management	software	and	monitored	by	RWE	AG.	This	ena- bles	the	balancing	of	risks	across	the	individual	companies. Group	risk	management	has	established	directives	for	commod- ity	operations.	These	regulations	stipulate	that	derivatives	may	  214notes RWE Annual Report 2010 be	used	to	hedge	price	risks,	optimise	power	plant	schedules	 and	increase	margins.	Furthermore,	commodity	derivatives	may	 be	traded,	subject	to	limits	defined	by	independent	organisa- tional	units.	Compliance	with	limits	is	monitored	daily. All	derivative	financial	instruments	are	recognised	as	assets	or	 liabilities	and	are	measured	at	fair	value.	When	interpreting	 their	positive	and	negative	fair	values,	it	should	be	taken	into	 account	that,	with	the	exception	of	proprietary	trading	in	com- modities,	these	financial	instruments	are	generally	matched	 with	underlying	transactions	that	carry	offsetting	risks. Maturities	of	derivatives	related	to	interest	rates,	currencies,	 	equities,	indices	and	commodities	are	based	on	the	maturities	 of	the	underlying	transactions	and	are	thus	primarily	short-term	 and	medium-term	in	nature.	Maturities	of	up	to	30	years	have	 been	agreed	upon	to	hedge	foreign	currency	risks	of	foreign	 	investments. Share	price,	interest	rate	and	foreign	currency	risks	of	financial	 instruments	as	well	as	commodity	price	risks	are	measured	at	 RWE	using	the	Value-at-Risk	method,	in	line	with	the	interna- tional	banking	standard.	In	addition,	for	the	management	of	 	interest	rate	risk,	a	Cash	Flow	at	Risk	is	determined. With	the	Value-at-Risk	method,	the	maximum	expected	loss	 arising	from	changes	in	market	prices	during	specific	periods	is	 calculated	on	the	basis	of	historical	market	volatility	and	is	 monitored	continuously.	With	the	exception	of	the	Cash	Flow- at-Risk	data,	all	Value-at-Risk	figures	are	based	on	a	confidence	 interval	of	95		%	and	a	holding	period	of	one	day.	For	Cash	Flow	 at	Risk,	a	confidence	interval	of	95		%	and	a	holding	period	of	 one	year	is	taken	as	a	basis.	Aggregation	of	the	individual	 	Value-at-Risk	items	into	a	single	Value-at-Risk	indicator	is	not	 	expedient,	primarily	due	to	mutual	dependencies. In	its	management	of	groupwide	interest	rate	risk,	RWE	distin- guishes	between	interest	rate	risk	from	interest-bearing	finan- cial	investments	recognised	on	the	balance	sheet	and	interest	 rate	risk	from	the	financing	portfolio,	which	primarily	consists	 of	debt	on	the	capital	market.	With	regard	to	the	interest-bear- ing	financial	investments	recognised	on	the	balance	sheet,	 	Value	at	Risk	is	determined,	which	reflects	the	fair	value	risk	of	 these	investments.	As	of	31	December	2010,	this	amounted	to	 7.1	million	(previous	year:	9.3	million).	Since	fiscal	2010,	 Cash	Flow	at	Risk	is	calculated	for	the	financing	portfolio,	which	 represents	a	measurement	of	the	sensitivity	of	interest	expens- es	to	increases	in	market	interest	rates.	As	of	31	December	 2010	this	amounted	to	4.9	million. Within	the	RWE	Group,	all	companies	are	required	to	hedge	 their	foreign	currency	risks	via	RWE	AG.	Only	RWE	AG	may	main- tain	open	foreign	currency	positions,	subject	to	predefined	lim- its.	As	of	31	December	2010,	the	Value	at	Risk	for	these	foreign	 currency	positions	was	less	than	1	million	(previous	year:	 38.1	million).	The	figures	for	2009	and	2010	are	not	suitable	 for	comparison	as	we	now	report	the	Value	at	Risk	which	is	also	 used	for	internal	management	purposes.	The	figure	used	inter- nally	also	includes	the	underlying	transactions	for	cash	flow	 hedges.	In	contrast	to	the	currently	reported	Value-at-Risk	 	figure,	the	Value	at	Risk	for	2009	only	includes	external	foreign	 currency	derivatives.	The	related	underlying	transactions	were	 not	included	in	the	past. Risks	related	to	the	share	portfolio	are	also	monitored	using	the	 Value-at-Risk	method.	As	of	31	December	2010,	the	Value	at	 Risk	was	7.7	million	(previous	year:	11.7	million). As	of	31	December	2010,	Value	at	Risk	for	the	commodity	posi- tions	of	the	trading	business	of	RWE	Supply	&	Trading	amount- ed	to	10.0	million	(previous	year:	46.5	million).	The	figures	 for	2009	and	2010	are	not	suitable	for	comparison	as	we	now	 report	the	Value-at-Risk	figures	based	on	the	management	ap- proach.	Thus,	the	figures	which	are	actually	used	for	manage- ment	purposes	are	stated.	In	the	past,	figures	calculated	specif- ically	for	external	reporting	purposes	were	reported.	These	only	 included	on-balance	sheet	financial	instruments	and	did	not	 take	into	consideration	own-use	contracts. In	addition	to	Commodity	Value	at	Risk,	stress	tests	are	continu- ously	carried	out	to	manage	commodity	risks,	in	order	to	model	 the	impacts	on	liquidity	and	earnings	conditions	and	take	risk- mitigating	measures	if	necessary.	Within	the	framework	of	 these	stress	tests,	individual	groups	of	market	price	curves	are	 modified,	and	revaluation	of	the	commodity	position	is	then	 	undertaken	on	the	basis	of	these	curves.	The	scenarios	include	  notes215 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information both	historical	scenarios	of	extreme	prices	and	realistic,	ficti- tious	price	scenarios.	Above	and	beyond	this,	possible	extreme	 scenarios	for	the	major	trading	desks	are	assessed	on	a	monthly	 basis.	In	the	event	that	the	stress	tests	exceed	internal	thresh- olds,	these	scenarios	are	then	analysed	in	detail	in	relation	to	 their	impact	and	probability,	and	–	if	necessary	–	risk-mitigating	 measures	are	considered. If	market	liquidity	is	available	commodity	risks	at	the	Groups	 power	generation	companies	are	transferred	–	in	accordance	 with	Group	guidelines	–	at	market	prices	to	the	segment	Trad- ing	/Gas	Midstream,	where	they	are	hedged.	In	accordance	with	 the	approach	for	long-term	investments	for	example,	it	is	not	 possible	to	manage	commodity	risks	from	long-term	positions	 or	positions	which	cannot	be	hedged	due	to	their	size	and	the	 prevailing	market	liquidity	using	the	Value-at-Risk	concept.	As	a	 result,	these	positions	are	not	included	in	the	aforementioned	 Value-at-Risk	figure.	Above	and	beyond	open	production	posi- tions	which	have	not	yet	been	transferred,	Group	companies	 are	not	allowed	to	maintain	significant	risk	positions,	according	 to	Group	guidelines. Credit risks.	In	financial	and	trading	operations,	we	primarily	 have	credit	relationships	with	banks	and	other	trading	partners	 with	good	creditworthiness.	Credit	risks	associated	with	con- tractual	partners	are	reviewed	upon	conclusion	of	the	contract	 and	constantly	monitored.	We	also	limit	credit	risk	by	the	defini- tion	of	limits	for	trading	with	contractual	partners	and	by	 	requiring	cash	collateral.	Credit	risk	in	trading	operations	is	 monitored	on	a	daily	basis,	and	on	a	weekly	basis	for	financial	 operations. We	are	exposed	to	credit	risks	in	our	retail	business,	because	it	 is	possible	that	customers	will	fail	to	meet	their	financial	obliga- tions.	With	regular	analysis	of	the	creditworthiness	of	our	major	 customers,	we	are	able	to	identify	such	risks	and	react	accord- ingly. We	also	employ	credit	insurance,	financial	guarantees,	bank	 guarantees	and	other	forms	of	security	to	protect	against	credit	 risks	in	financial	and	trading	activities,	and	retail	business. The	maximum	balance-sheet	default	risk	is	expressed	by	the	 carrying	value	of	the	receivables	stated	in	the	balance	sheet.	 The	default	risks	for	derivatives	correspond	to	their	positive		 fair	values.	Additional	credit	risks	can	stem	from	financial	 	guarantees	and	loan	commitments	for	external	creditors.		 As	of	31December	2010,	these	obligations	amounted	to	 709million	(previous	year:	804	million).	There	were	no	 	material		defaults	in	2010	and	2009. Liquidity risks.	As	a	rule,	RWE	Group	companies	centrally	refi- nance	with	RWE	AG.	In	this	regard,	there	is	a	risk	that	liquidity	 reserves	will	prove	to	be	insufficient	to	meet	financial	obliga- tions	in	a	timely	manner.	In	2011,	capital	market	debt	with	a	 nominal	volume	of	approximately	1.5	billion	(previous	year:	 0.6	billion)	and	bank	debt	of	0.4	billion	(previous	year:	 0.5billion)	are	due.	Additionally,	short-term	debt	must	also		 be	repaid. As	of	31	December	2010,	liquidity	needs	are	covered	with	cash	 and	cash	equivalents,	and	current	marketable	securities	total- ling	5,672	million	(previous	year:	6,364	million).	Above	and	 beyond	this,	as	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	RWE	AG	had	a	fully	 committed,	unused	syndicated	credit	line	of	4	billion	(previous	 year:	4	billion)	at	its	disposal.	As	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	 494	million	(previous	year:	238	million)	had	been	raised	from	 the	US$5	billion	commercial	paper	programme	(previous	year:	 US$5	billion)	and	16.3	billion	from	the	30	billion	debt	 	issuance	programme	(previous	year:	16.4	billion).	Accordingly,	 	liquidity	risk	is	extremely	low.	  216notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Above	and	beyond	this,	as	of	31	December	2010,	there	were	 	financial	guarantees	in	the	amount	of	524	million	(previous	 year:	804	million)	for	external	creditors,	which	are	to	be	 	allocated	to	the	first	year	of	repayment.	Additionally,	Group	 companies	have	provided	loan	commitments	to	third-party	com- panies	amounting	to	185	million.	Of	this	amount,	181	million	 is	callable	in	2011	and	4	million	in	the	years	2012	to	2015. Financial	liabilities	falling	under	the	scope	of	IFRS	7	are	expect- ed	to	result	in	the	following	(undiscounted)	payments	in	the	 coming	years: Redemptionandinterestpaymentson financialliabilities  million carrying  amount   31 Dec 2010 Redemption payments interest payments 2011 2012   to 2015 from 2016 2011 2012  to 2015 from 2016 Bonds payable (incl. other notes payable) 16,360 1,561 6,263 8,590 967 3,148 4,804 commercial paper 493 493 Bank debt 719 432 170 117 8 24 6 liabilities arising from finance lease   agreements 135 8 29 101 other financial liabilities 1,536 941 191 445 28 102 81 Derivative financial liabilities 7,946 7,013 779 40  35  88 245 collateral for trading activities 567 567 Redemption liabilities from put options 1,775 1,775 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 10,447 10,390 61 73 Redemptionandinterestpaymentson financialliabilities  million carrying  amount  31 Dec 2009 Redemption payments interest payments 2010 2011  to 2014 from 2015 2010 2011  to 2014 from 2015 Bonds payable (incl. other notes payable) 16,544 640 5,599 10,376 919 3,072 5,271 commercial paper 238 238 Bank debt 925 596 177 156 12 42 21 liabilities arising from finance lease   agreements 79 9 30 43 other financial liabilities 1,415 893 236 332 18 58 50 Derivative financial liabilities 11,212 10,116 1,005 37  18  28 70 collateral for trading activities 945 945 Redemption liabilities from put options 1,562 1,562 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 11,351 10,444 873 89  notes217 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information (30) Contingent liabilities and financial commitments As	of	31	December	2010,	the	Group	had	5,609	million	in	capi- tal	commitments	(previous	year:	5,192	million).	 Within	the	framework	of	the	Essent	acquisition,	we	undertook	 to	acquire	the	shares	in	Energy	Resources	Holding	B.V.,	Nether- lands	(formerly	Essent	Business	Development	B.V.,	Nether- lands)	from	the	previous	owners	(put	option),	pending	a	posi- tive	decision	by	the	courts. Commitments	from	operating	leases	refer	largely	to	long-term	 rental	arrangements	for	power	generation	and	supply	plants	as	 well	as	rent	and	lease	contracts	for	storage	and	administration	 buildings.	Minimum	lease	payments	have	the	following	maturi- ty	structure: Commitmentsfrom operatingleases  million Nominal value 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Due within 1 year 145 101 Due within 1 to 5 years 398 256 Due after 5 years 389 185 932 542 Long-term	contractual	purchase	commitments	exist	for	supplies	 of	fossil	fuels,	including	natural	gas	and	hard	coal	in	particular.	 Payment	obligations	stemming	from	the	major	purchase	con- tracts	amounted	to	90.8	billion	as	of	31	December	2010,	of	 which	6.7	billion	was	due	within	one	year. Gas	purchases	generally	occur	within	the	framework	of	take-or- pay	contracts.	The	conditions	in	these	long-term	contracts,	 which	have	terms	up	to	2035,	are	renegotiated	by	the	contrac- tual	partners	at	certain	intervals,	which	may	result	in	changes	in	 the	reported	payment	obligations.	Calculation	of	the	payment	 obligations	resulting	from	the	purchase	contracts	is	based	on	 parameters	from	the	internal	planning. Furthermore,	long-term	financial	commitments	exist	for	pur- chases	of	electricity.	As	of	31	December	2010,	the	minimum	 payment	obligations	stemming	from	the	major	purchase	con- tracts	totalled	14.6	billion,	of	which	0.9	billion	was	due	 	within	one	year.	Above	and	beyond	this,	there	are	also	long- term	purchase	and	service	contracts	for	uranium,	conversion,	 enrichment	and	fabrication. Essent	group	entities	(and	/or	their	predecessors)	have	trans- ferred	rights	of	use	or	similar	rights	with	respect	to	generating	 assets	to	foreign	investors	and	subsequently	leased	them	back	 until	January	2017.	These	so-called	cross-border	leases	(CBLs)	 are	formally	guaranteed	by	Essent.	The	contracts	were	conclud- ed	prior	to	Essents	acquisition	by	RWE.	The	CBLs	on	these	as- sets	provide	Essent	with	the	option	(in	January	2017,	subject	to	 certain	conditions)	to	buy	back	the	transferred	rights	for	a	fixed	 price	in	the	amount	of	approximately	US$920	million.	Lease	 payments	to	the	end	of	the	term	(totalling	US$358	million)	and	 amounts	payable	upon	any	exercise	of	a	purchase	option	are	 funded	by	any	proceeds	from	financial	instruments	pledged	to	 the	respective	CBL	counterparties	and	/or	other	arrangements	 made	by	Essent	group	entities. Furthermore,	prior	to	its	acquisition	by	RWE,	Essent	had	issued	 guarantees	which	relate	to	payment	and	performance	obliga- tions	from	CBL	transactions	of	various	former	subsidiaries,	 which	today	are	controlled	by	ENEXIS	B.V.,	Netherlands	(for- merly	Essent	Netwerk	B.V.)	(ENEXIS).	As	of	31	December	 2010,	one	transaction	has	yet	to	be	completed,	after	ENEXIS	 ended	another	transaction	with	the	contractual	partner	during	 2010	by	mutual	agreement. Under	its	CBLs	and	the	CBL-related	guarantees,	Essent	is	liable	 for	any	payment	obligations	exceeding	the	proceeds	from	the	 pledged	financial	instruments	and	/or	other	relevant	arrange- ments		if	any,	including	the	above	mentioned	CBL	obligations	 of	ENEXIS. In	case	of	mandatory	early	terminations,	the	CBLs	contain	 clauses	which	might	result	in	payment	obligations	including	 	indemnity	and	financing	costs.	In	certain	cases	the	CBL	 	counterparties	may	also	take	possession	of	the	asset.	Assuming	 mandatory	early	termination	of	all	CBLs,	the	estimated	aggre- gate	cost	would	amount	to	approximately	US$140	million	(as		 at	31	December	2010).	Of	this,	US$130	million	relate	to	gener- ating	facilities	of	Essent	and	roughly	US$10	million	to	network	 	assets	of	ENEXIS.	This	amount	is	derived	from	the	sum	of	the	 aggregate	termination	values	(US$1,045	million)	less	the	 	expected	value	of	the		financial	instruments	and/or	other	 	agreements,	plus	various	costs,	particularly	indemnities. Upon	conclusion	of	the	Essent	acquisition,	the	CBL-related	 	liabilities	were	covered	by	the	joint	implementation	of	a	fund	 by	RWE	and	the	vendors.  218notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Outside	shareholders	initiated	several	legal	proceedings	to	 	examine	the	appropriateness	of	the	conversion	ratios	and	the	 amount	of	cash	paid	in	compensation	in	connection	with	com- pany	restructurings	pursuant	to	German	company	law.	We	are	 convinced	that	the	conversion	ratios	and	cash	compensation	 calculated	on	the	basis	of	expert	opinions	and	verified	by	audi- tors	are	adequate.	If	a	different	legally	enforceable	conclusion	 is	reached,	all	affected	shareholders	will	be	compensated,	even	 if	they	are	not	involved	in	the	conciliation	proceedings. The	EU	Commission	conducted	follow-up	inquiries	at	several	 	European	power	utilities	in	May	and	December	of	2006.	This	 also	affected	RWE	Group	companies	in	Germany.	Following	this,	 in	early	May	2007,	the	EU	Commission	initiated	an	abuse	proce- dure	against	RWE,	based	on	the	suspicion	that	RWE	and	affiliat- ed	companies	hindered	access	to	the	natural	gas	transmission	 system	in	Germany	in	order	to	attain	a	purportedly	market-dom- inating	position	in	the	gas	supply	business.	Following	an	agree- ment	between	RWE	AG	and	the	EU	Commission	in	May	2008,	in	 February	2009	RWE	AG	submitted	a	formal	statement	of	com- mitment	to	sell	its	German	long-distance	network	to	a	third	 	party	independent	of	RWE.	This	commitment	does	not	consti- tute	admission	that	anti-trust	regulations	were	violated.	The	EU	 Commission	approved	this	statement	in	March	2009	and	in	turn	 ended	the	abuse	proceedings	against	RWE.	For	more	informa- tion	on	the	sale	of	Thyssengas,	please	see	page	70. The	EU	Commission	also	ended	its	investigations	of	RWE	in		 the	field	of	electricity	in	October	2009.	In	January	2011,	the	 	German	Federal	Cartel	Office	completed	its	sector	inquiry	in	the	 field	of	power	generation,	which	began	in	March	2009	and	also	 affected	RWE.	This	sector-wide	review	focused	on	issues	related	 to	the	withholding	of	power	plant	capacities	and	manipulation	 of	wholesale	prices.	The	inquiry	found	no	evidence	of	abusive	 behaviour	by	electricity	producers.	The	Cartel	Office	did,	how- ever,	call	on	the	Federal	Government	to	continue	monitoring	 the	power	generation	sector	in	the	future	by	launching	a	mar- ket	transparency	scheme. We	bear	legal	and	contractual	liability	from	our	membership	in	 various	associations	which	exist	in	connection	with	power	plant	 projects,	profit-	and	loss-pooling	agreements	and	for	the	provi- sion	of	liability	cover	for	nuclear	risks,	amongst	others. By	signing	a	mutual	benefit	agreement,	RWE	AG	and	other	par- ent	companies	of	German	nuclear	power	plant	operators	under- took	to	provide	approximately	2,244	million	in	funding	to	lia- ble	nuclear	power	plant	operators	to	ensure	that	they	are	able	 to	meet	their	payment	obligations	in	the	event	of	nuclear	dam- ages.	RWE	AG	has	a	25.851		%	contractual	share	in	the	liability,	 plus	5		%	for	damage	settlement	costs. The	11th	Amendment	of	the	German	Atomic	Energy	Act	(AtG),	 which	entered	into	force	on	14	December	2010,	grants	addi- tional	generation	quotas	for	nuclear	power	plants.	This	ulti- mately	represents	an	extension	of	the	operating	times.	Against	 this	background,	the	operators	of	nuclear	power	plants	commit- ted	to	make	payments	to	a	fund	which	will	be	used	to	promote	 measures	for	the	implementation	of	the	energy	strategy	of	the	 German	Federal	Government.	This	is	regulated	in	an	agreement	 with	the	Federal	Republic	of	Germany	which	was	signed	on	 10January	2011.	According	to	this	agreement,	starting	from	 2017	nuclear	power	plant	operators	will	pay	a	levy	for	the	addi- tional	power	quantities	generated	within	the	framework	of	the	 extended	operating	times.	The	levy	amounts	to	9	/MWh	and	 will	be	adjusted	on	an	annual	basis	in	accordance	with	the	 	development	of	the	consumer	price	index	and	the	EEX	electrici- ty	prices.	From	2011	to	2016,	the	nuclear	power	plant	opera- tors	will	be	making	lump-sum	pre-payments	on	the	levies.	These	 pre-payments	will	total	1.4	billion	for	the	period	as	a	whole	 and	will	be	applied	towards	the	levies	in	equal	annual	instal- ments	for	the	period	2017	to	2022.	RWEs	share	of	these	 	pre-payments	will	amount	to	a	maximum	of	0.4	billion. RWE	AG	and	its	subsidiaries	are	involved	in	regulatory	and	anti- trust	proceedings,	litigation	and	arbitration	proceedings	related	 to	their	operations.	However,	we	do	not	expect	any	material	 negative	repercussions	from	these	proceedings	on	the	RWE	 Groups	economic	or	financial	position.	Additionally,	companies	 belonging	to	the	RWE	Group	are	directly	involved	in	various	 	administrative	and	regulatory	proceedings	(including	approval	 procedures)	or	are	directly	affected	by	their	results.  notes219 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information (31) Segment reporting Within	the	RWE	Group	segments	are	defined	both	in	accord- ance	with	functional	and	geographical	criteria. The	segment	Power	Generation	essentially	consists	of	the	 power	generation	business	and	lignite	production	in	Germany. For	the	most	part,	the	segment	Sales	and	Distribution	 	Networks	encompasses	sales	and	distribution	networks	in	 	Germany. The	segment	Netherlands	/Belgium	comprises	the	activities		 of	the	Essent	Group	which	was	acquired	in	2009	as	well	as	the	 Groups	other	electricity	and	gas	business	in	this	region.	In	 	fiscal	2010,	the	wind	power	generation	and	trading	activities	of	 the	Essent	Group	were	integrated	into	the	segments	Renewa- bles	and	Trading	/Gas	Midstream,	respectively,	and	the	gas	 storage	activities	into	the	segment	Sales	and	Distribution	 	Networks. The	segment	United	Kingdom	consists	of	almost	all	of	the	 electricity	and	gas	business	in	this	region. Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	European	power	generation	 and	the	supply	and	the	distribution	activities	in	this	region	are	 included	in	the	segment	Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	 	Europe.	During	the	period	under	review,	the	name	of	this	 	segment	was	changed	from	Central	and	Eastern	Europe	to	 	Central	Eastern	and	South	Eastern	Europe	due	to	the	 	increased	business	activities	in	Turkey. Activities	for	the	generation	of	electricity	and	heat	from	renew- able	energy	sources	are	bundled	in	RWE	Innogy	and	presented	 in	the	segment	Renewables.	Since	2010,	this	segment	also	 includes	the	wind	power	generation	of	the	Essent	Group. The	segment	Upstream	Gas	&	Oil	covers	all	of	the	Groups	 gas	and	oil	production	activities. The	segment	Trading	/Gas	Midstream	covers	energy	trading	 and	the	commercial	optimisation	of	non-regulated	gas	activi- ties.	The	latter	aspect	comprises	procurement,	transport	and	 storage	contracts	in	Germany,	the	UK	and	the	Czech	Republic,	 and	the	liquefied	natural	gas	(LNG)	business.	This	segment	is	 also	responsible	for	key	account	business	with	major	German	 	industrial	and	commercial	customers.	Since	2010,	the	trading	 and	key	account	activities	of	the	Essent	Group	are	also	present- ed	in	Trading	/Gas	Midstream. Other	/consolidation	covers	consolidation	effects,	the	Group	 Centre	and	the	activities	of	other	Group	areas	which	are	not	 presented	separately.	Such	activities	consist	primarily	of	the	 cross-segment	services	provided	by	RWE	Service	GmbH,	RWE	IT	 GmbH,	and	RWE	Consulting	GmbH,	as	well	as	German	transmis- sion	grid	activities	in	the	electricity	and	gas	business.  220notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Regions2010  million EU Rest of   Europe other RWE Group Germany UK other EU External revenue1, 2 27,283 8,332 14,190 683 234 50,722 intangible assets, property, plant and   equipment and investment property 24,841 8,416 15,052 929 511 49,749 1 Excluding natural gas tax /electricity tax. 2 Broken down by the region in which the service was provided. Segment reporting Divisions2010  million Germany Nether- lands / Belgium United  Kingdom central  Eastern  and south  Eastern  Europe Renew- ables Upstream  Gas & oil Trading / Gas Mid-  stream other /consolidation RWE  Group power  Genera- tion sales and  Distri- bution  Networks operat- ing  compa- nies other Externalrevenue (incl.naturalgas tax/electricity tax) 1,072 18,456 6,510 7,759 5,297 366 1,353 7,517 4,936 54 53,320 intra-group  revenue 10,378 4,426 551 11 474 203 134 21,466 1,790  39,433 Total revenue 11,450 22,882 7,061 7,770 5,771 569 1,487 28,983 6,726  39,379 53,320 Operatingresult 4,000 1,575 391 272 1,173 72 305 21 178 264 7,681 operating  income from  investments 47 373 23  20 60 10  119 2 31 345 operating  income from  investments  accounted for  using the equity  method 28 294 22  20 59 7  118 2 274 operating  depreciation and  amortisation 510 643 269 232 267 139 314 14 94 93 2,575 Total impairment  losses 21 67 11 296 5 119 53 2 574 EBITDA 4,510 2,218 660 504 1,440 211 619 7 272 171 10,256 Cashflows fromoperating activities 3,164 1,475 308 679 1,157 128 489 1,431 1 470 5,500 carrying amount  of investments  accounted for  using the equity  method 149 2,383 210 31 377 474 102  32 3,694 capital ex- penditure on  intangible assets,  property, plant  and equipment  and investment  property 1,180 1,230 1,144 876 430 614 507 4 315 79 6,379  notes221 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Segment reporting Divisions2009  million Germany Nether- lands / Belgium United  Kingdom central  Eastern  and south  Eastern  Europe Renew- ables Upstream  Gas & oil Trading / Gas Mid-  stream other /consolidation RWE  Group power  Genera- tion sales and  Distri- bution  Networks operat- ing  compa- nies other Externalrevenue (incl.naturalgas tax/electricity tax) 1,056 18,330 1,799 7,843 5,254 245 1,208 6,937 4,946 123 47,741 intra-group  revenue 9,804 4,783 158 11 465 138 262 19,308 2,561  37,490 Total revenue 10,860 23,113 1,957 7,854 5,719 383 1,470 26,245 7,507  37,367 47,741 Operatingresult 3,428 1,352 180 247 1,055 56 203 985 129 545 7,090 operating  income from  investments 47 343 8  6 57 4 1  93 9  49 321 operating  income from  investments  accounted for  using the equity  method 30 277 19  6 55 4  89 9  1 298 operating  depreciation and  amortisation 461 570 97 198 230 70 234 1 132 82 2,075 Total impairment  losses 10 1 5 4 112 3 135 EBITDA 3,889 1,922 277 445 1,285 126 437 986 261 463 9,165 Cashflows fromoperating activities 2,288 1,457 15 387 888 27 319 580 338 970 5,299 carrying amount  of investments  accounted for  using the equity  method 166 2,294 222 28 375 477 190 20  36 3,736 capital ex- penditure on  intangible assets,  property, plant  and equipment  and investment  property 1,791 1,022 156 853 368 447 855 2 336 83 5,913 Regions2009  million EU Rest of   Europe other RWE Group Germany UK other EU External revenue1, 2 28,442 8,622 7,640 1,340 147 46,191 intangible assets, property, plant and   equipment and investment property 23,103 7,911 14,124 741 250 46,129 1 Excluding natural gas tax /electricity tax. 2 Broken down by the region in which the service was provided.  222notes RWE Annual Report 2010 Products  million RWE Group 2010 2009 External revenue1 50,722 46,191 of which: electricity (33,480) (30,184) of which: gas (13,216) (11,934) of which: crude oil (1,049) (1,024) 1 Excluding natural gas tax /electricity tax. Reconciliationofincomeitems  million 2010 2009 EBITDA 10,256 9,165 - operating depreciation and amortisation  2,575  2,075 Operatingresult 7,681 7,090 + Non-operating result  767 498 + financial result  1,936  1,990 Incomefromcontinuingoperationsbeforetax 4,978 5,598 Notes on segment data. We	report	revenue	between	the	seg- ments	as	RWE	intra-group	revenue.	Internal	supply	of	goods	 and	services	is	settled	at	arms	length	conditions. Income	and	expenses	that	are	unusual	from	an	economic	 	perspective,	or	stem	from	exceptional	events,	prejudice	the	 	assessment	of	operating	activities.	They	are	reclassified	to	the	 non-operating	result.	In	the	event	that	impairment	losses	are	 recognised	on	the	goodwill	of	fully	consolidated	companies,		 we	report	such	losses	in	the	non-operating	result. More	detailed	information	is	presented	on	pages	91	et	seqq.	in	 the	review	of	operations. RWE	did	not	generate	more	than	10		%	of	sales	revenues	with	 any	single	customer	in	the	year	under	review	and	the	previous	 year. (32) Notes to the cash flow statement  The	cash	flow	statement	classifies	cash	flows	according	to	oper- ating,	investing	and	financing	activities.	Cash	and	cash	equiva- lents	in	the	cash	flow	statement	correspond	to	the	amount	stat- ed	in	the	balance	sheet.	Cash	and	cash	equivalents	consist	of	 cash	on	hand,	demand	deposits	and	fixed-interest	marketable	 The	definition	of	the	operating	result	is	derived	from	the	value	 management	concept.	This	indicator	is	used	for	control	purpos- es	within	the	Group	(cf.	pages	231	et	seq.).	The	following	table	 presents	the	reconciliation	of	EBITDA	to	the	operating	result	 and	to	income	from	continuing	operations	before	tax: securities	with	a	maturity	of	three	months	or	less	from	the	date	 of	acquisition. Among	other	things,	cash	flows	from	operating	activities	 	include: 	 cash	flows	from	interest	income	of	460	million	(previous	 year:	593	million)	and	cash	flows	used	for	interest	expenses	 of	1,257	million	(previous	year:	1,231	million) 	 1,723	million	(previous	year:	1,949	million)	in	taxes	on	 	income	paid	(less	income	tax	refunds) 	 income	from	investments,	corrected	for	items	without	an	 	effect	on	cash	flows,	in	particular	from	accounting	using	the	 equity	method,	amounted	to	428	million	(previous	year:	 460	million)	 Flows	of	funds	from	the	acquisition	and	sale	of	consolidated	 companies	are	included	in	cash	flows	from	investing	activities.	 Effects	of	foreign	exchange	rate	changes	are	stated	separately. Cash	flows	from	financing	activities	include	1,867	million	(pre- vious	year:	2,401	million)	which	was	distributed	to	RWE	share-  notes223 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Business	transactions	were	concluded	with	major	associates,	 	resulting	in	the	following	items	in	RWEs	consolidated	financial	 statements: The	receivables	mainly	consist	of	interest-bearing	loans,	whilst	 the	liabilities	stem	exclusively	from	supply	and	service	transac- tions	with	related	companies.	All	transactions	are	completed	at	 arms	length	conditions	and	on	principle	do	not	differ	from	the	 financing	conditions	and	conditions	for	supply	and	services	 with	other	enterprises.	414	million	of	the	receivables	(previous	 year:	113	million)	and	6	million	of	the	liabilities	(previous	 year:	4	million)	fall	due	within	one	year.	In	respect	of	the	 	receivables,	as	in	the	previous	year	there	was	collateral	amount- ing	to	5	million. Above	and	beyond	this,	as	of	31	December	2010,	there	was	an	 unused	29	million	line	of	credit	for	the	RWE-Veolia	Berlin- wasser	Beteiligungs	GmbH	(previous	year:	24	million). As	the	CEO	of	RWE	AG,	Dr.	Jrgen	Gromann,	is	a	partner	in	 Georgsmarienhtte	Holding	GmbH	and	RGM	Gebudemanage- ment	GmbH,	the	companies	of	the	Georgsmarienhtte	Group	 and	RGM	Gebudemanagement	GmbH	are	classified	as	related	 parties.	RWE	Group	companies	provided	services	and	deliveries	 amounting	to	9.9	million	to	these	companies	(previous	year:	 7.7	million),	and	received	from	them	services	and	deliveries	 amounting	to	2.4	million	(previous	year:	2.5	million).	As		 of	31	December	2010,	there	were	receivables	of	0.8	million	 	(previous	year:	2.0	million)	and	liabilities	of	0.5	million	 	(previous	year:	0.2	million).	All	transactions	are	completed		 at	arms	length	prices	and	on	principle	the	business	relations	 do	not	differ	from	those	maintained	with	enterprises	which		 are	not	related	to	the	RWE	Group. Above	and	beyond	this,	the	RWE	Group	did	not	execute	any	 material	transactions	with	related	companies	or	persons. keyitemsfromtransactions withassociates  million 2010 2009 income 907 861 Expenses 278 169 Receivables 1,004 708 liabilities 12 10 holders	and	331	million	(previous	year:	191	million)	which	 was	distributed	to	minority	shareholders. Changes	in	the	scope	of	consolidation	(without	consideration	 of	Assets	held	for	sale)	decreased	cash	and	cash	equivalents	 by	a	net	amount	of	2	million	(previous	year:	increase	of	 589million).	Additions	of	5	million	(previous	year:	703mil- lion)	were	offset	against	capital	expenditure	on	financial	assets,	 whilst	disposals	of	7	million	(previous	year:	114	million)	were	 deducted	from	proceeds	from	divestitures. Exploration	activities	reduced	cash	flows	from	operating	acti- vities	by	162	million	(previous	year:	188	million)	and	cash	 flows	from	investing	activities	by	170	million	(previous	year:	 199	million). There	are	no	restrictions	on	the	disposal	of	cash	and	cash	 equivalents. (33) Information on concessions In	the	fields	of	electricity,	gas	and	water	supply,	there	are	a	 number	of	easement	agreements	and	concession	contracts	 	between	RWE	Group	companies	and	governmental	authorities	 in	the	areas	supplied	by	RWE. Easement	agreements	are	used	in	the	electricity	and	gas	busi- ness	to	regulate	the	use	of	public	rights	of	way	for	laying	and	 operating	lines	for	public	energy	supply.	These	agreements	are	 generally	limited	to	a	term	of	20	years.	After	expiry,	there	is	a	 legal	obligation	to	transfer	ownership	of	the	local	distribution	 facilities	to	the	new	operator,	for	appropriate	compensation. Water	concession	agreements	contain	provisions	for	the	right	 and	obligation	to	provide	water	and	wastewater	services,	oper- ate	the	associated	infrastructure,	such	as	water	utility	plants,		 as	well	as	to	implement	capital	expenditure.	Concessions	in	the	 water	business	generally	have	terms	of	up	to	25	years. (34) Related party disclosures Within	the	framework	of	their	ordinary	business	activities,	RWE	 AG	and	its	subsidiaries	have	business	relationships	with	numer- ous	companies.	These	include	associated	companies	which	are	 classified	as	related	parties.	In	particular,	this	category	includes	 investments	in	municipal	operations	accounted	for	using	the	 equity	method	in	the	segment	Sales	and	Distribution	Networks.  224notes RWE Annual Report 2010 The	compensation	model	and	compensation	of	the	Executive	 and	Supervisory	Boards	is	presented	in	the	compensation	 	report,	which	is	included	in	the	review	of	operations. In	total,	the	compensation	of	the	Executive	Board	amounted		 to	20,358,000	(previous	year:	22,520,000),	plus	pension	 	service	costs	of	776,000	(previous	year:	439,000).	The	 	Executive	Board	received	short-term		compensation	components	 amounting	to	16,608,000	for		fiscal	2010	(previous	year:	 18,770,000).	In	addition	to	this,	long-term	compensation	 components	of	the	Beat	programme	(2010	tranche)	in	the	 amount	of	3,750,000	were	allocated	(3,750,000	from	the	 2009	Beat	tranche	in	the	previous	year). The	Supervisory	Board	received	total	compensation	of	 3,434,000	(previous	year:	3,446,000)	in	fiscal	2010.	 	Supervisory	Board	members	also	received	243,000	in	compen- sation	from	subsidiaries	for	the	exercise	of	mandates	(previous	 year:	296,000). During	the	period	under	review,	no	loans	or	advances	were	 granted	to	members	of	the	Executive	or	Supervisory	Boards,	 with	the	exception	of	an	advance	of	1,000	for	travel		expenses	 granted	to	an	employee	representative	on	the	Supervisory	 Board.	One	employee	representative	on	the	Supervisory	Board	 has	an	outstanding	loan	of	11,000	from	the		period	before	his	 membership	of	the	Board. Former	members	of	the	Executive	Board	and	their	surviving	 	dependents	received	14,717,000	(previous	year:	 18,074,000),	of	which	1,861,000	came	from		subsidiaries	 (previous	year:	1,831,000).	Of	this,	1,842,000	was		related	to	 long-term	incentive	remuneration	components		(previous	year:	 7,000,000).	As	of	the	balance-sheet	date,	129,692,000	(pre- vious	year:	124,558,000)	has	been	accrued	for	defined	benefit	 	obligations	to	former	members	of	the		Executive	Board	and	their	 surviving	dependents.	Of	this	19,369,000	was	set	aside	at	 	subsidiaries	(previous	year:	19,737,000). Information	on	the	members	of	the	Executive	and	Supervisory	 Boards	in	accordance	with	Sec.	285	No.	10	of	the	German	 	Commercial	Code	(HGB)	is	presented	on	pages	233	to	237. (35) Auditors fees  RWE	recognised	the	following	fees	as	expenses	for	the	services	 rendered	by	the	auditors	of	the	consolidated	financial	state- ments,	PricewaterhouseCoopers	Aktiengesellschaft	Wirtschafts- prfungsgesellschaft	(PwC)	and	companies	belonging	to	PwCs	 international	network: Auditorsfees  million 2010 2009 Total of which:  Germany Total of which:  Germany Audit services 18.0 9.1 18.2 8.9 other assurance services 8.5 8.3 6.4 6.1 Tax services 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 other services 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.4 27.4 18.1 25.2 15.5  226notes RWE Annual Report 2010 (38) Declaration according to Sec. 161 of the German   Stock Corporation Act The	declarations	on	the	German	Corporate	Governance	Code	 prescribed	by	Sec.	161	of	the	German	Stock	Corporation	Act	 (AktG)	have	been	submitted	for	RWE	AG	and	its	publicly	traded	 German	subsidiaries	and	have	been	made	accessible	to	the	 shareholders	on	the	Internet	pages	of	RWE	AG	and	its	publicy	 traded	German	subsidiaries. Essen,	11	February	2011	 The	Executive	Board Gromann Birnbaum Pohlig Fitting Schmitz  to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Auditors report227 4.7 auditors report We	have	audited	the	consolidated	financial	statements	pre- pared	by	the	RWE	Aktiengesellschaft,	Essen,	comprising	the	 	income	statement	and	statement	of	recognised	income	and	 	expenses,	balance	sheet,	cash	flow	statement,	statement	of	 changes	in	equity	and	the	notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	 statements,	together	with	the	group	management	report,		 which	is	combined	with	the	management	report	of	the	RWE	 	Aktiengesellschaft,	Essen,	for	the	business	year	from	1	January	 to	31December	2010.	The	preparation	of	the	consolidated	fi- nancial	statements	and	the	combined	management	report	in	 	accordance	with	the	IFRSs,	as	adopted	by	the	EU,	and	the	addi- tional	requirements	of	German	commercial	law	pursuant	to	 (Article)	315a	Abs.	(paragraph)	1	HGB	(Handelsgesetzbuch:	 German	Commercial	Code)	are	the	responsibility	of	the	parent	 Companys	Executive	Board.	Our	responsibility	is	to	express	an	 opinion	on	the	consolidated	financial	statements	and	the	com- bined	management	report	based	on	our	audit. We	conducted	our	audit	of	the	consolidated	financial	state- ments	in	accordance	with		317	HGB	and	German	generally	 	accepted	standards	for	the	audit	of	financial	statements	prom- ulgated	by	the	Institut	der	Wirtschaftsprfer	(Institute	of	Public	 Auditors	in	Germany)	(IDW)	and	additionally	observed	the	Inter- national	Standards	on	Auditing	(ISA).	Those	standards	require	 that	we	plan	and	perform	the	audit	such	that	misstatements	 materially	affecting	the	presentation	of	the	net	assets,	financial	 position	and	results	of	operations	in	the	consolidated	financial	 statements	in	accordance	with	the	applicable	financial	report- ing	framework	and	in	the	combined	management	report	are	de- tected	with	reasonable	assurance.	Knowledge	of	the	business	 activities	and	the	economic	and	legal	environment	of	the	Group	 and	expectations	as	to	possible	misstatements	are	taken	into	 account	in	the	determination	of	audit	procedures.	The	effec- tiveness	of	the	accounting-related	internal	control	system	and	 the	evidence	supporting	the	disclosures	in	the	consolidated	 	financial	statements	and	the	combined	management	report		 are	examined	primarily	on	a	test	basis	within	the	framework	of	 the	audit.	The	audit	includes	assessing	the	annual	financial	 statements	of	those	entities	included	in	consolidation,	the	de- termination	of	the	entities	to	be	included	in	consolidation,	the	 accounting	and	consolidation	principles	used	and	significant	 estimates	made	by	the	Companys	Executive	Board,	as	well	as	 evaluating	the	overall	presentation	of	the	consolidated	financial	 statements	and	the	combined	management	report.	We	believe	 that	our	audit	provides	a	reasonable	basis	for	our	opinion. Our	audit	has	not	led	to	any	reservations. In	our	opinion	based	on	the	findings	of	our	audit	the	consoli- dated	financial	statements	comply	with	the	IFRSs	as	adopted	 by	the	EU,	and	the	additional	requirements	of	German	commer- cial	law	pursuant	to		315a	Abs.	1	HGB	and	give	a	true	and	fair	 view	of	the	net	assets,	financial	position	and	results	of	opera- tions	of	the	Group	in	accordance	with	these	provisions.	The	 combined	management	report	is	consistent	with	the	consoli- dated	financial	statements	and	as	a	whole	provides	a	suitable	 view	of	the	Groups	position	and	suitably	presents	the	oppor- tunities	and	risks	of	future	development. Essen,	14	February	2011 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprfungsgesellschaft Manfred	Wiegand	 Markus	Dittmann (German	Public	Auditor)	 (German	Public	Auditor)  to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Material investments229 I.Affiliates investment in  acc. with sec.  16 of the  German stock  corporation Act % Equity of  the last  fiscal year  000 Net income/  loss of   the last   fiscal year  000 Revenue  2010  million   Employees 1   2010     average Unitedkingdom      RWE Npower Holdings plc, swindon/United Kingdom2 100 61,272  374,895 7,770 11,908 CentralEasternandSouthEasternEurope Budapesti Elektromos Mvek Nyrt. (ElM), Budapest/Hungary 55 929,519 27,068 832 354 ElM Hlzati Eloszt Kft., Budapest/Hungary 100 977,568 37,201 377 228 MsZ Hlzati Kft., Budapest/Hungary 100 318,160 14,027 155 125 szak-magyarorszgi ramszolgltat Nyrt. (MsZ), Miskolc/Hungary 54 327,131 19,928 309 116 Jihomoravsk plynrensk, a.s., Brno/czech Republic 50 328,653 74,793 675 711 JMp Net, s.r.o., Brno/czech Republic 100 433,148 49,806 150 45 Mtrai Erm Zrtkren Mkd Rszvnytrsasg (MTRA),  visonta/Hungary 51 309,034 71,715 352 2,407 NET4GAs, s.r.o., prague/czech Republic 100 2,119,563 198,936 404 521 RWE & Turcas Gney Elektrik retim A.s., Ankara/Turkey 70 130,309  1,024 – – RWE Energie, a.s., st nad labem/czech Republic 100 381,092 119,851 796 28 RWE Gas international B.v., Hoofddorp/Netherlands 100 4,389,763 775,287 – – RWE GasNet, s.r.o., st nad labem/czech Republic 100 581,831 87,885 217 200 RWE Gas storage, s.r.o., prague/czech Republic 100 600,468 53,112 155 223 RWE polska s.A., Warsaw/poland 100 522,916 42,293 700 608 RWE stoen operator sp. z o.o., Warsaw/poland 100 670,597 9,165 220 584 RWE Transgas, a.s., prague/czech Republic 100 3,070,682  192,336 4,683 308 severomoravsk plynrensk, a.s., ostrava/czech Republic 68 230,836 66,608 490 19 sMp Net, s.r.o., ostrava/czech Republic 100 291,307 46,688 121 – vcp Net, s.r.o., Hradec Krlov/czech Republic 100 217,374 27,253 72 – vchodoesk plynrensk, a.s., Hradec Krlov/czech Republic 67 152,041 40,776 294 49 Renewables RWE innogy GmbH, Essen 100 514,583 – 3 123 267 Agrupaci Energas Renovables, s.A.U., Barcelona/spain   AERsA Group2 with 9 subsidiaries in spain  100 293,897 287 79 36 RWE innogy cogen GmbH, Dortmund 100 54,813 – 3 78 171 RWE Npower Renewables ltd., swindon/United Kingdom 100 452,547  24,662 20 341 UpstreamGas&Oil RWE Dea AG, Hamburg 100 1,407,378 – 3 808 989 RWE Dea Norge As, oslo/Norway 100 160,130 36,336 306 61 RWE Dea suez GmbH, Hamburg 100 87,226 – 3 213 133 Trading/GasMidstream RWE supply & Trading GmbH, Essen 100 426,294 – 3 26,308 1,146 RWE supply & Trading Netherlands B.v., Eindhoven/Netherlands 100 1,870,231  57,561 4,742 74 RWE supply & Trading switzerland s.A., Geneva/switzerland 100 373,941  43,874 842 193 Othersubsidiaries Amprion GmbH, Dortmund 100 613,025 118,527 6,439 797 RWE finance B.v., s-Hertogenbosch/Netherlands  100 9,749 2,441 – – RWE service GmbH, Dortmund 100 248,451 – 3 2,303 1,395 1  converted to full-time positions 2  figures from the Groups consolidated financial statements 3  profit and loss-pooling agreement  the RWe Groups value management231 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Return-oriented control of the company. Increasing	 shareholder	value	lies	at	the	heart	of	our	strategy.	Additional	 value	is	created	when	the	return	on	capital	employed	(ROCE)	 exceeds	the	cost	of	capital.	ROCE	reflects	the	pure	operating	 return.	It	is	the	ratio	of	the	operating	result	to	capital	employed.	 The	table	at	the	top	of	page	232	shows	the	parameters	used	to	 calculate	the	cost	of	capital.	We	calculate	it	as	a	weighted	 average	cost	of	equity	and	debt.	 The	cost	of	equity	corresponds	to	the	capital	markets	 expectation	of	company-specific	returns	when	investing	in	an	 RWE	share	over	and	above	that	of	a	risk-free	investment.	The	 cost	of	debt	is	linked	to	long-term	financing	conditions	for	the	 RWE	Group	and	allows	interest	on	debt	to	be	classified	as	tax	 deductible	(tax	shield).	 We	used	new	figures	as	a	basis	for	determining	the	cost	of	 capital	in	2010.	We	calculate	the	cost	of	equity	as	follows:		 we	use	an	interest	rate	for	a	risk-free	investment	of	4.25		%	 (previous	year:	4.5		%)	as	a	basis,	plus	risk	charges	specific	to		 the	Group	and	the	Groups	divisions.	The	applied	beta	factor	for	 the	RWE	Group	is	0.95	(previous	year:	0.78).	We	calculate	the	 cost	of	debt	by	applying	a	pre-tax	rate	of	5.75		%	(previous	year:	 6.25		%).	The	ratio	of	equity	to	debt	is	50:50.	We	do	not	derive	 this	parameter	from	the	amounts	carried	on	the	balance	sheet,	 but,	among	other	things,	from	the	marked-to-market	valuation	 of	equity	and	assumptions	concerning	the	long-term	 development	of	our	net	financial	position	and	provisions.	As	in	 the	preceding	year,	the	RWE	Groups	total	cost	of	capital	for	 2010	was	9.0		%	before	tax.	 When	determining	capital	employed,	depreciable	non-current	 assets	are	not	stated	at	carrying	amounts.	Instead,	we	 recognise	half	of	their	historic	costs.	The	advantage	of	this	 procedure	is	that	the	determination	of	ROCE	is	not	influenced	 by	the	depreciation	period.	This	reduces	the	fluctuation	in	value	 added	caused	by	the	investment	cycle.	However,	we	fully	 account	for	the	goodwill	included	in	the	purchase	price	of	 financial	assets.	 Relative	value	added	is	the	difference	between	ROCE	and	the	 cost	of	capital.	Multiplying	this	figure	by	the	capital	employed	 results	in	the	absolute	value	added,	which	we	employ	as	a	 central	management	benchmark.	The	higher	the	value	added,	 the	more	attractive	a	particular	activity	is	for	our	portfolio.	It	is	 another	important	criterion	for	evaluating	capital	expenditure	 and	for	determining	the	performance-linked	compensation	of	 RWE	Group	executives.	 Lower cost of capital from 2011 onwards.	Our	annual	review	of	 our	cost	of	capital	caused	us	to	make	some	new	adjustments.	 Due	to	the	reduction	in	interest	levels,	we	will	apply	lower	rates	 for	both	equity	and	debt.	The	cost	of	capital	will	drop	from	 9.0		%	to	8.5		%. the rWe groups vaLue management  RWE Annual Report 2010 232the RWe Groups value management RWEGroup–capitalcosts 2011 2010 2009 Risk-free interest rate % 3.7 4.25 4.50 Market premium % 5.0 5.0 5.0 Beta factor 0.90 0.95 0.78 cost of equity after tax % 8.2 9.0 8.4 cost of debt before tax % 4.90 5.75 6.25 Tax rate for debt % 27.4 27.1 27.1 Tax shield %  1.3  1.6  1.7 cost of debt after tax % 3.6 4.2 4.6 proportion of equity % 50 50 50 proportion of debt % 50 50 50 Capitalcostsaftertax % 5.75 6.5 6.5 Tax rate for blanket conversion % 31 30 30 Weightedaveragecostofcapital(WACC)beforetax % 8.50 9.0 9.0 RWEGroup–determiningcapitalemployed 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 intangible assets/property, plant and equipment1  million 58,849 56,150 + investments including loans2  million 5,998 5,585 + inventories  million 3,293 3,115 + Trade accounts receivable  million 9,481 9,527 + other accounts receivable and other assets3  million 12,872 16,627 - Non-interest-bearing provisions4  million 12,384 12,214 - Non-interest-bearing liabilities5  million 22,156 27,043 - Adjustments6  million 954 858 Capitalemployed  million 54,999 50,889 RWEGroup–determiningvalueadded 2010 capital employed before adjustments (averaged for the year)  million 52,944 + Adjustments7  million 442 Capitalemployedafteradjustments(averagedfortheyear)  million 53,386 Operatingresult  million 7,681 ROCE % 14.4 Relativevalueadded % 5.4 Absolutevalueadded  million 2,876 1 intangible assets; property, plant and equipment; and investment property were stated at half of their cost     (see the statement of changes in assets); goodwill and the customer base were recognised at carrying amounts.  2 investments accounted for using the equity method and other financial assets (excluding non-current securities).  3 including tax refund claims; excluding the net present value of defined contribution pension benefit obligations as well as derivative     financial instruments in the amount of 938 million (previous year: 733 million).  4 including tax provisions and other provisions; excluding non-current provisions in the amount of 425 million (previous year: 446 million).  5 including trade liabilities, income tax liabilities and other liabilities; excluding derivative financial instruments in the amount of 534 million     (previous year: 485 million) and purchase price liabilities of 1,775 million (previous year: 1,562 million) from put options.  6 Assets capitalised in accordance with iAs 16.15 in the amount of 486 million (previous year: 488 million) are not taken into account since     these assets do not employ capital. Deferred tax liabilities relating to RWE npowers capitalised customer base are not taken into account,     either.  7 Mostly corrections to reflect timing differences, due among other things, to first-time consolidations /deconsolidations during the year.  RWE Annual Report 2010 236boards Alwin Fitting Executive	Vice-President	of	RWE	AG,		 appointed	until	31	March	2013 Born	in	1953	in	Westhofen	(Rhine-Hesse);	joined	the	RWEGroup	 in	1974;	trained	master	electrician;	Executive	Vice-President	 and	Labour	Director	of	RWE	Power	AG	from	October	2000	to	 July	2005;	Executive	Vice-President	and	Labour	Director	of	 RWEAG	since	August	2005. Group-level	responsibilities:	Security,	HR	Management	&	Labour	 Law,	Diversity	Office	and	Corporate	Responsibility	/ Environmental	Protection. Other	appointments: 	 Amprion	GmbH	 	 RWE	IT	GmbH	(Chairman)	 	 RWE	Pensionsfonds	AG	 	 RWE	Service	GmbH	(Chairman) Dr. Ulrich Jobs1 Executive	Vice-President	of	RWE	AG,		 until	30	September	2010 Born	in	1953	in	Herne;	holds	a	diploma	in	engineering	and	a	 doctorate	in	mining	/mine	engineering;	joined	the	RWE	Group	 in	1977;	Executive	Vice-President	of	RWE	AG	since	April	2007;	 concurrently	CEO	of	RWE	Power	AG	from	May	2007	to	February	 2008;	Chief	Operating	Officer	of	RWE	AG	from	April	2008	to	 April	2009;	Chief	Operating	Officer	International	of	RWE	AG	 from	May	2009	to	September	2010. Other	appointments: 	 Deutsche	Steinkohle	Aktiengesellschaft	 	 RAG	AG	 	 RWE	Dea	AG	(Chairman)	 	- ELM	Nyrt.	(Chairman)	 	- EMASZ	Nyrt.	(Chairman)	 	- Essent	N.V.	 	- Mtrai	Kraftwerk	G.AG	(Chairman)	 	- NET4GAS,	s.r.o.	 	- RWE	Npower	Holdings	plc	(Chairman)	 	- RWE	Polska	Splka	Akcyina	(Chairman)	 	- RWE	Supply	&	Trading	GmbH	(Chairman)	 	- RWE	Transgas,	a.s.	(Chairman)	 	- RWE	Turkey	Holding	A.S.	 	- Vchodoslovensk	energetika,	a.s. Dr. Jrgen Gromann President	and	CEO	of	RWE	AG,		 appointed	until	30	September	2012 Born	in	1952	in	Mlheim	an	der	Ruhr;	studied	ferrous	 metallurgy	and	economics,	doctorate	in	ferrous	metallurgy;	 active	within	the	Klckner	Group	from	1980	to	1993,	exiting	as	 member	of	the	Executive	Board	of	Klckner-Werke	AG;	acquired	 Georgsmarienhtte	in	1993;	Owner	and	Managing	Director	of	 Georgsmarienhtte	Holding	GmbH	from	1993	to	2006;	joined	 RWE	AG	as	President	and	CEO	with	effect	from	1	October	2007. Group-level	responsibilities:	Public	Affairs	/Energy	Politics,	 Compliance	/Management	Board	Office,	Communication,	 Executive	Management	and	Audit. Other	appointments: 	 BATIG	Gesellschaft	fr	Beteiligungen	mbH	 	 British	American	Tobacco	(Industrie)	GmbH	 	 British	American	Tobacco	(Germany)	GmbH	 	 Deutsche	Bahn	AG	 	 SURTECO	SE	(Chairman)	 	 Volkswagen	AG	 	- Hanover	Acceptances	Limited	 Dr. Leonhard Birnbaum Executive	Vice-President	of	RWE	AG,		 appointed	until	30	September	2013 Born	in	1967	in	Ludwigshafen	am	Rhein;	doctorate	in	chemical	 engineering;	consultant	at	McKinsey	&	Company	Inc.	from	1996	 to	2008;	promoted	to	partner	(principal)	in	2000	and	to	senior	 partner	(director)	at	McKinsey	in	2006,	exiting	as	member	of	 McKinseys	global	management	team	for	the	energy	sector;	 joined	RWE	AG	as	Head	of	Corporate	Strategy	and	Business	 Development	with	effect	from	7	April	2008;	Executive		 Vice-President	since	1	October	2008;	Chief	Strategy	Officer	 of	RWE	AG	from	January	2009	to	September	2010;	Chief	 Commercial	Officer	of	RWEAG	since	1	October	2010. Group-level	responsibilities:	Commodity	Management,	Strategy,	 Mergers	&	Acquisitions	and	Research	&	Development.	 Other	appointments: 	 RWE	Dea	AG	(Chairman)	 	 RWE	Supply	&	Trading	GmbH	 	- RWE	Turkey	Holding	A.S.	 Executive Board 	 Member of other mandatory supervisory boards. -	 Member of comparable domestic and foreign supervisory bodies of    commerical enterprises. 1	 information valid as of the date of retirement from the Executive Board.  boards237 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Dr. Rolf Martin Schmitz  Executive	Vice-President	of	RWE	AG,		 appointed	until	30	April	2014 Born	in	1957	in	Mnchengladbach;	doctorate	in	engineering;	 i.a.	in	charge	of	corporate	development	and	economic	policy	 at	VEBA	AG	from	1988	to	1998;	Executive	Vice-President	of	 rhenag	Rheinische	Energie	AG,	Cologne,	from	1998	to	2001;	 Member	of	the	Board	of	Management	of	Thga	AG	from	2000	 to	2004;	Chairman	of	the	Board	of	Directors	of	E.ON	Kraftwerke	 GmbH	from	2004	to	2005;	Chairman	of	the	Executive	Board	of	 RheinEnergie	AG	and	Managing	Director	of	Stadtwerke	Kln	 from	2006	to	2009;	Chief	Operating	Officer	National	of	RWE	AG	 from	May	2009	to	September	2010;	since	1October	2010	Chief	 Operating	Officer	of	RWE	AG. Group-level	responsibilities:	Participation	Management,	 	Municipalities	and	Generation	/Networks	/Sales	Coordination. Other	appointments: 	 envia	Mitteldeutsche	Energie	AG	 	 Lechwerke	AG	(Chairman)	 	 RWE	Power	AG	(Chairman)	 	 RWE	Deutschland	AG	(Chairman)	 	 Swag	Energie	AG	(Chairman)	 	- Essent	N.V.	 	- KELAG-Krntner	Elektrizitts-AG	 	- RWE	Transgas,	a.s.	 	- RWE	Turkey	Holding	A.S. Dr. Rolf Pohlig Executive	Vice-President	of	RWE	AG,		 appointed	until	31	December	2011	 Born	in	1952	in	Solingen;	doctorate	in	economics;	Executive	 Vice-President	Finance	and	Accounting	of	VEBA	AG	from	1993	 to	2000;	Executive	Vice-President	Mergers	&	Acquisitions	of	 E.ON	AG	from	2000	to	2006;	joined	the	RWE	Group	in	January	 2007	as	Executive	Vice-President;	Chief	Financial	Officer	of	 RWEAG	since	May	2007. Group-level	responsibilities:	Controlling	/Organisational	 	Efficiency,	Finance,	Investor	Relations,	Legal	/Board	Affairs,	 	Accounting	and	Tax. Other	appointments: 	 RWE	Dea	AG 	 RWE	Pensionsfonds	AG	(Chairman) 	 RWE	Power	AG 	 RWE	Deutschland	AG 	- Essent	N.V.	 	- RWE	Transgas,	a.s.	 	 Member of other mandatory supervisory boards. -	 Member of comparable domestic and foreign supervisory bodies of    commerical enterprises.  organisation chart of the RWe Group239 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Renewables Upstream Gas & Oil Trading /Gas Midstream RWE Innogy GmbH  prof. Dr. fritz vahrenholt  Dr. Hans friedrich Bnting  paul coffey RWE Dea AG  Thomas Rappuhn  Dr. Johannes Karlisch  Ralf to Baben RWE Supply & Trading  GmbH  stefan Judisch  Dr. Bernhard Gnther  Dr. peter Kreuzberg  Richard lewis  Alan Robinson RWE AG Chief Commercial Officer Dr. leonhard Birnbaum  RWE Annual Report 2010 240organisation chart of RWe AG RWE AG President and Chief Executive Officer Dr. Jrgen Gromann Chief Financial Officer Dr. Rolf pohlig Labour Director Alwin fitting Group Public Affairs /Energy Politics Dr. peter Heinacher Group Controlling /Organisational Efficiency Dr. Martin Muhr Group Security Michael schmidt Group Compliance & Management Board Office Dr. Jens Hffer Group Finance Dr. Markus coenen Group HR Management & Labour Law Dr. Hans-Dieter Rter Group Communication volker Heck Investor Relations Dr. stephan lowis Diversity Office1 Dr. claudia Mayfeld Group Executive Management Dr. Henning Rentz Group Legal /Board Affairs Dr. Manfred Dss Corporate Responsibility/  Group Environmental Protection Joachim lchte Group Audit1 Harry schur Group Accounting fred Riedel Group Tax Dr. Berend Holst Chief Operating Officer Dr. Rolf Martin schmitz Chief Commercial Officer Dr. leonhard Birnbaum Participation Management frank Grone Commodity Management Dr. Michael Herrmann Municipalities Dr. Arndt Neuhaus Group Strategy Thomas Birr Group Coordination   Generation /Networks /Sales Bernhard lschper Mergers & Acquisitions Andreas Zetzsche Group Research & Development Dr. frank-Detlef Drake organisation Chart of rWe ag As	of	11	February	2011 1 functional head.  Glossary241 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information gLossary Asset coverage.	Ratio	of	long-term	capital	(shareholders	 equity	and	non-current	liabilities)	to	long-term	assets.	 BAFA prices.	To	enable	German	coal	to	be	sold	at	competitive	 prices,	mining	companies	receive	financial	support	equalling	 the	difference	between	their	production	costs	and	the	price		 of	coal	imported	from	non-EU	countries.	In	this	context,		 the	German	Federal	Office	of	Economics	and	Export	Control	 determines	free-at-frontier	third-country	coal	prices	as	a	subsidy	 parameter.	The	price	of	thermal	hard	coal	is	published	by	BAFA	 quarterly	and	annually	in	shipping	tons	and	tons	of	hard	coal	 units. Barrel.	International	unit	of	measurement	for	trading	oil.	 A	USbarrel	corresponds	to	158.987	litres.	 Base load.	Constant	minimum	demand	for	electricity	 irrespective	of	load	fluctuation.	This	electricity	is	used	by	 household	appliances	running	24	hours	a	day,	industrial	 enterprises	that	operate	around	the	clock,	etc.	Base-load	power	 is	primarily	generated	by	lignite	and	nuclear	power	stations.	 These	facilities	are	usually	in	operation	more	than	6,000	hours	 a	year.	Run-of-river	power	stations	and	biomass	plants	also	 supply	base-load	power.	 Clean Development Mechanism.	In	accordance	with	the	Kyoto	 Protocol,	companies	and	countries	can	obtain	emission	 certificates	by	participating	in	projects	to	reduce	emissions	in	 newly	industrialising	and	developing	countries,	which	are	not	 obliged	to	reduce	emissions	themselves.	They	can	use	these	 certificates	to	meet	their	own	requirements.	 CO2.	Chemical	formula	for	carbon	dioxide.	CO2	is	a	chemical	 compound	made	of	carbon	and	oxygen. Combined heat and power generation (CHP).	In	CHP	energy	 conversion	plants,	heat	produced	during	chemical	or	physical	 conversion	and	the	electric	power	generated	by	the	energy	 conversion	process	are	used.	Unlike	thermal	power	stations,	 which	are	solely	designed	to	generate	electricity,	CHP	plants	 use	waste	heat,	thereby	achieving	much	higher	efficiencies,	 which	result	in	fuel	savings.	 Commercial paper.	Tradeable,	unsecured	bearer	bond	issued	 only	for	short-term	debt	financing.	Commercial	paper	is	a	 revolving	credit	facility,	with	terms	typically	ranging	from	one	 day	to	24	months.	 Commodity.	Term	for	standardised,	tradeable	goods	such	as	 electricity,	oil	or	gas.	 Confidence level.	Probability	of	a	value	lying	within	a	certain	 interval.	 Credit default swap (CDS).	Financial	derivative	for	trading	 default	risks	associated	with	debt	financing.	The	party	seeking	 to	hedge	such	risks	generally	pays	an	annual	fee	to	the	 principal.	In	the	event	that	the	underlying	credit	is	not	repaid,	 the	hedge-seeking	party	receives	a	contractually	agreed	sum	 from	the	principal.	 Current asset intensity of investment.	Ratio	of	current	assets	 to	total	assets.	 Debt issuance programme (DIP).	Contractual	master	and	 model	documents	for	the	issuance	of	bonds.	Based	on	the	DIP,	 bonds	with	tenors	of	one	to	30	years	can	be	issued	both	quickly	 and	flexibly. Defined benefit obligation.	Net	present	value	of	an	employees	 benefit	entitlements	from	a	company	pension	plan	as	of	the	 balance-sheet	date.	 Degree of asset depreciation.	Cumulative	property,	plant	and	 equipment	depreciation-to-cost	ratio.	 Diluted earnings per share.	If	a	company	places	new	shares	on	 the	financial	market	as	part	of	a	capital	increase,	the	portion	of	 the	company	represented	by	each	share	decreases.	In	addition,	 the	rise	in	the	total	number	of	shares	causes	earnings	per	share	 to	decline.	This	drop	in	value	is	referred	to	as	a	dilution.	 EBITDA.	Earnings	before	interest,	taxes,	depreciation	and	 amortisation.	 Efficiency.	In	energy	conversion,	the	ratio	of	useful	work	 performed	to	total	energy	expended.	In	thermal	power	 stations,	the	efficiency	is	the	percentage	of	thermal	energy	 contained	in	the	fuel	which	can	be	converted	to	electricity.		 The	higher	the	efficiency,	the	lower	the	loss	of	the	fuels		  RWE Annual Report 2010 242Glossary energy	content.	Modern	gas-fired	power	plants	have	an	 efficiency	of	up	to	60		%.	Efficiencies	of	46		%	and	43		%	can		 be	achieved	with	hard	coal	and	lignite,	respectively.	 Equity accounting.	Method	for	accounting	for	entities,	the	 assets	and	liabilities	of	which	cannot	be	entirely	included	in	the	 consolidated	financial	statements	by	fully	consolidating	the	 entity.	In	such	cases,	the	carrying	amount	of	the	investment	is	 recorded	on	the	basis	of	the	development	of	the	share	held	in	 the	entitys	equity.	This	change	is	recorded	in	the	income	 statement	of	the	company	which	owns	the	share	in	the	entity. Exploration.	Term	used	for	the	search	for,	and	prospecting	of,	 oil	and	gas	resources.	 Fixed asset intensity of investments.	Ratio	of	non-current	 assets	to	total	assets.	 Forward market /forward trading.	Contracts	for	transactions	 to	be	fulfilled	at	a	fixed	point	in	time	in	the	future	are	traded		 on	forward	markets.	Certain	conditions,	e.g.	the	price	or	 settlement	date,	are	established	when	the	contract	is	agreed.	 Full consolidation.	Method	for	including	subsidiaries	in	the	 financial	statements	of	a	group	in	cases	where	the	subsidiaries	 are	controlled	by	the	parent	company	(through	the	majority	of	 the	voting	rights	or	by	other	means).	 Hard coal unit (HCU).	Unit	of	measurement	for	the	energy	 content	of	primary	energy	carriers.	One	kilogram	HCU	 corresponds	to	29,308	kilojoules.	 Hybrid bond.	Mixture	of	debt	and	equity	financing.	Hybrid	 bonds	usually	have	very	long	or	unlimited	tenors	and	can	 usually	only	be	redeemed	by	the	issuer	on	contractually	agreed	 dates.	Depending	on	the	bond	provisions,	interest	payments	 may	be	suspended	if	certain	contractual	conditions	are	met. Impairment test.	Method	of	verifying	the	value	of	assets,	 involving	a	comparison	of	the	carrying	amount	to	the	realisable	 amount.	The	objective	is	not	to	account	for	assets	at	an	amount	 higher	than	their	realisable	amount.	The	difference	is	 recognised	as	a	reduction	in	value	with	an	effect	on	the	profit	 or	loss.	 Investment grade.	Rating	category	for	companies	of	very	good	 to	average	creditworthiness.	This	category	includes	the	AAA	to	 BBB	and	Aaa	to	Baa	rating	classes	awarded	by	S&P/Fitch	and	 Moodys,	respectively.	Non-investment-grade	companies	are	at	 a	much	higher	risk	of	not	being	able	to	meet	their	financial	 obligations. Joint implementation.	In	accordance	with	the	Kyoto	Protocol,	 countries	or	companies	can	obtain	emission	certificates	by	 participating	in	projects	to	reduce	emissions	in	certain	other	 countries	which	are	also	obliged	to	reduce	emissions.	They	can	 use	these	certificates	to	meet	their	own	reduction	 requirements.	 Kilowatt (kW).	Unit	of	measurement	of	electric	output.	 1	megawatt	(MW)	=	103	kilowatts,	 1	gigawatt	(GW)	=	106	kilowatts,	 1	terawatt	(TW)	=	109	kilowatts. Leverage factor.	Ratio	of	net	debt	to	EBITDA.	 LNG.	Acronym	for	liquefied	natural	gas.	LNG	is	obtained	by	 cooling	gas	until	it	becomes	liquid.	It	occupies	only	1	/600	of	 the	space	filled	by	natural	gas	in	its	gaseous	state.	In	this	form,	 it	is	very	well	suited	for	transportation	and	storage. Peak load.	Designates	phases	in	which	electricity	demand	is	 especially	high,	for	example,	at	noon,	when	meals	are	prepared	 in	many	factories	and	homes.	Peak-load	power	plants	are	often	 in	service	less	than	3,000	hours	per	year.	Gas-fired	and	hydro	 storage	power	stations	belong	to	this	category.	 Performance shares.	Virtual	shares,	which	entitle	participants	 in	the	Beat	Long-Term	Incentive	Plan	to	receive	a	payment	at	 the	end	of	the	plan	period.	The	prerequisite	is	that	the	 predefined	performance	targets	have	been	met	or	exceeded.	 Put or call options.	Options	granting	their	buyer	the	right	to	 purchase	(call	option)	or	sell	(put	option)	a	specific	underlying,	 for	example	a	share,	at	a	pre-arranged	price	within	a	 predetermined	period	of	time.	 Rating.	Standardised	method	in	international	capital	markets	 for	assessing	the	risk	exposure	and	creditworthiness	of	debt	 issuers.	A	Single	A	rating	is	given	to	borrowers	of	strong	 creditworthiness.	  Glossary243 to our investors    Review of operations    our responsibility Responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information Service cost.	Reflects	the	increase	in	the	cost	associated	 with	the	net	present	value	of	an	employees	pension	benefit	 entitlements	in	accordance	with	the	employees	work	 performance	in	the	period	being	reviewed.	 Spot market /spot trading.	General	term	for	markets	where	 payment	and	delivery	are	usually	effected	soon	after	conclusion	 of	the	transaction. Syndicated credit line.	Credit	line	offered	to	companies,	backed	 by	several	banks,	which	can	be	drawn	down	in	various	amounts,	 terms	and	currencies.	Generally	used	to	secure	liquidity.	 Total Shareholder Return (TSR).	Indicator	of	the	development	 of	a	share	investment	over	the	long	term.	It	takes	into	account	 both	the	dividends	paid	as	well	as	the	changes	in	share	price	 for	the	duration	of	the	investment.	 Upstream.	Term	for	all	activities	involved	in	the	exploration	and	 production	of	oil	and	gas.	Also	includes	the	processing	of	these	 resources	into	marketable	raw	materials	meeting	generally	 accepted	quality	standards. Value at Risk (VaR).	Measure	of	risk	indicating	the	maximum	 loss	that	might	occur	from	a	risk	position	(e.g.	a	securities	 portfolio)	assuming	a	certain	probability	under	normal	market	 conditions	and	that	the	position	is	held	for	a	certain	period		 of	time.	A	VaR	of	1	million	with	a	holding	period	of	one	day	 and	a	confidence	level	of	95		%	means	that	there	is	a	95		%	 probability	that	the	potential	loss	resulting	from	the	risk	 position	will	not	exceed	1	million	from	one	day	to	the	next.  RWE Annual Report 2010 244Index B Balance sheet 105, 107, 164, 186 Bonds 50, 101, 108, 109, 205, 216  C capital expenditure 54, 95, 121, 133, 158 cash and cash equivalents 103, 164, 174, 194 cash flow 105, 165, 222 cash flow statement 104, 165, 222 climate and environmental  protection 53, 55, 68, 112, 129, 154, 157 co2 emissions 53, 66, 78, 113, 129, 154, 159 co2 emissions trading 61, 68, 79 corporate responsibility 144, 154 cost of capital 90, 231 D Debt 101, 104, 231, 102, 130  Depreciation 162, 172, 182, 189 Dividend 48, 108, 133, 134, 195 E EBiTDA 86, 87, 131, 241 Efficiency enhancement 95, 99 Electric cars 66, 115 Employees 49, 99, 112, 124, 152, 157 Energy efficiency 54, 154 Equity 106, 107, 164, 166, 194, 228 Executive Board 36, 42, 70, 109, 116, 143,  236, 238  F financial assets 96, 107, 164, 173, 191 financial result 93, 183 G Group structure 56, 69, 238 h Hybrid bond 72, 94, 102, 110, 166, 195 I impairment losses 183, 186 income statement 107, 162, 181 inventories 164, 174, 194 L leverage factor 104, 133, 178, 242 liabilities 103, 107, 164, 176, 177, 204, 216,  217 lifetime extension 38, 66, 69, 118, 121 N Net income 91, 94, 207 Nuclear energy 73, 76, 103, 121, 155, 203 Nuclear fuel tax 47, 54, 66, 69, 121, 133 O operating result 87, 131 P property, plant and   equipment 54, 95, 129, 133, 164, 172, 189 provisions 87, 103, 107, 164, 175, 199, 203 R Rating 104, 110, 133, 178, 242 REA levy 67, 77 Recurrent net income 94, 131 Renewable energy 53, 63, 67, 71, 75, 77, 129 Research and development 112, 156, 187 Revenue 162, 181, 220, 228 Risk management 116, 167, 212 RocE  90, 231 RWE AG (holding company) 107, 240 S segment reporting 219 share 46, 94, 109, 194, 207  shareholder structure 49 strategy 52, 154, 231 supervisory Board 136, 140, 151, 233 T Takeover provisions 109 V value management 90, 231 index  to our investors    review of operations    Our responsibility responsibility statement    Consolidated financial statements    Further information   imprint  245 ImprInt Design concept and layout: Peter Schmidt Group GmbH Typesetting, image editing and production: Kompass/Chiari Werbeagentur GmbH, Dsseldorf Photographs: Claudia Kempf, Wuppertal Catrin Moritz, Essen Jan Eumann, Dsseldorf Bernd Arnold, Cologne RWE archive Printing: D+L Printpartner GmbH, Bocholt RWE is a member of DIRK,   the German Investor Relations Association. RWE Aktiengesellschaft Opernplatz 1 45128 Essen   Germany Phone +49 201 12-00 Fax  +49 201 12-15199 E-mail contact@rwe.com Investor Relations: Phone +49 201 12-15025 Fax  +49 201 12-15265 E-mail invest@rwe.com Corporate Communications: Phone +49 201 12-15250 Fax  +49 201 12-15094 For annual reports, interim reports and further information   on RWE, please visit us on the internet at www.rwe.com or   call our shareholder hotline: Phone  0180 1 451280  (callers in Germany) Phone  +49 180 1 451280  (callers outside Germany,       excluding the USA) Phone  +11 49 180 1 451280 (callers from the USA) This annual report was published on 24 February 2011. This is a  translation of the German annual report. In case of divergence  from the German version, the German version shall prevail. Forward-looking statements. This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the future development of the RWEGroup  and its companies as well as economic and political developments. These statements are assessments that we have made based  on information available to us at the time this document was prepared. In the event that the underlying assumptions do not   materialise or additional risks arise, actual performance can deviate from the performance expected at present. Therefore, we   cannot assume responsibility for the correctness of these statements.  Five-year overview RWE Group 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 External revenue  million 53,320 47,741 48,950 42,507 42,554 Income EBITDA1  million 10,256 9,165 8,773 7,915 7,172 Operating result  million 7,681 7,090 6,826 6,533 5,681 Income from continuing operations before tax  million 4,978 5,598 4,866 5,246 3,537 Net income/RWE AG shareholders share in net income  million 3,308 3,571 2,558 2,667 3,847 Earnings per share  6.20 6.70 4.75 4.74 6.84 Recurrent net income per share  7.03 6.63 6.25 5.29 4.38 Return on equity % 23.1 28.5 20.7 20.1 30.3 Return on revenue % 12.3 14.8 12.3 16.0 15.2 Value management2 Return on capital employed (ROCE) % 14.4 16.3 17.2 16.5 14.2 Value added  million 2,876 3,177 3,453 2,970 2,074 Capital employed  million 53,386 43,597 39,809 39,710 40,206 Cash flow/capital expenditure/depreciation and   amortisation Cash flows from operating activities  million 5,500 5,299 8,853 6,085 6,783 Free cash flow  million  879  614 4,399 2,020 2,289 Free cash flow per share   1.65  1.15 8.17 3.59 4.07 Capital expenditure including acquisitions  million 6,643 15,637 5,693 4,227 4,728 of which: Property, plant and equipment   and intangible assets  million 6,379 5,913 4,454 4,065 4,494 Depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses   and asset disposals  million 3,410 2,553 2,416 2,629 3,164 Degree of asset depreciation  % 61.8 64.0 69.4 70.9 66.0 Asset/capital structure Non-current assets  million 60,465 56,563 41,763 41,360 51,999 Current assets  million 32,612 36,875 51,667 42,060 41,456 Balance sheet equity  million 17,417 13,717 13,140 14,659 14,111 Non-current liabilities  million 45,162 45,633 36,793 36,796 52,402 Current liabilities  million 30,498 34,088 43,497 31,965 26,942 Balance sheet total  million 93,077 93,438 93,430 83,420 93,455 Fixed asset intensity of investments % 53.4 49.4 35.5 38.4 44.0 Current asset intensity of investments % 35.0 39.5 55.3 50.4 44.4 Asset coverage % 103.5 104.9 119.6 124.4 127.9 Equity ratio % 18.7 14.7 14.1 17.6 15.1 Five-Year Overview   (Part OF the review OF OPeratiOns)  Five-YeAR oveRvieW (pARt oF the RevieW oF opeRAtions) Fold-out tAble oF contents Five-year overview RWE Group 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Net financial debt  million 11,904 10,382  650  2,064  4,720 Net debt of the RWE Group  million 28,964 25,787 18,659 16,514 17,827 Leverage factor 2.8 2.8 2.1 2.1 – Workforce Workforce at end of the year3 70,856 70,726 65,908 63,439 61,725 Research & development R&D costs  million 149 110 105 74 73 R&D employees 360 350 330 270 273 Emissions balance CO2 emissions million metric tons 165 149 172 187 178 Free allocation of CO2 certificates million metric tons 115 105 105 170 167 Shortage of CO2 certificates million metric tons 50 44 67 17 11 Specific CO2 emissions metric tons/MWh 0.732 0.796 0.768 0.866 0.797 Five-year overview RWE Aktiengesellschaft 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Dividend/dividend payment Dividend payment  million 1,8674 1,867 2,401 1,689 1,968 Dividend per share  3.504 3.50 4.50 3.15 3.50 Market capitalisation Market capitalisation at the end of the year  billion 28.0 38.0 35.4 53.5 46.5 Long-term credit rating Moodys A2 A2 A1 A1 A1 (outlook) (negative) (negative) (negative) (stable) (stable) Standard & Poors A A A A+ A+ (outlook) (negative) (negative) (stable) (negative) (negative) 1  Since 2008, EBITDA has also included operating income from investments. 2  Figures from 2006 according to the new value management concept; see Annual Report 2007, page 208. 3  Converted to full-time positions. 4  Proposed dividend for RWE AGs 2010 fiscal year, subject to approval by the 20 April 2011 Annual General Meeting.  Straight talking.  1   To our investors  Letter	from	the	CEO	 36 The	RWE	Executive	Board	 42 2010	in	brief	 44 RWE	on	the	capital	market	 46 	 	 1.0  Review of operations  51 1.1	 Strategy	and	structure	 52 1.2	 Economic	environment	 58 1.3	 Political	environment	 66 1.	4	 Major	events	 69 1.5	 Notes	on	reporting	 74 1.6	 Business	performance	 76 1.7	 Financial	position	and	net	worth	 101 1.8	 Notes	to	the	financial	statements		 107 	 of	RWE	AG	(holding	company)	 1.9	 Innovation	 112 1.10	Development	of	risks	and	opportunities	 116 	 including	the	report	on	the	internal	control	 	 and	risk	management	system	 	 including	the	corporate	governance		 	 declaration	 	 1.11	Outlook	for	2011	 127 	 	 2.0 Our responsibility	 135 2.1	 Supervisory	Board	report	 136 2.2	 Corporate	governance		 140 2.3	 Compensation	report	 143 	 (part	of	the	review	of	operations)	 2.	4	 Workforce	 152 2.5	 Sustainability	 154 3.0 Responsibility statement  160   4.0 Consolidated financial   161   statements  4.1	 Income	statement	 162 4.2	 Statement	of	recognised		 163 	 income	and	expenses	 4.3	 Balance	sheet	 164 4.	4	 Cash	flow	statement	 165 4.5	 Statement	of	changes	in	equity		 166 4.6	 Notes	 167 4.7	 Auditors	report	 227 	 	 Further information  Material	investments	 228 The	RWE	Groups	value	management	 231 Boards	 	 233 Organisation	chart	of	the	RWE	Group	 238 Organisation	chart	of	RWE	AG	 240 Glossary		 241 Index	 	 	 244 Imprint	 	 245 	 Five-year	overview		 (part	of	the	review	of	operations)	 Financial	calendar	2011/2012	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 contents  Financial calendar 2011/2012 20 April 2011 	 Annual	General	Meeting 21 April 2011 	 Dividend	payment 12 May 2011 	 Interim	report	for	the	first	quarter	of	2011 11 August 2011 	 Interim	report	for	the	first	half	of	2011 10 November 2011 	 Interim	report	for	the	first	three	quarters	of	2011 6 March 2012		 Annual	report	for	fiscal	2011 19 April 2012 	 Annual	General	Meeting	 20 April 2012 	 Dividend	payment	 10 May 2012 	 Interim	report	for	the	first	quarter	of	2012	 14 August 2012		 Interim	report	for	the	first	half	of	2012 14 November 2012		 Interim	report	for	the	first	three	quarters	of	2012 The Annual General Meeting and all events concerning the publication of the financial reports are broadcast live on the internet and recorded.   We will keep the recordings on our website for at least twelve months.