1 Sustainability Report Siteimprove COP 2010  2 3 Information search and self-service on the internet have  exploded in recent years. Most users find that the digital age  has made life easier enabling online-banking, online shopping  for consumer goods, or quick interaction with public services  through the internet. But the needs of all users arent always  being considered in this rapid development and its impossible to  prevent some users from falling through the cracks of the digital  age. Siteimprove has a stated mission of helping both public  authorities and private companies maintain quality homepages  and ensure web accessibility for all users.  Siteimprove is a small, Danish owned, software provider. We have  35 employees between three offices, in Denmark, England and  the United States. This is the first edition of our Global Compact  Communication on Sustainability Report (COP). Siteimprove is a slightly atypical Global Compact participant but  we have chosen to participate because it is important to us that  our employees feel that we are a great place to work and that the  world around see that we are  a socially responsible partner.  Why this report? The last few years have been a landmark for Siteimprove. In  2010 our gross profits increased by 62% and that same year  we put a lot of work into our first written strategy for the  company. An important area has been to ensure that our growth  isnt just focused on financial progress but that we grow in a  socially responsible manner. For this reason we chose to join  the UN Global Compact initiative in 2010 and we support the  10 Global Compact principles for socially responsible business  management.  The purpose of this report is to share with the world around  us, who we are and why we believe it makes sense for us as a  company to work with these 10 principles. In addition, we wish  to contribute to an increased awareness of the Global Compact  in the hope that more IT companies will follow suit. In this way  we are living up to Siteimproves CSR vision: To contribute to a  sustainable information society for all! This report is only the first step and it is important for us to  acknowledge that we are still learning and evolving. Even though  we have launched initiatives at all three office locations, this  first report is written primarily from the point of view of the  headquarters in Denmark.  This report presents what we did in 2010, the activities and  objectives that we have completed and what we have planned for  2011. Siteimproves mantra is We can always get even better- and we  trust that this report will generate feedback and start a dialogue  with employees, customers, partners and other stakeholders  who can provide valuable input to the direction we must steer  Siteimprove to strengthen our social responsibility work in the  future. I would like express my sincere gratitude to Camilla Simonsen,  CSR responsible for Siteimprove. She has prepared this report  and it is very much to Camillas credit that this Sustainability  report has come to be.  I sincerely hope that her efforts can serve  as an inspiration for other service companies. It has been very  beneficial for me to view my business through a CSR lens.  Happy Reading! Introduction      Morten Ebbesen, Direktr Introduction About Siteimprove CSR Vision Human Rights Workers Rights Climate and Environment Anti-corruption Integrating CSR 3 4 5 6 8 11 14 15  4 5 Siteimprove is a Danish owned company founded in 2003 by  Morten Ebbensen.  Siteimprove develops and markets quality tools for websites.  We have more than 1,100 customers in cities, counties,  educational institutions, libraries, charitable organizations, global  organizations as well as large and small private companies. 74%  of our revenue is generated in the UK and US market. Our products are:   Siteimprove Check: Checks for broken links, spelling errors  and accessibility issues.   Siteimprove Analyze: Web analytics.   Siteimprove Search: Internal search engine.   Siteimprove Monitor: Tool that measures whether a site is up  as well as response time.    Siteimprove SEO: Search Engine Optimization. We presently have 35 employees at our offices in Copenhagen,  London and Minneapolis. Product development, sales and  Siteimproves CSR-vision:  Contributing to a sustainable information society for  all. In support of our vision, we chose to endorse UNs initiative,  Global Compact in 2010. This is the worlds largest network of  companies that want to work with CSR. It may sound like a lofty  aim for a small company, but the Global Compact provides a  sound framework and a good foundation for Siteimproves CSR  efforts. We commit ourselves to working with the 10 international  principles in a manner that makes sense for our company.  The  Global Compact serves as a major inspiration and is recognized  throughout the world which is helpful as we broaden our CSR work  to include our offices in the U.S. and England. We work with CSR in 4 main areas: 1. Human Rights 2. Work Environment 3. Climate 4. Anti Corruption In 2010 and 2011, we have launched a series of activities and  objectives for areas 1-3 at the Danish office. It is for these 3  areas that the rest of this sustainability report will present an  initiative status update. With the experience that we are gaining in  Denmark, we will later introduce and develop our activities at the  U.K. and U.S. offices in 2011 and 2012. Anti-corruption is the fourth area under the Global Compact.  Siteimproves position on this issue is listed in our employee  handbook and expanded upon at the end of this report under the  10th principle Anti Corruption. It must be stressed that corruption  isnt widespread in the markets where Siteimprove operates and  for this reason, anti-corruption will not be of major focus in this  report. administration is handled by our office in Copenhagen where  20 of our 35 employees are located. The other two offices, in  England and the U.S., handle sales and support to our two English  speaking markets.  The market today has changed dramatically over the 8 years  that we have been in business. From offering a simple link check  service and a web stats program to now offering tools that can  streamline any web based business, private as well as public.  In  that regard, we experience less of a difference between public  and private websites today and we work diligently to meet market  demands. To better serve our clients needs, we expanded our business  in 2010, to include a consulting department that assists our  clients in achieving maximum usability of their site. Reducing, for  example, the number of phone inquiries, emails or customers who  show up in person(channel strategy). About Siteimprove CSR Vision  6 7 EVERYONE MUST HAVE EQUAL ACCESS TO THE INTERNET Siteimproves CSR vision is to contribute to a sustainable  information society for all . In the context in which Siteimprove  operates, we believe that it is a human right that all users have  equal access to the Internet. We do not see it as our task to  ensure that all people have access to computers and the Internet,  but to develop services that promote Web accessibility1.  Digital self-service is a buzz word these days and the goal of  the Danish government is that all communication between  the government and its citizens is made digital by 2012. Since  the public sector is Siteimproves primary customer group in  Denmark, (we serve 75 counties out of a total of 98, all regions  and more than 40 governmental authorities in Denmark), we are  able to contribute in a very important way to Web accessibility in  Denmark. Digital self-service saves society and taxpayers a staggering  amount of money, which contributes to sustainability in and  of itself. But the focus on digital rather than analog channels  currently restricts the options of many users, when personal  contact is lost. Many public websites (and private, for that  matter) do not fulfill the technical conditions required for Web  accessibility - and thats where Siteimprove wants to make a  difference! Poor Web accessibility means that users with physical  impairments2 do not have equal access to the network.  Poor Web  accessibility, for example, means that the user cannot use voice  software to read a page or make use of the shortcut keys as an  alternative to the mouse In 2010, we have worked intensively on optimizing Siteimproves  Accessibility Tool which is part of the Check service. With  this, we make it even easier for our users to work with Web  accessibility, which many webmasters perceive as a very  complex area. There is a long way to go and Siteimprove will  continue to contribute to a greater focus on accessibility of  Danish public and private websites in 2011. We do this within 4 areas:   Offering free advice through blogs and education for public  and private web content providers.    Collaboration with a Danish NGO with the goal of offering  a certification and a stamp of approval for the homepages  working in a targeted manner with web accessibility.    Offering a tool that improves accessibility for web pages.    Facilitation of a network where public clients can meet and  exchange experiences in this area. Human Rights Initiatives Global Compact Principles 1-2 1. The company should support and respect the  protection of internationally declared human  rights, and 2. Ensure that the company does not contribute  to the violation of human rights.  Human rights areas of focus Activities implemented in 2010 Mlstninger 2011 Offering a user-friendly tool that  improves accessibility on private  and public homepages.    Optimizing Siteimproves Accessibility Tool with  focus on the new WCAG 2.0 standard, improved  usability and simplicity. The optimization makes  it easier for web content providers at all levels  to provide their users with accessible websites  that meet international standards and regulatory  requirements.   First 6 months: 1st version of Siteimproves  Accessibility Tool version 2.0 will be launched.  Free advice through blog entries  and education for public and  private web content providers.    Project New Website launched: as a new  initiative we will start blogging and sharing  experiences regarding i.e. web accessibility.   12 free seminars on the tool SiteCheck  including a review of web accessibility and  recommendations for improvements.   First 6 months: new website launched   A minimum of one seminar per quarter with  training in web accessibility   A minimum of 2 blog entries annually dealing  with web accessibility Collaboration with Danish  NGO that offers certification  and stamp of approval for  homepages working in a targeted  fashion with web accessibility.    Meetings held and collaboration established  with NGOs in the field. (This collaboration is not yet  official and will not be elaborated upon any further  in this report).   First 6 months: definition of terms, expectations  and objectives, collaboration announced and pilot  launched   Second 6 months: certification of a minimum of  5 Danish websites. Facilitation of a network where  public, municipal clients can  meet and exchange experiences  regarding this topic.   Brainstorm and definition of networking, informal  conversations with municipal clients on ideas.   First 6 months: preliminary meeting with the  steering committee of selected cities.   Second 6 months: municipal network launched.  98 Danish municipalities are invited to a kick-off  networking event by establishing a Linkedin group.  A minimum of 50% municipal participation. EVERYONE MUST HAVE EQUAL ACCESS TO THE  INTERNET  Since 1st January 2008, all new websites  created by the Danish public authorities  must comply with the international  guidelines for accessible content on the  internet (WCAG2 level AA).  Studies show that more than 50% of the  public authority websites fail or have poor  accessibility, and do not comply with the  international guidelines.  Source: Report on the Authoritys work with website  accessibility. Rambll Management Consulting  It is estimated that approximately 25%  of all Danish internet users (where users  with disabilities make up the majority)  experience varying degrees of accessibility  problems.. Source: Sensus Facts 1) Website accessibility means, in a few words, that  a website can be accessed  by as many people as possible in the majority of situations, including users with   disabilities using assistive technology. Source: Ist.dk 2) Within this context, users with disabilities are those with visual impairments/  blind internet users or users with a physical disability, who cannot navigate using a  mouse.  8 9 Siteimprove has no sub-contractors in third world countries,  because all of our production is software and developed entirely  at the headquarters in Copenhagen. For this reason, forced labor,  child labor and discrimination are not issues for Siteimprove.  We have chosen to focus on Workers Rights from a different  perspective: OUR EMPLOYEES = THE HEART OF SITEIMPROVE The core of our business is our employees.  They are specialists  and as a small business we are very dependent on their skills  and commitment. An important step in attracting and retaining  excellent employees is to offer a great work environment; this  was Siteimproves primary CSR focus in 2010. As a Danish company we naturally comply with Danish labor  laws. But we wish to go much further than that to make sure  that our employees are thriving in a pleasant work environment  at our offices in Copenhagen, London and Minneapolis. We have  already launched several initiatives in London and Minneapolis  but this report will only be dealing with initiatives at our  headquarters in Copenhagen. A HEALTHY PSYCHOLOGICAL WORK ENVIRONMENT In order to keep close tabs on the psychological well-being  of our employees, we conducted the first yearly work-place- assessment, with focus on the psychological work environment in  2010. This was followed by individual performance appraisals as  well as semi-annual satisfaction interviews. The work-place-assessment and the staff interviews made it clear  that the employees were missing a clear sense of company goals  as well as where we are going. Management listened and drafted  Siteimproves first written strategy which was subsequently  presented to the employees.  Furthermore, 2010 was the first year that we introduced an  employee manual. Starting sometime during the first six months  of 2011, we will be introducing monthly staff meetings to  ensure greater transparency and knowledge sharing between  employees.  A HEALTHY PHYSICAL WORK ENVIRONMENT In 2009, the Danish Labor Inspection Agency carried out its  first audit at Siteimprove. We received a happy smiley and in  collaboration with the Work Environment Consultant, we drew up  an action plan detailing improvements to the physical workplace.  This led to a lot of initiatives in 2010 with everything from new  carpet and energy efficient computers to better lighting and art  on the walls. NEW OFFICE, NEW FRAMEWORK Siteimproves current headquarters is located in a zoned,  historical building in Copenhagen, which limits the possibilities for  improving the psychological and physical work environment. This coupled with our projected economic growth and additional,  new employees make it even more important to focus on our work  environment in 2011.  As a consequence, we have terminated  our present lease and will be moving to a new and larger office  space in Copenhagen in early 2012. The 600 square meters at the  new office location will be a substantial increase in space to our  current 250 square meters. Workers Rights This new office space will give us a unique opportunity to  focus  on the working environment and pamper our employees in the  new environment. HEALTH, SICK LEAVE AND STRESS An important area of focus in 2010 has been health, sick leave  and stress. In January 2010 we purchased software to record  employee absence. This allowed us to systematically track  all types of absence at the Danish office. In 2010, the rate of  absence averaged 3.52% at the Danish office, equivalent to 8.9  sick days a year per person, which is considered to be too high. The reason for the high rate of absence was primarily due to  the fact that 4 out of 5 female employees, at the Danish office,  became pregnant in 2010. This resulted in some sick days for this  employee group. We have set the goal of reducing sick days in 2011 to 2.5% which  equal approximately 6 sick days per year per average employee. Based on the work-place-assessment survey, it became clear that  the stress level among employees at the Danish office is above  the national average. In 2011, we will focus on initiatives aimed at  reducing stress triggers and promoting health and wellbeing. Global Compact Principles 3-6 3. The company should support the right to  unionize and effectively recognize the right of  collective bargaining. 4. Support the eradication of all forms of forced  labor. 5. Support the effective eradication of child labor. 6. Eradicate discrimination in in respect to  employment and occupation.  Initiatives to promote health and well-being:   2010   Healthy lunch offerings   Free organic fruit   Flexible work hours   Option to work from  home   Several yearly social and sporting events 2011   Bonus to all employees based on company profit.   Annual weekend event; gathering all employees  internationally for team building, knowledge sharing  and social activities.  10 11 ... Workers rights areas  of focus Activities implemented in 2010 Goals for 2011 The Physical Work  Environment Initiatives implemented in 2010 based on the 2009  work-place- assessment :   Interior decorator hired; work stations and interior decorations  moved around.  Lighting replaced.   Noise reducing carpeting in large room.   Agreement with The Art Librarys Picture-Bus which now  comes around to replace art once every quarter.   Carpets that reduce noice  Heat producing servers reducted and moved to server park.  Research of potential AC/ventilation installation for large room.   Replacement of 50% of computers, monitors with more energy  efficient and less heat producing models.   2nd Quarter: Sign lease for new offices  4th Quarter: Move to the offices (late 2011 or  early 2012). The Mental Work  Environment  First mental work environment tests carried out in Denmark  (with expansion to the U.K. and the U.S.)  One employee assessment interview conducted with all  employees.   First written strategy drafted and presented to staff.  4th Quarter: Complete annual, anonymous   work-place-assessment  survey with a focus on  the psychological work environment  Increase in employee satisfaction and  decrease of stress as compared to 2010.  Employee Assessment interview will, on a  trial basis, be followed up with 1-2 well-being  interviews.   1st Quarter: Begin monthly staff meetings.  Health,  Sick Days and  Stress  Ongoing registration of employee absence. 2010 was the first  year that we were able to get an overview of sick leave=3.52% in  2010.  Sick leave incorporated as a topic in employee assessment  interviews.  Continued focus on sick leave and a goal of  reducing to 2.5% Social Events Social events:  Company Brunch (April)  Summer Party (June)  DHL Relay run(August)  Beer tasting (September)  Release party for employees (October)  Holiday lunch at Swedish Castle (December) Planned events:  Beer tasting (March)  Employees from Copenhagen, London and  Minneapolis will meet in New York City for  teambuilding and company event (May).  Summer party (August).   Holiday Lunch (December).  A minimum of 75 % employee participation. Exercise and Health Activities:  DHL Relay Run  Shift to organic fruit and healthier lunch offerings.  Activities Planned:  Sport Day ( in June).  DHL Relay run (August).  Sport Day (November). A minimum of 50 % employee participation gross profit increased by 62% and our headcount by 40%. Our  participation is about caring for the climate and environment but  it also makes perfect economic sense to ensure that our growth  is sustainable.  SITEIMPROVES CLIMATE PARTNER Climate change is one of the biggest, global challenges. All  companies - large and small - must take responsibility for the  climatic development. Siteimprove is developing rapidly. In 2010,  our gross profit increased by 62% and our headcount by 40%. Our  participation is about caring for the climate and environment but  it also makes perfect economic sense to ensure that our growth  is sustainable.  As a climate partner we are also part of a network, where we  have the opportunity to spar with other companies, cities and  organizations and seek inspiration for future initiatives for  the Danish market. The inspiration we gain from this network  combined with experiences from our own efforts at the Danish  office, will be expanded to the U.K. and U.S. offices in 2011/2012. . MAPPING SITEIMPROVES CONSUMPTION AND CO2 FOOTPRINT Based on the Siteimproves report to DONG Energy, we have  mapped out our consumption and CO2 footprint for 2010 in  several areas: Last years energy consumption 3 Power Hearing Total  consumption Consumption  per employee 42.646 kWh/yr 53 MWh/yr 95.776 kWh/yr 2680 kWh/yr4 Compared with other IT companies, DONG Energy has indicated  that our consumption is relatively high; both power and heating.  Blue = last years energy consumption per. m2 / red = average for  the industry per. m2. The two areas will be primary focus areas. Siteimproves consumption in relation to the industry Climate & Environment Global Compact Principles 7-9 7.  The company should support a careful  approach to environmental challenges. 8. Take initiatives to promote increased  environmental responsibility.  9. Encourage the development and dispersion of  environmentally friendly technologies.  Climate change is one of the  biggest, global challenges. All  companies - large and small -  must take responsibility for the  climatic development. Siteimprove  is developing rapidly. In 2010, our  50 0 150 100 Industry avarage (per  square meter) Siteimproves energy  consumption last year (per  square meter) Power consumption per  square meter Heat consumption per  square meter Facts 3 out of 4 Danes believe that cities and companies must take  active responsibility  for climate change.  Source: Monday Morning (Danish business newsletter) 3) The energy consumption is  reflective of both Siteimprove and our sister company,  Netmester. Because we  share office space, it has not been possible to divide the  total consumption. Both companies have signed a climate partnership with DONG  Energy. 4) To find the per employee consumption, the total consumption has been divided  between the 36 employees who worked at Netmester and Siteimprove in 2010.  12 13 This means that we have chosen to move to a new office location  in early 2012. This new location has a more energy efficient  profile and we will be able to adjust our surroundings to meet  environmental needs.   But since DONG Engergys calculations are based on Siteimproves  current lease, it only makes sense to continue to invest in energy  saving features that are portable such as on/off timers, motion  sensors, and energy efficient power strips.  We could also choose to continue replacing light sources at the  current office which will have a positive effect on our energy  consumption for remainder of 2011.  Because we are moving to a new location, it does not make sense  to use DONG Energys reduction targets.  But then why this climate partnership? When Siteimprove entered into the climate partnership it was  not yet known that we were about to change location. The  work, however, is not wasted as we have gained a great deal of  Energy consumption break down chart Source Energy  distribution CO2  emissions  (kg/yr) CO2 per  emplyee (kg/ yr) Heating 55,5% 6.900 Pumps 0,2% 100 Lighting 6,0% 3.500 Office equipment 21,4% 11.200 Server space5 2,7% 1.400 Automats 5,0 2.600 Appliances 0,3% 100 Unknown  consumption  (power) 8,1% 4.250 Last years total  consumption 100% 30.050 835 experience that we can put to good use at the new office and use  as we work with architects to remodel the new office.  Experiences gained between 2010 and 2012 will be difficult to  compare directly, instead the objective will be that the work  during this period will culminate in a new mapping and climate  action plan to be formulated in 2012/2013. SITEIMPROVE SUPPORTS THE DEVELOPMENT OF WIND ENERGY & A  SUSTAINABLE INFORMATION SOCIETY Through our partnership with DONG Energy, Siteimprove also  supports the development of ongoing energy production in  Denmark. As a climate partner we reserve green power in the  windmill park in Horns Rev II and contribute to a sustainable  society by paying a slightly higher than market price for the  power we use . We believe this is a cause worthy of our support.  ... SAVINGS POTENTIAL AND GOALS Based on our 2010 consumption, DONG Energy estimates  that for 2011, and the years ahead, we can reduce our annual  energy consumption by a total of 22,650 kWh / year. This saving  is equivalent to a 24% reduction as compared to last years  total energy consumption, which equals an annual 6-ton CO2  reduction. 2010 was the year that we focused on a greener culture. This  has resulted in a number of initiatives such as proper disposal  of glass bottles and recycling of plastic and cans. We also took  other energy saving measures like replacing old electronics and  switching to energy saving light bulbs for most light sources at  the office. But to achieve full savings, it will be necessary to invest in a  number of specific energy saving measures in the coming years. Our projected growth combined with the building restrictions at  our office location in a zoned, historical building from 1805, have  made it clear that we need to focus on a longer term solution.  Facts In 2010 Siteimprove signed a partnership agreement  with FAIR Denmark. This agreement involved the  replacment of 50% of the office PCs with more energy  efficient models. The used IT equipment was donated  to Fair Denmark. In a sustainable manner they send  usable electronics off to benefit the worlds poorest,  developing countries. This may well contribute to  the development of these countries and gives more  people access to IT.  The manufacturing of IT equipment is in itself very  stressful to the environment, which means that it  is good, green practice to ensure a longer life for IT  equipment. Every time a PC is recycled, it saves the  environment up to 20% CO2 emissions according to  the UN. It is, however, important to ensure that the  equipment sent to developing countries does not  end at local landfills, where they do not have the  knowledge and technology for environmentally safe  disposal. Kilde: Fair Danmark 6.900 Heating 4.250 Unknown source 2.600 Automats 1.400 Server space 11.200 Office equipment 3.500 Lighting CO2 emissions (kg/yr) 53.100 Heating 7.700 Unknown source 4.800 Automats 2.600 Server space 20.500 Office equipment 6.400 Lighting Total consumption (kWh/yr) 5) Servers placed in the remote server park are not included in the DONG Energys  climate records so therefore  not included in this report.  14 15 Climate and  environmental  areas of focus Activities implemented in 2010 Goals for 2011 Decrease  Siteimproves  energy  consumption For the first time we focused on our energy consumption:  Energy consumption measured.   Dialogue with employees in regards to possible areas of  saving. Energy Saving Equipment:  Purchased energy saving computers for 50% of staff.  Partnership with FAIR Denmark. IT equipment donated to  sustainable recycling.  Purchase of several new energy saving PC monitors.   Switch to energy saving light bulbs.  First 6 months: entered climate partnership with  DONG Energy.  Reporting completed and energy consumption  calculated.   Second 6 months: Summarize areas of focus for the  new office space, identifying the problem areas in our  current office.   Identify what the item: unknown power  consumption is. It was named the third biggest area of  recommended reduction by DONG Energy.  Promote a green  culture   Signed up for a recycling program: Dansk Retursystem.  Two recycling boxes for plastic and cans in place at the  office.    Collect data and create an action plan for how to  promote a greener culture.  Limit travel and  utilize video  conference  equipment No concrete action in 2010. It was, however, determined  that travel will be an area of focus in 2011 and we will be  investing in video conferencing equipment when we move  to the new office space.    All 2011 travel activity will be recorded so that we  can determine where to make cuts.   IPurchase and implement video conferencing  equipment. Environmental  Policy No concrete action in 2010.  Second 6 months:  Preparation of environmental  policy which all employees agree to support.   ... Anti-corruption Global Compact Principle 10 10. Businesses should work against all forms of  corruption, including extortion and bribery. Siteimprove operates in markets characterized by low levels of  corruption.  Our position on this issue is listed in Siteimproves  employee handbook which was drafted in 2010. Siteimprove  is firmly opposed to corruption and bribery. If an employee  experiences or exercises any form of bribery, or he or she  receives gifts while in the dialogue with suppliers or customers,  the employee must inform a manager immediately.  Violations may have employment consequences. INTEGRATING CSR AT SITEIMPROVE Global Compact Dilemma Game To integrate CSR into a business can be challenging. On one hand,  accountability has always been an implicit part of Siteimproves  business and we have always done a little extra for our staff and  donated to charity on an ongoing basis. On the other hand, it is  necessary that all employees are made even more aware of our  new CSR profile. Especially because we have chosen to support  the Global Compact and we are starting to communicate our  position externally, through this report for example.   In 2010, we focused on developing a CSR strategy both internally  and in collaboration with a consulting business called Sustain  Consulting. In 2011, we will focus on integrating CSR, making it a natural part  of our mind set and company culture We kick-started the process with a small game experiment. It  was initiated by DI (Confederation of Danish Industry) in April of  this year. DI challenged 7 Siteimprove employees to play a board  game called Compact Dilemma Game, which is developed by  Responsible Business Solutions.  The purpose of this experiment  was to test whether a small Danish service company, such as  Siteimprove, could benefit from the game. Global Compacts  Dilemma Game is developed by companies, for companies, and  deals with 40 dilemmas within the Global Compacts 4 main areas:  Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti Corruption. The game really emphasizes just how challenging it can be to take  all corporate stakeholders into account. In addition, the game  provides a healthy reality check and shows just how fortunate  we are at Siteimprove - with offices in Copenhagen, London and  Minneapolis, where child labor and corruption isnt commonplace.  The game also helped us gain an appreciation for the many  benefits there are in keeping product development in Denmark  and not outsource these activities to Third World countries. DI wrote an article that appeared in DI Business, read the article  here: http://publikationer.di.dk/di/1367085319/. Integrating CSR Everyday heroes Environmental enthusiasts working at the office is an effective  way of getting CSR well integrated into the daily life of a business.  Siteimproves Irish co-worker at the Danish office, Sen Needham,  is truly a green enthusiast when it comes to raising awareness  about recycling paper for example. Sen has, on his own initiative,  placed a recycling box in the office. He carries it manually to the  neighboring property where they have a recycling dumpster,  because we do not have the option of getting a recycling  dumpster placed at our historical property. It is enthusiasts like Sen  who makes CSR real and  helps integrate it into our  daily life at Siteimprove.  Photography by Joachim Rode  16 17 OTHER CSR INITIATIVES/CASES In 2009, Siteimprove began naming a Web Enthusiast of the  Year selected among Danish municipal customers, and in 2010,  we declared it an annually recurring event. With this award  we want to draw attention to some of the many talented web  enthusiasts that exist among local webmasters while we support  a good cause in their community. ... A web enthusiast is a webmaster, among Siteimproves customers,  who has distinguished him or herself during the year by making  extra effort to ensure that local citizens get a good website and  therefore deserve a pat on the back. With the honorable title  comes a check for $2,000 given to volunteer work in the specific  municipality named by the web enthusiast Web Enthusiast 2010: Peder Andersen from the City of Aarhus.   The check for $2,000 went to a girls soccer team in Skovbakken.  We look forward to naming a Web Enthusiast 2011. Web Enthusiast, 2009: Bente Frisch from the City of Slagelse . The  check for $2,000 went to Project Korsr on a Diet. THIS IS ONLY THE BEGINNING! You have reached the end of Siteimproves first sustainability  report, where we have attempted to give you insight into the  activities conducted in 2010 as well as the activities that we have  planned for 2011. CSR is still new to companies like ours. We are not aware of others  in the IT services sector who prepare similar reports and that is  too bad! Siteimproves strategic work with CSR, as well as the preparation  of this sustainability report, has been a learning experience. We  see Siteimprove from a whole new perspective. We have high  expectations for 2011/2012 where we will be moving into the  new office and will begin the work of broadening our CSR work to  include our offices in the U.S. and the U.K.. Since CSR and accountability is new territory for Siteimprove, it is  important for us to get feedback on our initiatives and this report  so that we can get an idea of what the world thinks of our work.  Are we on the right track or should we focus on other areas? We  are always looking for experience and exciting new networks of  companies with similar goals.    We welcome both positive and negative feedback at csr@ siteimprove.com  Thanks to the UNDP Global Compact network for small  businesses. It always helps us with good inspiration. Also a big  thank you to our sparring partners, Peter Haisler and Louise  Gammelmark from Sustain Consulting and Iben Tjelum from  Denmarks export credit agency EKF. Camilla Simonsen, CSR-responsible, Siteimprove Photographers  Bo Vejgaard Joachim Rhoe Andreas Kjeldsen Layout Ulrik Groth-Andersen Fleur Julie Koch Andersen