The other face of Capgemini a snapshot www.capgemini.com  Introduction / CEO statement 2 About Capgemini 4 Key highlights 6 Commitment and strategy 8 Our six strategic pillars 9 Leadership, values & ethics 10 The values we share 10 Code of business ethics 10 Our people 12 A people company 12 Key elements of our approach as an employer 13 Employee representation – a formal voice for employees 14 Award recognition 15 Investing in the best talent 15 Recognition for our talent 16 Collaborating with our clients 18 Building on our expertise to provide solutions for our clients 18 Leveraging our consulting capabilities to develop action plans for our clients 18 Our thought leadership 20 Client & external recognition 23 Capgemini in the community 24 Our approach: education and diversity 24 Our global community programs 26 Our global Sogeti & PlaNet finance partnership 27 Global financial services and WeKare 28 Selection of national and local initiatives around the group 29 Working with suppliers & business partners 30 Ethical procurement 30 Sustainable procurement program 30 Working with our business partners to create solutions to improve sustainability 30 Recognizing our impact on the environment 32 Our environmental policy 32 Energy consumption in offices and data centers 32 Business travel 34 Waste management 35 IT asset management and procurement 35 How we measure up 36 Analysts 36 Financial indexes 37 Selection of awards 37 looking forward to the future 38 Table of contents  2 Introduction B eing a responsible Group implies a responsible attitude on the part of each and every one of us. For some time we have recognized that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability has moved from being a specialist or peripheral activity to become a real requirement for all successful global companies. Our focus has been to embed CSR and Sustainability into our business strategy, our processes and the way we work together. Our people have made this an important part of their daily work and I am proud of their achievements which make our progress possible. The results from our latest Global Employee Survey visibly demonstrate that our people recognize and value our commitment in this area. Being responsible also means that we have obligations. Capgemini has obligations towards its employees, clients, business partners, suppliers, shareholders, local communities and the environment. We are determined to ensure that we encourage diversity and opportunity across our workforce and that we reflect and help the communities within which we work. As Chief Executive Officer (CEO), I consider myself as the first person in charge of ethics. This means that my actions must be exemplary and in keeping with the Groups ethics and traditions. I expect all our people to behave likewise. As part of our development we have appointed a Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer and have launched an Ethics & Compliance program. We have revisited our code of ethics and are implementing a strong ethics and compliance program through communications and training. Also Ethics are intimately bound to a countrys own culture. Since Capgemini has a presence in 40 countries, respecting others, their culture, their habits, and their moral codes, consistent with applicable laws, is an essential quality, required of every employee, manager and leader. Capgemini made an early commitment to taking a leading role in sustainability through signing up to the UN Global Compact in 2004, and by joining the Caring for Climate initiative in 2007. We recognize that we can make a significant contribution to minimizing environmental impacts, not only through the way we manage our own business, but also in the way we require and enable our stakeholders to reduce their environmental impact. For example, we have the capability to help our clients reach their sustainability objectives and to work with our business partners and suppliers to reduce carbon usage. Through our own commitment to sustainability, our UK, Dutch and Belgian businesses have received ISO14001 certification for their Environmental Management Systems. Capgemini India is preparing for its ISO14001 audit. In terms of our supplier relationships, in 2010 we performed supplier assessments covering 82% of total Global Procurement spend and have a network of Chief Procurement Officers covering all geographies committed to ensuring responsibility and sustainability in our supply chain. Our community programs are focused on improving education, encouraging diversity and helping to eradicate poverty. Our strategy of working with long term partners in the community such as the Naandi Foundation, PlaNet Finance, WeKare, Nios del Lago and The Princes Trust continues to engage our people in using the best of our expertise to make a difference. Also, I am pleased that we have the flexibility to respond to immediate needs such as the earthquakes in [Southern Italy and] Haiti. Paul Hermelin, Capgemini Group CEO  3 Stakeholder engagement has always been at the heart of what we do, whether it is OTACE (On Time and At Customer Expectation) with our clients, our Global Employee Survey with our people, interaction with our shareholders and investors, the way we collaborate with our alliance partners or the respect and support we provide to the communities in which we operate. We continue to look for ways to engage in dialogue and gain valuable feedback that enhances our capabilities and the sustainability of our company. This Report is dedicated to sharing some of the highlights of our progress and activities to date and our ambitions for the future, as well as recognizing the challenges and opportunities we face. It is about ensuring we work together and with our stakeholders in order to continue our journey of making progress. Paul Hermelin, CEO We have a unique opportunity through our service offerings to help our clients increase their market competitiveness, reduce costs, use technology innovation to reduce environmental impacts, ensure compliance, support security, reduce waste or provide opportunities to close the digital divide. This impact is increasing as we continually develop our offerings and solutions for our clients to improve their sustainability.    4 About Capgemini About Capgemini Capgemini is a global leader in consulting, technology, outsourcing and local professional services. We are headquartered in Paris, France and operate in more than 40 countries. We are, above all, a people company. North America 8% United Kingdom and Ireland 8% Nordic countries 3.7% Benelux 9.9% Germany and Central Europe 7.3% France and Morocco 18.7% Southern Europe and Latin Amercia 13.7% Asia-Pacific 31% Middle East and Africa 0% 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 Headcount by country or region Evolution of headcount  5 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 as at 31/12/10 as at 31/12/09 as at 01/01/09 8379 7950 8667 7985 7844 8515 4049 3681 4012 12291 11163 10782 7534 7724 7929 21392 20032 20277 7913 8114 14853 22078 24008 33655 9 NA NA 0 10 20 30 40 50 4.0% 12.6% 24.8% 48.8% 9.7% Breakdown of headcount by age 2009 -2010 headcount per region  6 Key highlights Ethics & Compliance programme In 2009, we appointed a Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer to lead and coordinate the program. As part of the program, our Code of Business Ethics was launched in 2010 and a network of Ethics and Compliance officers has been established across the Group. By the end of 2010, more than 35,000 employees had downloaded the Code of Business Ethics and 19,000 had signed their agreement. We also rolled out a Group Code of Business Ethics E-Learning module across the Group, which 23,000 people have completed. Community impact In 2010, we sponsored the education of over 12,000 girls in India as a result of several initiatives and schemes across the Group. We have been working together in partnership with the Naandi Foundation underlining our commitment to help the communities in which we operate. Our other Global community program PlaNet Finance continues to provide practical support to communities that have no other means of help. Obtaining ISO 14001 certification Our businesses in UK, Belgium and the Netherlands have received IS0 14001 accreditation for their environmental management and audit systems. The achievement of this internationally recognized standard is an important recognition of the progress these operations have made in this area. Designing in green IT solutions Increasingly we are able to design green IT solutions at the outset of a project. This enables us to create IT infrastructure and solutions which optimize cost savings and sustainability for our clients that would be impossible later in the project. In 2010, we launched CapgeminiGreen – an interactive platform that brings together all of our content related to sustainability and the environment. Sustainable procurement in partnership programme Capgemini continues to implement our Sustainable Procurement in Partnership Program, which aims to ensure that our suppliers comply with our Core Principles of Sustainability. In 2008, our Procurement community made the commitment to assess their top suppliers based on risk and spend. The sustainability review now encompasses 82% of Capgemini spend. Measurement and third party recognition We welcome measurement and analysis of our CSR and Sustainability performance. Recent coverage includes: Forrester's report on Sustainability Consulting Services evaluated the level of capability providers had for each service offering in three different categories: IT energy and resource efficiency (green IT); IT-enabled green business processes (IT-for- green); and Corporate sustainability planning & governance (green business). The report highlights the importance of sustainability in our business: Sustainability is core to Capgeminis strategy, which is reflected in its organization as an international team with key contact personnel in each respective country. NelsonHall reported on the recent opening of Merlin, Capgeminis new green data center in Swindon, UK and on the launch of our new Global Service Line, Smart Energy Services. Verdantix, another independent analyst firm, identified Capgemini as a specialist supplier of sustainable technology services. Capgemini scored best in class for data center efficiency for our Merlin Data Center. In 2010, Capgemini was included in the ECPI Ethical Index EMU, Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Registers. We were also rated by OEKOM, a leading rating agency which uses a comprehensive collection of criteria for the ethical evaluation of companies, and Ethifinance, an independent agency specializing in evaluation of CSR. We are also members of the FTSE4Good Index. VIGEO - Vigeo assesses Capgemini every two years. In 2010, our ratings report assessed Capgemini as demonstrating responsive behavior on sustainability issues, linked to an overall high level of sustainability reporting for the sector. We achieved a global score of 56/100, taking third place in the Software and IT services sector in terms of overall score.  Despite the global recession, consumers, customers and communities are demanding that CSR and Sustainability moves from awareness and advocacy into action. Real traction and progress can only be made through adoption of a strategic approach and through strong leadership and commitment. Our approach to business has always been to provide strategic vision and top-down leadership, and to ensure we create a culture where our people can make strong individual contributions and apply their ideas, experience and expertise to develop innovative and effective solutions. Our approach to CSR and Sustainability is exactly the same. Since 2003, the Group has formalized its CSR and Sustainability strategy. In 2007, this strategy was added to the remit of the Ethics and Governance Committee of the Board of Cap Gemini SA. Commitment and strategy 8  9 Our six strategic pillars Our CSR and Sustainability priorities are based on six pillars underpinning all aspects of our business. Under each pillar, we have identified the key areas that are material to our business, areas in which Capgemini has an impact and that are important to our stakeholders. We have set objectives for each pillar in order to focus our efforts and monitor our performance: 1. Leadership, values & ethics The way we work and behave. 2. Our people To employees, we are committed to being a responsible employer, whom people choose to work for. 3. Clients Collaborating with our clients, we undertake to understand their real business needs and strive to deliver long-lasting value with tangible results and to support them in achieving their sustainability objectives. 4. Community Ensuring a positive impact on the communities in which we live and work. 5. Suppliers & business partners Working with our suppliers and business partners, we are committed to sound and sustainable procurement procedures. 6. Environment Recognizing our impact on the environment, we strive to reduce negative environmental impacts in the areas most relevant to our business.  10 Leadership, values and ethics The values we share Our culture and business practices have been inspired and guided by our seven core values. These values underpin everything we do. They provide the basis for our rules of behavior, conduct and principles of action. They shape our sustainable ethical culture, our Group DNA, producing a mindset encompassing integrity and ethical behavior. Our values are important to respect and defend in order to uphold the Group as an ethical and responsible business. We are keen to ensure that CSR and Sustainability performance delivers the same high standards and commitment to our Values across all areas of our activity. Code of business ethics Our code of business ethics guides all of our business practices and includes respect for human rights, the environment, freedom of association and the promotion of diversity, wellbeing and health and safety. We have strict rules around bribery & corruption, conflict of interest, fair competition, confidential information and insider trading. In 2009, the Group Board of Directors launched an Ethics & Compliance Program based and building on the ethical culture that has existed since the start of the Group. A Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer was appointed to lead and We say what we do and do what we say. We embrace our core Values of Honesty, Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Solidarity, Modesty and Fun. Capgemini maintains a strong code of business ethics, which underpins all of its business practices. coordinate the formalization, development, implementation, and promotion of the Ethics & Compliance program. The Ethics and Compliance program aims to formalize the existing ethics asset base and has been developed with the input of 1,000 managers and a network of 23 leaders of different nationalities. Its objectives are manifold: to develop a sustainable ethical culture which reinforces integrity and leads to ethical behavior; to strengthen knowledge and awareness of international, national and internal regulations, laws and policies applicable to the Groups companies; and to implement initiatives strengthening prevention and aiming at avoiding breaches and misconduct in the field of ethics and compliance. The first stage in this program was to design and distribute Capgeminis Code of Business Ethics, translated into 13 languages and released in the first half of 2010. Some 21 different topics likely to raise ethical questions are highlighted in the Code, whose clear principles, illustrated by case studies, enable appropriate behavior to be distinguished from inappropriate behavior in a given situation. By the end of 2010, more than 35,000 employees had downloaded the Code of Business Ethics and 19,000 had signed their agreement. We also rolled out a mandatory Group Code of Business Ethics E-Learning module across the Group, which 23,000 people have completed.  11 our values honesty boldness trust freedom team spirit modesty fun Seven values lie at the heart of everything we do  12 Our people Capgemini has an intelligent, innovative and strategic workforce that enables us to provide an exceptional service to our clients. We are determined to foster and encourage diversity and individuality as well as to respect and provide opportunities to everyone irrespective of gender, disability, ethnicity, sexual orientation or religion. Capgeminis core values mean that we are committed to creating a safe and secure environment for our people, by promoting trust, honesty, team spirit and modesty, and at the same time encouraging everyone to use their own special talents through our unique values: freedom, boldness and fun. We want everyone to reach their potential and contribute positively to Capgemini. A people company Capgemini is a people-oriented business. Our focus is on the professional development and the well-being of all our employees. We encourage and recognize that our people are all different and this adds strength to our business. Encouraging individuals to contribute their best is good for our clients and the long term sustainability of our business; however we are also keen that our people retain a healthy life-work balance. We want our workforce to reflect the diversity of the communities where we operate. We are pleased that more women are reaching senior positions, and are especially proud that we have female representation in our top leadership teams and a number of our businesses now have women executives. Our Rightshore way of working brings together different nationalities in a successful working environment. Our Rightshore capability now makes up more than 35% of our total workforce. case study Global employee survey results confirms sustainability resonates with our people Every year, the Group invites all its team members to participate in a Global Employee survey. In 2010, more than 60,000 employees participated (a 66% response rate). For the past two years we have included a question to understand the extent to which Capgemini is seen as a sustainable company by our people. I feel Capgemini is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen (e.g. working with communities and charities like Naandi / PlaNet Finance), reducing our environmental impact, working with our clients on sustainability issues for example Green IT. Across the Globe there was a 6% increase in the positive response to this question since 2009, with considerable increases in some locations like UK and Portugal: Group Location Capgemini & Sogeti Overall +6% China +5% Hungary +16% Italy +19% Netherlands +7% Portugal +8% Capgemini UK +2%  13 Fostering a culture of collaboration, diversity and inclusion, our Group HR priorities focus principally on the following areas: I Career Development:  Managing our talent while taking care of career aspirations  Offering the right professional challenges and development opportunities  Managing our pyramids to reflect the new industrialized business models  Leveraging the wide range of learning opportunities available that link to our competency models  Favoring resource optimization at local and global levels I Leadership Talent Pool:  Focusing on talent pool management and succession management  Increasing our Executive Development offerings and fostering leadership development at all levels in the organization  Increasing mobility within the leadership pool I Group University  Delivering regional programs (the Group University is established in three continents: France-Les Fontaines, India-Hyderabad and North America-Chicago)  Continuing our efforts in virtual training programs and e-learning modules  Adapting new training programs permanently to new or evolving technologies, competencies and the offshore delivery model. I Recruitment is in line with the market evolution I Diversity:  Managing gender diversity in the recruitment and promotion process  Continuing our efforts in supporting people with disabilities I CSR & Sustainability I HR Service Delivery  Developing Employee Self Service to support increased mobility and virtual working; accelerating HR BPO, leveraging shared services to deliver high-touch HR services to our people;  Improving mobility policies, training and services with a strong focus on the employee travel safety Key elements of our approach as an employer:  14 Our people case study Employee representation – a formal voice for employees Capgemini demonstrates its commitment to formal two-way dialogue through its approach to employee representation. The company upholds local laws of representation and recognizes the importance of constructive dialogue between employees and management in shaping key decisions affecting the running of the Group. In 2001, the International Works Council (IWC) was set up as the official representative body in the Group. It enables employee representatives to bring employee interests directly to the attention of Group management and in return to be directly informed by management of plans for the company and the impact of such plans on employees. Since 2004, Capgemini has gone beyond European legislation on works councils and opened up the IWC meetings to members from non-European countries, including the Americas and India, creating a truly globally representative body. Representatives from 21 countries meet twice a year for two day working sessions with Group management and twice a year as a team. In 2010, the IWC was updated on and involved in the Groups CSR & Sustainability activities, Employee Survey, Headcount Evolution and Group initiatives. At local level, the company also supports dialogue with unions or other employee representatives, within relevant bodies and through the processes provided for under local legislation, regulations and agreements. Gender and diversity at Capgemini We are keen to ensure that we encourage a better gender balance in the leadership of the Group at all levels. We have a program of online materials and leadership courses to help woman develop their leadership skills and expertise so that they can reach their potential within our organization and make a strong contribution. For the fourth year running, Capgemini celebrated International Womens Day and launched a Group-wide effort to recognize its women achievers and the challenges women still face in the world of business. Through a continuous focus on the importance of diversity at all levels we have raised the profile and understanding of this important area and are making considerable progress. External recognition for driving diversity I Capgemini won the Alpha prize at the 6th International Meeting for Diversity, in Corte (Corsica) by the association les Dfis de la Diversit and the Group SECAFI-ALPHA. The award was given for the quality of our corporate diversity policy. I Capgemini UK listed for the 4th time in The Times Top 50 Where Women Want to Work and won the Women of the Future Corporate Award. I Capgemini Sweden listed in Veckans Affrer 40 best employers based on equality and offering a good working environment and career opportunities for women. I Sogeti Sweden rated as employer of choice for female IT professionals in a survey by Exido. I Capgemini Spain awarded with the Alcobendas councils prize for fostering equal opportunities and work-life balance. I Capgemini Netherlands was ranked in the top 5 LOF Best (Large) Employers for Working Parents.  15 Award recognition Our approach to the way we develop, encourage and look after our people has been recognized by third parties around the world: I Capgemini France has made the podium in the prestigious Palmars Employeurs – the list of best employers, organized by French media company LExpress and employment agency RgionsJob. I Capgemini UKs payroll team won the IPPs 7th Annual Payroll and Pension Excellence award for Payroll Team of the Year. I Outsourcing UKs Human Resources team was shortlisted in the employee engagement category at the Personnel Today Awards. I Capgemini Netherlands was ranked in the top 5 LOF Best (Large) Employer for Working Parents (recognizing companies with flexible working conditions). Capgemini Netherlands also received the ICT Top Employer award from the CRF Institute. I Sogeti Netherlands was elected Best Employer by Incompany for the second year in a row. I Capgemini Italy celebrated another Top Employers Italia Award for a culture of transparency and loyalty. I Capgemini Poland received the Top Employers certificate issued by the Corporate Research Foundation institute (CRF) for excellence in Human Resources and organizational standards. I Capgemini Belgium has received the Top Employer award for the past two years with an exceptional top score of 5/5 on all 5 domains (Primary work conditions, secondary work conditions, internal promotion opportunities, company culture, learning and development). I Capgemini India won the award for Organizational Development and Leadership by the World HRD Congress and was a joint winner of the Talent and Learning Initiative Excellence Award. Capgemini India was ranked sixth in the list of Top 20 IT Employers in Dataquests annual DQ-IDC survey. I Sogeti Sweden made it to the Top 20 on Universums Top 100 most attractive employers in Sweden in the IT category. Capgemini Sweden came 21st. Sogeti Sweden came second in the Best employer in Sweden survey. Investing in the best talent Attracting the best local talent requires customized local activities including the following local talent programs: I Capgemini Group committed to investing in the youth of France. Group launched a program offering placements to 1,000 young people over two years in France. We have recruited more than 600 young people through apprenticeships and internships. I Capgemini Italy Restart! project aims to welcome back workers who have spent a long time away from the company due to personal or family reasons. It is especially helpful for women coming back from maternity leave and those on long-term sick leave. I Capgemini North America has launched a tailored campus hire on-boarding program. The program is focused on high interaction with new hires and integration within their teams, as well as experiencing working at Capgemini India.  16 case study Recognition for our talent Several of our leaders and executives received awards in 2010 highlighting and acknowledging their talent and exceptional performance: I Capgemini Group Chairman and Founder, Serge Kampf was promoted to Commandeur de la Lgion dHonneur (Commander of the French Legion of Honor) for his services to business and external commerce, by decree of the President of the French Republic, Nicolas Sarkozy. I Colette Lewiner, Capgemini EU&C Sector Global Leader was promoted by the French Ministry of the Economy, Industry and Employment to the prestigious position of Commandeur de la Lgion dHonneur. I Group CEO Paul Hermelin was rated number two in a list of CAC 40 CEOs, judged on the tone of press coverage in 60 countries. I Technology Services Council leader Henk Broeders was named a Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau, by Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands. He was also named ICT Personality of the Year, during the annual National ICT Gala, a prestigious event organized by the Dutch IT Trade Association I Sogeti Sweden CTO Per Bjrkegren won the coveted IT Consultant of the Year title at the Swedish IT Business Awards. This is the second time Sogeti has received the award. I Capgemini Norways CEO Ola Furu was named "IT Leader of the Year" at the Norwegian Computer Society annual "Rosingprisen" awards – otherwise known as "IT industrys Oscars" of Norway. I Capgemini UKs SharePoint Assurance and Strategy expert, John Timney, won the Microsoft Most Valuable Player award for the twelfth time for his community contribution. In India, Sankool Shah was awarded the MVP in Client Application Development. I Tony Madrigale from Capgemini North America was recognized as one of Consulting Magazines Top 25 Consultants 2010 in the high tech category. I Group CFO Nicolas Dufourcq was named one of Europes Best CFOs for Technology/Software by the magazine Institutional Investor, as a result of a survey conducted by research analysts and asset managers from leading finance firms. I Our UK Company Secretary Julie Pereira received a special mention at the recent Britains Best Boss awards ceremony. The organizers commended Julie for using agile working practices to motivate her team. These national awards recognize and celebrate the best UK managers; those who see the bigger picture and help their employees achieve a healthy work-life balance. The employability of people with disabilities in France In November 2009, Capgemini was one of 31 companies who signed the charter of the employability of people with disabilities. Represented by Group General Secretary, Alain Donzeaud, our Group pledged to pursue actions for the employment of persons with disabilities, along with the government The Charter aims to encourage businesses and the public sector to intensify their efforts towards integration of the disabled, who are still twice as likely to be unemployed than non-disabled people. The State and the signatories of the Charter commit to: I continue efforts promoting employability of workers with disabilities and mainstreaming disability in the company strategy at its highest level; I participate in the evolution of the collective representation of the disabled; I promote resources devoted to the employability of people with disabilities; I share on the whole policy for advancement; I promote the exchange of best practices. To implement these commitments, an interdepartmental committee for Disability has been established between enterprises and the government ministries. As part of its determination to encouraged disabled groups to reach their potential, Capgemini France also teamed up with Cara5, a software company, in 2009 and launched new software applications to learn the basics of sign language. "Signes", proposes a lexicon of words and expressions of everyday language and life, through videos, accompanied by a description of the sign, but also a classification of words and phrases by topic including urban life, meetings, work and consumption. Also, Signes offers an option to "Store", which allows downloading of new signs made available each quarter. The application is available free on the AppStore. Capgemini France also works close with schools on disability programs. Our people  18 Building on our expertise to provide solutions for our clients Sustainability is embedded in the solutions we offer our clients. In 2010, we continued to grow our portfolio of sustainability offers and build a strong track record of helping our clients achieve their environmental objectives. We launched CapgeminiGreen – an interactive platform that brings together all of our content related to sustainability and the environment. When recommending new IT infrastructure and solutions, we can design in a green IT solution from the beginning of the project optimizing carbon savings. Working with our business partners we have developed tools and solutions that deliver significant cost and environmental savings. For example through close collaboration with Intel and Microsoft, Capgemini has developed an integrated desktop system management solution that reduces power usage and enables remote management of notebooks with Intel Centrino Pro processor technology and desktop PCs with Intel vPro processor technology. Our considerable expertise in mobile transformation solutions can increase mobile working efficiency significantly and reduces the need for unnecessary travel. Our experience of developing Smart Energy Services for utility companies and organizations around the world has helped us As we move from awareness to action in the area of sustainability, we continue to see real opportunities with our clients. Working with our clients to improve their own and their customers sustainability is a key priority across the Group. Our clients increasingly demand more focus on our own sustainability credentials as well as considering the potential solutions we can deliver. They are looking for tangible and practical results and solutions to improve their own sustainability and we are increasingly investing and developing our talent and expertise in this area. Through understanding our clients business and with our experience across industries and geographies we have a unique ability to recommend and offer tailor-made solutions to optimize their sustainability programs. Collaborating with clients Leveraging our consulting capabilities to develop action plans for our clients Taking a serious approach to improving environmental impacts requires careful planning and proper implementation plans. That is why at Capgemini we have an approach that enables our professionals to combine their knowledge in Consulting, Technology and Outsourcing to develop, integrate and accelerate tailored Sustainability action plans for clients that maximize their impacts, manage risks and identify new business opportunities. The actions for these plans are to: Identify sustainability impacts and risks Assess the likely effects of existing and forthcoming legislation Understand the technology landscape and business implications Design a sustainable development strategy Integrate sustainability priorities into operational decisions, processes and IT infrastructure Develop and deploy sustainable products and services Build tools to monitor and report progress and facilitate compliance Develop IT solutions that help you meet corporate sustainability goals. develop many ways of improving energy efficiency and related carbon savings. Some of our other initiatives include: opening our sustainable Data Center Merlin, enabling improved IT utilization rates through Infrastructure-as-a-Service; launching Intelligent Workplace; enhancing our Smart Energy Services portfolio; BPO services for Energy, Carbon & Sustainability Data Management and Reporting. Collaborating in these ways with our clients has led us to recognize the wider indirect impact we can have on sustainability and the environment through the offerings we develop with and for our clients.  19 Examples of how we work with our clients to improve sustainability Whilst the following case studies vary in solution, they are all the result of Capgeminis entrepreneurial and collaborative approach to business and our belief that our biggest environmental impact comes through enabling our clients to develop better sustainable business solutions for their customers. case study Supply chain management – Capgeminis BeLean approach Capgeminis approach to Lean Methodology (known as BeLean) provides a method to streamline client processes. Lean is a way to green processes by eliminating waste. BeLean allows companies to improve service, production, and delivery both sustaining the planet and supporting business growth. Capgemini collaborated with a large governmental agency to align its departments and processes into one focused entity. We employed the BeLean methodology to unify disparate areas, resulting in dramatic improvements that increased productivity by more than 20%. Online feature/pdf feature: : http://www.capgemini.com/services- andsolutions/consulting/supply-chainmanagement/ solutions/lean/  20 Collaborating with our clients Our thought leadership Keeping at the forefront of Thought Leadership about CSR and Sustainability enables Capgemini to offer the most innovative solutions to our client and the wider business community. Here are some of the most recent thought pieces that we have contributed to: Sustain to Save – We know from experience how adopting a sustainable approach to IT can reduce cost and improve performance. This reports looks at how businesses can gain a 10 to 20 times return on investment from sustainable IT by using an experienced partner like Capgemini. 2020 Future Value Chain: Building Strategies for the New Decade – Two hundred executives from leading retailers, consumer goods manufacturers, academics, third-party providers and industry organizations participated in the 2020 Future Value Chain project. Facilitated by The Consumer Goods Forum together with Capgemini, HP and Microsoft, this report examines the changing trends that will have the greatest impact on the industry, and the strategic objectives being put in place together with examples of tactics that can help the industry achieve these objectives. European Energy Markets Observatory 2010 – Provides a strategic overview of the European energy markets looking at key trends and issues facing electricity and gas industries. Data Center Services - Capgemini has been working with industry- leading technology partners to provide cost-effective, secure and sustainable data center services to a wide and diverse range of clients from around the world. Merlin - The Worlds Most Sustainable data center – An overview of Capgeminis newest data center, including the challenges faced and overcome, technical specifications and what this means for clients. The Story behind Merlin – Explains how the rising importance of environmental responsibility inspired Merlin. A Closer Look at Merlin – An in-depth look into the technical specifications of the Worlds most sustainable data center. Green ITIL - Capgemini explores the use of the ITIL lifecycle as part of a wider organizational approach to sustainable IT. Desktop Virtualization – How desktop virtualization technology has can change the way businesses provision their users with the desktop experience. The benefits of this technology are many and much- vaunted including acting as an enabler of greener IT and sustainable ways of working. Platts / Capgemini Utilities Executive Summary – Provides an overview of the findings of a survey of top utilities executives which aimed to identify current industry issues and assess opinions about the future of the energy industry. Smart Electricity: Threat and Promise – Discusses how Smart technology, combined with changing consumer demands, will have some hitherto unforeseen effects on retailers. The Smart Grid: Where to Start – Provides insights and recommendations for building a strong Smart Grid foundation. Electric Vehicles – Explores how the growth of electric powered vehicles will lead to a fundamental shift in the existing landscape in areas such as design and manufacturing, distribution and after sales service, and energy supply and infrastructure. Capgemini has the supporting tools and methodologies to help bring together these key stakeholders in the emerging electric vehicle business. The Smart Grid: Where to Start – This report focuses on each of the five critical behind the scenes issues that utilities will inevitably face in deploying a Smart Grid. Decarbonate your Business – Investigates how the Decarbonation of the economy will remain a major trend for the foreseeable future. For companies, decarbonating activities are a long-term undertaking that requires a long term vision. Home Energy Management System – Discusses the range of services Capgemini is developing for utilities to connect them directly with their customers, helping both to meet their energy management objectives. This reports looks at one of these platforms, the Intel Home Dashboard. Distributed Generation – Investigates giving customers a choice in energy sources. Online features can be found at http://www.capgemini.com/ insights-and-resources/by-publication/tab=1&business- need=0&industry=0&alliance-partner=0&solution =0&document_type=207D/ 2018: Succeeding in a Volatile Market – Examines the changing trends and dynamics that will impact the consumer product and retail industry in the coming decade. The report looks at critical environmental issues such as the projected limited availability of raw materials. Online feature / pdf feature: http://www.capgemini.com/services-and-solutions/byindustry/ consumer-products/2018_future_value_chain/ Future Supply Chain 2016: Serving consumers in a sustainable way Considers what the current focus on sustainability has to do with on- shelf availability and costs in the physical supply chain for consumer goods. The answer is everything. Online feature / pdf feature: http://www.capgemini.com/insights-and-resources/ bypublication/future_supply_chain_2016/ Benefiting the environment and your business: As the importance of eco-sustainability grows, organizations need to reduce their impact on the environment and improve their corporate responsibility and sustainability practices. This thought piece looks at how IT can play a key role in helping companies reduce their carbon footprint. Online feature / pdf feature: http://www.capgemini.com/services-andsolutions/outsourcing/ green-it/overview/  21 Keeping at the forefront of Thought Leadership about Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability enables Capgemini to offer the most innovative solutions to our client and the wider business community. case study Merlin – one of the most sustainable data centers in the world Capgemini committed to achieving a step-change improvement in data center sustainability while continuing to grow capacity. This required an increase in immediate and developable capacity and a net reduction in carbon emissions. One of the main objectives for the new data center was to improve energy efficiency by 40% compared with the global average for large data center. The modular concept is the first of its kind and is a significant innovation in the way that it breaks down the traditional data center concept into smaller, more efficient, cost-effective and sustainable modules. The modules were constructed using 95% recyclable components, sourced from within 100 miles of the center, which was developed on a brownfield site. The near- total fresh air cooling system is a green innovation which is both resource- and power-efficient. Key to Merlins approach to electrical efficiency is the implementation of a flywheel Uninterruptable Power Supply (UPS) solution to drive out hazardous waste, rather than a traditional dirty battery-based approach. It was a radical design, involving a high degree of genuine innovation. We have proved that achieving high resiliency in a "Green" design at a competitive price point in the Data Center market is absolutely achievable and should be the way forward for all data center operators. case study (EUC) Capgemini smart energy services: real solutions in the market now Capgeminis Smart Energy Services supports utilities and their customers by delivering sustainable energy efficiency and environmental solutions, and transforming utility operations and customer fulfillment. The new global service line will provide the full spectrum of smart metering, smart grid, smart home solutions and smart analytics to be utilities across the globe. The offering leverages a range of proven services and best practices successfully developed by Capgemini since 2004 working with more than 20 North American and European utilities. Also central to our Smart Energy Services is the companys proprietary Managed Business Services, a usage-based pricing model designed to offer greater flexibility for the utility, which reduces risk by minimizing large upfront capital expenditure. Online feature/pdf feature (film): http://www.capgemini.com/services-and-solutions/by- industry/energy/solutions/smart-energy-services Integrated Thin-Client Managed Services Today, environmental sustainability and reducing exposure to volatile energy prices are joining the traditional priorities of reducing costs and downtime at the top of corporate agendas. Evolving work practices and workforce mobility also present a challenge to IT security. Capgeminis Integrated Thin-Client Managed Service helps clients face these challenges and benefit from reductions in costs, complexity and carbon footprint. Thin client is an architecture that transfers processing, as well as applications and data storage, from the desktop to Data Center-based servers. Desktop devices are replaced by low-function, low-maintenance devices that have no local operating system to configure. These enable access to applications on virtually any platform delivering cost reduction and greener IT with reduced carbon reduction. Online feature / pdf feature: http://www.capgemini.com/servicesandsolutions/outsourcing/infrastru ctureoutsourcing/solutions/workplace-services/thin-client/  22 Collaborating with our clients  23 Client & external recognition Capgemini can work with clients to improve their ability to have a more positive impact and meet their CSR and Sustainability objectives. We received a wide range of awards and recognition in 2010: I Capgemini won the Partner Impact Award for Innovation at the Teradata Partners User Group Conference in San Diego for the second year running. The global leader in enterprise data warehousing rewards organizations that have had profound impact on their success in the past year, and collaborate with them for greater alignment and increased joint business activities. I Capgemini Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) won the Best Improvement Project in Service and Transaction category award issued by International Quality and Productivity Center (IQPC). More than 120 organizations participated in the competition across the world. The IQPC Process Excellence Awards recognizes and promotes Six Sigma and quality improvement projects that demonstrate true best practices, and works to expand and increase the application of Six Sigma globally. Our client focus is reflected in how our people feel: in our 2010 Global Employee Survey 91% of our people strongly agree that they feel personally responsible for their clients satisfaction.  24 Capgemini in the communi Our approach: education and diversity Capgemini actively encourages employees at all levels to get involved in the communities in which we live and work, and to donate time, energy and creativity to them. Our conviction is that education is the key to help countries and communities develop; our focus is to help build skills for the future. We acknowledge that diversity is a source of richness and competitive advantage and our aim is to support diversity and nurture future talent in all its forms. Our community activities range from partnerships with various foundations, to fundraising drives and direct financial contribution to a wide range of volunteer projects. Our intention is to provide as many opportunities as we can for our employees to engage in actions for which they have passion and commitment. Community programs are therefore at three levels in the organization; global, national and local. We are keen to ensure that our community programs make a significant and long term positive impact and that we continue to develop opportunities for our people to be involved with our initiatives. As a major global employer we work on both national and international levels with local authorities and organizations on community projects. We believe that improving access to education and supporting diversity are key drivers that enable us to help eradicate poverty and continue contributing towards the UN Millennium Development Goal. At Group level we have focused on several major global programs working together with the Naandi Foundation, and PlaNet Finance. Additionally we encourage national and local community engagement in order to create as many opportunities for our people to get involved. Initiatives range from established programs like the Princes Trust in the UK and WeKare in India, to new local initiatives like building school class rooms in Guatemala to tactical but urgent support for earthquake victims in Chile and victims of the severe flooding in northern Brazil.  25 y  Capgemini in the commu Whats really worked is the fact that there are a lot of Naandi evangelists in the Capgemini world! Each country office now has an ambassador for Naandi and theres nothing more credible than one of your employees – who has been there, seen it, and done it – coming back and talking about it Manoj Kumar, CEO of the Naandi Foundation. Manoj Kumar, CEO of the Naandi Foundation   Our global community programs The Naandi Foundation We have a strong partnership with the Naandi Foundations Nanhi Kali initiative in India. The Nanhi Kali program is focused on sponsoring girls education, a group who are often discriminated against. Our partnership offers Indian girls dignity, education, equality and empowerment: the same attributes that our people seek for themselves from the company they work for. It is about changing the way we think, fostering multiculturalism as we become a truly open and diverse company, and about changing the lives of the girls we support. North America Program deployed Supports >20 girls Community visits to Nanhi Kali schools by new campus recruits and executives. UK Program deployed Supports >2900 girls Naandi ASE Talent (Group level) Successful 2007 & 2008 e-card initiative and IWD Celebration initiative Supporting 150 girls BPW Event June 2008 Naandi Awareness Event Supporting 80 girls Portugal Christmas Card Initiative Germany Art Camp Event & Auction Christmas Card Initiative. Slovakia SISp Rightshore supports >18 girls Sweden power of 10 Initiative Supports >2100 girls Norway Naandi Norway Launched. Supports >5030 girls. Christmas Card Initiative. Art Camp and Auction Finland Naandi Integrated in Leadership Development Support >200 girls. India Power of 50 Initiative supporting over 1600 girls Australia Program deployed 1 December 08. Supports >260 girls 26 A snapshot as at the end of 2010 Capgemini sponsors over 12,000 girls in India This project provides holistic support to ensure that many girls from the poorest backgrounds can take advantage of the opportunities that a good education will provide them. This support includes not just teachers and materials, but also support for the girls families to enable them to send their daughters to school. In 2010, we sponsored over 12,000 girls in India as a result of several schemes and initiatives across the Group and we are currently the largest corporate sponsor internationally and the second largest overall. Nanhi Kahli has been formally adopted as a CSR and Sustainability initiative in Capgemini.  27 ty case study Naandi Norway win Harry Hole award Naandi Norway, which was established in 2007 at the initiative of Capgemini Norway was the first Naandi Foundation outside of India. What started as a friendship between Capgemini India and Capgemini Norway while looking for ways to support the Rightshore strategy and to promote understanding and cooperation, has now grown into a truly global Capgemini Group program and a strong Naandi-Capgemini relationship. Naandi Norway has launched a voluntary contribution program for employees who wish to support the foundation. Naandi Norway received the first ever Harry Hole Award in November 2009. This prize, funded by famous Norwegian crime novelist, Jo Nesb, is named after his crime novel hero Harry Hole. The prize is awarded to organizations working to prevent illiteracy. Many parts of the Group are now supporting the Naandi Foundation and this support is growing all the time. case study Our global Sogeti & PlaNet finance partnersip Our local Professional Services business Sogeti has been a partner of PlaNet Finance since its creation in 1998, a partnership that has made a significant contribution to alleviating poverty in some of the worlds poorest communities. PlaNet Finance is an international non-profit organization created to reduce poverty in the world through the development of microfinance. Sogetis support for PlaNet Finance is not just about giving money, but about offering our know-how, providing technological expertise and critical IT systems support, saving money and time, and so enabling PlaNet Finance to invest even more money in microfinance initiatives. Since 2005, we have managed PlaNet Finances computer system by hosting computer applications including intranet, electronic messaging and on-line training as well as providing the services for its human resources. Sogeti sponsored the 2nd International Conference Microfinance and New Technologies which was held in Marrakech in 2010. New technology represents a key driver for the evolution of the microfinance sector. The objective of the conference was to reinforce the synergies between the two sectors in order to develop the use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) in the microfinance sphere. Sogeti also sponsored the Micro Finance Awards in Paris for the third year in a row. A jury awarded prizes to the best microfinance entrepreneurs in six categories. PlaNet Finance Italy supports local activities and has been actively involved in the University Meets Microfinance (UMM) initiative. This educational project was launched by PlaNet Finance and Freie Universitt Berlin and is co-funded by the European Commission. It aims to promote microfinance to managers of the future. Five scholarships to Italian Universities are granted each year, plus an additional award for the best thesis on microfinance.  28 Capgemini in the communi case study WeKare case studies WeKare in Jagriti WeKare is now active in three Indian cities. In Pune, WeKare is very active with the Jagriti Blind School for Girls, providing the girls with much-needed practical help. . This partner NGO of WeKare was shortlisted for a financial grant from one of our Capgemini North America clients. WeKare collaborated with the clients India team and donated a Braille digital display machine called Braille Mitra and to organize training programs for visually challenged girls to give them skills required for them to be self-sufficient. Gaming Olympiad of Disaster and Climate (GoDaC) Gaming Olympiad of Disaster and Climate (GoDaC) is an innovative contest conducted by the NGO Global Challenge Award and its partner Neeti Solutions. Capgemini and WeKare offered their infrastructure and volunteers to this event. About 500 students from various schools participated in this event. The winners of the event participated in the World Environment Conference in Copenhagen. Our 2010 priorities for WeKare I Inform, involve and engage more associates from Capgemini in volunteering and financial contributions I Implement strategies to leverage the existing partnerships to create sustainable change which can be measured I Work towards increasing the efficiency, scalability and sustainability of WeKare Global Financial Services and WeKare Our Global Financial Services business supports WeKare, a registered society dedicated to improving the lives of the under-privileged in India. It started in Pune in 2004, when a group of team members from the Business Analysts training program wanted to make a difference to the lives of those who are less privileged.. WeKare is driven by the Senior Leadership in the organization and executed by the group of team members who are committed to the purpose. What started as a small idea in one of Capgeminis training classrooms has evolved into a 150+ volunteer strong organization working with close to 50 partners across 3 major cities of India today. Its scope is: I Reach out to people, places, or organizations that receive little or no financial aid/support from NGOs or other organizations I Enable us to see the results of our efforts I Have a management team already in place to take care of the operational tasks I Provide us the scope for our long term involvement I Allow our employees the opportunity to change the lives of people I Can be sustained by our contributions in terms of time, effort, and money within our means. The activities supported by WeKare cover a huge range of projects including: I A leprosy rehabilitation centre I A school for blind children I Working for womens welfare in rural areas I Helping poor and needy in slum areas I Mental Health rehabilitation I A school for deaf and dumb people  29 y Selection of national and local initiatives around the group Capgemini Italy provided financial support to help rebuild Santa Maria ad Cryptas, an ancient church in Abruzzo, which was damaged by the earthquake in 2009. We will continue to support the second phase of restoration in 2011. Capgemini Guatemala received the United Way Heroes Volunteerism Award through its local representative Fondo Unido. Over 800 Capgemini and Transactel employees took part in a day of service, which became the largest volunteering activity of the year. The day was dedicated to build three classrooms for children with Down Syndrome. Capgemini UK continues to work with The Princes Trust, which provides training, mentoring and financial assistance that has helped more than half a million disadvantaged people over the past 30 years. We are celebrating the fulfillment of our patronage in 2011 having raised over 1 million over 3 years. case study Seniors for Talents in the Netherlands Capgemini Netherlands has created the initiative "Seniors for Talents" in order to help young, ambitious, and motivated young people who left school but have not (yet) been successful in finding their first job. Senior managers of Capgemini, together with senior managers in Capgeminis client environment, are organized and linked via the LinkedIn group "Seniors for Talents" The mission of these managers is to help a young person to start/boost his/her career by giving them access to their established networks, knowledge and experience. Based on this initiative Capgemini was rewarded as Most Corporate Socially Responsible ICT Company of the Year. Two of our Dutch senior managers received the Award. Capgemini Australia employees have donated to the relief fund for the 2011 Queensland flood crisis. Capgemini Australia matched the donations and contributed this to the Queensland Flood relief effort. Capgemini Canada continues its support of the United Way with employees raising over 75,000 in 2010. Local SCENE teams from Capgemini North America (Supporting, Celebrating, Enriching Networking Employees) organize charity, sporting, cultural and hands on community events. BPO Americas and Capgemini Guatemala support Nios del Lago (Children of the Lake), a charity organization committed to helping impoverished children in Guatemala and improve their quality of life. In 2010, Capgemini provided significant financial contributions, along with our client partner Coca-Cola enterprises. The Capgemini Guatemala site held numerous activities to generate funds for NDL. Capgemini matched the amount raised and we contributed over 9,000 to NDL. Capgemini France and Sogeti have partnered with an organization called Nos Quartiers ont des Talents for the past five years. This association aims to help young graduates from disadvantaged areas find employment. Thirty employees at Sogeti, some of whom are members of the executive committee, are mentoring graduates. In 2010, a ceremony was held in the Stadium of Toulouse to celebrate the launch of Nos Quartiers ont des Talents in Midi-Pyrenees. This launch was an opportunity for Capgemini and Sogeti to confirm their commitment to the organization and mobilize local teams. In 2010, Capgemini and Sogeti participated in the national meetings of Nos Quartiers ont des Talents where the teams met over 150 young people.  30 Working with suppliers & b We are committed to working with our suppliers and business partners in an ethical and responsible way. They are important stakeholders and our collaboration is an important part of our business. We are determined to ensure that our stakeholders operate ethically and minimize our impact on the environment. We will use our business know how to leverage improvements from our suppliers and partners. Our selection of supplier relationships is directly determined by a clear and transparent procurement strategy. Our procurement policy respects the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. As we have a sustainable procurement program we have the strength to collaborate with leading business partners such as Intel, Microsoft and CISCO to enable us to help develop and create new applications for innovative IT solutions creating tailored solutions for our clients to improve their sustainability. Ethical procurement Capgemini has set out Guidelines on Ethical Procurement which guide our procurement functions. In our purchasing activities, we are conscious of our impacts especially around our social impact, human rights, environmental repercussions and anti-bribery and corruption. Our procurement procedures include treating suppliers fairly; selecting vendors based on value, performance, price and sustainability; and providing justifiable and transparent selection decisions. This enables us to develop long-term, sustainable relations with selected suppliers. Sustainable procurement program Capgemini has developed a program referred to as Sustainable Procurement in Partnership, which reviews our main categories of goods and services procured from suppliers. The program encompasses: I review of our supplier base in terms of risk and size of spend. I full review of prioritized suppliers using our CSR and Sustainability questionnaire to assess supplier performance compared with our principles and agree any action if required. I assessment of all new suppliers, who are required to complete a questionnaire. Working with our business partners to create solutions to improve sustainability Sustainable desktop strategy: Energy savings with Instinct 2.0 Working closely with Intel and Microsoft, Capgemini has developed an integrated desktop system management solution that reduces power usage and enables remote management of notebooks with Intel Centrino Pro processor technology and desktop PCs with Intel vPro processor technology. The hardware-based capabilities enable Capgemini to perform updates, troubleshoot PCs, isolate systems, and remediate problems without leaving the service center. These capabilities are available anytime, even when PC power is off, an operating system (OS) is unresponsive, management agents are missing, or hardware (such as a hard drive) has failed. Intels latest processors can offer a power reduction of up to 40% compared to previous generations of processors. The Capgemini solution is a prebuilt integration of Intel Centrino Pro and Intel vPro processor technology and the Microsoft Windows Vista Operating System. The result is an advanced system management capability that further optimizes power savings without additional costs.  31 siness partners case study Commitment to sustainable procurement across the group A detailed survey has been undertaken and our suppliers are expected to comply with our Core Principles of Sustainability. In 2008 our Procurement community began assessing all of their top suppliers based on risk and spend. As of the December 2010, the sustainability review now encompasses 82% of Capgemini spend. 2,135 suppliers have been reviewed or are in the process of being reviewed. Sustainable procurement principles 1. Human rights – Respect for human rights when dealing with supplier stakeholders at large. Suppliers should support the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 2. Compliance with applicable international, national, state and local laws – We recognize that local customs, traditions and practices may differ but expect that suppliers comply at least with local, national and international laws, including (but not limited to) all environmental, health and safety and labor laws. We expect suppliers to support International Labor Organization core conventions on labor standards. 3. No forced or compulsory labor – Our suppliers must not use forced, bonded or compulsory labor and employees must be free to leave their employment after reasonable notice. 4. Child labor – We refuse to accept the use of child labor in the supply chain. 5. Equality and diversity – We refuse to accept unlawful discrimination of any kind in working relations and we expect diversity to be promoted. 6. Employee wellbeing and development – Where applicable, suppliers should give consideration to flexible working conditions to foster a work/life balance and to foster the personal development and training of team members. 7. Disciplinary practices – Employees must be treated with respect and dignity. Any physical or verbal abuse, harassment, threats and/or other forms of intimidation are prohibited. 8. Freedom of association – Insofar as permissible by the relevant laws, respect should be given for freedom of association. 9. Health and safety – A safe and healthy working environment for all employees must be provided in accordance with international standards, laws and regulations. 10. Confidentiality and intellectual property – We require our suppliers, contractors and their team members to preserve the confidentiality of any information to which they have access in accordance with applicable laws. We also expect them to protect all intellectual property belonging to Capgemini, its customers, suppliers and/or individuals. 11. Refusal of bribery and corruption in business practices. 12. Environmental impacts – We are continuing to put processes in place to understand our environmental impacts and risks. We are working to reduce these impacts and to implement environment-friendly policies. Feature:http://www.uk.capgemini.com/about/sustainability/ supplierrelations/procurement-principles/  32 Recognizing our impact on case study Our environmental priorities To ensure we comply with local and international environmental legislation, the Group is rolling out a worldwide approach to environmental protection which includes: I identifying the material environmental impacts made by national subsidiaries; I ensuring our people, suppliers and contractors take the environmental impacts of decisions into consideration; I deploying leading practice tools and technology where appropriate; I establishing indicators to monitor progress; and I seeking ways to leverage and adapt our business expertise and technology capabilities to help our clients address their own environmental challenges and impacts. Energy consumption in offices and data centers We continue to monitor our power consumption actively in our office and data centers with a view to reduction. Following our successful launch of Merlin, one of the worlds most sustainable data centers, we are actively seeking to leverage the technology and experience in other data centers. We also provide training in environmental compliance for facilities and property managers. Energy efficient business practices and technologies are expected to be considered and adopted as appropriate for relevant capital projects such as refurbishments or when opening new office buildings. Capgemini UK wins place in The Sunday Times Best Green Companies List For the second year running Capgemini UK has been awarded a place on the Sunday Times prestigious Green List for 2010, improving our ranking by an impressive eight places to 49th. The awards set out to identify and celebrate the achievements of British businesses that are striving to improve their environmental performance. Competition for places is extremely high and only those organizations demonstrating the highest environmental standards with engaged employees make the list. Environmental performance is measured through a robust methodology and by surveying employees to ensure that our standards and procedures are executed all the way through the organization. As a service provider we recognize that our main impacts on the environment are energy use, business travel and waste management. Long term sustainability is key and we endeavor to increase employee awareness, reduce our impact and increase our positive contribution. To ensure we continue to improve in this area we are increasingly rolling out stronger environmental programs and focus across the Group. Our approach complements the work we do as a service provider to help our clients maximize their sustainability impact.  33 the environment  34 Recognizing our impact on case study LiveComms across the group Group Communications has rolled out a campaign to promote greater awareness and usage around our available virtual collaboration tools – called LiveComms. LiveComms is the line of services provided by the Group to facilitate real-time communication and collaboration, including enriching understanding of our Group Instant Messaging service and our new Live Videoconferencing Services. Business travel We have continued to optimize the use of virtual collaboration tools, such as videoconferencing and messenger services to facilitate remote and flexible working. This capability has enabled us to reduce business travel, in particular between our offices in India and locations in Europe and North America without sacrificing valuable face-time with clients. In many countries we are addressing the emissions from our company car fleets through approaches such as setting emission caps or by promoting hybrid vehicles.  35 the environment case study ISO14001 certification in UK, the Netherlands and Belgium In 2009, Capgemini UK, Capgemini Netherlands and Sogeti Netherlands achieved ISO14001 certification for their environmental management systems. In 2010, Capgemini Belgium also received certification. Our external auditors at Capgemini UK remarked that the UK has a comprehensive and transparent system, parts of which in their view are world-leading. The Dutch external auditor (KEMA) remarked that the essentials of ISO 14001 are well understood throughout the concerned staff. Green Beacon certificate for Capgemini Norway June 5 is commemorated each year as the World Environment Day where the United Nations stimulates worldwide awareness of the environment and enhances political attention and action. On this significant date, Capgemini Norway became the first large IT Company in Norway to be honored with the Miljfyrtrn or Green Beacon certificate in a ceremony at Oslo Town Hall. Miljfyrtrn is a national certification scheme intended for Waste management Capgemini aims to recycle waste materials as far as possible by providing recycling facilities in our offices, environmentally friendly disposal and recycling of electronic equipment in accordance with local laws and using appropriately certified / licensed organizations to remove special waste. IT asset management and procurement We continue to deploy new IT equipment that requires less energy. We run communication campaigns to encourage our employees to switch-off and unplug their equipment when not in use. In our procurement activities we take into account environmental aspects when purchasing new equipment. private and public companies. To achieve this certification, Capgemini Norway improved its environmental performance on a number of measures. These included reducing consumption of water and electricity; cutting back on travelling (using video conferences wherever possible); optimizing the use of office space; introducing routines to ensure our suppliers and partners meet our high standards and separating and recycling all rubbish, including hardware and hazardous waste. Trophe de lInnovation et du Dveloppement Durable (TIDD) In France, Capgemini Consulting partnered with five prestigious universities to reward four projects offering sustainable development innovation. The eight participating teams were supervised by Capgemini consultants before presenting their project, and attending a prize ceremony. The challenge for the 24 students participating in this event was to find solutions to meet the challenges of sustainable economic development. The event was supported by major French newspaper La Tribune and allowed the students to implement concrete projects while benefiting from the expertise of Capgemini Consulting team members.  We welcome the measurement and evaluation of our CSR and Sustainability performance by respected third parties. Although we have shown continued improved performance, we recognize that there will always be room for improvement and better ways of achieving our objectives. Measurement and evaluation gives us a clearer vision and evaluation of our achievements, targets and priorities in each area. Analysts Results from Forresters green IT survey of enterprises and small and medium-size businesses (SMBs) indicate that green IT adoption remained steady in 2010 and that it still forms a vital part of many IT organizations strategy. Evidence already exists of the increased importance of IT for green: Capgemini, for instance, launched its new global service line Smart Energy Services, which supports the utility service industry. [Market Update: The State Of Green IT Adoption Q2 2010, Forrester Research, Inc., July 12, 2010]. Forresters report on Sustainability Consulting Services evaluated the level of capability providers had for each service offering in three different categories: IT energy and resource efficiency (green IT); IT-enabled green business processes (IT-for-green); and Corporate sustainability planning & governance (green business). Forrester predicts the sustainability consulting services market will be a $9.6 Billion Market in 2015. How we measure up The Sunday Times voted Capgemini UK as one of the 60 Best Green Companies for the past two years. 36  37 Capgemini University wins the Golden Learning award from the Chief Learning Officer, a magazine and network of publications. Capgemini Group rated C+ in the Oekom Research AG Corporate Rating Index. The result classified Capgemini Group as Prime consequently qualifying our tradable bonds and shares for ecologically and socially based investment. The report highlights the importance of sustainability in our business: Sustainability is core to Capgeminis strategy, which is reflected in its organization as an international team with key contact personnel in each respective country. The closing notes of the report offer advice to market leaders: We recommend that vendor strategists and green practice leaders continue to broaden their service offerings, helping clients to fit green IT within a broader context of corporate sustainability initiatives. [Capitalizing on the Sustainability Consulting Services Opportunity, Forrester Research, Inc., October 1, 2010. A report from NelsonHall highlights our UK Environment Agency win. Strategically, it is one of the first green outsource contracts: green IT has tended to be centered on hardware and data centre organization topics. This extends the field of Green IT into IT services and IT outsourcing with procurement centered on wider sustainability issues. [NelsonHall: Capgemini Awarded 7-Year IT Outsourcing Contract by U.K.s Environment Agency, Dominique Raviart, 13 November 2010]. NelsonHall reported on the launch of Capgeminis new Global Service Line, Smart Energy Services, which marks the last of five initiatives in Capgeminis Business As Unusual Program. The report reports Capgemini estimates that over the next 10 years it has the opportunity to generate up to 4bn (~$5.6bn) revenue from its activities in smart meter projects, and potentially at least as much from initiatives around the Smart Home and euros12bn (~$16.8bn) in revenue from its activities supporting smart grid initiatives. [NelsonHall: Capgemini Launches 'Smart Energy' Global Service Line Rachael Stormonth, 18 March 2010]. NelsonHall recently reported on the opening of Merlin, Capgeminis new green datacenter in Swindon, UK, commenting that Overall, the opening of the Merlin datacenter puts Capgemini in a space where we were not expecting it to be. So far, green IT was a topic reserved for hardware and datacenter equipment manufacturers, not IT service vendors. The analyst wrote that Capgemini has taken the approach that the cost of operating a green datacenter should not be more expensive than a classic one. [NelsonHall: Capgemini Opens New Energy-Efficient Datacenter in U.K., Dominique Raviart, 11 October 2010]. A report by Verdantix identified Capgemini as a Specialist supplier of sustainable technology services (as typified by deep capabilities in focused technology areas, broad portfolios of emerging sustainable technology services and internal sustainability programs under development). The Green Quadrant Matrix methodology is a comparison which characterizes market alternatives for buyers of a product or service. Capgemini was compared with 14 other suppliers of sustainable technology services under the categories of capabilities and market momentum. Capgemini scored best in class for Data Centre energy efficiency for our Merlin Data Centre. [Verdantix: Green Quadrant Sustainable Technology Services, January 2011].  38 How we measure up Financial indexes In 2010, Capgemini was included in the ECPI Ethical Index Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). ECPI is a research agency dedicated to Environmental, Social and governance (ESG) research and index development, calculation and publication. ECPI monitors more than 4,000 issuers companies, governments, agencies etc from an environmental risk, social impact, and corporate governance perspective. Capgemini has been selected for inclusion in the Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Registers since 2007. It was reconfirmed for inclusion in 2010 and is being monitored regarding its CSR profile since then. Forum ETHIBELs mission is both to advance Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) and to increase awareness of sustainable development by creating high quality, visible SRI products in the market. These Investment Registers form the basis for the European Collective Quality labels ETHIBEL PIONEER and ETHIBEL EXCELLENCE, which is awarded to investment funds and financial products only. Our Global OS business ranked fourth in the Green Outsourcing Survey overall, measured by the Black Book Top Green Outsourcing Vendors survey, based on client feedback. Regionally we can first in Europe and Australia. Oracle's "Enable the Eco-Enterprise" awards ac- knowledge the environmental leadership of its customers, recognizing 15 worldwide customers and their respective partners from a wide-range of industries. Capgemini was named winning partner of San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) for supporting them in their eco-initiative. Capgemini UK has achieved the WWF One in Five Challenge Award, an initiative which challenges companies to reduce the number of business flights taken. The progress made by Capgemini towards achieving the One in Five Challenge has been noteworthy during this short period and JMP has verified that a 20% reduction in flying has been achieved compared to the baseline year. VIGEO - Vigeo assesses Capgemini every two years. In 2010, our ratings report assessed Capgemini as demonstrating responsive behavior on sustainability issues, linked to an overall high level of sustainability reporting for the sector. We performed above average on the Human Rights and Business Behavior domains. Our Human Resources performance has improved since the last ratings report and is highly ranked thanks to strong commitments disclosed on issues under review and relevant means to ensure the professional development of our workforce. Capgeminis environmental training, commitment to environmental management and monitoring of environmental indicators contributed to a strong score in the Environmental strategy and eco-design sustainability driver. Our overall rating improved for 2010 compared to 2007. The Merlin Data Centre won The Green Data Centre award at the Data Center Leaders Awards for the strength of its successful balance of top-class operational performance and achievement of ambitious sustainability and green objectives. 38  00 At Capgemini we are optimistic about the future. We recognize that improving CSR and Sustainability is very much a journey with a continual need for improvement, however we feel confident that we will continue to build on the significant progress made over the last two years. Our optimism is built on our proven ability to work with our business partners and stakeholders to create new improved tools and solutions to improve sustainability, as well as our ability to leverage our business to ensure our suppliers conform to best practice in CSR and Sustainability. As we collaborate with our clients to utilize our tools and solutions we can appreciate the potential power we have to enable them to create a positive impact through their customers and consumers. All this is made possible by harnessing the potential of our people who are all keen to make their individual contribution to ensuring we keep on our journey to safeguarding the future for everyone. looking forward to the future Everyone at Capgemini is proud of the ethical and sustainable way we work and is determined to use their talents and expertise to ensure they can continue to be proud of the part the Group is playing in ensuring the future is a good place for all of us to do business and to live Paul Hermelin, Group CEO 39