a 3 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group Balance Company | Social Responsibility | Environment | Corporate Citizenship www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group Issue 2011  The Lufthansa Group stays on course An airports illuminated runways and taxiways show directly what counts  most in aviation: staying on course. For Lufthansa, this refers not only to res- ponsibility in navigational, technical and operational areas, but also to the  sustainable development of the company as a whole. This concern has been  firmly anchored in the Groups Guidelines for many years. For this reason we  continuously improve climate and environmental care, treat our employees  responsibly and fairly, and actively get involved as a company in numerous  social issues. The satisfaction of our customers has the highest priority in  everything we do. This is how we will stay on course in the future as well. You will find further information on sustainability  within the Lufthansa Group at: www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Order your copy of our Annual Report 2010 at: www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations  Balance 2011 1 a Editorial information Published by Deutsche Lufthansa AG Corporate Communications, FRA CI Senior Vice President: Klaus Walther Concept, text and editors Deutsche Lufthansa AG FRA CI/B, in cooperation with various departments and Petra Menke Redaktionsbro Design and production organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH Copy deadline April 15, 2011 Photo credits Ingrid Friedl (cover) Flughafen Mnchen GmbH (page 26, 44) Boeing (page 28) Fraport AG (page 43) AARP (page 56) Jens Grlich (page 87, 91) Shakeel Qureshi (page 89) Paul A. Rauh (page 93) NatureLife-International (page 94 top) Grzenich Orchester (page 97) Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive Paper Content: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper made from 100 % recycled paper. Produced without optical brigh- tening agents, without chlorine bleach.   Certificate: Environmental label   The Blue Angel – RAL-UZ 14. Cover: LuxoSamtoffset, FSC-certified. Reprints, including excerpts, only with written   permission from the publisher and by citing   Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the source (text and ima- ges). In this case we ask that you send us a   copy or clipping. Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany ISSN 1612-0906 1 Source: Lufthansa Annual Report 2010. 2 For the reporting year 2010 the following companies are   included: Lufthansa Passenger Airlines (including Lufthansa  Italia and Lufthansa Regional: Lufthansa CityLine, Air   Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg Airways),   Lufthansa Cargo, SWISS, Austrian Airlines and bmi.   Excluding the share of third parties as Lufthansa can   influence neither performance nor the equipment used   (see also table Share of third parties on page 66). 3 Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and   charter flights. 4 See also table Fuel consumption on page 66. 5 Companies referred to as in 2, but including the services   of third parties, as these contribute to the Groups results.   Types of flights as in 3, but including ferry flights, as these  represent costs. 6 Balance: aircraft operated by the Group; Annual Report:  aircraft in the Groups possession. See also the overview  Group fleet on page 29. 7 Balance: segments (operational perspective); Annual Report:  distance (customer perspective); one distance can include  several segments, e.g. in the event of stops en route. 8 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard; Annual   Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers.  Balance 2011 2 a At a glance  At a glance i Business performance data1 2010 2009 Change Revenue million  27,324 22,283 + 22.6 %  of which traffic revenue million  22,268 17,604 + 26.5 % Operating result million  876 130 + 573.8 % Profit/loss from operating activities million  1,240 271 + 357.6 % Net profit/loss for the period million  1,131 - 34 Total assets million  29,320 26,392 + 11.1 % Cash flow from operating activities million  3,075 1,991 + 54.4 % Capital expenditure million  2,273 2,405 – 5.5 % Equity ratio percent 28.4 23.5 + 4.9 PP Personnel data 2010 2009 Change Number of employees (on 31.12., respectively) 117,019 117,521 – 0.4 %  of these, in Germany 65,159 64,741 + 0.7 %  of these, outside Germany 51,860 52,780 – 1.7 % Staff costs1 million  6,659 5,996 + 11.1 % Revenue/employee1  233,407 198,384 + 17.7 % Staff costs/revenue1 percent  24.4 26.9 –  2.5 PP Average age years  40.7 40.3 + 0.4 Y  Part-time ratio, absolute percent  26.8 26.9 – 0.1 PP Part-time ratio, men percent  13.5 14.0 –  0.5 PP Part-time ratio, women percent  43.5 42.7 + 0.8 PP Share of women in management percent  13.3 14.7 – 1.4 PP Environmental data2, 3 2010 2009 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption4 tonnes 8,459,255 7,680,708 + 10.1 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l/100 pkm 4.20 4.30 – 2.4 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g/tkm 231 243 – 5.0 % Emissions Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 26,646,655 24,194,229 + 10.1 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg/100 pkm 10.58 10.84 – 2.4 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 134,744 112,645 + 19.6 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 53.5 50.0 + 7.0 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 19,640 17,376 + 13.0 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 8.6 8.5 + 1.8 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 2,109 1,982 + 6.4 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 0.9 0.9 – 4.1 % Transport performance data Balance2, 3 Change Annual Report5 Change Size of fleet (on December 31, 2010)6 672 – 16  710 – 12 Number of flights7 982,459 + 11.7 % 1,021,266 + 13.5 % Passengers carried 88,470,605 + 16.2 % 91,157,195 + 17.9 % Freight and mail carried tonnes 2,022,670 + 18.2 % 2,022,670 + 18.2 % Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 228,615 + 11.3 % 235,837 + 13.3% Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 14,193 + 3.7 % 15,430 + 7.4 % Tonne kilometers offered, TKO million tkm 36,894 + 8.3 % 39,000 + 10.0 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT8 million pkm 187,192 + 12.5 % 187,000 + 15.2 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 9,405 + 16.8 % 10,491 + 20.5 % Tonne kilometers transported, TKT million tkm 28,245 + 14.3 % 29,033 + 16.4 %  a 3 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group Our environmental balance sheet also developed   in positive ways. The specific fuel consumption  of our fleet continued to decline and reached the  lowest value in the history of the Group at 4.2  liters of fuel per 100 passenger kilometers. Our  continuous and significant investments in modern  and efficient aircraft are paying off. The Lufthansa     Airbus A380 fully meets the expectations we  placed on it. Its specific fuel consumption stood  at 3.4 liters in 2010. Coinciding with rising  demand, we were able to put our first four A380s  into service last year and we will take delivery of  four additional A380s in the course of this year. Lufthansas new management team, which as - sumed responsibility on January 1, has set itself   high goals for 2011. My colleagues and I on the  Executive Board – Stephan Gemkow, Stefan  Lauer and Carsten Spohr – will keep the com- pany on course in 2011 and continue to develop  it with care. In doing so, we count on a solid  financial basis and long-term value creation  across the Group because these are the funda- mental prerequisites for meeting our responsibility  vis--vis customers, employees and the environ- ment. Even though there are numerous impon- derables for the development of business in 2011  – such as the volatility in the price of kerosene,  extreme pressure from competition and on fares,  particularly in Europe, and the air transport tax  newly introduced in Germany – we believe that  we are well equipped to master these challenges  successfully. Thank you for your interest in our company.   I wish you an interesting read and perhaps some  new insights from this issue of our Sustainability  Report. Christoph Franz Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO   Deutsche Lufthansa AG Dear Readers, In this issue of Balance we report on all dimen- sions of sustainability within the Lufthansa Group.  Once again, the past year provided us with  numerous and very different challenges. At the  beginning of the year, the effects of the worldwide  financial and economic crisis still had a profound  impact on the development of the market. In  addition, harsh winter weather both at the begin- ning and at the end of the year caused extreme  disruptions in flight operations in Europe and  North America for several weeks. The volcanos  eruption in spring in Iceland and the resulting  cloud of volcanic ash caused a closure of air- space over Europe lasting for several days, which  is unknown in recent history. All these events  and a pilots strike had a significant impact on  Lufthansas annual result. The fact that we were  nevertheless able to achieve a positive result for  the year is due both to a perceptible market   recovery in the second half of the year and our  determined course of applying sustainable princi- p les, which has proven to be correct and sound  in times of crisis as well. Despite all burdensome  influences, we were able to conclude the financial  year 2010 successfully in economic, ecological  and social terms in all business segments.  a 4 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 Contents Editorial information  At a glance About this report The Lufthansa Group Facts and figures Business segment Passenger Airline Group Business segment Logistics / Business segment MRO Business segment IT Services / Business segment Catering  Interview: Twelve questions for Christoph Franz Corporate responsibility  Stakeholder dialogue  The Lufthansa Group fleet Prizes and awards Economic Sustainability Corporate governance: Growing in value-oriented ways Management and corporate structures Corporate governance and compliance Corporate sourcing Infrastructure News in brief Social Responsibility Personnel policy at the Lufthansa Group:  HR integration – Exemplified by Austrian Airlines Employment policy based on partnership Diversity Corporate training and continuing education Employee safety and health protection Facts and outlook Climate and Environmental Responsibility Kerosene and emissions:   Specific kerosene consumption has never been so low Long-term testing of biofuel  Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa Group: Saving fuel efficiently and long-term Air traffic management: Towards a unified   European airspace Environmental management Energy and resource management Noise emissions Research projects Corporate Citizenship Social commitment Corporate volunteering Environmental sponsorship Cultural commitment and education Sports sponsorship Glossary Contact partners Memberships 1 2 5 8 10 14 15 16 20 23 27 34 36 39 40 42 43 44 46 49 52 57 58 62 64 67 70 74 76 79 82 86 88 93 94 97 100 101 106 107  a 5 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group Emissions in absolute terms The calculation of emissions from flight opera- tions is based on the actual transport perfor- mance (i.e. actual load factors) and the actual  absolute quantity of kerosene consumed during  the year in review. In this context, each aircraft- engine combination that exists in the fleet is con- sidered separately, and the corresponding values  are calculated by means of computer programs  provided by the respective aircraft and engine  manufacturers. The annual average flight profile  of each subset in the fleet is then fed into these  programs. This allows us to determine emissions  in relation to flight altitude, distance flown, thrust  and load. This approach is necessary for nitrogen   oxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO) and un - burned hydrocarbons (UHCs) in particular. Carbon  dioxide (CO2) emissions do not require special  calculation methods, as they are generated in  a fixed relationship to the quantity of kerosene  burned. The combustion of 1 tonne of kerosene  generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. Specific consumption and emission values Calculating specific consumption and emissions  entails expressing absolute values in relationship  to transport performance. For example, the ratio  liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm)  is calculated on the basis of actual load factors,  distances actually flown and the kerosene actu- ally consumed. The distances used in the calcu- lations are great-circle distances. The understanding of corporate responsibility at  the Lufthansa Group is based on the following  five pillars:   Economic sustainability  Social responsibility  Climate and environmental responsibility  Corporate governance and compliance  Corporate citizenship The section Corporate governance and   compliance is part of the chapter Economic  sustainability. Scope of consolidation Reporting with regard to transport performance,  fuel consumption and emissions from flight  operations is based on the following scope of  consolidation1:   Companies: Lufthansa Passenger Airlines  (including Lufthansa Italia and Lufthansa   Regional with Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti,  Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg Airways),  Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss International Air Lines  (SWISS), British Midland (bmi, from July 2009)  and Austrian Airlines (from September 2009).  Excepted are third-party services, as Lufthansa  has no influence either on their performance   or on the aircraft operated.   Types of service: all scheduled and charter  flights. Methodology of calculations Kerosene in absolute terms The calculation of kerosene consumption is  based on actual flight operations (i.e. using actual  load factors and flight routings), according to the  so-called gate-to-gate principle. This includes  all phases of a flight – from taxiing on the ground  to flying detours and in holding patterns in the air. The present Sustainability Report Balance informs stakeholders and the interested public about the   activities, advances and goals of the Lufthansa Group in the areas of business, social responsibility,   environment and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report refer to the financial year 2010. About this report 1 Unless a different scope of consolidation is expressly named.  a 6 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 Evaluation and validation of data and  information Environmental management system The data used in this report were collected by  means of Lufthansas environmental manage- ment system. This system also determines the  methods for data verification and its transmission  to the division Group Environmental Issues.   The basis for data collection is Lufthansas own  Environmental Database. Accuracy The figures shown in tables and illustrations are  rounded due to considerations of presentation.  However, values indicating changes from the   previous year always refer to precise figures. For  this reason, it is possible that a specific value  may remain the same from one year to the next,  while a relative change is indicated. Comparability Due to changes in the portfolio over the past  years, the figures of personnel and environment  in this report are only to a limited extent compa- rable with those reported for the previous years.  For example, Austrian Airlines and bmi were fully  consolidated for the first time in the financial year  2010. There are also differences in approach  compared to the Annual Report 2010 when cal- culating passenger numbers and the related   indicators (see explanations relating to the table   At a glance on page 2). Publication dates of this report Balance, the Sustainability Report of the   Lufthansa Group, is published once a year in   a German and an English edition. The German  edition of the previous years report was published  on April 29, 2010; the English edition followed  shortly after. Additional information on the Internet In addition to this report, Lufthansa also informs  readers on the Internet about activities in the area  of sustainability within the Lufthansa Group and  provides additional detailed environmental data  from the individual business segments as well as  a Group-wide matrix of environmental goals and  measures.  www.lufthansa.com/responsibility  Disclaimer in respect of forward-looking  statements The data included in this report has been collected   and processed with the utmost care. Nevertheless,   errors in transmission cannot be ruled out entirely. Information published in this report with regard  to the future development of the Lufthansa Group  and its subsidiaries consists purely of forecasts  and assessments and not of definitive historical   facts. Its purpose is exclusively informational,  identified by the use of such cautionary terms   as believe, expect, forecast, intend,   project, plan, estimate, count on, or  endeavor. These forward-looking statements  are based on all discernible information, facts  and expectations available at the time. They can,  therefore, only claim validity up to the date of their  publication. Since forward-looking statements are by their  nature subject to uncertainties and impondera- ble risk factors – such as changes in underlying  economic conditions – and rest on assumptions  that may not or divergently occur, it is possible  that the Groups actual results and development  may differ materially from those implied by the  forecasts. Lufthansa makes a point of checking  and updating the information it publishes. It can- not, however, assume any obligation to adapt for- ward-looking statements to accommodate events  or developments that may occur at some later  date. Accordingly, it neither expressly nor conclu- sively accepts liability, nor does it give any guar- antee for the actuality, accuracy and complete- ness of this data and information.  a 7 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group 7 The Lufthansa Group Deutsche Lufthansa AG ranks as one of the leading companies worldwide in international air transport.  The activities in the areas of passenger transport, air freight and services for airlines are divided into  the five business segments Passenger Airline Group, Logistics, MRO (Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul),  IT Services and Catering. The strategic focus is on the business segments Passenger Airline Group  and Logistics, the passenger and cargo airlines of the Lufthansa Group. These position themselves   as quality carriers within their segments. The Lufthansa Group comprises a total of more than 400   subsidiaries and associated companies. Treating the environment in a responsible manner is an integral part of the corporate culture of all  Group companies. This approach manifests itself in the sparing use of resources, the commitment to  climate research and the persistent efforts to improve the efficiency of infrastructures on the ground  and in the air, all aimed at keeping the environmental effects of flying as small as possible.  a 8 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 The Lufthansa Group Facts and figures 222 weekly frequencies  to 21 destinations in ten countries South Atlantic 3,853 weekly frequencies to  132 destinations in two countries North Atlantic Frequencies and number of destinations  Lufthansa and Group airlines Lufthansa including codeshares We look after more than  1,000 aircraft. We take about 38,000  telephone calls within the  Service Center network. We provide more than  1.2 million meals for our  customers. We carry about 250,000  passengers and more than  5,500 tonnes of freight. We take off and land more  than 2,790 times. An entirely normal day at the Lufthansa Group Cologne 117,019 149 710 91.2 million > 2 million t Corporate  headquarters  Employees  Nationalities Group fleet  Passengers Freight/mail  At a glance  a 9 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group The Lufthansa Group and its five business segments The Groups airlines are among the leading  carriers worldwide. Lufthansa Cargo – ranks among the market leaders in international  air freight transport. Lufthansa Technik – the worlds leading provider of technical aircraft  services. Lufthansa Systems – one of the worlds leading providers of IT services  for the airline and aviation industry. LSG Sky Chefs – the largest provider worldwide of services in airline  catering and in-flight management. Catering IT Services MRO Logistics Passenger Airline Group * equity investments see pages 10 and 14 Others  8.9 % United Kingdom 3.4 % Luxembourg  9.3 % USA  9.9 % Germany  68.5 % Shareholder structure by nationalities  * * * * * Europe North and Central America  South America  Asia/Pacific  Africa/Middle East  92,393 12,363 2,909 7,310 2,044 Jobs around the world 778 weekly frequencies to  61 destinations in 21 countries Asia/Pacific 231 weekly frequencies to  16 destinations in 12 countries Middle East 276 weekly frequencies to  47 destinations in 34 countries Africa 10,979 weekly frequencies to  182 destinations in 44 countries Europe As per 31.12.2010  a 10 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 Passenger transport is the core business of   the Lufthansa Group. The business segment   Passenger Airline Group comprises Lufthansa  Passenger Airlines (including Lufthansa Italia and  Lufthansa Regional), SWISS, Austrian Airlines,   bmi and Germanwings as well as the equity  investments in Brussels Airlines, jetBlue Airways  and SunExpress. The airlines of the Lufthansa Group position  themselves as quality carriers and occupy top  positions in their respective segments. All com- panies within the Passenger Airline Group pur- sue the goal of profitable growth. This creates  the conditions needed for investments in modern  fleets, financial stability in a volatile industry and  secure jobs with attractive development perspec- tives. By applying sustainable economic principles,  the companies also meet their responsibilities for  preserving natural resources. With the introduction  of the summer timetable 2011, the airlines of   Lufthansa, Austrian Airlines, SWISS, bmi and  Brussels Airlines serve a total of 283 destinations  in 105 countries on four continents. The Groups  own route network is complemented by a wide  range of codeshare flights operated in coopera- tion with other airlines. Business segment Passenger Airline Group Number of passengers carried  in 2010: 91.2 million 45 % 50 % 15.6 % jetBlue Hub:  New York JFK SunExpress Hubs:  Antalya, Istanbul,  Izmir Brussels Airlines Hub:  Brussels Germanwings 5 locations in Germany bmi Key hub: London Heathrow Austrian Airlines Hub: Vienna SWISS Hub: Zurich Lufthansa Passenger Airlines (including Lufthansa Regional  and Lufthansa Italia) Hubs: Frankfurt, Munich Equity investments The passenger airlines of the  Lufthansa Group and their hubs  a 11 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group Lufthansa  In 2010, 58.9 million passengers traveled with  Lufthansa Passenger Airlines. By offering a modern   and high-quality product, a unique lounge   concept and innovative services concerning all  aspects of flying – such as the Lufthansa Star  Chef Program, Miles & More and mobile ser- vices – Lufthansa Passenger Airlines and its full  range of products enjoy the highest recognition  and renown worldwide. The Lufthansa brand has  always been regarded as a synonym for quality,  reliability and innovation. The key hubs of Lufthansa Passenger Airlines  are in Frankfurt and Munich. In addition, there is  a local hub in Dsseldorf and Europe-wide direct  services. The year 2010 brought a number of important  innovations for customers of Lufthansa Passenger   Airlines: the launch of services with the Airbus  A380 and the related presentation of the new  First Class; furthermore, the new European cabin  with perceptible improvements in seating com- fort and the reintroduction of Internet access on  board long-haul flights (FlyNet). Moreover,   Lufthansa made preparations for a six-month trial  phase to test the use of alternative fuels in regular  flight operations (see Long-term testing of bio- fuel from page 67). www.lufthansa.com Lufthansa Regional comprises: The crane in a circle: The Lufthansa brand has always been regarded as a synonym for quality, reliability and innovation. Star Alliance Lufthansa is a founding member of the Star Alliance – the worlds  leading airline network. The alliance was founded in 1997 and   currently consists of 27 airlines that serve 1,160 destinations in 181  countries. In addition, Lufthansa maintains numerous partnerships  with other airlines.   www.star-alliance.com  a 12 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 Austrian Airlines Austrian Airlines is a dynamic, quality-oriented  Group that comprises Austrian Airlines, Lauda   Air and Tyrolean Airways. It has been part of the  Lufthansa Group since September 3, 2009. In  Austria, its home market, Austrian Airlines repre- sents a significant part of the national air transport  market. This network carrier, which assumes the  role of market leader as it is the airline with the  highest revenue, has made the growth area   of central and eastern Europe one of its areas   of specialization. With 44 destinations served,  Austrian Airlines is the market leader there as  well. The second area of emphasis is the Middle  East. Austrian Airlines offers one of the densest  networks in both regions. The central hub for all  connections between east and west is Vienna,  the airlines home airport. The passengers of this renowned airline benefit  from excellent service and the proverbial Austrian  hospitality. Austrian Airlines has strengthened the  airline network Star Alliance since March 2000.  www.austrian.com  bmi The British Midland Group comprises the three  airlines bmi International, bmi regional and  bmibaby and was successfully integrated into the  Lufthansa Group in 2010. The home market of the  company is the United Kingdom and its head- quarters is at Castle Donington in England. British  Midland is the second-largest airline at Londons  Heathrow Airport, accounting for 10 percent of  all takeoffs and landings there. Heathrow ranks  as one the largest airports worldwide and serves  as a hub for bmi. From there, bmi flies to destina- tions in Europe, the Middle East, central Asia and  Africa. Since July 2000, bmi has been a member  of the Star Alliance. Among bmis values are   flexibility, enthusiasm, customer-orientation and  British hospitality. www.fl ybmi.com SWISS Swiss International Air Lines is part of  Switzerlands 100-year tradition in civil aviation  and the countrys national airline. SWISS has  been a wholly-owned Lufthansa Group company  since July 1, 2007. The stock corporations head- quarters is in Basel. SWISS connects Switzerland  with the world from its hub in Zurich and airports  in Basel, Geneva and Lugano. The airline has  been a member of the Star Alliance since April  2006.  Customers flying with SWISS enjoy personal  care, the highest levels of quality, reliability and  Swiss hospitality – the companys brand values.  SWISS positions itself with its leading-edge   products as a quality airline and premium brand  in Economy, Business and First Class alike. In the segment of private air travel, the SWISS  Group complements its portfolio with the fully  consolidated holiday airline Edelweiss Air. In  March 2010, SWISS celebrated the five-year   anniversary of its successful cooperation with  Lufthansa. 2010 was a record year for the airline:  More than 14 million passengers booked a flight  with SWISS. www.swiss.com From branded house to house of brands: Today, the Lufthansa Group   comprises additional renowned airlines besides Lufthansa.  a 13 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group Germanwings Germanwings is a fully-owned subsidiary of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG and one of the most  successful airlines in the low-cost segment. This  was recently confirmed by a study carried out  by Profiles International, the worldwide market  leader in profiling tools: The airline achieved the  best evaluation in its industry and occupies the  top position as Germanys most productive air- line. The company was founded in 2002, has its  headquarters in Cologne, and its home base is  Cologne/Bonn Airport. Germanwings flies with  30 modern Airbus A319s from its five locations  in Cologne/Bonn, Stuttgart, Berlin Schnefeld,  Hanover and Dortmund to more than 75 destina- tions all over Europe.   Germanwings and Group parent Lufthansa are  set to work together even more closely in distri- bution as well: Since January 20, 2011, so-called  interlining is possible between the two airlines.  Thus an outbound flight on Lufthansa can be  combined with a return flight on Germanwings   in a reservation made by a travel agency or a  Lufthansa sales office, for example. www.germanwings.com Brussels Airlines (equity share of 45 percent) Brussels Airlines is Belgiums largest airline.  Since June 2009, Lufthansa has held an equity  share of 45 percent in the companys parent, the  holding company SN Airholding with headquar- ters in Brussels. Starting in 2011, Lufthansa can  exercise a purchase option for the remaining   55 percent of equity. Brussels Airlines joined the  Star Alliance in December 2009. Brussels Airlines evolved from SN Brussels   Airlines, the company founded in 2002 to suc- ceed the Belgian national airline Sabena. From  its hub in Brussels, the airline serves the most  important European capitals and regions. Another  area of emphasis in the route network of Brussels  Airlines is flights to Africa. www.brusselsairlines.com  SunExpress (equity share of 50 percent) SunExpress is a joint venture of Lufthansa and  Turkish Airlines, which each hold 50 percent of  equity. Founded in 1989, the airline with head- quarters in Antalya has achieved an outstanding  market position over the past 20 years. Today, it is  the leading provider of charter services between  Germany and Turkey, and one of the largest   providers of scheduled services from Europe to   southern Turkey. In addition, the airline plays an  ever-increasing role on routes within Turkey.   SunExpress accounts for 12 percent of the pas- senger volume at Antalya Airport where it is  market leader. At Izmir Airport, the airline even  handles 32 percent of international traffic, which  is more than any other airline. In 2009, to mark  its 20-year anniversary, the company revised its  corporate identity and implemented a compre- hensive relaunch concept. In 2010, the airline  announced the founding of the subsidiary   SunExpress Deutschland GmbH. www.sunexpress.com  jetBlue Airways (equity share of 15.6 percent) jetBlue Airways is a U.S. passenger airline with  headquarters in New York. It was founded in  1998 and started operations in 2000. Lufthansa  holds a 15.6 percent equity share in jetBlue and  is thus the first European airline to have made a  significant investment in a U.S. airline. jetBlues  home base is at New Yorks John F. Kennedy   Airport (JFK). From there, as well as from Boston,  Fort Lauderdale, Los Angeles/Long Beach and  Orlando, jetBlue operates the majority of its ser- vices to destinations in the United States, the  Caribbean and Latin America.  www.jetblue.com  a 14 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 Lufthansa Cargo AG is the provider of logistics ser- vices within the Lufthansa Group. It ranks among the  market leaders in the international air freight busi- ness and offers a worldwide network, the shortest  transport times and high quality standards in many  product areas, many of them highly specialized. The  emphasis of Lufthansa Cargo lies in the airport-to-air- port freight business. The logistics specialist operates  its own fleet of 18 Boeing MD-11F freighter aircraft  and holds international equity shares, for example  in AeroLogic (equity share of 50 percent) and Jade  Cargo International (equity share of 25 percent). Lufthansa Cargo offers a comprehensive route net- work with more than 300 destinations in about 100  countries, complemented by cooperations with other  cargo airlines and air-freight-related partner compa- nies, including SWISS Cargo, Japan Airlines Cargo,  Air China Cargo, LAN Cargo and DHL. Customers  benefit from the highest quality standards, very short  transport times and tailor-made logistics solutions.  Lufthansa Cargos product portfolio includes stan- dard and express freight, along with special freight  as a significant cornerstone. The latter includes the  transport of live animals, valuable cargo, mail, hazar- dous goods and temperature-sensitive goods. The main transfer point is Frankfurt Airport, while  other important hubs are Munich, Leipzig-Halle and  also Vienna, as the cargo business of Austrian   Airlines has complemented the network since July 1,  2010, particularly in eastern Europe. There are also  close ties to the Group companies SWISS, bmi and  Brussels Airlines, which market their freight capaci- ties independently. Lufthansa Cargo has its head- quarters in Kelsterbach near Frankfurt. www.lufthansa-cargo.com Business segment Logistics / Lufthansa Cargo AG Business segment MRO / Lufthansa Technik AG Lufthansa Technik AG is the worlds leading pro- vider of technical aircraft services. The emphasis  is on manufacturer-independent maintenance and  overhaul of civil aircraft and the repair of engines,  electrical equipment and components (Mainte- nance, Repair and Overhaul, MRO). Lufthansa   Technik attends to about 750 customers worldwide,  including above all airlines and operators of VIP jets,  but also aircraft leasing companies. Within the   Lufthansa Group, Lufthansa Technik is responsible  for the fleets safety, reliability and value retention.   Lufthansa Technik comprises the product divisions  maintenance, aircraft overhauls, engines, compo- nents, landing gear services as well as VIP services.  The MRO network comprises 30 technical main- tenance operations worldwide. The company has  direct and indirect participations in 54 corporations. For the maintenance operation, Hamburg is   Lufthansa Techniks most important location, com- prising aircraft maintenance, completing of VIP air- craft, engine and component maintenance, the   lo gistics center as well as development and produc- tion operations. The largest maintenance stations  are in Frankfurt, Munich and Berlin; additional   stations are located at all larger German airports   and at 50 locations worldwide. In Asia, Lufthansa  Technik has maintenance operations in four   countries, such as Lufthansa Technik Philippines,  Lufthansa Technik Shenzhen, Lufthansa Technik  Services India and Ameco Beijing. The headquarters  of Lufthansa Technik AG is in Hamburg.  www.lufthansa-technik.com  a 15 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group Business segment Catering / LSG Sky Chefs LSG Sky Chefs is the largest provider worldwide  of airline catering and the management of all pro- cesses related to in-flight service. The Group com- prises 133 companies at about 200 locations in  50 countries. In 2010, this wholly-owned Lufthansa  subsidiary produced 460 million in-flight meals for  more than 300 airlines worldwide – including nearly  all international as well as numerous national and  regional carriers, network carriers, charter compa- nies and no-frills airlines. The Groups parent com- pany, LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG, has its  headquarters in Neu-Isenburg near Frankfurt.  In the area of airline catering, LSG Sky Chefs offers  a complete range from premium meals produced  to order, all the way to cost-efficient snacks. Based  on its far-reaching experience, the Group has devel- oped tried-and-tested methods which ensure that  customers always receive first-rate quality. Further   criteria are culinary excellence and innovation,  authentic regional cuisines from the international  network and an innovative and appealing menu  design. Beyond that, the company offers a broad  range of in-flight products and services at the   highest level of quality and reliability. Additionally,  the Group has begun to open up associated mar- kets such as railway and school catering as well as  catering in the health care and retail sectors. www.lsgskychefs.com Business segment IT Services / Lufthansa Systems AG Lufthansa Systems offers consulting and IT services  for numerous industries. The company has a world- wide leadership role in the aviation industry. With its  comprehensive portfolio, Lufthansa Systems covers  the entire spectrum of IT services. Its services range  from consulting, development and implementation   of tailor-made industry solutions to operations in   its own data centers. In their work the experts of  Lufthansa Systems combine many years of project  experience with comprehensive technology know- how, profound industry knowledge and experience  in analyzing complex business processes. Given the high level of complexity of IT projects,   project management has a key role in keeping  implementations within schedule and budget. For  this reason Lufthansa Systems further expanded its  capabilities in the area of project management in  a systematic manner and consequently increased  customer satisfaction. Products and services provided by Lufthansa   Systems allow companies to increase their effi- ciency, reduce their costs and raise their revenues  over the long-term. Worldwide, there are more than  200 airlines, but also companies in industries such  as transport and logistics, manufacturing, media  and publishing, energy and health care that rely on  the expertise of Lufthansa Systems. The company  has its headquarters in Kelsterbach near Frankfurt,  and also has branch offices in Berlin, Cologne and  Munich as well as locations in 14 countries.  www.LHsystems.com   a 16 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 Mr. Franz, can one still fl y with a clear consci- ence today? Yes, definitely! Over the past 20 years we have  made enormous progress with regard to eco-  efficiency. For example, the specific consump- tion of the Lufthansa Group fleet currently stands  at 4.2 liters of kerosene. In 1991, this value was  still 2 liters higher. And we have set ourselves the  ambitious goal to reduce the CO2 emissions per  passenger and 100 kilometers – which directly  corresponds to fuel consumption – by 25 percent  by 2020 when compared with the 2006 values.  All IATA airlines intend to grow only in CO2-neutral  ways from 2020. To date, no other industry with  global activities has set such concrete environ- mental goals. By the way, the research company INFRAS  recently carried out a new scientific study in co - operation with the Fraunhofer Institute for the  German Air Transport Initiative. This study clearly  shows that – if we take all factors into account  that burden the environment – the aircraft is not  only the fastest mode of transport for distances  above 400 to 500 kilometers, but in sum total  also the one with the lowest environmental costs. You have taken the helm at Lufthansa at a  time when the consolidation of the air trans- port industry is fully underway. What does  this mean for the Groups commitment to  sustainability? Our commitment to sustainability includes all  companies of the Lufthansa Group, also the air- lines added over the past years, such as SWISS,  Austrian Airlines and bmi. All are committed to  sustainable business practices. That is our mis- sion and we will not be pushed off course by  bad-weather phases. The synergistic effects  that result from consolidation are significant in   all dimensions of sustainability. Let us come back to the key term of sustain- ability: In the hierarchy of success factors for  Lufthansa, where do you rank sustainability? When we talk about success factors, we need  to divide the term of sustainability once more.  Of course, economic success is one fundamen- tal condition for any company that also wants to  be able to act responsibly in environmental and  social areas. At Lufthansa, we grappled with the  varied aspects of sustainability very early on. This  Christoph Franz has been Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG since  January 1, 2011. In this Balance interview he describes different aspects of sustainability. Twelve questions for Christoph Franz  a 17 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group also includes the question of how we can meet  the enormous rise in mobility needs with environ- mentally compatible products. To achieve this,  you need a highly qualified and motivated team  of employees. This is why we have always invested   in training and continuing education and offer   a wide range of development options. For   Lufthansa, sustainability is a central characteristic  for differentiation and definitely a decisive factor. What are the key points of Lufthansas   sustainability strategy? We take several dimensions into consideration.  Let me begin with an overriding observation. It is  important for us to apply ethical yardsticks when  making our decisions, that we create transparency  concerning our sustainability issues and that we  communicate actively – and that includes areas  where we want and need to get even better. As  long ago as 2002 we were the first aviation group  to join the UN Global Compact. We have clearly  defined goals and our Corporate Responsibility  Council steers the Groups overriding sustainabil- ity activities. But our commitment can only take  place if we are an economically stable company.  As a Group with global activities, we are subject to  constant challenges of the most varying kinds. It  is one of Lufthansas characteristics that we have  an economically sound company despite unsta- ble world markets and despite the most varying  legal frameworks from one continent to another. In  this context, we give special importance to value- oriented corporate governance. It promotes long- term value creation. And talking about creating value, what are  your expectations concerning the project   Aviation Biofuel?   There is no way around the development and  testing of alternative fuels. We will not be able to  reach the environmental goals already mentioned  without the use of biofuel. We have now reached  the point where we can start our six-month prac- tical test this year. That said, the expectations of  the project are correspondingly high, of course,  and we have central requirements: Only certi- fied biofuels will be used, meaning fuels that are  ecologically acceptable and not in competition  with the food chain or the drinking water sup- ply. The supply of such biofuels is a problem at  the moment. We are working on this and on set- ting up a functioning supply chain in cooperation  with our numerous system partners. I cant wait  to see the results of the test run, which is unique  worldwide. Starting in 2012, European air transport takes  part in the EU emissions trading scheme. How  do you assess this decision by the European  Union? Just for the record, Id like to say that it has always  been our goal to conserve fuel and thus avoid  CO2 emissions. And this will not change because  kerosene is one of our largest cost items. As far  as the emissions trading scheme is concerned,  air transport did not exclude itself from it and  then agree to participation in principle. However:  As a global industry with global competition we  need reasonable and fair competitive conditions.  Unfortunately, this is not the case as things stand  today and that is why we are very reserved con- cerning the purely European emissions trade, as  it is currently being planned. Climate protection is  a worldwide subject, not a sectoral one that can  be differentiated by countries or continents. For  us it is essential, therefore, to have global   For Lufthansa, sustainability is a central   characteristic for differentiation and definitely   a decisive factor.  a 18 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 solutions. It is our great concern that we will be  confronted with a partial solution for Europe that  does not give us any incentives to do more for  the environment, but that disadvantages us mas- sively, in turn, through financial burdens vis--vis   non-European airlines that are obliged to buy  significantly fewer or no certificates. The public debate concerning a womens  quota also causes internal discussions at  Lufthansa. What is your opinion on this  subject? We believe that a quota is not the right incentive  to apply in the case of this issue. Independently  of that, women in management positions are a  topic of the highest priority, which I have put at  the top of my personal agenda as well. Our point of departure is comparatively good.  Our share of women with personnel respon- sibility is currently just under 40 percent and  compared with the industry we are far ahead.  For positions in middle and higher manage- ment this share stands above 13 percent, and  here we have indubitably a need for further  improvements. We are in the process of set ting  up appropriate programs. These are de signed   to make it easier for women to assume  management responsibility, for example with  support from family-friendly working and part- time models, creating infrastructures for child  care, but also through mentoring programs that  encourage women to take responsibility in a  management world that is still strongly mascu- line. Beyond such fundamental programs, we  also want to support women in targeted ways,  for example by means of young managers  programs for women and initiating fast-track  programs. In the recent past there were also some rele- vant cases of compliance at Lufthansa. Does  the Lufthansa Compliance Program have to be  amended? Compliance issues are very important for compa- nies today. In my opinion this trend will increase  in the years ahead rather than diminish. For that  reason it is indispensable that we establish a cul- ture within the company that makes it unequivo- cally clear that we prefer to forgo business when  it violates a law or other regulations, instead of  finding ourselves doing the ethical equivalent of  the splits between pleasant words to the outside  and the actual course of action. That is why we  have established both a Group-wide compliance  program as well as an ombudsman system.   Our employees – board members and myself  included – take part in training programs. We  cooperate fully with the authorities in compliance- relevant cases. The cases you mentioned were  also handled in this way. The programs we imple- mented are effective.  How would you complete this sentence:  Sustainability starts ...?  in our heads, not only in those of managers,  but in the heads of all employees. And that is  why we create structures, so that our employees  can apply aspects of sustainability in their think- ing and their actions.  In this context, do you see a special responsi- bility and model function for the Chairman of  the Executive Board? I can clearly respond with yes – no credibility  without a role model.  a 19 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group And where does sustainability end? I explained earlier that sustainability ends when  a company is in a genuine, existential crisis  situation and one can no longer afford many of  the topics that are relevant long-term because  one is only focused on short-term survival. For  exactly that reason it is so important that we do  not get into such a situation but instead we set  up our structures and act in such ways that we  can afford this sustainability horizon for many  years. Then – and I am convinced of it – we will  never reach the limits of sustainable business  practice. A question for the private citizen Christoph  Franz: How do you practice environmental  protection at home? Environmental protection is part of a certain atti- tude toward life for me. In my private life, I use  cars that are as energy-efficient as possible, for  example, and often a bicycle. When it comes to  flying, I am of course convinced by our own effi- cient fleet. Beyond that, I think one can be highly  mobile by using intelligent links between different  modes of transport. And at my vacation home I  consciously installed a heat pump – the very first  in that place.   a 20 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 For these reasons, we continuously improve our  measures to safeguard the climate and the envi- ronment, maintain responsible and fair relations  with our employees, and as a company actively  engage in numerous social concerns. Our understanding of   corporate responsibility  The international economy and the air transport   industry, in particular, operate in a dynamic   environment that is defined by long-term mega- trends and global challenges, such as population   growth and the rise of megacities, in  creasing  demand for mobility in the context of increasing  globalization, climate change and processes  of political transition. These underlying factors  provide the background for our understanding  of the five pillars of corporate responsibility and  our related activities. Economic sustainability The basis of all activities at the Lufthansa Group  and an important condition for responsible entre- preneurial action is the long-term increase of the  companys value by means of applying sustain- able business principles. Our first consideration  is toward our customers and their mobility needs.  They appreciate our dense, international network  of destinations, our efficiency and reliability as  well as personal attention and high levels of qual- ity. To remain the first choice among competitors,  we continuously work on innovation and stream- lined cost structures. We take an active role in  shaping the consolidation of the air transport  industry and consistently strive to further improve  and develop. Our business segments also make  a significant contribution to reaching these goals.  Against this background, we count on long-term  value creation, circumspect management of  opportunities and risks, consistent management  of our supply chains and constructive dialogues  with our stakeholder groups. Social responsibility Lufthansa is aware of the responsibility it has,  not only for its customers, the environment and  society, but to a high degree also for the people  who have entrusted their capacity for work to the  company. Our employees are the most important  pillar within our corporate culture and thus cru- cial for the companys success. A broad range of  continuing-education options and flexible work- time models allow them to further and maintain  their professional knowledge, and to strike a  balance between professional and family needs.  In this way, we help maintain our employees  Principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a worldwide initiative that was set up by the former  UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2000. The compact between companies  and the United Nations has the goal of making globalization socially and envi- ronmentally compatible, and it obliges the participating companies to adhere to  social and ecological minimum standards, to respect human rights and to fight  against corruption. Deutsche Lufthansa AG has been a member since 2002. Human rights   Businesses should support and respect the protection of international  human rights within their sphere of influence and   make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked to human rights  abuses.   Labor   Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective  recognition of the right to collective bargaining;   eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor;   effectively abolish child labor; and   eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment   Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental  challenges;   undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and   encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly  technologies. Anti-corruption   Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion  and bribery. www.unglobalcompact.org Corporate responsibility  Responsibility Corporate responsibility, that is to say sustainable and responsible entrepreneurial practice, is an   integral part of our corporate strategy. It means that we are committed to creating added value for  our customers, employees and investors and to meeting our responsibilities toward the environment  and society.  a 21 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group motivation as well as their mental and physical  health, and we strengthen a culture of lifelong  learning within the company.  Climate and environmental responsibility Our conscientious approach to handling climate   and environmental issues is illustrated, for  ex ample, by our successes in lowering specific  CO2 emissions, the implementation and expan- sion of environmental management systems, the  resource management and the measures in envi- ronmental care. The strategic goals we set in 2008  concerning environmental and climate protection  are guided by the internationally acknowledged  four-pillar strategy for air transport. The spectrum  of objectives spans the range from a reduction  of specific CO2 emissions by 25 percent by 2020  in comparison with 2006, to measures aimed at  increasing efficiency in operational areas and all  the way to infrastructure improvements and eco- logical construction techniques. Our ongoing fleet modernization program and  the resulting introduction of new aircraft with  modern and fuel-efficient engines into the fleet  has the immediate effect of decoupling transport  performance from CO2 emissions. This program  also entails a further optimization of specific fuel  consumption, which is measured in liters per 100  passenger kilometers flown. Corporate governance and compliance For Lufthansa, it is a matter of course to apply  sound and responsible management and control  mechanisms and to adhere to laws and regu- lations. This means that risks in the context of  corporate liability are minimized. We place great  value on openness and clarity in communications  and strive to maintain and expand the trust of our  investors, employees and the public in general.  Corporate governance and corporate compliance  also comprise the areas of legal issues, taxation,  data protection as well as the remuneration of  members of the Executive Board and the Super- visory Board. Corporate citizenship As a Group with global activities, we take an  active part in society in numerous ways. The  focus of our commitment is on the areas of social  issues, environment and nature, culture, educa- tion and sports. In the event of natural catastro- phes, such as the earthquakes in Japan and  Haiti or the floods in Pakistan, we can be at the  disasters location quickly and provide efficient  and immediate aid by transporting vital goods. Our organization The mobility of people and goods is the basis  for economic development and societal afflu- ence. Lufthansa would like to contribute to these  while assuming responsibility for current and  future generations. The principles of entrepre- neurial responsibility are firmly anchored in the  Lufthansa Groups strategic principles as well as  in its corporate values and management princi- ples. During the reporting year, we further devel- oped our existing orientation and embedded all  aspects concerning this topic in a structure under  the heading Responsibility. In addition to sus- tainability, which implies economic, ecological  and social issues, this also includes our activities  concerning the principles of corporate manage- ment according to sustainable guidelines (corpo- rate governance) and social commitment (corpo- rate citizenship). To be able to manage all activities that are related  to corporate responsibility and sustainable busi- ness practice at the Lufthansa Group even more  effectively, the Sustainability Board, which had  been responsible for these issues in the past,  was expanded and more closely linked to the  Group strategy. The resulting Corporate Respon- sibility Council, which continues to be interdis- ciplinary and companywide, is chaired by the  head of Group strategy. The committees mem- bers are the heads of the Group departments in  charge of political issues, environmental issues,  human resources, legal issues, communications,  investor relations and controlling. The inclusion of  Group Controlling additionally ensures a closer  link between sustainability goals and the Group- wide control and reporting processes. To ensure  that our criteria of responsibility are also followed  throughout the supply chain, the Group depart- The Corporate Responsibility Council steers all topics relevant   to sustainability within the Group.  a 22 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 ment Corporate Sourcing contributes to the  Councils work in a consulting function. We attach  great importance to the high level of relevance of  all aspects of corporate responsibility – for this  reason, the Council reports directly to the Groups  Executive Board, which has overall responsibility.  Those responsible at the Group level agree on  and coordinate projects in the area of corporate  responsibility. The individual departments are in  charge of the subsequent implementation. But  employees are also explicitly welcome to contrib- ute decentralized initiatives, ideas and optimum  processes to CRC. Simultaneously, Lufthansa  organizes and supports the cooperation and  exchange of knowledge and information across  the company by means of networks. Balance is a fixed component of internal and  external communications concerning the sub- ject of sustainability within the Lufthansa Group.  Launched in 1994 as a pure environmental  report, Balance today covers all aspects rele- vant to corporate responsibility at Lufthansa and  its Group companies. In addition, we are cur- rently developing an eLearning application to  give all employees and managers at the Group  even better access to the subject of corporate  responsibility. External evaluation of our   sustainability activities As in the preceding years, experts from outside  the company and rating agencies again evaluated  and assessed Lufthansas activities concerning  responsible practices in 2010. Lufthansa contin- ues to be represented in numerous sustainabil- ity indices, such as FTSE4Good, ASPI (Advanced  Sustainable Performance Indices) and ESI (Ethibel  Sustainability Index).  Despite manifold efforts, Lufthansa – similar to  other corporations listed on the DAX stock index –  was not able for the first time since 2005 to meet  the tightened conditions for membership in the  Dow Jones Sustainability Index. The analysts iden- tified potential for improvements above all in the  areas of corporate citizenship, the conditions for  suppliers and the entrepreneurial commitment to  interest groups outside the company. By contrast,  the evaluations in the areas of climate strategy,  noise protection and local air quality were very  positive. The Executive Board and the Corporate Respon- sibility Council take external evaluations and  recommendations very seriously. The areas for  improve ment indicated are assessed together with  the experts within the company and necessary  measures are then implemented. Balance: Continuity in reporting since 1994  a 23 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group This includes continuous exchanges with share- holders and analysts, customers and suppliers,  as well as employees, employee representatives  and contractual partners. Moreover, the company  maintains a constructive dialogue with neighbors  and local communities, government representa- tives and city administrations, scientists and edu- cators, media and employer associations, envi- ronmental associations and non-governmental  organizations. The goal is to identify social issues  and trends early on, such as opportunities and  risks, and to derive from these the next steps for  a sustainable future. This also includes contin- uous reporting in internal and external media  about the Groups commitment in the area of  sustainability. Targeted customer surveys What do customers expect from Lufthansa? How  are our products and services accepted? Where  are we doing well already and where can we  improve? Lufthansa finds answers to these and  other questions by regularly conducting custom er  surveys which are carried out worldwide in   cooperation with renowned market research insti- tutes. One fixed element is a number of questions  concerning the Groups environmental perfor- mance and social responsibility. At the local level,  so-called Customer Advisory Boards are con- vened when a specific event warrants it and the  goal is to find out what passengers think about  Lufthansas service chain. All offers of dialogue  promote customer trust and also provide impor- tant impulses for the development of tailor-made  offers. In addition, the level of customer satisfac- tion has been measured by means of the Cus- tomer Profile Index since 2001.  Exchanges with frequent fl yers Lufthansa particularly promotes a dialogue with  frequent flyers. In November 2010, the company  again invited 70 frequent flyers organized in the  Internet forum www.flyertalk.com to spend a day  in Frankfurt. The days program included a tour of  the new Lufthansa flagship, the Airbus A380, as  well as the First Class Terminal. Furthermore, the  guests took part in interactive workshops to test  new product and service ideas. SWISS, bmi and  Brussels Airlines also presented their respective  portfolios to members of FlyerTalk and answered  all questions posed. Frequent flyers are also closely connected to  selection processes concerning the introduction  of new products. To find out, for example, which  seat would be optimal for the new European cab- ins, Lufthansa organized 16 events during the  reporting year that gave 300 top customers an   opportunity to cast their votes, which were includ-  ed in the final decision. Beyond that, Lufthansa  Stakeholder dialogue  Communications without detours The Group attaches great importance to knowing the wishes, experiences and expectations of its stake- holder groups and to integrate these into its strategic actions. For this purpose, Lufthansa actively faces the   critical questions of all stakeholders, whose interests are touched upon by the companys business activities. The Lufthansa A380 also caused spontaneous enthusiasm among the frequent flyers   organized in the Internet forum www.flyertalk.com.  Capital market  Investors  Shareholders  Analysts  Rating agencies  Governments  Legislators  Politicians  Authorities  Employees  Employee representatives  Customers   LOHAS (Lifestyle  of Health and  Sustainability)  Neighbors  Local communities   Publicity  Social networks   Non-governmental  organizations (NGOs)   Organizations   Consortia   Science  Research  Education  Suppliers  Contractual partners  a 24 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 Technical and aeronautical competency clearly illustrated:   The Visitors Service in Frankfurt welcomed more than 8,000 guests in 2010. has regularly organized the Service Excellence  Lounge since 2004. The goal of this moderated  event is the continuous optimization of service.  Never at a loss for an answer:   The Lufthansa Visitors Service The topic-oriented guided tours organized by the  Lufthansa Visitors Service at the locations Frank- furt and Hamburg allow a glance behind the  scenes of the Lufthansa Group. In 2010, a total of  18,153 visitors took advantage of this kind of dia- logue. The service addresses primarily national  and international top customers from companies  and distribution partners as well as students, uni- versity graduates and representatives of associ- ations and research institutions, who appreciate  these opportunities for direct exchanges. Addi- tionally, hundreds of Lufthansa employees ben- efited from specialized employee tours in Frankfurt  to take a close look at the new Lufthansa flag- ship, the Airbus A380. These guided tours will  be continued in 2011. In Frankfurt, 8,415 visitors  participated in a total of 566 events, which in part  include presentations of the environmental care  activities of the Lufthansa Group. In Hamburg,   512 guided tours took place involving 9,738   visitors. Beyond the Lufthansa Visitors Service,  Austrian Airlines and SWISS also offer such   services at their hubs in Vienna and Zurich. Close dialogue with investors   and analysts A significant part of the stakeholder dialogue con-    sists of transparent, timely and detailed informa- tion to all participants of the capital market about   current corporate developments, the strategy   selected and structural changes. In comparison  with the preceding year, Lufthansa again increased   these activities in 2010. Thus, members of the  Executive Board and the department Investor  Relations provided information about the Groups  current and strategic developments in the context  of 39 road shows and 13 investor conferences.  About 450 individual and group discussions took  place with institutional investors and analysts. In  January 2010, the company organized a meeting  with analysts for the first time to send off the New  Year. This was followed up in June 2010 with the  annual Investors Day at the Lufthansa Aviation  Center in Frankfurt. In addition to the Annual Report and the three  Interim Reports the capital markets receive   Investor Info, which provides regular details  about the monthly traffic figures of the flying com- panies and other news from the Lufthansa Group.  Private investors receive information through the  Shareholder information as well as in personal  discussions that take place in the context of the  five private shareholder forums. Dialogue with employees Continuous dialogue events are an important  instrument to find out more about the needs,   wishes and expectations of employees. Beyond  that, the company organizes numerous Town  Meetings at decentralized locations that give the  Executive Board and employees an opportunity  for direct exchanges. To give Lufthansa employ- ees a perspective beyond the immediate hori- zons of their work areas, several internal media  were bundled in 2010 to form one interdisciplin- ary publication: the new magazine Lufthansa  Passage, which equally addresses ground,  cabin and cockpit employees.  In 2010, health was one of the central topics in  the dialogue with employees. The goal was to  promote and maintain Lufthansa employees  well-being and ability to work, and the company  organized a number of related events and infor- mation campaigns. And for the optimal intro- duction of new IT components, such as PCs or  software applications, employees can partici- pate in surveys on the subject of computer-based  workstations. Dialogue with science  Research and development are indispensable   pillars of social progress. To make a contribution   to the dialogue with science, Lufthansa has for  many years participated in numerous research   projects and worked closely with renowned  scientifi c establishments and institutions. The  emphasis of our research efforts is on climate   a 25 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group Fully booked: More than 200 representatives of the logistics and air freight industries   participated in the Cargo Climate Care Conference 2011.  issues, ways to reduce emissions and noise, and  the development of alternative fuels (see Climate  and environmental responsibility from page 63).  Furthermore, Lufthansa maintains an ongoing  exchange with other airlines with the aim of pass- ing on its own experiences and receiving valuable  impulses from the outside. Sustainability workshop in cooperation   with Lneburg University Lufthansa takes advantage of numerous oppor- tunities to develop the company long-term – and  also uses cooperations with renowned universities  for this purpose. In spring 2010, the Group orga  - nized a hands-on workshop in cooperation with   the Leuphana University in Lneburg on the sub- ject of Sustainable business practices. It offered  22 students participating in the MBA distance-learn- ing program the opportunity to analyze Lufthansas  sustainability during a one-week stay at the   Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt and to devel-  op concrete suggestions concerning the practical  implementation of individual programs. For example, the future managers determined the  CO2 footprint of an airline catering product. The  result showed that it would take a disproportion- ately large effort to establish CO2 footprints for the  entire product range of LSG Sky Chefs, which also  changes continuously. Thanks to this insight, the  company will in the future follow a more pragmatic  approach, whereby CO2 emissions are not calcu- lated for individual products but as a so-called  Organizational Carbon Footprint based on the CO2  emissions of the entire company. The workshop  organized by Lufthansa Cargo produced similarly  encouraging results. Here, the students produced a  comprehensive benchmark by comparing the CO2  emissions and the climate neutrality of the   Lufthansa subsidiary with those of other freight air- lines. The results are helping Lufthansa Cargo in  2011 devel  op an individual CO2 calculator for its  customers. Another group of students analyzed to  what extent Lufthansa would be able to integrate  sustainability criteria even more deeply into the   supply chain and which criteria should be applied   to the selection of suppliers. Last but not least, students were assigned to four  project groups and given the task to convince a  jury of experts of their work in the context of a com- petitive presentation. The jury included Lufthansa  managers and external experts, such as the deputy  managing director of the ko-Institut Berlin, Christian  Hochfeld.   Lufthansa and EBS organize an   expert roundtable on sustainability In November 2010, Lufthansa and the European   Business School (EBS) invited a 25-member  expert roundtable on the subject of Sustainable   development in the air transport industry to  Oestrich-Winkel. Among the participants were  industry representatives as well as renowned  researchers from Germany and abroad. In their  presentations and workshops the experts cast a  light on the opportunities and hurdles on the path  toward sustainable development, among other  subjects. Lufthansa Cargo:   Cargo Climate Care Conference 2011 For the second time, Lufthansa Cargo organized  the Cargo Climate Care Conference. The goal of  this event, which took place on March 1, 2011 in  Frankfurt, was to develop innovative solutions for the  long-term improvement of the logistics industrys   climate balance. More than 200 representatives  from the logistics and air freight industry partici- pated in the dialogue event on the subject of  Energy efficiency in air freight: Reality and vision.  The program included a broad range of expert   lectures, on topics such as alternative fuels and  energy efficiency, and the challenges of and oppor- tunities for green logistics. During the conference,  the Cargo Climate Care Award, which includes  prize money totaling 16,000 euros, was presented.  Junior researchers, customers and employees who  had developed innovative ideas for more climate- friendly practices in air freight were honored with  this prize.  a 26 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 Political and social dialogue Seeking dialogue with the public, managers of the  Lufthansa Group again presented and discussed  at trade fairs, congresses and seminars during  2010. Here is a selection of such events:    Environmental congress Greener Skies Ahead.  2nd International Conference on Reducing the  Environmental Impact of Future Air Transport   in the context of the International Aerospace  Exhibition (ILA) in Berlin.   Parliamentarian Evening Air Transport of Deut- sches Verkehrsforum e.V. in Berlin on the topics  of climate protection, subsidies, competition and  passenger rights.   Event organized by German Air Transport Ini- tiative with Federal Minister of Transport Peter  Ramsauer, covering subjects such as the situa- tion of the air transport industry after the passing   of the cloud of volcanic ash, infrastructure im - provements, and air traffic management.   66th Annual General Meeting of the IATA in Ber- lin – Lufthansa was the official host for the more  than 1,000 delegates.   Conversation with EU Commissioner Connie  Hedegaard in Brussels on climate protection and  trading emissions rights.   Aviation congress in Berlin under the motto   Aviation location Germany – Securing mobility,  shaping growth responsibly including the partici - pation of Federal Minister of Economics Rainer  Brderle and Federal Minister of Transport Peter  Ramsauer as well as several ministers of state. Dialogue with neighbors and municipalities Lufthansa seeks an ongoing dialogue with repre- sentatives of state governments as well as mayors  and administrations of the municipalities surround- ing the hubs of the Group. For example, the   government of the state of Hesse elected Lufthansa   to join the Forum Airport and Region in fall 2009  (see Active noise protection at Frankfurt Airport  on page 84). Furthermore, with support from the  initiative Freight needs the night, Lufthansa Cargo  organized an expert convention under the same  title on June 24, 2010 in Frankfurt. Representa- tives of logistics companies, industry, science and  politics discussed the necessity of a reliable legal  framework for Germany as a location for logistics  operations. Social media Social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube or professionally-oriented  platforms open up new paths for starting dialogues with stakeholders and   optimizing communications. Within the company, Lufthansa employees have  been able to use the Web 2.0 intranet platform eTeaming since June 2009   for their exchanges. In April 2010, it received the award for the Best Internal  Communications Strategy on the occasion of the IRR Technology Web 2.0  Congress. Recently, the heading Lufthanseat Online was added to eTeaming,  aiming at providing an even more targeted flow of information and exchanges  with and between employees. Munich Airport: Regular meetings with representatives of civic action groups in the airports vici- nity establish a constructive dialogue and create positive channels for exchanges.  a 27 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group The selection criteria applied when new aircraft  are acquired include price, seating and loading  capacities, range, cruising speed and passenger  comfort. Also important are for noise, emissions,  consumption values as well as maintenance and  operating costs to be as low as possible. Aircraft incorporating the latest technology have   a positive effect on all dimensions of sustain- ability: They secure jobs, consume less fuel, are   quieter and form the basis for the Groups long- term value creation. The department Lufthansa  Group Fleet Management is situated at the Group   level as a central function and is responsible for  all Group airlines. This department also serves  as a link between the airlines and the aircraft and  engine manufacturers. The consistent goal of our  buyers is to purchase the right type of aircraft at  the optimum point in time and at the most favor- able price possible with a specification that fits. In the framework of the largest fleet modernization   program of the companys history, the Lufthansa  Group put 47 new aircraft into service in the  report ing year alone – and thus continued the   rejuvenation of the Group fleet in a consistent  manner. Firm orders have been placed for an  additional 155 aircraft that will be delivered by the  end of 2016. In March 2011, the Supervisory Board  also approved a further order of 30 aircraft of the  Airbus A320neo family for the Passenger Airline  Group as well as five Boeing 777F freighter aircraft  for the business segment Logistics. The invest- ments we make in our Group fleet are paying  off. The aircraft added to the fleet are convincing,  especially with regard to economic and ecologi - cal efficiency, says Nico Buchholz, Executive   Vice President Lufthansa Group Fleet Manage- ment. For example, the operation of larger and  more fuel-efficient types of aircraft in the regional  segment allows an increase of seating capacities,  while environmental effects are decreased at the  same time. On December 31, 2010, the Lufthansa Group fleet  comprised a total of 710 aircraft at the airlines  Lufthansa, SWISS, Austrian Airlines and bmi, the  regional partners Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti  and Eurowings as well as Germanwings and   Lufthansa Cargo.   The Lufthansa A380 in scheduled operations The Airbus A380, the new flagship of the   Lufthansa long-haul fleet, has established new  yardsticks in the areas of technology, ecologi- cal efficiency and sustainability as well as travel  comfort for passengers and working conditions  for crews. In 2010, Lufthansa took delivery of the  first four A380s. The Lufthansa A380, which offers  526 seats, now operates scheduled flights on the  routes to Tokyo, Beijing, Johannesburg, New York  and San Francisco. Featuring a fuel consumption  of only about 3.4 liters of kerosene per 100 pas- senger kilometers, the A380 marks the beginning  of a new era in the industry. An additional advan- tage is that it is about 30 percent quieter than  other wide-body aircraft. About 25 percent of the A380s fuselage con- sists of advanced and more lightweight compos- ite materials. These include GLARE, a laminate  composed of aluminum layers and fiberglass- reinforced plastic, which is more lightweight and  damage-tolerant than the aluminum that has  The Lufthansa Group fleet Aircraft are the Lufthansa Groups most important means of production and about half of the annual   investment volume is allocated to new airplanes. The fleet strategy is guided by the development of markets  and competition, customer needs as well as economic and ecological factors. Investments in new aircraft pay off – Economically  as well as ecologically The investments we make in our  Group fleet are paying off. The air- craft added to the fleet are convinc- ing, especially with regard to eco- nomic and ecological efficiency.  Nico Buchholz  Executive Vice President   Lufthansa Group Fleet Management   a 28 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 been standard in aircraft construction. In addi- tion, insulation fixed to the fuselages outer layer  shields the cabin from external engine and air- flow noise, so that the aircraft is very quiet for  passengers as well. Further innovations in cabin  air conditioning and lighting as well as in-flight  entertainment make the Lufthansa A380 unique.  The fully redesigned First Class is located on the  upper deck, offering eight generous seats that  guarantee individuality and the highest levels of  comfort. Also on the upper deck is the worlds  largest Business Class, offering 98 seats. And  Economy Class, featuring 420 seats on the main  deck with impressive dimensions of space, also  offers passengers more comfort than ever before.  Lufthansa plans to operate a total of 15 A380s, of  which a further four are to enter service in 2011. First Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental   in final assembly The current gap in the Group fleet between the  A380 with 526 seats and the Airbus A340-600  with a little more than 300 seats is set to be   closed with the Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental.  In 2012, Lufthansa will be the worlds first airline  to put the Boeing 747-8 into service and plans  to replace part of its Boeing 747-400 fleet with  the Boeing 747-8. The airline has 20 aircraft of  this type on order; their new General Electric  engines will ensure low fuel consumption, which  is expected to be around 3.5 liters of kerosene  per 100 passenger kilometers. In addition, the  noise footprint is 30 percent smaller than that of  the predecessor model, the Boeing 747-400 (see  Balance, Issue 2010, page 64). The final assem- bly of the first passenger version of this aircraft  started at the end of 2010 at the Boeing factory  in Everett near Seattle. The aircraft made its first  successful test flight in March 2011. 56 new orders in 2010 The Lufthansa Supervisory Board approved  orders for another 56 new aircraft in 2010 for the  Group: Eight Airbus A330-300s, equipped with  Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines, will reinforce the  long-haul fleet. The remaining 48 aircraft are ear- marked for operations on continental and region al  routes: 32 Airbus A319s, A320s and A321s as well  as eight Embraer 195s that will be delivered to the  Group companies step by step. The list price of  this order is about 3.5 billion euros. Additionally,  there are eight Bombardier CRJ900 NextGens on  order; deliveries will be completed in the first half  of 2011.  The Airbus A330-300 has been in service at the  Lufthansa Group since 2004. The twin-engine  wide-body aircraft seats up to 221 passengers  and has a range of up to 10,000 kilometers when  fully loaded. Technically, it is almost identical to the  A340-300, which is equipped with four engines,  and is also operated on medium-haul routes.  Thrust is provided by Rolls-Royce Trent 700  engines, which were developed specifically for the  A330 series and are particularly efficient and quiet. The A319s, A320s and A321s all belong to the  successful A320 aircraft family manufactured by  Airbus, which is above all characterized by its   economic efficiency. One of the advantages of this  aircraft family is that A320 pilots can fly all types  of the family. Furthermore, the aircrafts similari- ties save significant effort in maintenance and thus  also costs. Another plus: Each of the 45 new air- craft from the A320 family that will join the fleet  of Lufthansa Passenger Airlines will be equip- ped with a new cabin, featuring improved levels of  comfort, and a new appearance, that will gradu- ally be retrofitted on the entire existing continen- tal fleet as well. The longest family member is the  Airbus A321, which seats up to 200 passengers in  Lufthansas configuration. The A321, which is oper- ated on short- and medium-hauls, gains points  with its high fuel-efficiency per passenger and its  low noise and emissions values. As with the other  members of the A320 family, the A321 places as  light a burden on the environment and the climate  as is currently possible. The engine manufacturer CFM International will  equip the Airbus A320 aircraft ordered in 2010  with the latest version of the CFM56-5B engine,  whose advantages will include an additional  improvement of specific fuel consumption by  about 1 percent and reduced noise emissions.  The further development of the high-pressure  The first Lufthansa Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental in production.  a 29 Balance 2011 | The Lufthansa Group compressor, the combustion chamber and the  high- and low-pressure turbines makes it possi- ble to increase fuel efficiency and thus further cut  consumption. At the same time, the engines meet  the maximum emissions values of CAEP/6 (Com- mittee of Aviation Environmental Protection) of the  International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The aircraft of the types 190 and 195 made by the  Brazilian manufacturer Embraer also fly with high  economic efficiency as well as being environmen- tally friendly. This is illustrated by the extremely  low fuel consumption of about 3.9 liters of kero- sene per 100 passenger kilometers with a full pay- load, according to the manufacturers data. Further  pluses are low emissions and noise values. The eight CRJ900 NextGen aircraft of the Cana- dian manufacturer Bombardier impress with new  engine technology, more lightweight materials and  fuel efficiency. These aircraft are also characterized  by low emissions values and noise burdens. This  type of aircraft can fly to destinations up to 2,440  kilometers away. New aircraft for Lufthansa Passenger Airlines,  SWISS and Germanwings Of the 56 aircraft newly ordered in 2010,   Lufthansa Passenger Airlines will receive three   Airbus A330-300s and 20 aircraft from the Airbus  Group fl eet on 31.12.2010  (changes compared with 2009)   in possession1   age1   in operation2   age2 Lufthansa Passenger Airlines (including Lufthansa Italia)   342  ( + 25 )   11.5  ( – 0.3 )   274  ( + 19 )   13.0  (  0 )  Lufthansa CityLine   56  ( – 14 )   9.9  ( + 0.3 )   57  ( – 11 )   6.9  ( – 1.7 ) Air Dolomiti   8  ( – 6 )   9.9  ( + 0.5 )   17  ( – 6 )   7.4  (  0 ) Augsburg Airways   0  (  0 )   0.0  (  0 )   15  (  0 )   5.9  ( + 1.3 ) Contact Air   0  (  0 )   0.0  (  0 )   8  ( – 5 )   16.9  ( + 3.6 ) Eurowings   13  ( – 10 )   9.6  ( – 3.0 )   28  ( – 7 )   4.7  ( – 3.3 ) Germanwings   30  ( + 4 )   5.4  ( + 0.3 )   30  ( + 4 )   5.4  ( + 0.3 ) SWISS   90  ( + 6 )   10.9  ( + 0.3 )   86  ( + 10 )   11.0  ( + 0.2 ) Austrian Airlines   94  ( – 8 )   11.6  ( + 0.6 )   80  ( – 13 )   11.6  ( + 0.6 ) bmi   59  ( – 8 )   9.9  ( + 0.7 )   59  ( – 9 )   9.9  ( + 0.7 ) Business segment Passenger Airline Group   692  ( – 11 )     654  ( – 18 )    Lufthansa Cargo   18  ( – 1 )   12.7  ( + 0.7 )   18  ( + 2 )   12.7  ( + 1.7 ) Business segment Logistics   18       18      Group   710  ( – 12 )   10.9  (  0 )   672     ( – 16 )   10.8     ( + 0.1 ) A320 family, Lufthansa Regional will receive eight  Embraer 195s and eight Bombardier CRJ900  NextGens. Five Airbus A330-300s, two Airbus  A321s and two Airbus A320s are slated for oper- ations at SWISS. Germanwings will receive eight  Airbus A319s.  The fleet modernization program comprises  not only the acquisition of new aircraft but also  the updating of older models. The best exam- ple for this approach is the planned modifica- tion of the entire Boeing 737 fleet stationed in  Frankfurt, which is to be completed by the end of  2011. Lufthansa is adapting the engines of these  Boeing 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft technically,  so that they will fly significantly quieter (see   Lufthansa is firmly committed to noise reduction  from page 82). 1  Aircraft in the Groups possession 2  Aircraft operated by the Group  a 30 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 The operative fleet of the Lufthansa Group LH: 24 aircraft, 306 seats, 12,600 km range Airbus A340-600 LH: 26 aircraft, 266/221 seats, 11,100/12,700 km range Airbus A340-300 LH: 15 aircraft, 221 seats, 10,000 km range Airbus A330-300 LH: 41 aircraft, 190 seats, 2,900/4,100 km range Airbus A321-100/200 LH: 46 aircraft, 156 seats, 3,470 km range Airbus A320-200 LH: 30 aircraft, 132 seats, 3,470 km range Airbus A319-100 LH: 29 aircraft, 352 seats, 12,500 km range Boeing 747-400 LH: 29 aircraft, 111 seats, 2,520 km range Boeing 737-500 LH: 30 aircraft, 127 seats, 2,590 km range Boeing 737-300  Lufthansa Passenger Airlines  including Lufthansa Italia and Lufthansa Regional LH: 4 aircraft, 526 seats, 12,000 km range Airbus 380-800 Legend 4U = Germanwings BD = bmi C3 = Contact Air CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings IQ = Augsburg Airways LH = Lufthansa Passenger Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo LX = SWISS OS = Austrian Airlines Range indicated in general with maximum number   of passengers or payload, respectively. Number of aircraft in operation on 31.12.2010 1  maximum number of seats, different versions in operation  a 34 The Lufthansa Group | Balance 2011 Lufthansa    Best Airline Worldwide at the Business Travel  Awards 2010   Best European Airline at the World Airline  Awards   Most Innovative European Airline 2010 award  from airlinetrends.com   Elected as Most Popular Airline on Short-haul  Routes by the readers of British travel maga- zine Cond Nast Traveller   Best European Airline on the occasion of the  presentation of the Grand Travel Award in  Oslo   Hungarys Best Airline 2010 by travel maga- zine Az Utaz   San Francisco International Airport / Community   Roundtable Jon C. Long Fly Quiet Most   Improved Airline award for efficient noise  reduction   Awards for the Best Business Class on Ger- man and European Routes 2010 and for the  Best Airline Website for Business Travelers  2010 from the readers of the corporate travel  magazine Business Traveller Deutschland   Award for the on-board Internet access   Lufthansa FlyNet as Product of the Year 2011  by Germanys leading computer magazine Chip   Smaato Mobile Advertising Award 2010 for the  Lufthansa iPhone app    SimpliFlying Airline Business Awards for Social  Media Excellence for Airlines 2010 in the cate- gory Best Social Media Marketing Campaign  for Lufthansa Web service MySkyStatus   Innovation Prize 2010 by the Federal Asso- ciation of the German Tourism Industry for  Lufthansas premium strategy   AARP Innovative Employer Award 2010 from  the U.S. association AARP for Lufthansas  innovative approach to handling the effects of  demographic change and supporting older  employees   Multiple top scores from the finance magazine  Institutional Investor: Best CEO, Best CFO,  Best Investor Relations, Best IR Professional  in the transport sector   Award as European Manager of the Year 2010  for Wolfgang Mayrhuber (Chairman of the Exec- utive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa  AG until the end of 2010) by the association  of European business publications. Moreover,  Mayrhuber also received the prestigious   Laureate Award of the trade publication Avia- tion Week in the area Commercial Air Transport. Group companies and network airlines   Award for SWISS as Best Business Class to  North and South America at the Business   Traveller Awards 2010   SWISS receives the Skytrax 2010 World   Airline Award for Staff Service Excellence   on the ground and in the air   SWISS wins the Global Traveler Award of the  U.S. publication Global Traveler Magazine for  the best seat in First Class   Travel Star award of the trade publication   Travel Inside in the category best network airline  on short- and medium-hauls for SWISS, followed  by Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines   Award for Lufthansa Cargo as Best European  Cargo Airline on the occasion of the Asian  Freight & Supply Chain Awards (AFSCAs) by  trade publication Cargonews Asia   Award for Lufthansa Cargo at the Cargo   Airline of the Year Awards presented by Air  Cargo Media, as Best European Cargo Airline    Aircraft Technology Engineering & Mainte- nance Award for Lufthansa Technik as Best  MRO Provider in all Business Segments – for  the fourth time in a row   Crystal Cabin Award 2010 for the new light- weight construction trolley Quantum from LSG  Sky Chefs as the most innovative cabin product.  This trolley offers a weight savings of 40 percent  when compared with conventional onboard  models   Innovation prize of German business for   Lufthansa Systems. The Password Reset   InterActive (PIA) system convinced the jury in  the category sustainability (2011)   Award for Lufthansa Global Tele Sales Cape  Town as Best Employer South Africa by the  international institute of Corporate Research  Foundation Prizes and awards In 2010, Lufthansa again received numerous prizes and awards that honor the performance of the  Group and its companies. Below is a selection of the most important tributes:  a 35 Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 35 35 Economic Sustainability Ready for takeoff The air transport market is and remains a growth market. In 2010, the Lufthansa Group was able to   participate successfully in rising demand with its business segments. Significant success factors in   a challenging competitive environment are the innovative orientation toward quality and performance   of its strong brands, in passenger and freight transport as well as in the service companies. The value-  oriented approach to corporate governance has particular importance in this context. The reason is  that long-term value creation and a sound financial basis are the absolute prerequisites to stay on  course in the future as well.  a 36 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 36 Economy and ecology go hand in hand when  productivity increases result in the declining   consumption of resources. This effect is amplified  to the degree in which external, ecology-induced  costs are internalized, that is to say incorporated  into operating costs. Lufthansa faces constant competition. This  applies to both the markets for selling services  and procuring supplies for the individual   business segments, which also includes the   capital market in a wider sense. As a growing   company, Lufthansa depends on liquidity flowing  in from external investors to finance its invest- ments, despite its own financial strengths from  its operative business. In this market, the avia- tion group competes with the most varying com- panies for the favor of investors, who can select  from numerous investment options. To be attrac- tive for equity providers means to meet their yield  requirements based on risk. It follows that eco- nomic success is only achieved in our eyes when  the demands of the providers of equity capi- tal and external funds, expressed in adequate  interest or yield on their capital, are guaranteed,  explains Karl-Heinz Steinke, Senior Vice Presi- dent Corporate Controlling and Cost Manage- ment at Lufthansa. We assess these require- ments afresh every year, based on the current  developments in the financial markets and our  financial liabilities. As a result of the most recent  developments, the aviation companys average  capital cost (Weighted Average Cost of Capital  or WACC) declined, so that it was able to adjust  this cost for the financial year 2011 from 7.9 per- cent to 7.0 percent. The positive effect: While the  other general framework of conditions remains  unchanged, the value added potentially increases  for capital providers. But before one can speak definitely of value  added, a hurdle consisting of three compon -    ents has to be cleared. In addition to the capital   providers yield requirements, there is also   the tax yield associated with the earnings gener- ated as well as the preservation of assets. The  thought behind this approach is that working  capital, such as aircraft and handling installations  are used up in the course of their usual life span  and eventually have to be replaced. To be able  to do so, Lufthansa mentally earmarks a certain  amount during every year of use as provisions  and invests it at interest. This point in particu- lar makes it clear that economic success is the  basic prerequisite for sustainable business prac- tice. The reason is that these reserves decisively  determine the ability to invest in new technologies  and thus also a companys ability to innovate,  emphasizes Steinke. Assessments differentiated   by business segments An investments risk profile has a significant   influence on the investors yield requirements.   In simple terms: the higher the risk associated   with an investment, the higher the demands   concerning yields. Analogous to their different  areas of activities, the business segments of the  Lufthansa Group have different risk profiles. The  companies regularly compile their risk character- istics by external comparisons and especially  by management evaluations concerning specif  -  ic risk categories. They include the production  Corporate governance Growing in value-oriented ways The leading indicator cash value added (CVA) and its anchoring in essential control processes   ensures that the Lufthansa Groups profitable growth is significantly promoted through all employees  value-oriented thinking and acting. This approach is future-oriented, takes the requirements of our  shareholders into account and is focused on a long-term increase of the companys value with   regard to all stakeholders.  Economic success is the basic  prerequisite for sustainable   business practice. The special   advantage of the CVA approach in  comparison with other concepts is  that one indicator can capture the   financial effects of the most diverse  measures.  Karl-Heinz Steinke  Senior Vice President Corporate Controlling   and Cost Management at Lufthansa  a 37 Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 37 risk, political risks, foreign exchange influences  and also environmental risks in comparison with  the average of the companies listed in the DAX.  On the one hand, management evaluation cre- ates awareness of the influence of these factors.  On the other, it gives Group companies an indi- rect incentive to actively reduce these risks with  appropriate measures as capital costs subse- quently decline. Measuring success via operative   adjusting levers Only when the actual payment flow (cash flow)  clears the hurdle of interest requirements, taxes  and asset preservation within a period, does   the aviation company achieve a positive value  added. In calculating the CVA, Lufthansa takes  into account all factors that can influence value  creation within the Group. The system includes  central adjusting levers in the areas of revenues,  expenditure and capital base, on which manage- ment can exert influence by means of its deci- sions. Each change of a levers setting has an  immediate effect on the operating result, the capi- tal base and thus also on the CVA. For example,  the flying companies can improve their oper- ating results by increasing passenger numbers  or applying strict cost management. The capital  base can be lowered by selling fixed assets that  are no longer needed or speeding up collection  and thus obtaining a smaller portfolio of receiv- ables – both options ultimately increase the CVA.  The special advantage of the CVA approach  in comparison with other concepts is that one  indicator can capture the financial effects of the  most diverse measures, emphasizes the Senior  Vice President Corporate Controlling and Cost  Management. Deeply anchored in the management system The success of the CVA concept is also  explained by the fact that value-oriented steering  is deeply anchored in the Groups management  system and is actively applied by the companys  managers. At Lufthansa, the cash value added  is integrated into a fixed circuit that is based on  the four fundamental control areas of a company:  setting goals, structuring incentives, assessing  investments and reporting.  In the framework of setting goals, managers   formulate clearly defined CVA goals for the indi- vidual business segments. These value-oriented  indicators have a central importance both for the  long-term company strategy and the medium- and  short-term planning processes. Success-depen- dent remuneration policies for executives create  incentives that ensure their commitment to cor- porate goals. In order to further strengthen the  long-term element and sustainability in company  management, Lufthansa redefined the variable   remuneration element for members of the Execu- tive Board in 2010: Now it comprises – as addition-  al components – achieving a positive CVA for three  consecutive years as well as a sustainability factor.  Decisions about projects and investments also fol - low the principle of value added, whereby man ag e- ment compares the calculated interest earned from  a measure with the cost of capital employed. The  circle closes with reporting: in internal management  reports, external financial reports and on the Inter- net, Lufthansa regularly informs about the develop- ment of the target value CVA. In this way, the Group  creates transparency concerning the value added  within a financial year and makes the development  of performance understandable for employees and  the capital market. Working capital, such as aircraft and handling installations, are used up in the course of their usual life span and eventually have to be replaced.  To be able to do so, Lufthansa mentally earmarks a certain amount during every year of use as provisions and invests it at interest.  a 38 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 38 Successful in the past The CVA concept of Lufthansa aims at the long- term positive value added beyond the business  cycle of the air transport industry – fully aware of  the fact that there can be short phases of nega- tive value contributions. Lufthansa, and with it  the entire industry, had to cope with tremendous  challenges over the past ten years. Air transport  suffered a dramatic slump in the wake of the   terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. In sub- sequent years, the second Gulf war, the SARS  epidemic as well as avian flu and so-called swine  flu put a heavy strain on business. In 2009, the  most serious economic and financial crisis in 70  years caused worldwide passenger numbers to  fall by 3.5 percent, according to the International  Air Transport Association (IATA). For the associ- ation, it was the worst year that the industry has  ever seen. During this time, additional factors influenced  business, such as intensifying competition, oil   prices at record levels, recurring threats from   terrorism, country-specific charges, strikes, harsh  winter weather and the interruption of air traffic   by unforeseeable weather events.  For example, the eruption of the Icelandic   volcano Eyjafjallajkull in April 2010 grounded   air transport in Europe for days on end. And   the unusually harsh episode of winter weather   in December 2010 also had a strong impact   on flight operations across the entire Group.   Lufthansa Passenger Airlines alone had to cancel  more than 4,500 flights. These weather-related  disturbances of flight operations and the associ- ated additional costs had a negative effect on the  Groups result of about 70 million euros. Despite these adverse circumstances, Lufthansa  was able to achieve a CVA of 71 million euros in  2010. Since 2000, the company has recorded a  cumulative positive CVA of 2.1 billion euros. The  financial scope thus generated not only gives the  Group the opportunity to expand its market posi- tion, but it also creates the basis for developing  new products for customers, securing jobs, and  expanding and modernizing the Group fleet in  environmentally compatible ways. Well prepared for the future As in years past, Lufthansa and the entire air  transport industry are facing sizable challenges  over the mid-term. Growth is generated above all  in emerging countries and in Asia. Competitive  pressures from low-cost airlines and carriers from  outside Europe are on the increase, while Euro- pean airlines simultaneously have to cope with  air transports inclusion in EU emissions trading.  Since 2011, the German air transport tax has  been an additional and disproportional burden  on all flights from German airports and thus for all  German airlines.  Furthermore, Lufthansa and all other airlines have  to adapt to worldwide megatrends and challenges,  which include population growth, globalization,  demographic change, increasing mobility, the  development toward a service-oriented society,  and the expansion of the Internet. At the same   time, peoples needs for safety continue to  in crease, and climate change and resource   shortages assign an ever-increasing importance  to environmental protection. With the concept of value-oriented management,  Lufthansa leaves the economic crisis behind Lufthansa left the financial and economic crisis behind in 2010. With 91.2   million passengers, the flying Group companies transported 17.9 percent  more passengers than in the preceding year. Lufthansa Cargo increased its  transport performance by 18.2 percent. Concurrently, the Group achieved an  operating profit of 876 million euros and thus increased its result of the pre- vious year of 130 million euros by more than fivefold. The Groups net profit  increased to 1.1 billion euros, a plus of 1.2 billion euros.  This encouraging development is not only the result of an increasingly posi- tive progression of demand in passenger and freight traffic, but also that of  successful restructuring and cost-cutting programs at all company levels. The  program Climb 2011 alone aims at long-term result improvements of 1 billion  euros at Lufthansa Passenger Airlines by the end of 2011. In the reporting  year, the Group company continued to pursue the measures approved and  achieved perceptible cost reductions. Among other measures, Lufthansa   started to replace smaller aircraft in regional traffic with larger, more modern  and more efficient models. Another example of securing lasting higher con- tributions to operating results in the context of Climb 2011 is the new cabin  interiors of the European fleet that feature more seat rows, but simultaneously  offer passengers more comfort and legroom due to more slender backrests  and ergonomically optimized seats. Furthermore, the realization of synergy  potentials across the airline group is making itself increasingly felt. Thanks to  offers in line with market requirements, the Group companies were able to defend  their strong positions in the respective markets and partially expand them.  a 39 Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 39 The Executive Board is solely responsible for  steering the company, aligning it strategically and  increasing its value long-term. The Supervisory  Board appoints, advises and supervises the Exec- utive Board. Deutsche Lufthansa AG fulfills two  functions: It is the ultimate parent company and  the largest operating company within the Group. Shareholder structure The Lufthansa share has been traded on German   stock exchanges since 1966. It is represented  in the German Share Index DAX and is part of  the Prime Standard of Deutsche Brse (German  Stock Exchange). Lufthansa fulfills the highest  level of international transparency requirements  related to this standing. The companys share  capital is divided into 457.9 million registered  shares, which are held by about 347,000 share- holders. According to the standards of Deutsche  Brse, the free-float quota was at 100 percent for  Lufthansa shares at the end of 2010. About 32.8  percent of the equity capital was held by private  investors, almost 67.2 percent was held by insti- tutional investors. The share of German share- holders was 68.5 percent (see chart on page 9).  To maintain its international traffic rights and air  transport operating permit, Lufthansa must be  able to prove at any time that the majority of its  shares are in German possession. For further  information on the Lufthansa share, see the   Lufthansa Annual Report 2010 from page 36 or  the online Annual Report at  www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations Management and corporate structures Lufthansa is well positioned to master future  challenges and react flexibly – as it has proved  during the past decade. Result-securing pro- grams such as Climb 2011 ensure that optimized  cost structures are in place today. An addition al  Megatrends and global challenges influence the air transport industrys future development.  advantage is the ability to invest; a result of   financial strength. Both factors form the basis on  which the Lufthansa Group will continue to grow  sustainably and profitably tomorrow as well. Lufthansa is a German stock company with headquarters in Cologne. The company employs the dual  management structure ordinarily followed in Germany. Internet population growth  climate change  globalization environmental protection  demographic change megacities  health  mobility individualization to secure ones living  safety innovation shortage of resources service-oriented society spheres of political power  capital markets  a 40 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 40 implementation, further development and com- munication of the Lufthansa Compliance Program  and is available as a central contact for questions  regarding compliance. In addition, Compliance  Commissioners, who are named at the various  Group companies, ensure the Group-wide adher- ence to and the effective implementation of the  Compliance Program. The Compliance Office coordinates the investiga- tion of circumstances relevant to compliance and  in this context serves as a contact point for cartel  and investigative authorities. In such cases,   Lufthansa fully cooperates with the authorities.  The core components of the Lufthansa Com- pliance Program are its compliance guidelines.  These are binding internal regulations that give  employees not only strategies but also a binding  framework for action which guarantee a stan- dardized and law-abiding external conduct for  Lufthansa. The Lufthansa Compliance Program  currently comprises four building blocks: Com- petition, Capital Market, Integrity and Corporate  Compliance. Furthermore, Lufthansa places the greatest  importance on open and clear corporate commu- nications in order to respond to demands for infor- mation from shareholders, employees, customers  and the public – thus maintaining and strengthen- ing their trust in the Group.  Lufthansa fulfills the recommendations of the   German Corporate Governance Code with few  exceptions. For the declaration of conformity pur- suant to the German Corporate Governance Code  see the Group Management report in the Annual  Report 2010 from page 42. A comprehensive  compliance program, as described below, ensures  lawful conduct with regard to legal requirements  and prohibitions. The Lufthansa Compliance Program As adhering to legal and social regulations and  standards is everyday practice at Lufthansa, the  Group has not formulated its separate Code of  Conduct. Special attention is placed on ensuring  a corporate culture that demands conformity with  rules and creates a framework of conditions that  promotes such conformity. This is the purpose of  the Lufthansa Compliance Program, which was  introduced in September 2004. It is to guarantee  employees from breaking the law, train them in  applying and interpreting legal norms and support  them with advice in their daily work. Given the topics importance, Lufthansa set up a  Compliance Office on October 1, 2007, as part of  its central legal department. It is responsible for the  Corporate governance and compliance Responsible company management in line with the rules of effective corporate governance is a   substantial part of Lufthansas identity. The efficient, transparent structures and processes implemented  by the company reflect this approach splendidly. 2010 was a very successful year Despite numerous extraordinary burdens, it was possible to achieve a strong  result for the year – with positive contributions from all business segments.   Austrian Airlines and bmi significantly reduced their losses by means of   restructuring. In the first year after the crisis, the financial indicators moved a  good bit closer to their targets or even reached their goals. Lufthansa was again  able to add value. The rating stabilized and the outlook improved. The price of  the Lufthansa share increased by 39 percent – more than twice as much as the  DAX. The Lufthansa Annual Report 2010 provides detailed information about   this topic. www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations  eLearning As an aviation company with global operations,  Lufthansa represents fair competition, integrity  and responsible business practices. Every single  employee needs to be aware of this tenet, know   the rules and the consequences associated with  incorrect conduct. By using eLearning modules,  each employee actively participates in the imple- mentation of the Lufthansa Compliance Program. a 41 Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 41 Competition Compliance The module Competition Compliance introduces   employees to the relevant regulations of cartel   legislation, so as to minimize or exclude risks  for Lufthansa in this area. The Competition  Compliance guideline provides a strategy for  conduct in the context of business contacts with  third parties as well as a binding framework  of action to ensure a standardized and lawful  external presence of Deutsche Lufthansa. All  employees handling issues relevant to a car- tel are trained in the fundamental regulations  of European and national antitrust legislation  by means of a Web-based training (eLearning).  Special emphasis is given to those areas of  antitrust law that have particular importance for  everyday business practice. Capital Market Compliance The module Capital Market Compliance famil- iarizes employees with current capital market  law, such as regulations relating to insider trad- ing or ad hoc publicity. The goal is to keep   both the Lufthansa Group and its employees  from breaking the law. In the context of Capital   Market Compliance the employees concerned  are also instructed by means of Web-based   training, which gives them in-depth insights into  the regulations of the securities trading law. The  laws individual provisions are explained in the  context of daily practice and the explanations  are illustrated with many examples. Integrity Compliance With the module Integrity Compliance, Lufthansa  documents its fundamental approach of law- abiding conduct in business relationships.  The obligation on the part of Lufthansa and its  employees to adhere to non-corrupt and ethically   correct conduct flows naturally from current  law, the internal compliance guidelines and  Lufthansas memberships in relevant national  and international organizations. Examples of  these are Lufthansas commitment to the prin- ciples of the UN Global Compact, its member- ship in Transparency International and its obli- gation to respect the ICC guidelines to combat  corruption in business dealings. The Integrity Compliance guideline provides  support in handling invitations, gifts and other  attentions and indicates room for maneuver.  Furthermore, it raises awareness for poten- tial conflicts of interest. The Web-based train- ing provides an overview of the legal frame- work, causes and facts of economic crimes.  Employees are instructed by means of realistic  practical examples in behavior conforming to  compliance. Corporate Compliance The module Corporate Compliance bundles  those internal regulations that are considered  essential for Lufthansa from a legal perspective  and makes these transparent for managers and  employees. Compliance training Automated IT processes ensure that all employ- ees and executive bodies at Lufthansa par- ticipate in the eLearning courses relevant for  them once a year. The implementation of the  eLearning process is expanded to the subsidi- ary companies step by step. As a complement  to eLearning courses the Compliance Office  regularly offers trainings involving the partici- pants physical presence. Compliance trainings  are also an integral part of leadership semi- nars, management courses and other inter- nal continuing education and training events at  Lufthansa.  a 42 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 42 The development of strategy is accompanied by  intensive work on basic issues. In addition to new  IT systems and various process changes, this  includes a fundamental realignment of the sup- plier management with which Lufthansa confirms  its objective of sustainability – also within its pro- curement organization and along the entire sup- ply chain. As a procurement leader, Lufthansa  not only expects that its suppliers will adhere to  binding sustainability criteria in a decentralized  manner via its Group companies, but the com- pany also anchors these criteria Group-wide in  all contracts and internal guidelines. Lufthansa  draws its orientation in this context from interna- tionally acknowledged conventions concerning  environmental protection and employee safety,  legal regulations concerning the fight against cor- ruption, and safety guidelines pertaining to infor- mation processing. Suppliers that do not accept  these contractual clauses are not admitted to  Lufthansas circle of suppliers. Corporate sourcing At the beginning of 2009, the Lufthansa Group launched the project Procurement Leadership to further  professionalize Group-wide procurement processes. The focus is on the introduction of a strategic   product-group management that is expected to allow the procurement areas to make a long-term   contribution of about 300 million euros to the operating result by 2011.  Ombudsman system To allow the confidential transmission of informa- tion pertaining to possible economic crimes,   Lufthansa set up an ombudsman system on  December 1, 2007. As an additional preventive  measure against economic crimes, it is aimed at  protecting Lufthansa and its employees. Relevant  information can be given by employees or by  third parties to an ombudsman outside the com- pany, either by telephone, in writing or in person.  This function is fulfilled by a lawyer. In the context of his contractual relation with   Lufthansa, the ombudsman establishes with the  informant a particular relationship of trust, which  consists of the transmission of the information  entrusted to him to Lufthansa under absolute  secrecy with regard to the name and identity of  the informant. In this relationship, the ombuds- man is fully bound by the legal obligation of  professional secrecy and also has the right to  refuse evidence vis--vis any public investigative  authorities that might become active. In addition,  Lufthansa and the ombudsman have expressly  agreed that the identity of an informant will not be  revealed and any documents the ombudsman  might have received will not be handed over,  unless the informant has expressly stated his or  her desire that these items be made public. The  revealing of an informants identity to Lufthansa or  third parties without his or her consent is there- fore ruled out. Monitoring and reporting The Compliance Commissioners of the   Lufthansa Group get together once a quarter.  Their goal is to inform about current new devel- opments in the area of compliance and initiate   the implementation of relevant measures. In  addition, the relevant implementation of an  effective compliance program is also evalu- ated with reference to the current requirements  in the context of the accounting modernization  law by means of self-audits and external audits. The Supervisory Boards Audit Committee is  informed twice a year by means of the Com- pliance Report about current developments as  they relate to compliance issues and the cur- rent state of the implementation of the Compli- ance Program within the Group, including train- ing rates.  a 43 Balance 2011 | Economic Sustainability 43 For many years, Lufthansa has been working on  handling peoples growing needs for mobility as  environmentally compatibly as possible – and will  continue to do so in the future. This is evidenced  by the continuous acquisition of fuel-efficient and  quiet aircraft in the framework of the fleet moder- nization, among other measures. But it is just as  important for the infrastructure on the ground  to adapt to the coming challenges. The Group  makes its contribution in this area as well, as the  following examples show: Frankfurt Airport Frankfurt is the focal point of the dynamic eco- nomic Rhine-Main region and one of the most  important international hubs in air transport. With  70,000 employees, the airport is Germanys   largest place of work. In addition, Lufthansa is  the most important employer in Hesse with about  36,000 employees. And the signs are pointing  toward demand increasing further. The airport  operator Fraport expects an additional 35 million  passengers in Frankfurt per year by 2020, which  makes the hubs expansion overdue. In fall 2011  the new northwest landing runway will be put into   operation, which will expand the airports capac- ity perceptibly. From summer 2012, the new  A-Plus pier will be available to passengers, to be  used exclusively by Lufthansa. It offers space for  seven wide-body aircraft, including four A380s.  Simultaneously, Lufthansa can handle an addi  - tional 6 million passengers per year in this part of  the terminal. Independent of the airports expan- sion, it is also important to ensure flight opera- tions at night, which are economically neces- sary. Should the seventh-largest air cargo hub  worldwide really be cut off from the global flows  of goods for six hours every day, it would lose its  position as the hub of the German export industry  and thousands of jobs would be at risk. Munich Airport At Munich Airport, the expansion of terminal  capacities is also necessary so that Lufthansa  and the airport operator will be able to maintain  their high levels of quality standards against the  background of continuously rising passenger  volumes. The capacity limit of the existing Termi- nal 2, which is jointly operated by the airport and  Lufthansa and used exclusively by Lufthansa and  its partners, is 25 million passengers a year. This  maximum value will be reached this year already  and therefore the expansion of Terminal 2 is  absolutely imperative. Infrastructure Mobility depends on needs-oriented infrastructure Mobility is a basic human need and indispensable in todays society. The demand for mobility   continues to rise. It is driven by population growth, the expansion of urban areas and globalized trade  flows, among other factors. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), the number  of passengers in air traffic alone is expected to rise by 800 million to 3.3 billion passengers per year  between 2009 and 2014. Air freight is expected to grow by 6.4 percent per year by 2014, according to  the latest prognoses. Frankfurt Airport: The competitiveness of international hubs depends on needs-oriented capacities.  a 44 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2011 44 The two partners will start construction on a satel- lite building at the end of 2011, which will allow  Lufthansa to handle an additional 11 million pas- sengers, starting with the summer timetable 2015.  The new functional elements of the existing   Terminal 2 will be characterized by incorporating   ecological aspects into the building. In compar- ison, the satellite building will emit about 40   percent less CO2 than Terminals 1 and 2, as the  former includes a walkable climate facade with  refrigeration storage media that optimize the  buildings envelope energetically. Air conditioning  will include modern displacement flow diffuser  technology.  To ensure that Munich will be able to maintain its  position as a premium hub of international stan- ding over the long-term, the construction of a  third runway is also necessary. Today, the existing  runway system is overloaded at peak times. Berlin Brandenburg International Airport In Berlin, Lufthansa Technik is further expanding  its commitment and building a new maintenance  hangar at the future Berlin Brandenburg Internatio- nal Airport – in addition to the existing large main- tenance hangar which will continue to be used in  the years ahead. Starting in 2012, the provider of  technical services will look after Lufthansa short-  and medium-haul aircraft in the new hangar with  three parking positions. At the same time, capaci- ties offered to other customers can be expanded. The satellite building in front of Terminal 2 in Munich will make the needs-oriented capacity  increase a reality when the summer timetable 2015 comes into effect. Modes of transport: The analysis   of air transport is convincing In September 2010, the German Air Transport  Initiative presented the results of an analysis of  different modes of transport. It showed that the  aircraft is the mode of transport with the lowest  environmental costs for distances above 400  to 500 kilometers. The comprehensive analysis  included aspects such as infrastructure costs,  accident and environmental costs as well as  operational costs and costs for the users time.  For the first time, light was shed in a concentra- ted way on comprehensive economic and eco- logical aspects concerning rail, road and air  modes of transport. The study was carried out  by the Fraunhofer Institute for System and   Innovation Research and the research com- pany INFRAS Zrich. Apart from Lufthansa,  the German Air Transport Initiative includes  DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH, Flug- hafen Mnchen GmbH and Fraport AG. The  initiatives patron is the German Federal Mini- stry of Transport, Building and Development. www.initiative-luftverkehr.de New association: German air transport  bundles its forces Lufthansa is a founding member of the new  Federal Association of the German Air Transport  Industry (Bundesverband der Deutschen Luft- verkehrswirtschaft – BDL), which has represen- ted industry interests with a single voice since  December 2010. Its goal is to increase the  awareness of the importance of air transport in  economic and employment policy among poli- ticians and journalists, and to strengthen Ger- many overall as a location for the air transport  industry. On June 1, 2011, Klaus-Peter Siegloch  will take over the presidency of the association  with headquarters in Berlin from founding pre- sident Dieter Kaden. www.bdl.aero News in brief  a 45 Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility 45 45 Social Responsibility Fit for the future The Lufthansa Group has more than 117,000 employees worldwide. With a broad spectrum of options  for continuing education and flexible working hours, they have choices for their professional develop- ment and maintaining expert knowledge, and for making career and family compatible. Comprehensive  offers concerning health care and health maintenance mean that physical fitness is also taken into   account. The highly motivated and qualified team of employees from 149 different nations is thus as   well prepared as possible for the futures challenges.  a 46 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 Over the past few years, the acquisitions of  SWISS, bmi and Austrian Airlines and the equity  participations in Brussels Airlines and jetBlue  have meant that renowned international airlines  were integrated into the Group or tied more   closely to the Lufthansa route network. Both the  degrees of internationality and heterogeneity  have strongly increased at the Lufthansa Group  since then: While classic Group companies such  as Lufthansa Technik, LSG Sky Chefs or Lufthansa  Systems have traditionally represented the   yellow-blue world of Lufthansa, the new Group  airlines joined the company with their own spe- cific identities, brands and cultures. To maintain  these characteristics in parallel with the integra- tion topics related to Group membership and  to further develop them independently is a cen- tral concern for Lufthansa. This approach is also  reflected in personnel management – as the  ex ample of Austrian Airlines illustrates. Strategy of integrated independence Be it SWISS, bmi or Austrian Airlines: When it  comes to the integration of new companies,   Lufthansa pursues an approach that is based  on the principle of partnership. The basis for this  approach is the strategy of integrated indepen- dence, which Lufthansa developed successfully  in the context of linking SWISS into the Group. It  is now adapted for the HR integration of Austrian  Airlines – a process that started in September  2009 and has continued beyond 2010. The strategy of integrated independence makes  it possible to provide answers for classic integra- tion issues quickly and efficiently – such as pos- sible synergy potentials, customer advantages  or the consequences that flow from the affilia- tion under corporate law. Another consideration  is to maintain the positioning of the new Group  members in their respective markets and to  ensure decentralized decision-making paths and  responsibilities. HR integration:   As much as necessary, as little as possible As with SWISS at the time, Lufthansa does not  aim at a full HR integration into the Group in the  case of Austrian Airlines. In the foreground are  our efforts to maintain the identity of the Austrian  market leader in terms of personnel and corpo- rate culture. This is why we avoid the export of  German regulations and traditions, and concen- trate on jointly defining the meaningful degree of  integration for HR topics, ensuring comparable  standards and establishing a long-term culture of  dialogue for shared learning and working, says  Dr. Martin Schmitt, Senior Vice President Execu- tive Personnel at Lufthansa. This process is made easier by a circumspect  selection procedure. As a result, the new air- lines are compatible with Lufthansa from the  perspective of culture and personnel policy.  The Group again followed this principle in the  integration of Austrian Airlines: In the frame- work of due diligence, the audit of the accounts  that precedes an acquisition, Lufthansa also  scrutinized the HR regulations at the future  Group airline, examining, checking and asses- sing them for compatibility with the fundamen- tal principles of the Group. Another focus was  on economic aspects. Important economic  areas needing attention that were identified in  the process of due diligence were further ex - amined by the Executive Board of Austrian   Personnel policy at the Lufthansa Group HR integration – Exemplified by Austrian Airlines The number of employees at the Lufthansa Group has more than doubled from 56,802 in 1996 to 117,019   today. Significant reasons are a continuous increase in the demand for mobility and the consolidation  process in the air transport industry, in which the Lufthansa Group participates actively and with a clear  strategic orientation. In the foreground are our efforts to  maintain the identity of the Austrian  market leader in terms of personnel  and corporate culture. We concen trate  on jointly defining the meaningful   degree of integration for HR topics,   ensuring comparable standards and  establishing a long-term culture of dia- logue for shared learning and working. Dr. Martin Schmitt Senior Vice President Executive Personnel at Lufthansa  a 47 Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility Airlines and Lufthansas members of Austrians  Supervisory Board.  Analysis of the degree of integration The decisive conditions for a successful HR   integration of Austrian Airlines into the Lufthansa  Group are the structures that make up the assimi- lation process in the first place. This concerns not  only the unequivocal assignment of responsibili- ties, but also a comprehensive harmonization of  all IT systems and interfaces. The reason is that a  standardized IT infrastructure is the prerequisite  for creating sound key performance indicators  (KPI) that can be used as a basis for decision- making processes, documentation and analyses.  Lufthansa has already made good progress in  this area. For example, a comparative KPI ana- lysis showed that from the start, the HR area of  Austrian Airlines has a high level of overlap with  the indicators used by Lufthansa. This includes   reporting about personnel levels, personnel  structures and quarterly results, to name but   a few. Distribution of responsibilities The arrangement of HR responsibilities is a good  indication that the independence of Austrian Airlines  remains intact. The responsibility for the majority of  all HR topics, such as personnel policies, collective  pay agreements, personnel procurement and per- sonnel development will remain at Austrian Airlines.  However, topics in the area of corporate respon- sibility, which affect the social responsibility of the  Lufthansa Group as a whole, will be steered at the  Group level. The HR Board in particular, situated at the Group  level, serves as a dedicated platform for coordinat- ing HR topics across business segments. Since  Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines: two independent brands – the same understanding of quality. 2010, the board has included representatives   from all Group airlines for the first time. Austrian   Airlines is represented by the Senior Director  Human Resources & Organization. The committee  meets three to four times a year to define the over- riding scope of development in personnel policy  and to discuss possible solutions for ongoing inte- gration processes, such as in distribution and at  the stations. For instance, the Board decided in the  reporting year to set up a working group to develop   effective packages of measurements that supported   the integration of Austrian Airlines. Furthermore,  it decided to set up a task force that includes the  department Corporate Communications to further  optimize the exchange of information across the  Lufthansa Group. Internal communications has a  key role in the context of successful network inte- gration, says Stefan Lauer, Chief Officer Group   Airlines and Corporate Human Resources of   Deutsche Lufthansa AG. All activities aim at suc- cessfully implementing the concept of integrated   independence. The implementation of decisions   taken by the HR Board is the task of middle  management on location. The distribution and station units   of Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines  have grown together to form a sound  integrated system that gives both  sides perceptible synergistic effects. Richard Piller Senior Director Human Resources & Organization   at Austrian Airlines  a 48 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 segments and selected corporate functions, the  head of Corporate Executives and the chairman  of the Aviation Employers Association. As the  success of integration depends on shared basic  positions, the top managers of Austrian Airlines   are closely connected to the dialogue and devel- opment concerning the management level.  Beyond this, further platforms exist for targeted  exchanges (see overview on this page), synergies  in distribution and at the stations. Towards the end of 2010, significant progress  already emerged in the integration of Austrian  Airlines. The distribution and station units of   Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines have grown  to gether to form a sound integrated system that  gives both sides perceptible synergistic effects,  says Richard Piller, Senior Director Human  Resources & Organization at Austrian Airlines.  Forming mixed teams is always the task of the  local company. The internal integration tasks of  the jointly founded air freight company Austrian   Lufthansa Cargo, founded in 2010 by Lufthansa  Cargo and Austrian Airlines, are essentially  completed.   Plans for the future Even though the HR integration of Austrian   Airlines into the Lufthansa Group is not yet fully  implemented, the personnel experts in charge  are already working on plans for the future. For  example, Austrian Airlines would like not only  shared network criteria for distribution and station  management, but also a standardized IT plat- form that would allow a network of connections  between the personnel procurement systems of  the different Lufthansa companies. In addition,  Richard Piller advocates a higher degree of flex- ibility within the Group: Employees should be  able to change from one employer to another at  acceptable conditions. Beyond that Lufthansa  is keen on further advancing the coordination of  HR data and improving the information exchange  among HR experts. The way ahead has already  been defined for these developments. In addition, a meeting of the HR Management   Day (HMD) takes place every six weeks. This  expert forum, which coordinates policies concern  - ing personnel, management, and pay of employ- ees predominately working in Germany, includes  the heads of HR of the Lufthansa business   HR management platforms across business segments to   coordinate personnel-relevant topics at the Lufthansa Group: HR Board Chairman: Chief Officer Group Airlines and Corporate Human Resources Labor Relations Directors/Members of Executive Boards in charge of person- nel within Group and HR heads of corporate functions HMD – HR Management Day HMD Personnel Policy Chairman: Senior Vice President Executive Personnel HMD Executive Personnel Policy Chairman: Head of Corporate Executives HMD Pay Policy Roundtable Chairman: General Manager of the Aviation Employers Association HMCI – HR Management Circle International Chairman: Director Corporate Principles Personnel Policy HR heads of all Lufthansa companies abroad, personnel managers   International at Lufthansa business segments and HR corporate functions  concerning issues relevant abroad HMF – HR Management Forum Chairman: Director Corporate Principles Personnel Policy HR heads of all Lufthansa companies and HR corporate functions HMX – HR Management Experts Chairman: Manager responsible for respective issue Diverse topic-related forums that include affected Group companies; e.g. worktime,  education, demographics, health-care management, personnel development, etc. Representatives of all Group airlines have been on the HR Board since 2010.  a 49 Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility Employment policy based on partnership At Lufthansa too, the economic crisis meant that the first half of 2010 was dedicated to crisis manage- ment. Program to safeguard earnings in nearly all companies had to make use of the policy instruments  available to cut staff costs and adjust human resources capacities in line with requirements. HR policy copes with an exceptional year in 2010  by means of wide-ranging measures Lufthansa is on track for growth: In 2011 the companys  recruitment will also include 2,200 flight attendants. Lufthansa has learned from crises in prior years  and can draw on a wealth of experience in deal- ing with a variety of different scenarios. An exter- nal hiring freeze was followed by voluntary redun- dancy models such as unpaid leave, phased  early retirement, part-time work and compromise  agreements with severance payments. In some  cases, measures such as reduced working hours  and the non-renewal of fixed-term contracts also  became necessary. The successful implementa- tion was due not least to the constructive working  relationship with the codetermination partners.  The Group-wide internal placement program  JobChange also facilitated Company restruc- turing in the crisis year 2010. The program opened up new prospects within the Group for  many employees. The chosen methods of adjusting staff capacities   also made it possible to react directly to eco- nomic growth, which set in faster than expected.  In some areas of the Group reduced working  hours were brought to an end quickly. Earnings developments at the Lufthansa Group  were more dynamic than could have been fore- seen and this provided the means for a special  thank-you to the bulk of our pay-scale and non- pay-scale employees. Based on the good result  for 2010 the Executive Board decided in Decem- ber to make a one-off special payment amount- ing to 700 euros per full-time employee, which  was paid out in January 2011. Job opportunities at the Group In the face of enormous fluctuations in the eco- nomic ups and downs of the air transport indus- try, the large internal job market of the Lufthansa  Group has shown in the recent past not only the  function of a guarantor for entry and advance- ment opportunities, but also as an equalization  mechanism to cushion unavoidable social hard- ship. Many suitable jobs and many opportunities  for advancement can be found in our IT-based  systems, increasingly also in an international  dimension.  While numerous operative areas are currently  hiring again and creating new jobs, at the same  time some areas within the Group need to be  restructured, which also entails shifting jobs or  job losses. To counteract this situation, Lufthansa  will – after having reviewed its applicant manage- ment system – further expand its tried-and-tested  job placement platform JobChange in Germany  and place emphasis on the areas of reach and  user friendliness. JobChange makes it possi- ble to search even more efficiently for suitable  replacement jobs for those employees within the  Group whose jobs are eliminated in the context  of operational restructuring processes. Searches  are carried out within Germany and indepen- dently of legal obligations. The project-related  success rates show that many, although not all,  operations-related job losses can be compen- sated in this way. Information, negotiation and employee   participation in company decisions It is a tried-and-tested company policy to settle  conflicts of interest between company manage- ment and employee representations in an open  and transparent manner. A fair approach to coex- istence in all areas creates the necessary balance  to advance the Lufthansa Group in the market.   a 50 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 Lufthansa Group: Jobs around the world  2010 Frankfurt/Main  34,987 Hamburg      9,940 Munich     9,570 Cologne  2,572 Berlin  1,473 Rest of Germany  6,617 Total in Germany  65,159 Rest of Europe  27,234 Africa/Middle East  2,044 North/Central America  12,363 South America  2,909 Asia/Pacific  7,310 Group total  117,019 Employees by group and gender 2010, in percent Women 51,723 Men 65,296  44.2  55.8 Apprentices 1,603  24.0  76.0 Ground1 81,097  37.6  62.4 Flight2 34,319  60.8  39.2 Cockpit 9,040  5.0  95.0 Cabin 25,279  80.8  19.2      female employees      male employees Distribution of employees within the Lufthansa Group  2010, changes in percent 2010 2009   change  Group employees 117,019 117,521 – 0.4 of which Passenger Airline Group 57,157 58,083 – 1.6 of which Logistics 4,517 4,488 + 0.6 of which MRO 20,159 19,796 + 1.8 of which IT Services 2,935 3,027 – 3.0 of which Catering 28,499 28,390 + 0.4 of which Others 3,752 3,737 + 0.4 As per 31.12.2010 1 without apprentices 2 consists of cockpit and cabin The increasing plurality of opinions and opinion  leaderships – analogous to developments in  society at large – is an increasing challenge for  all participants. The guideline for all joint efforts is  flexibility and the ability to react in the market. Partnership in collective agreements   in Germany Lufthansa employs its staff under conditions that  provide them with social and material security  not only during their professional lives but also  afterwards. They are established upon the collec- tive agreements which the company negotiates  with its union partners Vereinte Dienstleistungs- gewerkschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit (VC)  and Unabhngige Flugbegleiter Organisation e.V.  (UFO). The goal is to treat all employee groups  across the Group fairly and justly – a standard  that is faced with a challenging framework of  conditions owing to the plurality of unions within  the company. The Lufthansa Groups pay policy in 2010 was  characterized by intensive negotiation in the  areas of ground, cabin and cockpit. The newly  founded organization Aviation Employers Asso- ciation (Arbeitgeberverband Luftverkehr e.V. –  AGVL) officially took up its work on January 1,  2010, assuming the Group-wide tasks concer- ning collective agreements. Since the beginning  of 2010, the AGVL has replaced the previous  employer organization Arbeitsrechtliche Vereini- gung Hamburg as a new collective bargaining  partner for the unions at the Lufthansa Group. Following a constructive arbitration dialogue,   Lufthansa and VC signed a new collective agree- ment for the cockpit personnel of Lufthansa   Passenger Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo and   Germanwings in June 2010. In the framework  of the overall compromise, VC and Lufthansa  as well as Germanwings agreed to necessary  reforms, such as the calculation of work times  and the operation of small aircraft. The collective  pay agreement and the collective agreement on  working conditions were prolonged unchanged   until March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012,  respectively. Concerning the interpretation and  application of the Group collective agreement,  which defines conditions of employment and  career options, the result of the agreement nego- tiations includes sound solutions that take into  account the interests of both sides.  a 51 Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility In July 2010, a separate collective pay settle- ment was reached between the AGVL and union  ver.di for the employees working on the ground  at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. The overall package  also includes the prolongation of the validity of  the collective pay agreements without adaptation  of salaries until December 31, 2011. Furthermore,  unions and management also took the increased   burdens on employees from shift work into  account by means of a new collective agreement  of age-related part-time work. In January 2011, Lufthansa and UFO agreed in an  arbitration procedure to a new pay settlement for  the approximately 16,000 flight attendants. The  agreement provides for the prolongation of the  collective pay agreement without adaptation of  salaries until December 31, 2011. As a counter- move, a collective agreement on working condi- tions was accepted, which currently can be ter- minated for the first time on February 28, 2014. It  defines a package of measures aimed at further  improving working conditions. For example, the  number of possible changes in duty rosters is  reduced to give cabin employees more certainty  in planning their schedules and thus improving  their work-life balance. Another example is the  agreed extension of resting periods during lay- overs on long-haul rotations entailing particular  strain. Active pay and social policies also abroad Internationalization and globalization offer   comprehensive opportunities for the business  and personnel processes across the Group.  As a company with international operations,  Lufthansas pay and social policies are guided  by the respective general conditions in individual  countries. The focus is on the long-term definition  of the conditions of employment, which depend  on employee needs, operational requirements  and the local labor market. These conditions  include rules on pay regulations, working condi- tions, and care systems. As a member of the   UN Global Compact (see on page 20), Lufthansa   documents its support of the freedom of asso- ciation and the right to collective bargaining for  all employees worldwide. Employees are free to  organize themselves according to legal condi- tions and thus participate in shaping their work- ing conditions in any country where Lufthansa  companies are active. Human rights according to the UN Charter of 1948  With its memberships in the UN Global Compact (since 2002), in the Inter- national Chamber of Commerce (since 1955), in Transparency International   (since 1999), in Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik (since 1998) and in  institutions that work for individual aspects of human rights, Lufthansa explic- itly affirms adherence to respective norms and thus also to human rights.  Lufthansas home country, Germany, signed the adherence to the ILO norms  in 1951, thereby making these regulations – which are self-evident for our  Group – binding for Lufthansa as well. In countries where the acceptance of human rights does not appear self-evi- dent, Lufthansa tries to set accents that contribute to a positive development  in the respective countries by exercising exemplary conduct vis--vis its  own employees. While the realization of the human rights formulated in the  UN Charter is a task of national and thus country-specific norms, Lufthansa  contributes to the following rights by treating its employees in an exemplary  fashion:   the rights to freedom of association and to collective bargaining   the right to social security   the rights to work, to free choice of occupation, to just and favorable   working conditions,   to equal pay for equal work, to legal justice, and to form trade unions   the right to rest and leisure, including periodic holidays with pay   the right to a standard of living that helps maintain health   the right to education and to free choice of type of education Working, holiday and remuneration conditions are defined for the most part  collectively and always transparently by adhering to all national and legal  requirements. Corporate leadership and employee orientation are reflected  in the companys excellent worldwide reputation as an employer. Thus, the  Group helps its employees to lead a life in the sense of the norms defined by  the UN Charter concerning employment relationships.  a 52 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 Diversity Appreciation creates value Today, companies striving for innovation, wanting to open up new customer groups and markets,  and coping with the challenges from demographic change and lack of qualified personnel, need  one thing above all: diversity. This means the diversity of competencies, ways  of thinking and working, cultures and lifestyles  that are embodied by the people within an orga- nization. Pursuing the goal to better understand  diversity and take advantage of its potential for  the benefit of employees and the company,   Lufthansa set up its own organizational unit  Change Management and Diversity in 2001.  This department is part of the area Group per- son nel policy, whose head is a member of the   Corporate Responsibility Council and who also  pursues diversity-related topics in this committee. Striking a balance between employee   and company interests The Group-wide diversity strategy follows the princi- ple appreciation creates value and aims at estab- lishing a lasting equilibrium between the companys  economic interests and the employees legitimate  social interests. In essence this means valuing the  individual differences in employees as resources  that increase not only the individuals creativity,   motivation and willingness to perform, but that   also benefit the companys strengths of innovation  and competitiveness, emphasizes Monika Rhl,  Director Change Management and Diversity at   Lufthansa. The Group has created the conditions  for this approach by offering, among other options,  numerous working time formats that make it easier  for mothers and fathers to make career and family  compatible, or that make it easier for employees to  care for family members in need. Further building  blocks are comprehensive offers for training and  continuing education, attractive programs in health  care and health maintenance as well as appropriate  participation in the companys economic success.  The areas of emphasis of diversity management  can vary from one business area to another and   at individual Group companies. While Lufthansa   Passenger Airlines focuses on the subject of inter- nationality and intercultural competencies, Lufthansa   Technik pays attention to the coexistence of different  generations and women in technical jobs. Group-wide diversity activities are communicated  by internal and external media, including the em - ployee newspaper Lufthanseat, the sustainability  report Balance, press releases and internal semi- nars and series in continuing education, such as  the program Further with Education. Furthermore,  every year managers give numerous presentations  at congresses and conferences that address topics  of diversity.   International workforce: The Lufthansa Group employs people from 149 nations. At a glance:  Of 117,019 employees, of which ...  ... 44.2 % are women ... 37.8 % are women with staff responsibility ... 13.3 % are women in management positions ... 5 % are pilots, ... 55.7 % work in Germany. Worldwide, 149 nationalities are represented in  the Lufthansa Group. The average age is 40.7  years. As per 31.12.2010  a 53 Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility Focus topic: Women in management positions  The share of women in management positions  declined in the reporting year compared with  the preceding year from 14.7 to 13.3 percent, a  development that is a statistical effect resulting  from taking into account consolidated companies  including the Group partners. In absolute terms,  the number of women in management positions  increased from 123 to 140. The share of women  with staff responsibility stood at 37.8 percent in  the reporting year (2009: 41.5 percent). Here  again, consolidation effects are the cause. In 2011, promoting women at all levels and espe- cially at the management level is among the top  issues for the Executive Board. Lufthansas com- panywide Talent Management has been set up  and expanded, aiming at efficient and compre- hensive structures. In 2010, the lineup of manag- ers was evaluated in detail as market and general  conditions had changed. Strengths and weak- nesses were assessed and measures identified  with a view to considering the further develop- ment of Lufthansas Talent Management in its  entirety. These measures are being implemented  in 2011. Special attention is given to the develop- ment and promotion of women in management  positions. Job placement following the principle   of best aptitude While Lufthansa strives to increase the share of  women among managers, the Group has decided  against a quota solution for job placements. Poten- tial applicants will continue to be selected primarily  following the principle of best aptitude. Neverthe- less, to be able to identify female candidates at an  early stage and give them support, Lufthansa also  counts on regular analyses of the womens share  among university graduates, direct hires, employees  showing potential and holding responsible positions  as well as supervisors and pilots. The measures  already implemented and the additional measures  partially started are designed to create a fundamen- tal change of awareness among men and women  at all levels of hierarchy. A further goal is to further  optimize the compatibility of career and family, and  the professional development of women. Fighting against stereotypes It is a persistent stereotype that girls want to be  flight attendants and boys want to be mechanics,  which is due primarily to a lack of information. It is  the goal of a wide-ranging campaign – launched   by Lufthansa Technik in December 2010 – to  dismantle such reservations and interest more  young women in a technical profession. We  want to address girls specifically so that we can  take advantage of applicants full potential in the  future, says Martin Brandes, Head of Vocational  Training at Lufthansa Technical Training (LTT), a  subsidiary of Lufthansa Technik. As the demand  for qualified employees is increasing, no company   can afford long-term to ignore the performance  potential of female employees. For this reason,  Lufthansa has participated for many years in the  Germany-wide Girls Day, which gives female  pupils from the fifth grade hands-on insights into  technical, skilled trades, engineering and scienti- fic professions. The profession of pilot is also not  yet sufficiently anchored in the scenarios of pro- fessional choice among girls and young women.  Therefore, Girls Day also offers opportunities to  take a glance behind the scenes and discover  that career and family can coexist in this field, too. Moving away from stereotypes: Lufthansa Technik aims to persuade young women to take up  apprenticeships in technical professions by running original advertisements.  a 54 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 Part-time work by Group companies 2010, in percent Group  26.8  26.9 Deutsche  Lufthansa AG  44.1  45.7 Group, abroad  16.1  15.5  Lufthansa Technik  10.9  12.1  Lufthansa Cargo  18.8  18.8 Systems LSY Group   20.5  20.5 LSG Group  15.1  15.3      2010      2009 Age structure at the Lufthansa Group2  2010, in percent 60 and older  2.9 55 – 59  6.7 50 – 54  10.4 45 – 49  17.3 40 – 44  18.3 35 – 39  14.1 30 – 34  14.3 25 – 29  10.4 20 – 24  4.8 18 – 19  0.6 younger than 18  0.2 1 Deutsche Lufthansa AG, In-Flight Management Solutions GmbH, Jettainer GmbH,   LSG Lufthansa Service Europa/Afrika GmbH, LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG,   LSG Sky Chefs Catering Logistics GmbH, LSG Sky Chefs Deutschland GmbH, LSG  Food & Nonfood Handel GmbH, Lufthansa Cargo AG, Lufthansa Cargo Charter   Agency GmbH, Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH, Lufthansa Process Management  GmbH, Lufthansa Systems Aeronautics GmbH, Lufthansa Systems Airline Services  GmbH, Lufthansa Systems AG, Lufthansa Systems Americas Inc., Lufthansa Systems  Berlin GmbH, Lufthansa Business Solutions GmbH, Lufthansa Systems Infratec GmbH,  Lufthansa Systems Passenger Services GmbH, Lufthansa Technik AG, Lufthansa   Technik Logistik GmbH, Lufthansa Technik Maintenance International GmbH, Lufthansa  Training & Conference Center GmbH, Lufthansa World Shop GmbH, Air Dolomiti S.p.A.  Linee Aeree Regionali Europee, Austrian Airlines AG, British Midland Airways Ltd.,   Eurowings Luftverkehrs AG, Germanwings GmbH, LSG Lufthansa Service Catering-   u. Dienstleistungsgesellschaft mbH, LSG Sky Chefs Lounge GmbH, Lufthansa CityLine  GmbH, Lufthansa Technik Philippines Inc., Lufthansa Systems AS GmbH, Lufthansa   Italia S.p.A., Lufthansa Technik AERO Alzey GmbH, Swiss International Air Lines AG  2 Scope of consolidation partially without LSG outside Germany, Lufthansa Technik   Philippines, Shannon Aerospace Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Malta Ltd., Lufthansa Technik  Airmotive Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Budapest Ltd., Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd. US,  Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd. GB, BizJet Intern. Sales & Support Inc., AirLiance   Materials LLC, Lufthansa Technik North America Holding Corp., Lufthansa Malta   Holding Ltd., Lufthansa Malta Aircraft-Leasing Ltd., Lufthansa Malta Finance p.l.c. 08 09 5 10 15 20 15 25 30 25 35 40 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 10 42.7 43.5 25.2 29.7 35.5 40.3 41.1 42.6 43.8 26.5 26.8 15.6 18.0 23.5 24.6 24.6 25.7 26.8 14.0 42.7 26.9 14.0 13.5 8.4 9.6 15.1 13.9 13.0 13.7 14.3 Part-time employment at the Lufthansa Group in percent female  employees male employees all  employees 01 02 03 04 05 06 08 09 07 38 39 40 40.7 38.3 38.7 39.1 39.6 40.1 40.2 40.4 40.3 40.3 36 37 38 39 36.4 37.0 37.7 38.3 38.8 38.9 39.1 39.0 39.0 39 40 41 41.8 39.8 39.9 40.2 40.6 41.1 41.3 41.5 41.5 41.4 39.4 10 Average age at the Lufthansa Group2 in years female  employees male  employees all  employees 08 25 30 35 40 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 29.2 30.8 28.0 32.0 32.5 34.7 35.8 38.0 09 41.5 10 37.8 Share of women with staff responsibility  at the Lufthansa Group1 in percent 08 09 10 15 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 14.6 14.7 12.7 13.5 12.3 13.3 12.7 12.9 15.0 Share of women in management positions  at the Lufthansa Group1 in percent 10 13.3  a 55 Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility selves with the worldwide meanings of gestures,  uncover possible unconscious prejudices in an  association test or participate in a quiz on critical  intercultural situations. In addition, all employees  have the option to inform themselves about differ- ent areas of culture by means of an online learn- ing program. Numerous seminars and language  courses complement the offers in the area of   intercultural competence.  Learning from role models: Cross-mentoring  for female managers In 1998, Lufthansa initiated an intracompany  cross-mentoring program, aimed at accompa- nying and supporting female managers in their  professional progress. In this context, a female  Lufthansa employee with staff responsibility and a  male or female mentor at a higher hierarchy level  from a large corporation, such as Bosch, Deut- sche Bank or Merck, form a tandem for a limited  period of time, usually one year. In turn, Lufthansa  manager with mentoring experience advise junior  managers from other companies participating in  this program. The pivotal element of mentoring is  regular discussions between mentor and mentee  about the next professional steps, the implementa- tion of concrete goals and networking between  the companies. At the start, midpoint and end of  a mentoring project, participants have opportu- nities during accompanying events to compare  their experiences with the program and to give  feedback to the project team. In 2010, a total of  112 mentors and mentees took part in the cross- mentoring program. Fit for things foreign: KultuRaum expands  intercultural competence Since May 2010, pursers and flight attendants  have had the option to refresh or expand their  knowledge of cultures that they visit in the con- text of their work. Lufthansa set up the so-called  Kulturraum (literally: area of culture) at Frankfurt  Airport for this purpose. There, experts in intercul- tural competence, regional flight attendants and  colleagues from the distribution function are avail- able under the mottos Go Japan, Go China,   Go Korea and Go India to give detailed infor- mation about the needs and expectations of cus- tomers from the respective countries. Those inter- ested also have the option to reacquaint them- Intercultural competence is especially important for a global service company.   For this reason, Lufthansa regularly informs its employees about different areas of culture   in its international route network. My year as a mentee was instructive and interesting. My mentor took excellent   account of my situation and we gave each other the opportunity to expand our   respective visions. Not only was I able to gain some insights into the world of   banking, but in conversations with employees of the other company I could also   exchange experiences, opinions and approaches, compare corporate cultures and  expand my professional network. Sandra Dahl Legal Consultant Labour Relations Lufthansa Group   and participant of the Cross-Mentoring Program  a 56 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011   Focus topic: Management   of demographic change Demographic change is not only the cause for  rising average personnel ages, but it also makes  the search for qualified and junior employees more  difficult. To limit the effects of this development and  secure future personnel needs, Lufthansa again  made its comprehensive demography manage- ment one of its areas of emphasis in 2010. It is  based on 12 action areas, such as employability,  knowledge and experience management, and   cooperation between generations.  In November 2010, the American Association of  Retired Persons (AARP) presented the International  Innovative Employer Award 2010 to Lufthansa for  its innovative way of handling the effects of demo- graphic change. The organization, which represents  the interests of about 40 million people over 50  years of age in the United States, praised in partic- ular the companys efficient health-care programs,  its target-oriented personnel development and the  long-term support of diversity among employees.  The AARP also gave a positive assessment of  the continuing education program oriented by the  principle of lifelong learning and flexible worktime  options. In 2010, the average age of Lufthansa Group  employees was 40.7 years. Therefore, one accent  of demography management was placed on  maintaining long-term employability. In particular,  Lufthansa promotes lifelong learning by employ- ees of all ages and makes the necessary infra- structure available. The company also offers a  broad range of options that allow its employees  age-related qualifications and the further devel- opment of their competencies. Furthermore,  employees and the company benefit equally from  health care and options to secure work perfor- mance (also see chapter Employee safety and  health protection from page 58). A disability does not have to be a hindrance In 2010, 3.5 percent of Lufthansa employees in  Germany had some type of disability. For the com- pany it is an important goal of personnel policy to  integrate people with disabilities in a profession al  context. Consistently with the Groups diversity  concept, the emphasis is not on a persons physi- cal or mental deficits, but on the optimum support  for existing strengths and potentials. One important  condition for the success of this approach is indi- vidually adapted workstations that offer optimum  conditions of realizing potentials and that allow  work results that fully match those of colleagues  without disability. Information campaign Health Management  and Severe Disability In September 2010, Lufthansa launched the infor- mation campaign Health Management and Severe  Disability, which aims to raise awareness of the  numerous facets of this topic among employees.  The focus was on events in Frankfurt, Berlin,   Dsseldorf, Munich and Hamburg featuring panel  discussions concerning the internal ramifications  of severely disabled status for people affected and  their supervisors. Another area of emphasis was a  marketplace for exchanging information.  Disabled people at the Lufthansa Group in Germany1   2010, in percent LSG (subgroup)  10.5  Lufthansa Cargo AG  7.1  Lufthansa Technik Logistik GmbH  7.0  Lufthansa Process Management GmbH  4.9  Lufthansa Technik AG  4.2  Lufthansa Systems (subgroup)  3.8  Lufthansa  Flight Training GmbH  3.4  Lufthansa Technik Maintenance Intern. GmbH  3.0  Lufthansa  AirPlus Servicekarten GmbH  2.7 Deutsche  Lufthansa AG  2.1 Eurowings AG  1.8  Lufthansa World Shop GmbH  1.4  Lufthansa CityLine GmbH  1.2 Lufthansa Technik AERO Alzey GmbH  1.0 Germanwings GmbH  0.6 Lufthansa Training & Conference Center GmbH  0.6 1  Share of people with significant disabilities at the consolidated companies in Germany:  estimated values, based on analyses as per 31.12.2010. Final figures will be determined  by Landschaftsverband Rheinland in fall 2011. The President of the AARP, W. Lee Hammond, presents Dr. Martin Schmitt with the   International Innovative Employer Award 2010.  a 57 Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility Cooperation with universities  Lufthansa also places great value on close co- operation with universities and universities of  applied sciences. The company is present at edu- cational fairs in the context of university marketing,  participates in workshops, provides speakers and  organizes visits. For example, in the context of the  Experience Lufthansa day, every year selected  students take advantage of the opportunity to get  to know the aviation group better. Furthermore,  in 2010 Lufthansa and the Aviation Management  Institute of the EBS Business School organized  the international student competition Lufthansa  Case Challenge for the first time. It gave student  teams the task to work with issues from the   Lufthansa Group. Everyone involved benefits. The  students gain insights into the work practice, while  Lufthansa gains impulses from the international  academic community and hones its profile as  an innovative company, explains Christoph Fay,  Head of HR Marketing and Talent Sourcing   at Lufthansa. About 130 international teams from  widely different disciplines submitted their future- oriented concepts on the subject of social media.  The six best teams were invited to pres ent their  ideas at the final before a jury at the LTCC in  Seeheim. In 2011, the second Lufthansa Case  Challenge will be dedicated to the subject of  sustainability. Furthermore, dual courses of study – the combina- tion of training within the company and univer sity  studies – are becoming increasingly important.  At Lufthansa, 353 young people took part in 18  courses of study during the reporting year. Addi- tionally, the Group qualified 3,115 new employ- ees for the cabin, while 240 new flight-training  students started their pilots training. Lufthansa is  planning to hire another 4,000 people in 2011. Lufthansa School of Business The Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB), which  was founded in 1998, is Germanys first corpo-  rate university. Under the motto Theres no better  way to learn it provides the needs-oriented   interdisciplinary continuing education of manag- ers and employees from the entire Lufthansa  Group. The LHSB offers long-term qualifications  programs across the boundaries of individual  Group companies as well as dialogue and net- work platforms. These activities are supported by  the Lufthansa Training and Conference Center  (LTCC) in Seeheim and closely coordinated with  the education activities of the Group airlines.   All measures are based on the competencies  models Aviation Leadership Compass and   Aviation Competence Compass which are used  Group-wide. The compasses make it possible to  develop the abilities of employees and managers  in line with work-related needs and to fill jobs  across the boundaries of business segments   and Group airlines. Its a successful approach:  In the reporting year, employees from within  the company filled 95 percent of all available  management positions. Among the LHSBs areas  of emphasis in 2010 were the optimization   of interdisciplinary trainings within the Group  and the continued creation of increasingly digi- tal learn ing worlds in the form of Web-based  trainings. The Groups total budget for internal  training and education was 102 million euros in  2010.    Corporate training and continuing education Lufthansa has offered a wide spectrum of options in training and continuing education for many  years. In 2010, the aviation company employed 1,128 apprentices in 24 trainee professions in   Germany. This spectrum includes not only traditional options such as Specialist for Air Transport  Service or Chef, but also newly emerged professions such as Specialist for Forwarding and   Logistics Services. Qualifications generate quality The students gain insights into   the work practice, while Lufthansa  gains impulses from the international  academic community and hones its  profile as an innovative company. Christoph Fay Head of HR Marketing and Talent Sourcing  at Lufthansa  a 58 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 Lufthansa – An attractive employer and very much in demand Lufthansa has been among Germanys favorite employers for many years.   Regular top positions in the most important employer rankings prove that the  investments in the development and continuing education of the Groups   employees and managers are paying off. This is also reflected by the number of  applications received: A total of 115,000 candidates submitted their applications  for 2,000 job vacancies posted in 2010. There is also great interest in the   Groups job and career portal, www.Be-Lufthansa.com. In the reporting year  alone, this Web site attracted more than 138,000 visitors per month. Additionally,  Be-Lufthansa has had its own Facebook presence since April 2010, which has  evolved into one of the most popular career portals of German companies in this  social network, counting more than 12,000 fans. The goal is to promote the individual employees  ability to work and consistently guard against  health risks. Medical Service The Medical Service, headed by Professor Uwe  Stben and offered by the Group in Germany,  is an important element in Lufthansas health  concept. At the locations of Frankfurt, Hamburg  and Munich it provides care for employees in  the areas of occupational, aviation and tropical  medical care. It is also responsible for job safety  in cooperation with Group occupational safety  and the companys social counseling service.  The health managers of the Group companies  maintain ongoing contacts to exchange know- ledge about general and specific health issues. In focus:   Preventive health care and health support Just as different as the people who fly with   Lufthansa every day are the variety of strains  from tasks performed by employees working on  board and on the ground. This variability places  great demands on Lufthansas health manage- ment. The Group supports its employees with  a broad range of preventive health care and  health support services. They include back-train- ing courses, nonsmoking programs, advice on  stress and preventing addictions, counseling on  age-appropriate working practices, screening to  prevent chronic illness, and inoculations, as well  as tailor-made services such as the voluntary  Health Training introduced in 2009. The Group  closely cooperates in many areas with health  Employee safety and health protection For companies the topic of health has ethical as well as economic dimensions. Lufthansa is very much  aware of the responsibility for its employees and therefore runs comprehensive measures to maintain  employee health and safety protection.  Healthy employees – Lufthansa counts on  prevention, not treatment  a 59 Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility on this path from March 23-26, 2010 in the   context of the action days food-life balance   in Hamburg. This campaign took place in coop- eration with Techniker Krankenkasse (techni- cians health insurance), the Medical Service,  the Lufthansa Sports Association and Lufthansa  subsidiary LZ-Catering, which operates the cafe- teria of the technical services provider. A related  goal was to strengthen the employees aware- ness of their own responsibility.  Foods low in fat and sugar, whole-grain pro- ducts as well as a lot of fresh fruit and vegeta- bles have always played a central role in LZ- Caterings nutritional concept Food Balance.  Products that promote healthy nutrition are  therefore marked with the Food Balance logo  at German cafeteria locations. Beyond that,  the cafeterias in Cologne and Norderstedt are  already two of the employee cafeterias run by  LZ-Catering that were awarded the JOB&FIT  certificate of the Deutsche Gesellschaft fr  Ernhrung e. V. (German Association of Nutri- tion, DGE). The award is given to company  restaurants that feature nutritionally balanced  offers, prepare dishes with care and inform  about healthy nutrition. JOB&FIT is part of IN  FORM, the national action plan of Germanys  Federal Government. insurance companies. Participation in these  health management services is voluntary. To  raise employees awareness of the importance  of health management and to provide informa- tion about related options, articles are regularly  published on the intranet and in the employee  newspaper Lufthanseat. In addition, the Working Group Health of Cabin  Personnel meets four times a year. It includes  representatives of the Medical Service, occupa- tional service, social counseling service, person- nel management cabin and health manage- ment cabin. The goal is to enable broad-based  exchanges concerning all health-related topics  and ensure a flow of information across depart- ment boundaries. The question how employees working in the  cabin can protect themselves effectively against  colds and flu was the topic of the campaign  week Healthy through the winter – This way  colds and flu have no chance, which the health  management cabin organized from November  1-5, 2010 in Frankfurt. The focus of attention was  on nutritional advice on how to strengthen the  bodys resistance.  Health week at the Lufthansa Aviation Center Valuable impulses for a healthy lifestyle were  again provided in 2010 by regular health days  and weeks, which the Group and its subsidiary  companies offered with varying areas of empha- sis. For example, from June 14-18, 2010, the  corporate area offered the second edition of a  health week at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in  Frankfurt. Every day was dedicated to a different  topic, with the spectrum ranging from balanced  nutrition and stress management to diabetes  counseling and skin cancer screening, and from  ergonomic advice to exercise. The mix of com- petent advice, interactive offers and qualified  presentations was well received by the employ- ees. This was clearly displayed by the fact that  more employees participated than in the pre- vious year, explained Monika Rhl, Director  Change Management and Diversity at Lufthansa  and the events organizer. Action days food-life balance at   Lufthansa Technik Nutrition and exercise have an enormous influ- ence on health. Nevertheless, it is difficult for  many people to eat more healthily, to exercise  more and to reduce their weight. The employees  of Lufthansa Technik received practical support  Employees take a lively interest in the offers available during the Health Week 2010   at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt.   a 60 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 Social counseling Employees professional and private lives are  highly varied. Often, personal problems are a  burden for those affected and can at times have  negative effects on a persons qualitative and  quantitative work performance, or that of work  groups and the work atmosphere. Employees of  the Lufthansa Group, who are confronted with  professional or private challenges, have had  the option to ask for help at the social counsel- ing service since the mid-1980s. This service  maintains a presence in Frankfurt, Hamburg,  Cologne and Munich. The professional psychosocial counseling service  has its roots in personnel work from which it has  expanded. Apart from support services aimed at  reestablishing the capacity to work, todays focus  is on preventive measures and promoting the  social competencies of employees at all levels of  hierarchy. The preventive measures can lead to  structures that reduce the probability of illness.  Together with the intervention services of social  counseling they generate an important contribu- tion to success for the respective company – also  with regard to the economic dimension. Further- more, social counseling experts also offer training  for managers on topics such as stress, conflict  and addiction management. In 2010, the Groups social counseling service  developed guidelines in cooperation with the  specialists of the Medical Service, entitled   Psychic health – When behavior becomes   unusual! Its goal is to improve the perception of  psychic illnesses and provide an adequate frame- work for handling them (especially in the case of  managers with responsibility for their staff) as well  as related conspicuous behaviors at the place of  work in the Group. The guidelines impart basic  knowledge about the most frequent psychic ill- nesses and preventive options, give support for  taking action and show which (internal) expert  company representatives with an obligation to  provide caring support can be contacted in such  situations. Its implementation was accompanied  by a number of communications events. Sports promote living in balance Studies prove that company sports improve the  working atmosphere, strengthen the team spirit,   balance the stress of everyday work and thus  promote individuals ability to perform as well  as their employability. Plenty of opportunities for  sports are provided by the currently 13 Lufthansa  sports associations at 11 locations and the cam- paign Lufthanseaten laufen (Lufthansa employ- ees run), which was launched in 2009. The   latter has evolved into a success story: In 2010,  more Lufthansa employees than ever participated  in Europes largest inter-company run, the   JP Morgan Corporate Challenge in Frankfurt.  With 1,313 runners Lufthansa again provided the  second strongest team. Moreover, about 350  Lufthansa employees, that is almost 10 percent of  the total field, were at the starting line on March  19, 2010 for the Frankfurt Half Marathon, which  Lufthansa has supported since 2009 as main  sponsor and name-giver.  Corporate reinsertion management Nobody is safe from being unable to work over  a longer period of time due to illness. Employ- ees who are ill for more than six weeks during  a 12-month period benefit from corporate rein- sertion management. It facilitates their return to  their previous workplace or the search for a new,  appropriate job. A strong team: In 2010, 1,313 runners from the ranks of Lufthansa employees participated in the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge in Frankfurt – more than ever before.  a 61 Balance 2011 | Social Responsibility Employee safety:   Organization and tasks In order to offer employees safe workplaces   and maintain and increase their employability,  Lufthansa continually develops measures con- cerning employee safety. The coordination of all  activities related to safe job environments is the  responsibility of Group employee safety, which  cooperates closely with physicians, social coun- selors and those responsible at the Group com- panies. Emphasis is placed on identifying and  assessing hazards as well as measures designed  to continuously reduce the number of accidents.  A further task is to identify risks of occupational  diseases and other work-related health hazards  at an early stage and ward them off. At the location in Hamburg, the maintenance  workshops are the focus of employee safety,  while in Frankfurt it is the areas of flight opera- tions and administration. The experts for employ-  ee safety – most of them are safety engineers  – also receive support from their colleagues in  Berlin and Munich to guarantee optimum care for  all Lufthansa employees. All job-safety measures  are adapted individually to local requirements.  In addition, corporate employee safety offers  counseling on health promotion, safety trainings,  instruction for employees in the noise laboratory  as well as support for expanding and updating  health-related information on the intranet. Cur- rently, more than 700 Lufthansa employees act  as volunteer safety commissioners. Whenever  employees observe technical or organizational  shortcomings, the safety commissioners act as  the first place of contact. If needed, they contact a  supervisor or a specialist for employee safety. Passenger Medical Care department   looks after customers Lufthansa operates a safety concept for passen- gers that is unique in the industry. Its basis is the  new department Passenger Medical Care, which  the company set up in summer 2009 in Frankfurt.  At the center of this service, which is under the  aegis of the Medical Service, is the Medical Oper- ation Center (MOC), which assumes the medical  responsibility for the transport of passengers suf- fering from illness. In 2010, the MOC coordinated  up to 700 assignments per month. More than 20  medical specialists look after the travel conditions  of patients in sitting and lying positions as well  as oxygen supply for passengers with cardiovas- cular diseases. Furthermore, Lufthansa provides  a Patient Transport Compartment if needed; an  enclosed cabin that serves as a state-of-the-art  intensive care unit. It was used about 100 times  in 2010 alone. With this capability we react to  increasing demand for medical clarification,   says Dr. Jrgen Graf, head of the department  Passenger Medical Care at Lufthansa. It some- times happens on long-haul flights especially that  passengers get into emergency situations. Indispensable pillars in Lufthansas concept are  crew training, the medical onboard equipment,  telemedicine and the Physician Onboard Pro- gram, which was set up in 2006. It allows physi- cians to register so that the crew knows in which  seat a medical doctor is seated on a given flight.  Of course, the MOCs physicians also organize  the transport home of crew members who fell ill  or were injured. Employees working abroad also  have access to a worldwide network of contract  physicians, which was founded more than 40  years ago. Its members meet every four years to  exchange scientific information. Bundled under one roof: The new Medical Operation Center coordinates   the transportation of sick passengers at Lufthansa.   a 62 Social Responsibility | Balance 2011 Facts 2010 and outlook 2011 (selection) Area Facts 2010 Outlook 2011 Training / qualifications  for first-time employees   At the end of 2010, 1,603 young people were employed in training programs.  778 new apprentices and students in dual courses of study were hired in the  same year.   Furthermore, Lufthansa hired and trained about 3,580 service professionals in  2010, who work primarily as flight attendants and in passenger service.    The number of new hires could be increased significantly especially in the  administrative and general technical segments.   In 2010, Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH in Bremen hired 240 new future  pilots. Thus the total number of trainee pilots is at a similarly high level as in  the year before.   Intensive, need-oriented training will continue to play a central role in  securing qualified junior employees for Lufthansa.   Changes in the education systems – such as setting up bachelor  degree courses as a standard at many universities – will increasingly  be taken into account.   Lufthansas training and education portfolio is thus undergoing  permanent change. Continuing education   The efforts for the continuing education of the Service Professionals Cabin  increased significantly in 2010.    The use of eLearning, blended learning and mobile learning was further  developed by Lufthansa in a strategic and Group-wide manner.   Lufthansa will continue to support the qualifications being obtained  by employees alongside work in the framework of the Bologna  Process, which places the emphasis on lifelong learning. Employability   To ensure the companys sustainable and long-term success, employees  need to be supported and trained according to the requirements of the  job market. This also includes the promotion of internationalizing the  employees as well as the permanent further development of soft and hard  skills. Diverse tools and learning programs were introduced in this respect,  which significantly increase employees foreign-language and intercultural  competencies.   A separate section for expanding intercultural competencies has been  created on the Lufthansa intranet, where employees can access informa- tion about country-specific conditions at the most important destinations  served by Lufthansa.   Translation assistants and electronic dictionaries complement the total  package. Additionally, the Lufthansa School of Business offers intercultural  and foreign-language trainings for all employees.   In 2011, the Lufthansa School of Business will place the focus of   its qualifications programs on the modern work world. This includes  subjects such as The use of new media, Business etiquette   and modern manners, Effective learning at a later age, but also  Success factor resiliency: The strength of people who bounce  back.   This variety of topics supports the employees employability and  proves that Lufthansa meets the obligations of its role as a socially  responsible employer.  Employee health and  safety protection   In 2010, the Medical Service regularly performed a large number of various ser- vices for all Group employees: medicals for flying personnel, examinations in the  context of hirings, screenings for ground personnel, inspections and meetings  covering employee safety, inoculations, outpatient services, and others.   Extraordinary activities in 2010: measurement of pollutants and risk assessment  in Moscow during forest fires in the region, to exclude possible risks for crews  and passengers.   Corporate health protection is the responsibility of the Group companies.  They organize their own highly varied activities for their employees, such as  information stands, campaigns and trainings that take the employees special  needs into account.   In 2010, employee safety was further developed, in part by offering WBTs   (Web-based trainings) in the area of employee safety and health protection.  To continue and expand health management Demographic change  Health measures intensified decentrally  More participants days in measures leading to professional qualifications  Decentralized implementation of measures to meet challenges  Include widened scope of consolidation   Define and implement measures concerning demographic change  in the management landscape Diversity   Share of women in management positions increased in absolute terms, but  declined in relative terms (portfolio effects)   Detailed analysis of causes (qualitatively and quantitatively) of women in  management positions carried out   Catalogue of measures concerning women in management positions  developed   Cooperation among Group airlines intensified   Implement measures to increase the share of women in manage- ment positions    Expand work-life infrastructure   Promote increased degree of internationalization Dialogue with employees  Town-hall meetings and retreats  Cockpit dialogue  Service dialogue (exchange events for onboard and ground employees)  Events for employees paid independently from collective agreements   eTeaming as internal online platform expanded for closer exchanges and  discussions   Communications room for station employees (m.i.n.d. lounge) as a place for  knowledge/information and dialogue  Continuation of employee dialogues   Introduction of a new dialogue event Airline Dialogue for   employees and managers from all functional groups Dialogue with social  partners   Distribution conflicts induced by competition solved in a successful and  balanced manner by means of constructive arbitration dialogues   Accompanied and guaranteed smooth process of elections of employee  representatives for ground personnel. Promotion of employability and   qualification of the new employee representatives   Start of the dialogue on the need for operational changes   Continuation of the dialogue with social partners   Disarm distribution conflicts induced by competition by means of  intensive dialogue and constructive suggestions of solutions   Ensure smooth elections of employee representatives in Germany.  Promote employability and qualification of the new employee   representatives   Shape necessities of change in operational areas jointly and in a  socially balanced manner  a 63 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 63 Climate and Environmental   Responsibility A firm eye on the environment By implementing a wide range of measures, Lufthansa and its Group companies continuously work  on increasing their ecological efficiency in flight operations over the long-term. Apart from billion-euro  investments in a state-of-the-art low-emissions fleet, this also includes the implementation of the latest  technologies in aircraft maintenance. In addition, all processes with an influence on weight are exam- ined with the greatest care. And this commitment pays off: Following its historic best value in 2009, the specific fuel consumption  of the Groups fleet again declined in 2010 by another 2.4 percent to 4.2 liters of kerosene per passen- ger and 100 kilometers. The focus of the companys environmental strategy remains on long-term   reductions in different areas: pollutant and noise emissions as well as energy consumption.  a 64 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 64 Concurrently, the specific CO2 emissions also  declined in 2010 by 2.4 percent to 10.58 kilos per  100 passenger kilometers.  During its first year of operations, the Airbus  A380, the Lufthansa Groups new flagship,  consumed 3.41 liters of fuel per 100 passen- ger kilometers on average. Among the Group  companies, Lufthansa Passenger Airlines and  SWISS in particular were able to reduce their  specific fuel consumption in the course of the  reporting year. Reasons for these improve- ments include the continuous modernization   of the fleet, weight reductions, technical ad - vances, higher levels of utilization, flying at   variable speeds and optimized flight routings. The absolute kerosene consumption of all  regular flights operated by the Group, meaning  scheduled and charter flights, increased by  10.1 percent to 8.46 million tonnes in 2010. This  significant increase is due, on the one hand,  to the fact that for the reporting year Lufthansa  fully included the two new acquisitions Austrian  Airlines and bmi in the scope of consolida- tion for the first time. On the other hand, overall  demand for the Groups transport performance  increased accordingly. In the area of passen- ger transport, over the past 20 years Lufthansa  has been able to decouple these increases  in transport performance from environmental  effects in a lasting manner: While the transport  performance increased by 302 percent since  1991, fuel consumption and CO2 emissions  rose only by 170 percent (see graph on right).  Fuel dumps: Safety comes first To ensure the safety of passengers and crews,  fuel dumps under exceptional circumstances  cannot be avoided. Given the high levels of tech- nical aircraft maintenance, they occur exceeding-  ly rarely at the Lufthansa Group. Yet no airline  in the world is entirely free of them. When pilots  are forced to make an unscheduled landing for  technical or medical reasons, they first need  to empty the fuel tanks until the aircrafts maxi- mum permissible landing weight is reached. Fuel  dumps affect only long-haul flights, as short- and  medium-haul aircraft are able to land fully loaded  and with full tanks. Specific kerosene consumption has never been so low The specific kerosene consumption of the Lufthansa Groups fleet fell to an average of 4.2 liters of fuel  per 100 passenger kilometers in 2010, the lowest figure in the companys history. Compared with the  previous year, this is a reduction of a further 2.4 percent. Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation 2010 Short-haul (18%) 7.46 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (24%) 4.73 l/100 pkm Long-haul (58%) 3.57 l/100 pkm Group fleet Average specific fuel consumption in l/100 pkm (center of circle) and shares of different traffic areas (segments) in total fuel consump- tion for passenger transportation, active fleet 2010. Definitions of traffic areas: Long-haul  more than 3,000 km Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km Short-haul  less than 800 km 4.20 l/100 pkm SWISS Lufthansa Passenger Airlines Short-haul (18%) 7.45 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (19%) 7.45 l/100 pkm Long-haul (63%) 3.7 l/100 pkm 4.25 l/100 pkm Short-haul (18%) 7.91 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (23%) 4.25 l/100 pkm Long-haul (59%) 3.10 l/100 pkm 3.73 l/100 pkm bmi Austrian Airlines Short-haul (7%) 7.33 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (60%) 5.15 l/100 pkm Long-haul (33%) 2.95 l/100 pkm 4.21 l/100 pkm Short-haul (33%) 6.98 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (35%) 4.71 l/100 pkm Long-haul (32%) 4.25 l/100 pkm 5.09 l/100 pkm Kerosene and emissions Specific CO2 emissions, passenger transportation active fleet in 2010, in kg/100 pkm Group fl eet Lufthansa Passenger Airlines SWISS Austrian Airlines bmi Long-haul 8.98 9.32 7.81 7.42 10.72 Medium-haul 11.92 11.84 10.71 12.97 11.87 Short-haul 18.81 18.79 19.93 18.48 17.59 Total averages 10.58 10.71 9.40 10.60 12.82  a 65 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 65 Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption Change compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 120% 140% 160% 180% 200% 220% 240% 260% 92 91 93 94 96 95 97 98 00 99 01 02 04 03 05 06 07 08 09 +170% +302% Transport performance Efficiency gain Fuel consumption 280% 300% 10 Fuel dumps 2010 changes compared to 2009 Events, total 22 – 5 Quantity, total 605 tonnes – 15.5 % Medical reasons 6 – 11 Technical reasons 16 + 7 Other reasons 0 – 1 The Lufthansa Airbus A380 fully meets all expectations: During the reporting year, its specific fuel consumption was 3.41 liters per 100 passenger kilometers. Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation changes in percent 2010 2009 change  Group fleet 4.20 4.30 – 2.4 Lufthansa Passenger Airlines 4.25 4.38 – 3.0 SWISS 3.73 3.88 – 3.9 Austrian Airlines 4.21 4.14 +1.5 bmi 5.09 4.70 + 8.4  a 66 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 66 Fuel consumption1 2010 (in tonnes) passengers freight total share Scheduled flights2, 3  Lufthansa  SWISS Austrian Airlines bmi Third parties4 4,535,845 864,878 591,725 295,433 139,250 1,731,801 330,829 93,062 15,682 30,336 6,267,646 1,195,707 684,787 311,115 8,459,255 169,586 (72.5 %) (13.8 %) (7.9 %) (3.6 %) (97.8 %) (2.0 %) Other flights5 14,498 (0.2 %) All flights 8,643,339 (100.0 %) Share of third parties4 2010 Flights 3.3 % Passengers 2.4 % Tonne kilometers transported, TKT7 tkm 1.3 % Fuel consumption tonnes 2.0 % Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 2.0 % Emissions3, 6 2010 (in tonnes) passengers  2009 freight  2009 total  2009 CO2 19,806,828 (+ 9.8 %) 6,839,827 (+ 11.0 %) 26,646,655 (+ 10.1 %) NOX 100,152(+ 20.4 %) 34,592 (+ 17.5 %) 134,744 (+ 19.6 %) CO 16,176 (+ 14.6 %) 3,461 (+ 6.3 %) 19,640 (+13.0 %) UHC 1,635 (+ 7.9 %) 473 (+1.5 %) 2,109 (+ 6.4 %) 0.2 0.3 0.24 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.29 0.30 0.30 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 08 09 0.29 10 Specific fuel consumption, freight transportation8 in liters/tonne kilometer 1.5 1.0 9.0 8.5 8.0 9.5 10.0 CO, g/100pkm NOX, g/100pkm CO2, kg/100pkm UHC, g/100pkm 10.5 11.0 11.5 07 08 09 06 05 04 03 02 01 10 11.73 11.39 10.88 11.00 11.08 11.05 10.88 10.93 54.8 53.3 51.0 50.6 50.8 50.5 49.8 50.6 1.6 1.3 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 10.1 9.7 8.8 8.5 8.4 8.4 8.6 8.5 10.84 50.0 0.9 8.5 10.58 53.5 8.6 0.9 50.0 49.0 51.0 52.0 53.0 54.0 Specific emissions, passenger transportation in kilograms, grams/100 passenger kilometers 0.25 0.50 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 NOX, g/tkm CO2, kg/tkm CO, g/tkm 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 07 08 09 06 05 04 03 02 01 10 0.60 0.58 0.58 0.59 0.58 0.58 0.72 0.74 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 2.6 2.6 3.4 3.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.77 3.7 0.4 0.25 0.00 UHC, g/tkm 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.73 3.7 0.4 0.1 Specific emissions, freight transportation8 in kilograms, grams/tonne kilometer  a 67 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 67 The primary goal of this long-term test is to gain  experience with a view to large-scale use later on,  which will also create entirely new challenges for  logistics on the ground. By making this commit- ment, Lufthansa gives direction to the research on  using alternative fuels in aviation. Biofuels play a very important role for the future of  aviation. It is a fact that biosynthetic fuels will replace  their fossil predecessors in air transport over the  long-term because the industry – unlike all other  modes of transport – is only able to use internal  combustion engines for the foreseeable future and  therefore must find practicable alternatives to fos- sil fuels. This task is interlinked with the aviation  industrys commitment to climate protection: Until  2020, an annual improvement of 1.5 percent in fuel  efficiency will slow down the industrys CO2 emis- sions. And by 2050 the member airlines of the Inter- national Air Transport Association (IATA) aim at cut- ting CO2 emissions from fossil fuels by half when  compared with the levels of 2005. We can meet  these enormous challenges only by applying a   comprehensive package of measures, which in - cludes the use of biofuels, says Joachim Buse,  Vice President Aviation Biofuel at Lufthansa. In addi- tion to the industrys goals, the Lufthansa Group has  set itself the goal of adding a share of synthetically  produced fuel to conventional kerosene in accor- dance with current availability until 2020. In this con- text, the company places great value on sustainable  production methods. Towards an environmentally friendly future   with Pure Sky Pure Sky is the name under which Lufthansa  bundles all of the companys activities con- cerning the future use of alternative fuels. It is  managed by the Aviation Biofuel Department  that was set up in 2009. Guiding this commit- ment is part of the Groups strategy, which is  reported directly to the Executive Board and  thus has the highest level of priority. The prereq- uisite for the use of biofuels is their availability,  economic feasibility as well as positive effects  on the environment, such as a reduction of CO2  emissions. The goal of our work is to devel-  op a perspective for the technical feasibility,  to demonstrate the economic and ecological  sense of biofuels and to ensure supply secu- rity for Lufthansa, says Buse. The other airlines  within the Lufthansa Group are closely inte- grated into this initiative by means of regular  exchanges. The burnFAIR project:  Everyday operations with biofuel Lufthansa will be the first airline worldwide to test  biofuel in normal flight operations. In the context of  the research project burnFAIR, an Airbus A321 will  fly regularly between Hamburg and Frankfurt over  a period of six months, using fuel that contains a  50-percent share of biosynthetic kerosene in one  engine. The main goal of this long-term test is to  gain experience and generate measurement data  over a longer period of time. At the same time, the  effects of biofuels on the environment and on main- tenance and engine life expectancy can be stud- ied. And a positive side-effect is that Lufthansa is  expected to avoid about 1,500 tonnes of CO2 emis- sions. This long-term test is pioneer work because  so far airlines have tested biofuels only on indivi- dual test flights, explains Buse. The total cost of the  Long-term testing of biofuel – Lufthansa secures  tomorrows mobility by conducting research and  development work today Worldwide mobility needs are on the increase, but fossil fuel resources are finite. This conflict demands  new strategies for sustainable mobility and new approaches in the area of fuel. Little is known, for   example, about the effectiveness and properties of biofuels under the conditions of routine operations.  For this reason Lufthansa is carrying out pioneer work and will be the first airline worldwide to use   biofuel for six months on regular flights. Long-term testing of biofuel   Duration: 6 months  Type of aircraft: Airbus A321   Share of biofuel: 50 percent,   on one engine  Total investment: 6.6 million euros   Each liter of biofuel is produced to  sustainable standards.  a 68 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 68 burnFAIR project will be about 6.6 million euros for  Lufthansa. The German Aerospace Center (DLR) is Lufthansas  project partner for burnFAIR. Among other tasks,  DLR scientists are responsible for measuring  exhaust gases directly at the engine and analyz- ing all insights together with Lufthansas experts.  Germanys Federal Government supports burn- FAIR as well as the higher-ranking project FAIR  (Future Aircraft Research) with about 2.5 million  euros each through the aviation research program  LUFO. Within the framework of burnFAIR, the Tech- nical Universities in Hamburg-Harburg and Munich,  Bauhaus Luftfahrt in Munich, Airbus Operations  GmbH, EADS in Munich, the engine manufacturer  MTU Aero Engines and Hamburg Airport are study- ing the tolerability of biofuels. This is complement ed  by comprehensive research topics concerning the  analysis and assessment of production paths for  different fuels. Here, the participating experts will  select the most promising fuel types. Certifiably sustainable fuel According to the current state of research, syn- thetic fuel from biomass is the best alternative for  tomorrows environmentally friendly and sustainable   fuel supply. In the course of the long-term test,   Lufthansa will use about 800 tonnes of biofuel that  comes exclusively from raw materials grown with  sustainable methods, whose certification can be  followed back to the respective growing areas. This  biofuel is not different from conventional jet A-1 fuel.  In purchasing this fuel, Lufthansa pays great atten- tion to an environmentally friendly production and  delivery system: The licensed suppliers must prove  the sustainability of their processes and raw materi- als. The producer of the biosynthetic kerosene is the  Finnish mineral oil company Neste Oil, which has  many years of experience in the production of bio- fuels. The fuel used by Lufthansa is based on pure  biomass (Biomass to Liquid, BTL). The raw materials for biosynthetic kerosene include  rapeseed oil, palm oil and animal fats, and long- term oil-rich energy plants such as Jatropha, Came- lina or algae. For the production of fuel to be used  on burnFAIR flights, Neste Oil uses Jatropha oil  from Indonesia and rapeseed oil, while animal fats,  the third component, come directly from Finland.  From Lufthansas perspective, Jatropha is the best  basis for biofuel. But theres not enough of it at the  moment, explains Buse. For this reason, we will  very likely not be able to buy the quantity of Jatro- pha oil needed for the 1,400 test flights. We will  compensate for the discrepancy with certifiably  sustainable palm oil in order to be able to carry out  these flights in the first place. This is a temporary  solution that we consider acceptable, given the  excellent potential. Protecting the rain forest is an important concern for  Lufthansa. For this reason, the company is a mem- ber of the Sustainable Alternative Fuel Users Group  (SAFUG) and thus also a member of the Roundta- ble for Sustainable Biofuels (RSB). This latter places  strict criteria on the environmental compatibility of  generating biomass to prevent adverse effects on  agriculture and nature conservation. Among the  RSBs members are WWF International, the Interna- tional Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN),  the ko-Institut and the Gold Standard Founda- tion. No rain forest is cleared for the biofuel used  by Lufthansa. And there is also no competition with  food and animal feed production, emphasizes  Buse. A positive effect on the environment is another   condition for the planned long-term test in normal  flight operations. Biofuel can only make sense for  Lufthansa if the entire test process results in a posi- tive CO2 balance sheet, meaning a CO2 reduction.   This is our own yardstick and it is the yardstick  applied by others, adds the head of the Aviation  Biofuel Project.    Logistics and infrastructure are in place Besides sourcing a sufficient quantity of biofuel,  the logistics needed for the test run proved to be a  challenge during the preparation phase. Thus, for  logistical reasons, the Airbus A321 is only fueled in  Hamburg. Lufthansa leases an aboveground tank  at Hamburgs port that is specifically equipped for  storing aviation fuel. At Hamburg Airport, two apron  tanker trucks are used to refuel the aircraft, which  Biofuel can only make sense for  Lufthansa if the entire test process  results in a positive CO2 balance  sheet, meaning a CO2 reduction.  This long-term test is pioneer work  because so far airlines have tested   biofuels only on individual test flights. Joachim Buse  Vice President Aviation Biofuel at Lufthansa  a 69 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 69 is first fueled with jet A-1 and then with a blend of  jet A-1 and HVO Biokerosene (Hydrotreated Vege- table Oil). To run this test, Lufthansa also has to  modify numerous internal processes as its aircraft  are usually not deployed exclusively on one route,  but on rotations that include a number of desti- nations. Simultaneously, Lufthansa is completing  important preliminary steps to set up a sustainable  supply chain. Licensed fuel suppliers have to prove  the environmental compatibility of their processes,  among other criteria.  Four pillars for climate protection The use of biosynthetic kerosene is one element of  the proven four pillar strategy of the aviation indus- try, designed to reduce the industrys overall emis- sions and protect the Earths climate. This concept  comprises innovations in aircraft and engine tech- nology, which includes alternative fuels. In addition,  the concept includes operational measures (such  as optimal flight routes and speeds) and economic  tools, such as global emissions trading. However,  the largest savings potential is provided by an  improved infrastructure, especially in the guise of  the planned implementation of a unified European  airspace (Single European Sky or SES) as Europes  largest climate protection program. Only a combi- nation of different measures will allow the aviation  industry to reach its ambitious environmental goals.  The use of biofuel in scheduled operations is the  consistent continuation of the sustainability strategy  that Lufthansa has been pursuing successfully for  many years. Lufthansa is preparing for emissions trading Climate protection continues to enjoy a high level of priority in the aviation  industry. The industry has set itself ambitious goals concerning the worldwide  reduc tion of CO2 emissions and developed a far-reaching four pillar strategy to  achieve these goals. On January 1, 2012, air transport will also be included in  the EUs emissions trading. As a result, airlines must present CO2 certificates for  all flights taking off and landing within the European Union. Compared to the  globally-oriented four pillar strategy, the EUs emissions trading is only a regional  regulatory approach with significant competitive disadvantages and cost-inten- sive effects for European airlines. At Lufthansa, the preparations for participating in emissions trading are already  far advanced, despite difficult general conditions, highly complex issues and  numerous unanswered questions. For example, a unified EU standard is mis- sing, which increases the bureaucratic efforts for all parties concerned. Accord- ing to current information, 16 companies within the Lufthansa Group alone will  participate in emissions trading, having to report to seven national authorities  using different formats and applying different requirements. Lufthansa and the entire aviation industry contend that effective climate pro- tection cannot be achieved by means of isolated regional measures, but only  through global solutions. Therefore, a sensibly designed emissions trading sys- tem should include all countries and airlines so that competitive neutrality is  ensured. Energy plants containing oil, such as Jatropha, are raw materials for biosynthetic kerosene.  a 70 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 70 The thrifty use of fuel was one of the key topics  of the companywide initiative Upgrade to Indus- try Leadership (see Balance, Issue 2010, pages  51-52), which was concluded successfully in  mid-February 2010. Among the key results is the  development of a system of indicators, or ratios.  The goal is to be able to analyze the efficiency  of implemented conservation activities in a more  detailed way and uncover further savings poten- tials. Lufthansa experts have identified more than  20 indicators related to fuel consumption. These  ratios cover different areas such as flight opera- tions, weight or technical aspects. All Group airlines pursue fuel conservation  measures independently and maintain regular  exchanges on the subject. Different areas within  the individual airlines, such as product manage- ment or flight operations, cooperate with those  responsible for fuel management. But there is  also close cooperation between Group compa- nies, for example with regard to testing light- weight containers by Lufthansa Cargo, optimiz- ing flight planning in cooperation with Lufthansa  Systems or implementing technical measures  by Lufthansa Technik. In addition, all employees  are called upon to apply their knowledge. Active  communications, internal eLearning games con- cerning fuel efficiency, a number of exchange  platforms and Lufthansas ideas management  ensure that the suggestions of all employees are  heard and that awareness of the issue of fuel  conservation is raised in daily flight operations. Comprehensive approach   of the project Fuel Efficiency Lufthansa Passenger Airlines took the importance  of this subject into account when it initiated the  project Fuel Efficiency in October 2009. Its goal  is to reduce fuel consumption in flight opera- tions by means of appropriate measures, so as  to cut back one of the highest cost factors over  the long-term. To this end, more than 100 internal  subprojects have been launched. The measures  implemented over the past years have helped to  conserve fuel long-term and to limit CO2 emis- sions correspondingly. Perceptible conservation effects could be achieved   by optimized flight procedures, efficient airspace   management, more optimized processes on the  ground, reduced aircraft weight and technical  improvements, for example. In addition, a punctual  departure and an efficiently calculated flight plan  contribute to a flights profitability. There is no   single most effective method to save fuel, though.  The optimum approach is the meticulous coordi- nation of all partners involved in a flights opera- tion – in other words, a comprehensive approach. The following examples illustrate the diversity of  these subprojects:  Weight reductions are a big lever to help con- serve fuel. New, more lightweight onboard trolleys  from LSG Sky Chefs help to reduce fuel con- sumption significantly. Large quantities of fuel can  also be conserved as a result of modernizing  cabin interiors. This is the case for the European  fleet, where new cabin interiors were installed, or  the installation of more lightweight seats on the  Boeing 747-400s. Among the technical improvements is the modi- fication of the Trent 700 engines on the Airbus  A330 fleet (for further examples see the overview  Fuel Efficiency on pages 72 and 73). Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa Group – Saving  fuel efficiently and long-term Fuel efficiency is the prime example illustrating that in aviation economic and ecological goals do not have to  be contradictory: As an airline reduces its fuel consumption, it saves money and simultaneously lessens the  burden on the environment. Lightweight The new lightweight trolley Quantum was   developed by LSG Sky Chefs and offers a  weight saving of up to 40 percent compared  with conventional models. A jury of internation-  al aviation experts gave it the Crystal Cabin  Award in the category Most Innovative Cabin  Product. Following highly positive test results,  the Quantum trolley is to be deployed on  Lufthansas entire long-haul fleet.  a 71 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 71 The infl uence of airspace structure An inefficient airspace structure leads to signifi- cant increases in fuel burn. Close cooperation  between politics, air traffic control and airlines is  needed in this area. To help improve the struc- ture of European airspace over the long-term,  Lufthansa supports the European project Single  European Sky with a dedicated department   (see Air traffic management – Towards a unified  European airspace from page 74). By coopera- ting with air traffic control, partial improvements  can be achieved short-term, such as route short- cuts or flying at higher altitudes. A joint project by   Deutsche Lufthansa AG, DFS Deutsche   Flugsicherung and the German Forces means  that the so-called Temporary Restricted Areas   are opened for civil aviation when not used by  the military, and flying detours can thus be   avoided. Furthermore, Eurocontrol, the air traffic  control authority responsible for upper airspace  over western Europe, granted route shortcuts  that entailed significant fuel savings for Lufthansa  Passenger Airlines in 2010.  Conserving fuel is a permanent task. Especially  with regard to the planned inclusion of air trans- port in the EU emissions trade and the volatility  of oil prices, airlines do not have any other option  but to focus on fuel efficiency in flight operations.  This is the only way for the company to remain  viable over the long-term and to be successful in  competition. Saving kerosene with Lufthansa Systems In its role as one of the leading service providers of the aviation industry,   Lufthansa Systems also develops innovative IT solutions that help airlines  conserve kerosene.  Load planning NetLine/Load by Lufthansa Systems allows airlines to optimize their load  planning. The automatic calculation of the center of gravity allows airlines to  reduce fuel consumption by up to 0.5 percent, which implies a saving of 5  million liters of kerosene per year for a medium-sized airline. With more than  3,500 flights handled per day, NetLine/Load is one of the leading weight- and-balance solutions worldwide. Flight-route planning The flight-route planning solution Lido/Flight by Lufthansa Systems allows  airlines to calculate the optimum route among numerous options for each  flight. For example, an aircraft en route from Frankfurt to Los Angeles can  thus conserve 4 tonnes of kerosene and lessen the environmental burden  by 12 tonnes of CO2. Additional savings can be realized because Lido/Flight  does not use standard values for calculating fuel requirements, but the exact  consumption values of the individual aircraft. In this way, pilots avoid unnec- essary fuel reserves, the transport of which increases overall consumption.  Planning and control Information technology can also make a contribution to sustainability through  an airlines planning and control, as high seat-load factors lead to lower fuel  consumption per passenger kilometer. This is possible thanks to IT solutions  that allow airlines targeted overbookings because they have precise data for  making booking prognoses available, for example. The Integrated Commer- cial Platform (ICP) by Lufthansa Systems interlinks all core processes of net- work management, from market analysis, long- and mid-term flight planning,  timetable and codeshare management to yield management and pricing.  The seats in the new European cabins impress with the combination of reduced weight and improved seating comfort.  a 72 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 72 Optimization of block times Adapting standard block times to consumption-optimized block  times on six of the 11 most fuel-intensive routes helps achieve  significant fuel savings. 4. Network / ground Cyclean engine wash This engine wash procedure developed by Lufthansa Technik  means that cleaned engines are subjected to less thermal stress,  which extends their life span and lowers maintenance costs.  In addition, cleaned engines work more efficiently from a  thermodynamic perspective. Modification of Trent 700 engines Lufthansa expects that modifying the Rolls-Royce Trent 700  engines (Airbus A330 fleet) will reduce fuel consumption by  about 1 percent. 3. Technical performance Route shortcuts In 2010, route shortcuts of 4.9 nautical miles on average per  Lufthansa flight could be realized in airspace controlled by  Eurocontrol. This reduces fuel consumption. Random Routes East Trial – Federal Aviation Authority (FAA)  In U.S. airspace on the East Coast, flying-time reductions of up to  two minutes are to be realized by means of random routes. This  affects up to ten daily Lufthansa flights. Currently, the FAA is  testing this procedure with support from Lufthansa. Without detours over the U.K. Direct routings in U.K. airspace are possible before 5.30 UTC,  which shorten flying times by up to three minutes. This corres- ponds to fuel savings of up to 400 kilos per flight. The project is  based on cooperation between NATS, Eurocontrol, IAA and the  Center Maastricht. Optimization of standard routes Putting to use the expertise and technical solutions of the  navigation software Lido OC, developed by Lufthansa Systems,  helps to optimize standard routes preset for flight operations. 2. Flight operation / air traffic management / air traffic control Temporarily closed airspace This is a joint project between Bundeswehr (German armed  forces), DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung (German Air Traffic Control)  and Lufthansa. Its goal is to open airspace that is currently closed  to transiting flights for use by civil traffic outside of military  operating hours. Significant detours can be avoided in this way. 1. Political structural projects 4 5 6 1991 2000 2010 4.20 4.57 6.20 Specific fuel consumption for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group  In liters per 100 passenger kilometers The project Fuel Efficiency develops measures designed to reduce  kerosene consumption – and thus also CO2 emissions.  The scope ranges from engineering solutions, weight reductions  and modifications in ground handling and network configurations,  to political structural projects and procedures in flight operations.  Some measures have already been adopted as routine procedure,  while others are being evaluated or introduced. Below are selected  projects from the five areas: Fuel Efficiency – More than 100 measures in five areas  a 73 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 73 Catering   Modifications in    on-board loads  Optimization  Weight reductions Lighter-weight loading materials  Freight containers  Baggage containers  Loading aids Cyclean Engine Wash Lighter-weight equipment  Lighter-weight on-board trolleys  Lighter-weight seats  Lighter-weight cabin fixtures    (lighter-weight ovens, among    other measures)  Lighter-weight oxygen masks  Removal of display shelves for    promotional materials and    postcards in the cabin Optimized tank fillings  Drinking water  Fuel Only 1 kilo less weight on all aircraft  of Lufthansa Passenger Airlines saves  25 tonnes of fuel per year. 5. Reduction of aircraft weight Lufthansa works continuously on optimizing operations-related measures on the ground and in the air, and to make processes even more efficient in order to reduce fuel consumption  and thus CO2 emissions over the long-term. A four pillar model for climate protection was developed in cooperation with other airlines. This agenda covers the entire scope of feasible  measures. It is the responsibility of politics to coordinate air traffic management in ways that avoid holding patterns in the air. This also includes the needs-oriented expansion of airports. Our measures (selection of examples)  Voluntary compensation of   CO2 emissions (optional for   customers)  Preparation for emissions   trading (see on page 69)  Project Fuel Efficiency   Flying at variable speeds  Maintenance:    Efficient engine washes  Optimization of aircraft   utilization (loads)  Project Fuel Efficiency  Commitment to the project   SESAR (see from page 74)  Optimization of flight routings   Political structural projects  Investments in needs-oriented   infrastructure  Fleet modernization    (see from page 27)  Operation of state-of-the-art   engines, optimization of   engines in the existing fleet   (see from page 82)  Project Fuel Efficiency   Research on alternative fuels   in the framework of the project   Aviation Biofuel    (see from page 67)  Global emissions trading to   complement the other three   pillars  More efficient aircraft sizes  Optimal flight routes and   speeds  Optimized processes on the   ground  Improved use of airspace  Airport infrastructures adapted   to needs  Innovation in aircraft and   engine technologies  Alternative fuels 4. Economic measures 3. Operational measures 2. Improved infrastructure 1. Technological progress Four pillars for climate protection  a 74 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 74 More capacity, lower emissions It is one of SESARs goals to increase the capacity  of European airspace by 73 percent by 2020 and  even to triple it over the long-term, while increasing  safety continuously. At the same time, the cost of air  traffic control is to be halved from the current level  of 800 euros per flight on average to 400 euros by  2020. Of course, the environment also benefits from  SESAR: According to the SJU, average flight dura- tion can be reduced by between 8 and 14 minutes  on average, which reduces fuel consumption by  between 300 and 500 kilos and CO2 emissions by  between 948 and 1,575 kilos. The Lufthansa Group  alone can conserve between 600,000 and 700,000  liters of kerosene per day in this way, says Manfred  Mohr, Head of project SESAR at Lufthansa. SESAR is organized in three sections: definition,  development, and implementation. During the defi- nition phase, which was completed in 2008, the  participants developed a European master plan for  air traffic management. The development phase,  which will continue until 2016 under the responsi- bility of the SJU, comprises all activities necessary  to prepare the implementation of the previously  defined master plan. This includes detailed action  plans and the necessary legislative measures. Fur- thermore, the participants are developing new sys- tems and standards. They have to work through 21  task packages with currently more than 300 indi- vidual projects, of which about 250 have already  been launched. For the implementation phase  (2011 to 2020), the project partners have commit- ted to coordinating, managing and applying in daily  operations the measures previously agreed upon.  Above all, people everywhere in the EU will benefit  from SESAR. There will be less greenhouse gases,  less aircraft noise and fewer delays. At the same  time, safety levels, which are currently at extremely  high levels, will again be improved, summarizes  Raymund Obst, pilot and manager at the project  office SESAR at Lufthansa.  Participating in more than 80 projects The airlines of the Lufthansa Group are participating  in more than 80 of the 300 projects. Experts from  Lufthansa, SWISS, Austrian Airlines, Brussels   Airlines, bmi, Germanwings and Lufthansa Cargo  Air traffic management – Towards a  unified European airspace The Single European Sky is the largest climate protection project in European aviation. According to   the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), its implementation means a reduction in CO2  emissions of up to 12 percent. To reach this goal by 2020, the EU Commission and the European air  traffic control authority Eurocontrol launched the Single European Sky ATM Research Program (SESAR).  This pan-European initiative is working on standard- izing, harmonizing and synchronizing the services  offered in the framework of European Air Traffic  Management (ATM). Among other points, SESAR  includes the introduction of new technologies and  procedures in air traffic control that will allow the  organization of rising volumes of air traffic in more  secure, economic and environmentally friendly  ways. During the development phase, the most  important European authority is the SESAR Joint  Undertaking (SJU), with which Lufthansa closely  cooperates as an Airspace User. In addition,   Lufthansa is a member of the SESAR Airline Group,  a forum in which many European airlines coordi- nate their activities with the aim of ensuring the   success of Single European Sky (SES). In the framework of the SJU, all players active in  air traffic have joined forces for the first time in the  history of European aviation: civil and military air  traffic control institutions, national and international  legislative organizations, the aircraft industry, air- lines, aircraft operators and users as well as addi- tional partners on the ground and in the air. This  public-private partnership administers aid funds of  2.1 billion euros, provided in equal part by the Euro- pean Union, Eurocontrol and the participating cor- porations with the aim of sharing the development  costs of SESAR.   Lufthansa sees its participation in  SESAR as an opportunity to make   a contribution to protecting our   environment. The goal is a type of  air transport that allows passengers  to travel quickly and easily, while   leaving the smallest ecological   footprint possible. Manfred Mohr Head of project SESAR at Lufthansa  a 75 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 75 contribute their professional knowledge from the  most diverse areas, such as flight route planning  and operations centers for air and ground, but also  fleet management, information technology and  finance. These experts participate in workshops,  accompany simulations, assess documentation  and evaluate proposals, for example. In this way,  they support projects in areas such as aircraft sys- tems, operational changes in the air (four-dimen- sional flight path, 4D trajectory) and on the ground  (the operative flight coordination center, for exam- ple), information management as well as umbrella  topics with a higher level of importance. One example of this way of working is the active  participation of Lufthansa experts in improving  ground-based approach procedures (Ground- Based Augmentation System, GBAS). Several  individual projects in the areas of aircraft systems,  airport as well as ground and cockpit processes  share the goal of reducing the number of deviated  landings. They also aim at permitting smooth pro- cesses even during fog conditions due to a high  level of precision in positional data. Among other  aspects, Lufthansa participates in developing the  necessary onboard systems and solutions for high- frequency and regional airports. The experts also  contribute their know-how from other projects, such  as satellite-based approach procedures or opti- mized braking, which permits taxiing off the run- way with greater precision and reaching the correct  parking position more quickly. Lufthansa sees its  participation in SESAR as an opportunity to make a  contribution to protecting our environment. The goal  is a type of air transport that allows passengers to  travel quickly and easily, while leaving the smallest  ecological footprint possible, emphasizes Mohr.  AIRE – Concrete climate protection An important part of SESAR in the area of sustain- ability is AIRE (Atlantic Interoperability Initiative to  Reduce Emissions), the transatlantic program to  reduce emissions from air traffic, in which a total of  40 airlines, airports, air traffic control authorities and  industrial corporations participate. The SJU, which  is responsible for the European side of AIRE, has  selected 18 projects worthy of support for this cli- mate protection initiative. The Lufthansa Group par- ticipates in four of these projects. This includes a joint project aimed at reducing emis- sions, involving Germanwings, Lufthansa and DFS  Deutsche Flugsicherung concerning new approach  procedures at Cologne/Bonn Airport. Due to their  geographic proximity, the airports in Cologne and  Dsseldorf share the same airspace, which also  accommodates departing traffic from Frankfurt.   Currently, air traffic controllers guide Colognes traf- fic flows below those of Dsseldorfs, which causes  increased fuel burn due to low altitudes. Under the  new procedures the traffic flows to the two cities  on the Rhine both share higher altitudes for longer,  which conserves fuel and reduces CO2 emissions.  For Germanwings in particular, initial analyses show  a savings potential of about 200 kilos of kerosene  per flight at its home airport in Cologne. Further tests  are to follow in summer 2011. In Switzerland, SWISS has joined forces with Flug- hafen Zrich AG and the air traffic control authority  Skyguide to launch the project Greener Wave. Its  goal is to better manage above all the first bank of  flight arrivals in the early morning hours by imple- menting a range of operative measures. Among  these is the assignation of defined time slots for an  aircrafts approach, which helps to shorten holding  patterns and thus reduce CO2 and noise emissions.  At Vienna Airport, Austrian Airlines and Austro Con- trol are working on a solution that will help shorten  the aircrafts taxiing phases and thus avoid related  CO2 emissions. And at Brussels Airport, Brussels  Airlines, Belgocontrol and the airport operator are  preparing measures that will allow landing aircraft  to use the Continuous Descent Approach (CDA) for  longer, an approach procedure characterized by  particularly low noise and pollutant emissions due to  reduced engine performance. FABEC – One of SESs cornerstones A milestone on the path towards SES was set by Germany and its five   neighbors France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland  in December 2010: They agreed to create a joint airspace, the Functional  Airspace Block Europe Central (FABEC), which is an important cornerstone  of the overall SES project. The FABEC program is implemented by civil and  military partners in the six countries: Representatives of the transport and  defense ministries as well as the civil and military air traffic control organi- zations, including the control center in Maastricht, operated by Eurocontrol.  Lufthansa accompanied the development process in a consulting function.  With FABEC, one of the busiest airspaces worldwide is receiving standard- ized air traffic control. About 240 airports – including the important hubs   in Amsterdam, Frankfurt and Paris – are located in an area measuring 1.7  million square meters in surface. Every year, more than 5.5 million flight  movements are recorded here, which corresponds to more than half of all air  traffic in Europe. In line with EU law, the six signatory countries have agreed  to implement the joint airspace by December 2012.  a 76 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 76 At Lufthansa, the corporate departments and all  companies with environmental relevance have  their own environmental department, an envi- ronmental commissioner or a contact partner for  these issues. The Group-wide goals, strategies  and measures concerning the environment are  coordinated by the department Group Environ- mental Issues. All environmental experts meet  twice a year at the Environmental Forum to dis- cuss activities and experiences, and to develop  new projects. Concentrated environmental competency As the number of companies under the roof of  the Lufthansa Group has increased, the tasks  of the Environmental Forum have become ever  more complex. The company takes this devel- opment into account by realigning the Forum, a  move supported by the Executive Board. The  Groups concentrated environmental competency  is represented at the Environmental Forum, which  we will use more actively in the future. This is why   since 2010 we have addressed selected topics in  workgroups with the goal of developing possible  solutions for the entire company from within the  Group companies, says Dr. Karlheinz Haag, Vice  President Group Environmental Issues at Lufthansa,  explaining the Forums new structure. One work- group is currently developing a set of important  indicators based on standard definitions that are  to make environmental factors within the Group  measurable and thus also comparable. A second  team is compiling experiences at different com- panies relating to the introduction of environmen- tal management systems in order to summarize  them in a handbook or guideline that all com- pany areas can use in the future for their own  guidance. Simultaneously, the Environmental Forum now  acts as a platform interlinking topics of relevance  to the Group with activities in individual compa- nies. As the Lufthansa Group has become more  complex, it is especially important to ensure that  processes and coordination run both from top to  bottom and from bottom to top. This allows us to  speak with one voice despite diversification, says  Haag. Beyond that, the environmental experts  also regularly exchange information outside the  established structures. One such option is the  competency network Environmental Forum on  the internal Web 2.0 platform eTeaming. Emphasis on climate protection The unequivocal area of emphasis in Lufthansas  Environmental Guidelines is the issue of how  international air transport can meet the challenges  of climate change. In response, the industry has  developed a clear concept, the four pillar strategy  and CO2-neutral growth from 2020, which now  need to be implemented. Other important topics  are the reduction of aircraft noise and an efficient   use of resources on the ground. To ensure that  Lufthansa reaches its environmental goals, the  Groups environmental experts supported and  implemented numerous measures in this area.   In 2010, the spectrum ranged from more light- weight seats for the European fleet to the prepa- rations for long-term testing of biofuel on   scheduled flights. Environmental management One of the goals that Lufthansa set itself in its strategic Environmental Guidelines is to expand the   environmental management at the Group level and within the Group companies, and to give it further  importance. The company made an important step in this direction in 2010 by realigning the internal,  Group-wide Environmental Forum. Lufthansa realigns Group-wide Environmental Forum   The Groups concentrated environ- mental competency is represented   at the Environmental Forum, which we  will use more actively in the future.   This is why – since 2010 – we have  addressed selected topics in work- groups with the goal of developing  possible solutions for the entire compa- ny from within the Group companies. Dr. Karlheinz Haag Vice President Group Environmental Issues at Lufthansa  a 77 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 77 News from the Group companies The following examples provide information  about the most important environmental manage- ment activities at selected Group companies:  Lufthansa Passenger Airlines    In the framework of the internal project Fuel Effi- ciency, Lufthansa Passenger Airlines is working  on reducing its fuel consumption over the long- term by means of targeted measures (see from  page 70).   Experts at Lufthansa Passenger Airlines are help- ing to create a unified European airspace, the  Single European Sky (SES). Its implementation  may reduce CO2 emissions from European air  traffic by up to 12 percent (see from page 74).   A six-month trial designed to test alternative fuels  in routine operations is being prepared. Lufthansa CityLine   In April 2010, Lufthansa CityLine again   successfully achieved ISO 14001 and EMAS  recertification.   In 2010, the employees in the two areas of  administration and maintenance completed a  computer-based training (CBT) on environmen- tal protection. The goal of this campaign was  to raise awareness among employees for the  need to handle the environment with care. Fur- thermore, the Environmental Weeks and the  campaign Cycle to Work were well received  by employees.   One of the areas of emphasis in 2011 is to   reduce the aircraft hangars energy consump- tion and to optimize the administrative buildings  climate control. Lufthansa CityLine is currently  evaluating if an external energy consultant  needs to be called in. SWISS   In 2010, SWISS launched an eLearning on the  subject of the environment. The learning pro- gram, which comprises six modules, is aimed  at all SWISS employees and highlights problem  areas and solutions as they apply to the interac- tion between aviation and the environment. The  goal is to anchor the subject of environmental  protection even more profoundly in the corpo- rate culture.   The intradepartmental environmental project   team analyzed more than 30 environmental   projects SWISS-wide. Some examples of results  are a reduction of paper consumption in ground  handling, the introduction of lighter-weight crew   cases and the implementation of regular   environmental communication in the in-flight  magazine. Austrian Airlines   In 2007, Austrian Airlines launched its own envi- ronmental management. The airline has partic- ipated in the EcoBusinessPlan Vienna since  2006 and thus had significant parts of an envi- ronmental management system at its disposal,  such as an ongoing environmental program.   In the mid-term, Austrian Airlines is to have a  certified environmental management system.   Austrian Airlines regularly publishes its own   environmental report. bmi   One expert supports the two subjects of envi- ronment and safety in coordination with Group- wide subjects, and reports directly to the CEO. The environment is on board: SWISS regularly informs its passengers   about the airlines environmental activities.  a 78 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 78 Lufthansa Cargo successfully certified all German stations according to ISO 14001. Lufthansa Cargo   In 2010, Lufthansa Cargo expanded the certi- fication of its environmental management sys- tem according to ISO 14001 to all German sta- tions, after its operations in Frankfurt and Leip- zig had received this international seal of quality  in previous years. The external experts did not  observe any deviations from the standard.   At the employee party 2010, guests could learn  more about the topics of energy, fuel effici- ency and mobility at three stands. The biggest  attraction was an electric car and employees  also had an opportunity to test electric standup  scooters.   In 2010, Lufthansa Cargo continued to expand  eFreight, its international system for paperless  air freight transport. It is now available at all   German stations. About 150 experts participat-  ed in the first German eFreight Conference,  organized by the company. Lufthansa Technik    Lufthansa Technik has set itself the goal to re - duce its CO2 emissions by 30 percent by 2012  compared with 2006. By the end of 2010 the  company had achieved 23 percent of this tar- get value.   In 2010, Lufthansa Techniks operations in Sofia  were certified according to ISO 14001 and the  job safety specification OHSAS 18001. Thus,  eight important subsidiary companies were cer- tified by the end of November 2010. All overhaul  locations are to be certified by 2013.   Lufthansa Technik has forbidden the use of sol- vents and paint removers containing chlorine,  and replaced them with environmentally friendly  substances. Moreover, the company recycles  more than 70 percent of its waste materials. LSG Sky Chefs   LSG Sky Chefs published its first indepen- dent environmental report in 2010, which pro- vides comprehensive information about the  companys environmental management.   In the course of 2011 LSG Sky Chefs will iden- tify environmental aspects of its activities and  services at six representative locations that have  significant effects on the environment. The data  gathered will be used to further improve the   existing six environmental programs. They will  also be the basis for the future scope of the  internal environmental management systems. LZ-Catering    The wholly-owned Lufthansa subsidiary LZ- Catering is working on expanding its environ- mental management and making it an integral  part of corporate policy. The companys goal is  to achieve certification according to ISO 14001  in 2012.   In 2011 in Hamburg, LZ-Catering will participate  in the koprofit-Projekt, a support program for  environmental protection carried out by com- panies. The company is set to implement a  series of measures in the framework of this pro- gram, such as the optimization of all its pressure  systems.   In 2011, LZ-Catering is aiming to increase the  share of products from sustainable sources by  10 percent, compared with the previous year,  and to prepare one-third of its seafood products  from certified organic fish and from fish certi- fied by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)  standard. Lufthansa Technik is the first MRO company to hold an integrated, process-oriented certification   in the areas of quality, environment, aviation law, employee safety and international standards.  a 79 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 79 Energy and resource management Alternative propulsion technologies tested in vehicles on the ground For some time now, Lufthansa has been evaluating a number of projects regarding the use of alternative  propulsion technologies based on electricity and natural gas in Earth-bound vehicles. The focus is how   aircraft handling and maintenance can be designed to save as many resources as possible.   The following examples from daily practice pro- vide an overview of the activities in this area at  selected Group companies. Electric vehicles have been tested in   daily operations at Lufthansa Technik Since November 2010, Lufthansa Technik has  been testing the use of two electrically powered  vehicles in its maintenance operations in Dssel- dorf and Frankfurt. This seven-month practical  test, which is supported by the German Federal  Ministry of Transport, Building and Development,  is to show above all if these electric vehicles  can meet the necessary requirements of reliabil- ity, availability and constant load in the highly  demanding working environment of aircraft main- tenance. Each vehicle is equipped with a modern  lithium-ion battery that gives it a range of up to  120 kilometers and can be recharged in a maxi- mum of four hours thanks to its 400-Volt charging  technology. The focus of the investigation is the  recording and analysis of detailed measurement  data. This data is to provide information about  average driving distances and times, durations of  Bernd Utesch (Mainova), Dr. Thomas Stger (member of the Executive Board of  Lufthansa Technik), Gaby Schock (municipal utility company Dsseldorf) and  Harald Weinand (Environmental Department at Lufthansa Technik) during the presentation   of the new electrically-powered cars being tested by Lufthansa Technik. Lufthansa Global Tele Sales (GTS)    The wholly-owned subsidiary Lufthansa GTS  introduced an environmental management  system that was certified according to the  European eco-audit regulation EMAS in Sep- tember 2010. GTS is the first company in the  service center industry in Europe to hold this  validation.   In 2010, GTS published a comprehensive envi- ronmental declaration that informs about the  companys strategies, goals and measures.  Thus, GTS is planning to use more Green  IT and develop sustainability guidelines for  suppliers.  Trailblazer: Lufthansa Global Tele Sales is the first company in the European   service center industry to be certified according to EMAS. parking intervals and charging cycles, breakdown  statistics as well as possible changes in electric- ity requirements when the heating is turned on  or a laptop is plugged in, for example. If the test   a 80 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 80 yields a positive result Lufthansa Technik wants  to switch its entire vehicle fleet associated with  aircraft maintenance to electric vehicles step by  step. Both test cars, which are produced by   CitySax in the German state of Saxony, are  equipped with powerful three-phase-current  engines that are particularly suited for covering  short distances. The energy consumption is 20  kilowatts per 100 kilometers, which is equivalent  to a fuel consumption of about 1.5 liters.  Trial operation of electrically-driven   tow trucks at Lufthansa LEOS Whether an electric tow truck can maneuver air- craft out of their parking positions to the point  from which they taxi under their own power  (push-back) is a question that Lufthansa LEOS  investigated from July to December 2010 on the  apron of Dsseldorf Airport. The company, which  is a wholly-owned Lufthansa Technik subsidiary   and is specialized in providing ground han dling  at large German airports, used an electric tow  truck designed specifically for this purpose by  French manufacturer TLD. It is astonishing to   see that normal working procedures also func- tion without an internal combustion engine and  the related exhaust gases, says Armin Stadler,  Head of Operative Services at Lufthansa LEOS.  But the TPX 100 E offers more than the potential  of cutting fuel consumption and thus the relat-  ed CO2 emissions on the ground. It also works  perceptibly quieter than diesel-driven tow trucks,  does not produce any smells, and is easy to oper- ate, low on maintenance and cost-efficient. The  range of the electric tow truck depends on the  distances that the environmentally friendly vehicle  has to cover on the apron. On average, the elec- tric charge suffices for 12 to 16 push-backs. Comprehensive test run at Frankfurt Airport, using a Leos tow truck   reconfigured as a TaxiBot test vehicle. Testing the TaxiBot system Another innovative alternative to operational tow- ing is a technology called TaxiBot, currently being  developed by Lufthansa LEOS in cooperation  with Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI). TaxiBot is a  diesel-electric aircraft tow truck that allows aircraft  to taxi from gate to runway with their engines not  yet running (dispatch towing). This method not  only saves significant quantities of fuel, but it also  considerably reduces CO2 and noise emissions  at airport sites. TaxiBot is controlled by the pilots  in the cockpit. An initial, comprehensive test run  with a LEOS tow truck converted into a TaxiBot  experimental vehicle in December 2010 at the  Frankfurt hub was promising – and not only from  an ecological perspective. It demonstrated that  the Boeing 747 used for the test could be steered  even more accurately by means of TaxiBot than if  it had taxied under its own power. In addition, the  new technology does not require any modifica- tion of the aircraft. The first prototypes of the new  aircraft tow trucks are expected to be available in  early 2012.  Natural-gas powered lift truck   at LSG Sky Chefs  Further examples for trial operations involving  environmentally friendly propulsion technologies  come from LSG Sky Chefs. In September 2010,  the catering specialists of the Lufthansa Group  tested an electrically-powered small car, equip- ped with a battery giving it a range of 120 kilo- meters, at Frankfurt Airport. In February 2011, the  Lufthansa subsidiary started a three-month test of  a lift truck powered by natural gas at its Munich  location. This truck is used in the areas of cater- ing and transport and has a range of about 300  kilometers. A conclusive evaluation of the test  results is not yet available. Lufthansa Systems consumes   5 percent less electricity The data center operated by Lufthansa Systems   in Kelsterbach is one of the most modern in  Europe. From 2008 to 2010 the company was  able to reduce electricity consumption by 5   percent, while the server performance increased.   This reduction corresponds to a lowering of CO2  emissions by 140 tonnes. A comprehensive  modernization project, which the IT service pro- vider successfully concluded in 2010, made   a significant contribution to increasing energy  efficiency. The goal was to replace the server and  storage systems and to modernize the networks  and interruption-free electricity supply.  a 81 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 81 Lufthansa Systems data center: A comprehensive modernization project resulted in a significant increase of energy efficiency. Apart from the use of energy-efficient servers,   Lufthansa Systems implemented further measures  to lower the energy consumption at its data center  in Kelsterbach. One area where action was taken  was air conditioning because the safe operation  of IT systems requires a constant room tempera- ture, independent of external temperatures. After  having modernized ventilation, Lufthansa Systems  has therefore begun to install modern high-perfor- mance cooling units that offer optimum cooling at  the lowest energy consumption possible. Further- more, the company uses heat recycling to heat  offices with the data centers warm waste air.  Campaign week on energy efficiency   in Frankfurt In 2010, the focus was also placed on raising  awareness among the Groups employees of the  need to use energy resources even more con- sciously. Among the related activities was the  Campaign Energy Saving. All the smart ones  join in. which the Group organized with the  energy provider Mainova from August 16-20,   2010 at the Lufthansa Aviation Center (LAC) in  Frankfurt. The initiatives goal was to lower the  employees individual energy consumptions and  the related CO2 emissions over the long-term by  means of conscious behavior – both in the office  and at home. The campaign week was part of  Mainovas Climate Partner Program, which re- ceived an award from BUND/Friends of the Earth  Germany, and was accompanied by internal  communications. Among the campaigns cen- tral elements was an information area with dis- play walls and videos related to the topic, a folder  with energy-saving tips, and a daily energy quiz  on the intranet in which about 2,500 Lufthansa  employees participated. The quizs attractive main  prize was an electric scooter. Campaign week on energy efficiency at the Lufthansa Aviation Center. Group-wide Energy Forum Lufthansa established the Energy Forum in 2004  with the goal of creating a network linking all  employees responsible for infrastructure across  the company. This annual event serves as a basis  for the exchange of experiences and opinions,  and also acts as an information exchange for   current developments in the energy industry.  a 82 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 82 of every CFM56-3 engine is equipped with 12  acoustic panels. Replacing these with new Hard  Wall Forward Acoustic Panels (HWFAP) leads  to significantly lower noise emissions because  currently a large part of the sound energy is  redirected to the outside at the joints of the old  silenc ers because their sound resistance differs  from the rest of the panels surface. By contrast,  the new HWFAP silencers form a homogeneous   hard-wall surface with uniform sound resis tance,  which suppresses this effect.  The positive result: A modified Boeing 737-300   or 737-500 will take off and land more quietly. As   it has its effect both during landings and takeoffs,   this new noise-protection measure can be re - garded as exceedingly effective, says Saueressig.  According to aircraft manufacturer Boeing, the  noise levels at the certification measuring points  defined by the International Civil Aviation Organ- ization (ICAO) decline significantly: During takeoff   (still close to the ground) by about -0.5 EPN-dB;   during departure by about -1.5 EPN-dB; and  during approach by about -2.4 EPN-dB. Noise research for quieter fl ying Aircraft manufacturers solve this problem in new  aircraft by producing the acoustic panels from  one seamless piece, without joints. At Lufthansa,  both the Airbus A380 and the ordered Boeing  747-8 Intercontinental are already equipped with  such panels. By operating state-of-the-art air- craft, the aviation industry is able to fulfill step by  step the ambitious targets of the Advisory Coun- cil for Aeronautics Research in Europe (ACARE).  In its vision 2020, this European advisory body  for aviation and astronautics has formulated  goals for European aviation research that include  cutting by half the perceived noise emissions  from aircraft. ACARE includes representatives of  EU member countries, the European Commis- sion, manufacturers, airlines, airports as well as  research institutions. Its main goal is to develop  and implement a strategic research agenda.  Noise emissions Lufthansa is firmly committed to noise reduction Lufthansa continues its uncompromising commitment to reducing noise emissions generated by flying.  The airline counts on the latest technology for new aircraft and their engines, and on continuously   optimizing the aircraft in its existing fleet. A prime example of this approach is the latest investment in  further perceptible noise-protection measures at Frankfurt Airport.  By the end of 2011, the engines of the entire  Frankfurt-based Boeing 737 fleet will be fitted  with a new type of silencer, which will reduce  noise emissions during departure and approach  by up to 2.4 decibels – a modification with an  exceedingly high level of effectiveness. This voluntary effort is part of the First Package  of Measures for Active Noise Protection at Frank- furt Airport, presented in June 2010 by the Forum  Airport and Region (FFR). At the same time, this  fleet modification also marks a success for the  long-term research and development work that  Lufthansa and its partners carry out in their sys- tematic search for practicable solutions in noise  reduction. In the future, Lufthansa will operate  about one fifth of its aircraft movements in Frank- furt with Boeing 737-300s and 737-500s. New panels prevent sound propagation In cooperation with the German Aerospace   Center (DLR) and experts from Lufthansa Tech- nik we thoroughly examined the properties of the  silencers located directly in front of the fan on a  number of engines. This is also how we found   the potential of achieving a significant noise   reduction by exchanging the silencers on the  Boeing 737s engines, reports Dr. Gerd Sauer- essig, Manager Group Environmental Issues at   Lufthansa. On this type of aircraft, each inlet  According to initial estimates,   operations of the Airbus A380 and  the Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental  can reduce the number of people  shown as highly affected in the  Frankfurt Aircraft Noise Index by   10 percent. Dr. Gerd Saueressig Manager Group Environmental Issues at Lufthansa  a 83 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 83 The systematic analysis of noise sources is a fun- damental condition for the development of effi- cient noise reduction measures – this applies  both to sound generation and comparisons  between the importance of different sources of  noise. Lufthansa has cooperated with the German   Aerospace Center (DLR) in the framework of the  research network Quiet Traffic since 1999. The  goal is to carry out basic research and develop- ment work concerning the identification of noise  sources on aircraft and elaborate noise reduction  measures based on these results. In the context of several projects, such as   FREQUENZ and LAnAb, the research part- ners realized five flyover measurements under  Lufthansas guidance between 2001 and 2008,  involving different types of aircraft – three times  with an Airbus A319 and once each with a  Boeing MD-11F and a Boeing 747-400. The  researchers analyzed individual sources of noise  on the aircraft by systematically varying flying   speed, engine performance as well as the  positions of flaps and landing gear. Targeted  measurements with a comprehensive micro- phone system allowed the experts to track noise  sources in flight and to survey them. These  measurements were complemented by analy- ses performed at an engine testbed, involving the  latest microphone measuring technology. The  resulting data also serve to improve the DLRs  computer-based aircraft noise simulation pro- gram SIMUL. To further develop SIMUL, which so far has been  based on data relating to the Airbus A320, it is  necessary to expand the database to other types  of aircraft. While the DLR and Lufthansa have  realized measurements on the Boeing 747-400,  The Airbus A380 is about 30 percent quieter than comparable predecessor models. the data analysis and integration of the results  into SIMUL have yet to be carried out because a  related project in the aviation research program  of Germanys Federal Government, for which an  application has been made, has not been approved  until now. An expanded version of SIMUL could  allow researchers to investigate and assess noise  sources and measures more in depth with the  goal of identifying the most efficient solutions –  not least under the consideration of costs. A lighter noise burden through fl eet renewal  However, airlines achieve the greatest advances  in noise reduction by operating modern aircraft.  In the framework of the largest fleet moderniza- tion program in its history, Lufthansa is planning  to acquire another 155 aircraft by 2016 that are  more efficient and above all quieter (see Invest- ments in new aircraft pay off economically as well  as ecologically from page 27). For example, the  Airbus A380, the new flagship of the Lufthansa  fleet, is about 30 percent quieter than compara- ble predecessor models. The same is true for the  Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental, which Lufthansa  will put into service in 2012. It is also about 30  percent quieter than its currently still active pre- decessor, the Boeing 747-400. According to ini- tial estimates, operations of the Airbus A380 and  the Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental can reduce the  number of people shown as highly affected in  the Frankfurt Aircraft Noise Index by 10 percent,  emphasizes Saueressig.  As part of this fleet modernization, the Lufthansa  Group ordered Airbus A320 and A321 aircraft  during the reporting year, of which engine manu- facturer CFM International will equip the A320s  with its latest engine, the CFM56-5B. Thus the  aircrafts noise emissions will again be reduced.    a 84 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 84   Active noise protection at Frankfurt Airport The First Package of Measures for Active Noise Protection, presented in  June 2010 by the Forum Airport and Region (FFR), comprises seven projects.   These will allow a reduction of the number of people highly affected by air- craft noise in the airports vicinity by 16 percent during the day and even by  40 percent during the night. The FFRs expert committee, in whose work   Lufthansa has a significant share, evaluated all projects with support from  Lufthansa pilots with regard to feasibility and noise effect. These measures  are: 1.  A significant contribution to lessening the noise burden by exchanging  the silencers in the engines of Lufthansas Boeing 737 fleet, described in  the article above. This project is to be completed by October 2011, when  Frankfurt Airports new landing runway is to go into operation. 2.  A speed limit is to be introduced for takeoffs for the first 11 kilometers  on certain departure routes. The effect: The engines available thrust is  applied at higher altitudes, so that less noise reaches the ground. 3.  By better using the tailwind component, those periods when aircraft fly  over the built-up areas immediately to the west of the airport at particularly  low altitudes due to prevailing winds will be reduced.  4.  The so-called Segmented Approach ensures that aircraft fly further to the  south and thus around densely populated areas during the night. 5.  During the night hours, when traffic is light, aircraft are consciously   concentrated on specific runways and departure routes. A regular change  of runways implies genuine and calculable pauses in noise emissions. 6.  A different control system applied by DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung is to  increase the share of landings using the Continuous Descent Approach  (CDA). This type of approach requires lower engine thrusts and is therefore  quieter and more fuel-efficient. 7.  After the inauguration of the new runway, the approach angle is to be  increased from 3 to 3.2 degrees under certain meteorological conditions,  which implies overall higher altitudes during approach and thus a   reduction of noise. In January 2011, test operations with the noise-reducing flight procedures  contained in the First Package of Measures for Active Noise Protection  began. For example, Lufthansa Cargo is testing the Segmented Approach  during night hours. The goal of this trial run is to gather experience and verify  actual noise measurements from routine operations against forecast reduc- tions of noise emissions. The state government of Hesse founded the FFR in 2008 as a venue where  the aviation industry, municipalities, state government, associations and  interest groups can discuss issues concerning the expansion and operation  of Frankfurt Airport. An important component of the FFR is the Expert Com- mittee Active Noise Protection, which develops and evaluates procedures to  reduce noise. The list price for the engine order is about 300  million U.S. dollars. The aircraft will be integrated  gradually into the Lufthansa fleet from 2013. Noise levels on short- and medium-haul routes  also decline with each new aircraft generation,   as is proven by the new CSeries produced by  Canadian manufacturer Bombardier, for example.   Starting in 2014, SWISS will replace 20 Avro  RJ100s with 30 CSeries aircraft flying on regional   routes. A CSeries aircraft is 10 to 15 decibels  quieter on average than an Avro RJ100, which  the human perception of noise will experience  as a reduction of about one-half. According to  the manufacturers data, the CSeries is to remain  below the limits of the ICAOs so-called Chapter-4  by a significant 20 dB(A).  Furthermore, Lufthansa counts on new E-190 and  E-195 aircraft from the Brazilian manufacturer  Embraer, which also gain points by featuring low  noise levels. And since 2006, the state-of-the-art  CRJ900, manufactured by Bombardier, has been  reinforcing the Groups regional fleet. Outside an  airport site, a CRJ900 taking off is usually no   louder than a passenger car passing by in traffic.   In 2010, Lufthansa ordered eight Embraer 195s  and eight CRJ900 NextGens for operations at  Lufthansa Regional.   a 85 Balance 2011 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 85 Margins below the noise limit   of ICAO chapter-31 The bar chart indicates the sum of the differences  between the measured value and the threshold  value at the three measuring points by type of   aircraft (cumulated margin). Where necessary, the  values based on the reduced maximum takeoff  weight prevailing in flight operations are indicat-  ed. To allow a more transparent depiction, an  improved method of analysis was developed for  the previous issue of Balance, which includes the  individual noise certificate data of all Group   aircraft for the first time. Different versions of  an aircraft model and its engines by year of  construction are thus better taken into account.  While the conservative approach used until  reporting year 2008 meant that only the values  of the sub-fleet with the lowest cumulated mar- gin were reported to describe an aircraft fleet,  the new analytical method used since report- ing year 2009 means that the value ranges from  the lowest to the highest cumulated margin are  now indicated for many fleets. In addition, many  aircraft were recertified in reporting year 2010  according to the new, more stringent ICAO Chap- ter-4 standard. The new noise certificates also  take into account any modifications to aircraft  or engines that have been made in the mean- time, thereby leading to modified noise data and  cumulated margins in certain cases. In addition,  numerous additions and withdrawals in individ- ual fleets lead to changes in the value ranges  reported. 4U = Germanwings BD = bmi C3 = Contact Air CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings IQ = Augsburg Airways LH = Lufthansa Passenger Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo LX = SWISS OS = Austrian Airlines 1 New ICAO Chapter-4 limit, which has been effective for new  aircraft since 2006: – 10.0 EPN-dB when compared   to Chapter-3 Lufthansa Group fleet (active fleet on 31.12.2010) in EPNdB A330-200 LX  – 13.8 / – 13.9 A330-200 BD  – 18.8 A330-300 LH  – 18.8 A330-300 LX  – 18.4 A340-300 LX  – 22.1  A340-300 LH  – 22.6 / – 22.9 A340-600 LH  – 23.0 / – 23.4 A380-800 LH  – 26.7 B 747-400 LH  – 12.7 / – 13.3 B 767-300 OS  – 16.6 / – 16.8 B 777-200 OS  – 21.4 MD-11F LH  – 13.4 / – 13.5 A319-100 LH  – 15.2 / – 19.3 A319-100 LX  – 18.2 A319-100 BD  – 19.0 / – 20.1 A319-100 4U  – 17.4 / – 19.4 A319-100 OS  – 18.3 / – 19.3 A320-200 LH  – 13.2 / – 14.3 A320-200 LX  – 13.7 / – 14.5 A320-200 OS  – 14.1 / – 15.0 A320-200 BD  – 19.1 / – 19.9 A321-100 LH  – 15.5 A321-100 LX  – 10.8 A321-100 OS  – 11.2 A321-200 LH  – 14.1 / – 14.7 A321-200 LX  – 14.4 A321-200 OS  – 8.6 / – 9.2 A321-200 BD  – 14.1 B 737-300 LH  – 10.3 B 737-300 BD  – 13.4 / – 15.1 B 737-500 LH  – 10.8 B 737-500 BD  – 15.8 B 737-600 OS  – 16.7 B 737-700 OS  – 16.1 B 737-800 OS  – 12.9 / – 14.3 ATR42-500 EN  – 31.4 ATR72-200 EN  – 25.9 Avro RJ-85 CL  – 17.1 / – 17.6 Avro RJ-100 LX  – 16.4 CRJ-200 EW  – 28.0 CRJ-700 CL  – 16.3 CRJ-900 CL  – 16.6 CRJ-900 EW  – 16.6 Fokker 70 OS  – 24.3 / – 25.2 Fokker 100 OS  – 16.2 Fokker 100 C3  – 16.2 ERJ-135 BD  – 25.3 ERJ-145 BD  – 23.3 / – 23.4 ERJ-195 EN  – 14.9 ERJ-195 IQ  – 15.0 ERJ 195 CL  – 15.0 ERJ-190 IQ  – 12.9 ERJ-190 CL  – 13.9 / – 15.1 DHC8-400 IQ  – 25.3 / – 25.6 DHC8-400 OS  – 24.5 / – 25.9                  – 10.0 Grouping of aircraft types according to MTOW:   under 50 t    50 to 150 t    above 150 t This division ordinarily corresponds to a grouping of regional,   continental and intercontinental aircraft.  a 86 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2011 86 Regular measuring flights, for example, produce  the required basis of data to validate and continu- ously improve climate models. This approach  is the foundation for evaluating the effects of air  transport on the environment in a factual manner  and for implementing effective environmental care. In the area of climate research, Lufthansa works   closely with renowned scientific institutions in   Belgium, England, France, the Netherlands,   Sweden, Switzerland and Germany. Among the  joint proj ects are MOZAIC, CARIBIC and IAGOS  (for more information see www.lufthansa.com/ responsibility). These cooperations aim at devel- oping instruments, for example, that allow daily  and global measurements of climate-relevant  trace gases. Lufthansa gathers the necessary  data and air samples on specially modified   aircraft that operate scheduled services. CARIBIC container on special mission   volcanic ash CARIBIC is an example of a project designed to  research the fundamentals of the Earths atmo- sphere. The measurement container deployed for  this project is considered the best equipped world- wide in climate research. Since December 2004,   this fully automated laboratory has taken one  research trip per month on average aboard a   Lufthansa Airbus A340-600. However, in spring  2010 the eruption of the volcano Eyjafjallajkull in  Iceland meant a special mission for the CARIBIC   measurement contain  er: Three measuring flights  took place on April 20, May 16 and 19 to deter- mine the ash concentration in the cloud over  Europe resulting from the volcanic eruption.   Lufthansa and the research partners par ticipating  in the project received permission for these flights  within two days. This kind of short-term commit- ment was only possible because the Airbus is  already modified for climate research and   Lufthansa has been conducting such work for  many years. We were the only airline to be able  to make our own measurements to determine the  concentration of volcanic ash. Thus Lufthansa has  proven its pioneer ing role in climate research once  more, emphasizes Dr. Andreas Waibel, Manager  Group Environmental Issues at Lufthansa.  During the three research flights, the measuring  instruments took air samples for precise analyses   that determined the size and number of ash parti- cles, among other tasks. They also gathered gen- eral data on the atmosphere. During these flights,  only relatively low concentrations of ash particles  up to 2 micrometers diameter could be detected.  The majority of measuring values was situated   be tween 20 and 125 micrograms per cubic  meter of air. By comparison, the EU limit for fine  particulate at ground level is 50 micrograms per  cubic meter of air. With these measurements the  researchers could demonstrate that the ash cloud  had become highly diluted by being mixed with  other air masses, as had been expected. A sub- sequent borescopic examination of the engines  by Lufthansa Technik did not give any indication  of possible damage from the ash cloud. The participating research partners have made  their findings available to experts working on  models of atmospheric propagation. In this way,  the insights gained in spring 2010 will contribute  to improving future forecasts concerning clouds  of ash in the wake of volcanic eruptions or forest  fires. Research projects Climate research on scheduled flights Global climate change is one of the greatest challenges for humankind. Therefore, reliable prognoses  about the future development of the earths climate are of fundamental importance. Lufthansa makes   a significant contribution to observing the state of the Earths atmosphere and is the only airline   worldwide to have been committed to climate research for almost two decades. The CARIBIC measurement container is being loaded aboard the Lufthansa A340-600 Leverkusen.  a 87 Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 87 Corporate Citizenship Responsible practice worldwide As an internationally operating aviation company that takes responsibility at home and in the world for  social issues, the Group has supported selected projects in the areas of social concern, environment  and nature, culture and education as well as sports. Beyond that, many employees work as volunteers  in projects and initiatives. In this context, Lufthansa creates a framework of favorable conditions and   recommendations for corporate volunteering.  In the interest of the highest possible level of transparency and long-term effects, Lufthansa applies  stringent quality standards to its social commitment. The pivotal point of all activities is defined by the  companys core competencies: transporting people and goods as well as providing technical and   economic know-how. Given the numerous natural catastrophes in 2010, these competencies were   above all applied to emergency humanitarian aid.  a 88 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 88 Social commitment Humanitarian emergency aid: Lufthansa demonstrates  its solidarity with the victims of natural catastrophes The Group again provided transport capacities  in 2010, this time to get aid supplies to help deal  with the earthquake catastrophe in Haiti. Lufthansa  immediately contacted the crisis team of the  federal government to offer support, said Wolf- gang Mayrhuber, who was the Lufthansa Groups  Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO until  December 2010.   Transport of 200 tonnes of aid supplies   free of charge Just a few days after the disaster, Lufthansa  Cargo sent an MD-11F freighter aircraft to Haiti on  behalf of the Technical Relief Organization (THW).  On board were 80 tonnes of aid supplies, above  all food, medication and technical equipment.  One month later, the cargo airline sent another  MD-11F to Haiti at cost price to ship 65 tonnes  of aid supplies to the disaster area on behalf of  the Metro Group – including tents, satellite tele- phones, diesel generators and hygiene articles.  Lufthansa Cargo transported about 200 tonnes  of aid supplies in the framework of emergency  aid for Haiti. In addition, the Lufthansa subsidiary  granted release for numerous employees who  supported the teams of the Technical Relief Orga- nization (THW) on the scene. Emergency aid sup- plies were shipped to Miami as quickly as possible  on board Lufthansa Passenger Airlines aircraft as  well. From there, the U.S. military transported the  supplies to the capital of Port-au-Prince via an air  bridge. Management and employees join forces In response to the impact of the earthquake the  Executive Board called for a donation campaign,  as it did after the tsunami in southeast Asia.  Employees donated work time and money valued  in total at 220,000 euros, which Lufthansa   doubled to 440,000 euros.   Reconstruction of six small schools The total sum was transferred to a donation  account that the HelpAlliance set up specifi- cally for Haiti. The money allows the employee  organization to provide long-term support for  reconstruction in Haiti – especially with regard to  destroyed educational facilities. An example   is the HelpAlliances cooperation with the neigh- borhood initiative small schools, which Salesians  of Don Boscos set up in the 1950s. The goal is to  reconstruct six of these small schools by summer  2011 and to ensure financing for teacher salaries,  school books, pencils, notebooks and school  meals. The HelpAlliance was also able to secure  financing in cooperation with the Catholic order for  300 schools in a bag.  Flood disaster in Pakistan In the same way, Lufthansa provided emergency  aid after the deluge-like inundations in Pakistan,   which flooded large parts of this country in  August 2010. In the face of this new natural   catastrophe, Lufthansa employees willingness to  help was enormous: donations quickly reached  100,000 euros, which management again dou- bled and transferred to the HelpAlliances   dedicated account for Pakistan. In addition, the  HelpAlliance provided a base amount of 10,000  euros as an immediate measure. As there was  above all a dearth of clean potable water, the  employee organization made possible the  purchase of 600,000 water purification tablets,  which a special Lufthansa Cargo flight trans- As an aviation company with worldwide activities, Lufthansa has provided comprehensive humanitari- an emergency aid in the aftermath of natural disasters for many years. This aid helps to secure the   survival of people in danger both quickly and efficiently. Fast and unbureaucratic: Three special Lufthansa Cargo flights transported a total of about   200 tonnes of aid supplies in the framework of emergency relief for Haiti.  a 89 Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 89 ported to Islamabad. Thus, six million liters of  drinking water could be purified, explained Rita  Diop, First Chairwoman of the HelpAlliance.  To ensure that the water purification tablets really  reached people in need, a Lufthansa Cargo  general agent took delivery of the shipment,   personally forwarded and distributed it in emer- gency camps. Each and every cent donated  by Lufthansa employees therefore also reached  people in Pakistan, said Carsten Hernig, Re - gion al Director South Asia and Middle East at   Lufthansa Cargo. Also on board the Lufthansa  Cargo freighter were an additional 50 tonnes of  aid supplies, such as medical supplies for the  United Nations Population Fund. Furthermore,  on another special flight to Karachi the logistics  company transported 23 tonnes of a sugar-salt  mix on behalf of UNICEF free of charge, to be  used as a specific treatment for children suffer- ing from diarrhea. Given the critical situation, the  HelpAlliance closely cooperated with the German  general consulate in Karachi to provide 200 tents  for a refugee camp in the south of the country, for  example. In the meantime, thanks to Lufthansa Cargos  good connections in Pakistan, long-term aid  measures have been launched. These concen- trate above all on giving about 500 families in 15  villages a new basis for their livelihoods, so that  in the future they will be able to ensure their eco- nomic existence themselves.   Hurricane in El Salvador The victims of hurricane Ida also depended on a  sign of hope after the storm left a trail of devasta- tion in El Salvador in November 2009. Aiming at  helping to reconstruct some of the totally destroyed  houses in this Central American country, the   HelpAlliance and employees of Lufthansa Systems  collected more than 16,000 euros in 2010 for the  victims of the tropical storm. The money benefited   the aid organization Un Techo para mi Pas  (UTPMP, literally A Roof for my Country), using  it to build 15 new houses in the region of La Paz.  Hands-on support also came from employees of  the IT service company, who nailed boards, fitted  and installed doors and windows. These fami- lies were happy to finally have their own solid  roofs over their heads, said Franz Simon, Service  Manager at Lufthansa Systems TACA.  Earthquake, tsunami and   reactor catastrophe in Japan On March 23, 2011, Lufthansa Cargo operated a  special flight to Tokyo free of charge and in co- operation with the EU Commission to provide swift  support for the Japanese population affected by  the severe earthquake. On board the MD-11F  freighter were above all blankets, which were  urgently needed in the north of Japan, where  cold winter weather prevailed. The aid supplies  were donated by the governments of Denmark,  the Netherlands and Lithuania. It is a matter of  course for Lufthansa Cargo to provide swift and  unbureaucratic help in the face of a humanitar- ian catastrophe of such proportions, said Karl  Ulrich Garnadt, Chairman and CEO of Lufthansa  Cargo AG. The employee aid organization HelpAlliance also  demonstrated its solidarity with the people of  Japan and called upon all Group employees for  donations – as it did after the earthquake in Haiti  and the flood catastrophe in Pakistan. As the   HelpAlliance is not an emergency aid organiza- tion in the strict sense, its support will concentrate  on reconstruction after the donation campaign is  completed. Decisions about the use of donated  funds will be made as soon as it is clear where  long-term help can be provided most effectively. Carsten Hernig, Regional Director South Asia and Middle East at Lufthansa Cargo,   coordinates the HelpAlliances aid project in Pakistan.  a 90 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 90 the HelpAlliance has been committed to this part  of the world from the first day of its existence. At  the end of 2010, the number of projects supported  in Africa stood at 19 – more than on any other  continent. In some cases, support has been given  for more than ten years. In 2010, the HelpAlliance  made a total budget of 404,000 euros available  to support projects in Africa. This money is well  in vested. Many success stories big and small  show that it is worthwhile not to write off the people  in Africa, affirms Rita Diop, First Chairwoman of  the HelpAlliance.  An example is the long-term project Abni in  Djougou in the north of Benin which gives girls  between the ages of 9 and 18 years the opportu- nity to obtain a school education. The HelpAlliance  finances not only tuition, learning materials and  tutors, but also regular meals, doctors visits and  inoculations. In the meantime, the first graduate  from the school has received a stipend for univer- sity studies. By contrast, the circle of friends East  Africa is dedicated above all to the moder nization  or new construction of clinics in and around Mom- basa. A significant element of this type of long- term HelpAlliance project is the acute care for  undernourished and malnourished children in  dedicated wards. As life-threatening disorders  re lated to malnutrition are not only due to a dearth  of food, but also to the mothers lack of knowledge,  providing information and imparting the basics of  child nutrition plays an important role in the con- cept of this help project. The aim is above all to  give everyday tips that can help young mothers to  combine available foods in ways that provide their  children with all vital nutrients and vitamins.  Closing educational gaps Whether children in developing countries have  a future depends in large part on whether they  receive access to education. To achieve this goal  is the purpose of the iThemba preschool project  in the township of Capricorn in the South African  metropolis of Cape Town. Thanks to numerous  donations from passengers and Lufthansa  employees as well as the considerable com- mitment of employees at Lufthansa Global Tele  Sales Cape Town, 75 children up to the age of six  HelpAlliance:  Hand in hand for education, nutrition and health    The HelpAlliance – Employees lend a helping hand is a humanitarian organization that has grown over  time and provided help for self-help for more than ten years. The registered charity, which is politically  and denominationally independent, was founded by Lufthansa employees in 1999 and supports social  aid, especially in Africa, Asia and Latin America.  The focus is primarily on business start-ups, edu- cational facilities, orphanages, street-kid projects  and bush hospitals, which the employees accom- pany personally and voluntarily during their time  off or during their vacations. Lufthansa has sup- ported the commitment of the HelpAlliance to its  best ability ever since it was founded: by granting  full-time and part-time releases, providing office  space at Frankfurt Airport complete with the IT and  telecommunications infrastructure required. Addi- tionally, the Group provides logistical and commu- nications support. The range of projects supported by the   HelpAlliance is broad and is divided in long-term,  short-term results-oriented projects as well as   activities in the framework of Emergency Aid, such  as in the wake of the tsunami in southeast Asia,  the earthquake in Haiti and the flooding in Paki- stan. The number of projects that the cooperative  initiative has launched, coordinated and supported  since its foundation reached 70 at the end of 2010,  with a total budget volume of almost 5.5 million  euros. This success has been made possible by  13 full-time members, 1,514 Supporting Mem- bers and a worldwide network of volunteer helpers  inside and outside the Lufthansa Group. Cornerstone for a better life Poverty, violence and the lack of educational  opportunities are the order of the day in large parts  of Africa. To provide a long-lasting signal of hope,  Again and again I am fascinated by  the devotion with which Lufthansa   employees work for the shared goal of  making the future of others a bit better.   During my visit to the Prana Project   in India I found this objective of the   HelpAlliance confirmed in impressive  ways. And that is why I am very happy  to be involved myself. Bettina Lauer Patroness of the HelpAlliance  a 91 Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 91 years have been able to take advantage of this  offer since January 2010. The preschool com- pound consists of several classrooms, a play- ground and administrative buildings. As sufficient   and healthy nutrition is the condition for the  childrens ability to learn, they receive three  meals a day. Studies show that children in town- ships lag two to three years behind the educa- tional level of other boys and girls, explains Rita  Diop. We want to close this gap with well-trained  teach ers and instruction in the English language. Future prospects for children in India  Pronounced poverty and social misery prevail not  only in Africa, but also in India. Those who suffer  the most are once more children because parents  often do not have the means to provide the essen- tials in an appropriate way. In this situation the  so-called boarding houses of Patenschaftskreis  Indien e.V. – also a long-term HelpAlliance proj- ect since 2004 – resemble a silver lining on a  dark cloud. In most cases the children live year- round at one of the 20 boarding houses, where  they receive clothing, a school education, regular  meals and medical care. In addition, the associa- tion covers the costs of teacher salaries and small- scale pharmacies that keep a stock of all vital  medications, so that villagers, who are ordinarily  excluded from medical attention, can be treated in  an appropriate manner. To ensure that the about  3,000 children will be able to organize their lives in  their own strength, they also learn the fundamen- tals of farming and cattle breeding at some board- ing houses. Beyond that, Patenschaftskreis Indien  looks after children of all age groups who were put  on trains by their parents in the hope that some- one might take pity on them and care for them in  the future. These children often find shelter in spe- cial childrens houses, where trained personnel  provide them with clothing, food and education,  and give them affection. The association generates  funds needed for the operation of these houses  on the basis of sponsorships: As little as 15 euros  is enough to provide a child for one month with  everything that is necessary every day. www.help-alliance.com  On-board collection program Small Change – Its a Big Help The on-board collection program allows Lufthansa and Condor passengers  on long-haul flights back to Germany to donate coins and bank notes left in  foreign currency to a good cause. This option has been offered since May  2001. Small sealable envelopes for this purpose are provided in the seat  pockets; the cabin crews collect and forward these to the HelpAlliance. Spe- cial donations pillars in the employee areas and Lufthansa lounges at Ger- man airports, in the public areas of the Frankfurt and Munich hubs, and at  selected lounges outside of Germany serve the same purpose.  A course for seamstresses and dressmakers from different castes is part of the Prana Project, an initiative in Pondicherry in southern India supported by the HelpAlliance. On-board collection program Development of donation volumes1 2001   207,175 2002   203,692 2003   216,539 2004   238,023 2005   294,870 2006   279,575 2007   260,939 2008   230,433 2009   224,053  2010   286,184  Start of Condors participation: October 2003 1 All figures quoted in this article for 2010 are preliminary, as the final   figures were not available by the copy deadline.  a 92 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 92 since its foundation. Support is given in the guise  of freight capacities on board the MD-11F freight-  er aircraft, provided free of charge, and in the  form of air tickets for the German doctors who fly  to Africa on three occasions per month to provide  medical aid on a voluntary basis for three days  each.  Inauguration of the extension building   of the Medical Center  In January 2011, the newly-built extension build- ing of the Medical Center at the MMH was put  into service. The reason for its construction was  a steady rise in the number of patients. To be  able to treat anyone showing up and to use all  medical facilities, such as the dentists chair  or the ultrasound equipment, more space and  more treatment rooms were urgently needed.  The expansion also means that the pharmacy  has more space and personnel have their own  lounge. Library for small and big readers alike One further successful step was marked by the  inauguration of the library at the Mothers Mercy  Home on January 15, 2011. Excitedly anticipated   by the children who live there, the collection of  books is considered an additional education offer  that complements school lessons. While small   readers find above all short stories and picture  books,  adults can select from a wide range of  novels, knowledge-related books and textbooks. 15 more children find a home Furthermore, the Mothers Mercy Home has been  home for another 15 orphans since March 2010.  To make it easier for the newcomers, the boys and  girls were assigned to one of the older children,   who took over the role of a godfather or godmother.   Three highly motivated nurses, who were hired by  the MMH at the same time, ensure proper care for  the new residents. In August 2010, the currently 99 children of the  MMH enthusiastically took part in a summer camp,  which offered plenty of opportunities for handi- crafts and trade work. www.cargohumancare.de  Cargo Human Care: Help for children and the sick  Lufthansa Cargo currently has 10,606 containers and 16,739 palettes in circulation. In 2010, one  very special specimen was among them for a period of two months: the LD-3 lightweight container  AKE63603LH, printed with images from the cargo world and visionary statements of more than   300 managers at the logistics specialist. The preparations for the world tour of this contain-  er were made by Lufthansa Cargo in the context  of an international executive conference at the  end of September. Subsequently, it flew at week ly  intervals to a different Lufthansa Cargo station.  For each segment flown the logistics specialist  donated 100 euros to the humanitarian aid proj- ect Cargo Human Care (CHC). Finally, in January  2011, the container reached its intended destina- tion, the CHC-supported Mothers Mercy Home  in Kianjogu, north of the Kenyan capital Nairobi.  The inside of this loading device was filled with  numerous gifts. This campaign was also linked to  presenting a donation of 2,200 euros to CHC. Medical help free of charge Cargo Human Care e.V. is a registered charity  that was founded by employees of Lufthansa  Cargo together with German physicians in 2004.  The initiative was launched by Fokko Doyen,   MD-11F Captain and Lufthansa Cargo Fleet Chief  as well as First Chairman of the aid organization  with currently 640 members. He had discovered  the Mothers Mercy Home by coincidence during  a vacation. Another area of CHCs emphasis is  medical services performed at its own medical  center, located right next to the orphanage. In  addition, the CHC supports the Medical Center  at the SOS Childrens Village in Buru Buru. The  association has been able to count on support  from the Executive Board of Lufthansa Cargo  The children at Mothers Mercy Home are just as delighted as Fokko Doyen, MD-11F Captain and Lufthansa  Cargo Fleet Chief, by the numerous gifts that could be presented to them in the framework of the Cargo Spirit Tour.  a 93 Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 93 This includes not only existing initiatives such as  the HelpAlliance, business@school and Teach  First Germany. It also includes numerous social  projects that organizations and associations have  set up near locations of Lufthansa in Germany.   To make the first steps in this direction easier for  Lufthansa employees, a list of organizations that  are grateful for every helping hand is available  on the intranet for guidance. All projects have in  common that they provide concrete social bene- fits while simultaneously widening the employees  scope of competencies and experiences. JOBLINGE supports training qualifications  One such example is the initiative JOBLINGE  of the management advisory company Boston  Consulting Group (BCG). It has set itself the goal  to improve the level of trainability of low-quali- fied young people between the ages of 15 and  25, and make them fit for the challenges of a job  or an apprenticeship within half a year. Carefully  selected mentors from partner companies –   in  cluding Lufthansa – support the young people  in this process. www.joblinge.de  School project JUSTAment Lufthansa employees who have taken their retire- ment or will do so in the near future are active in  the school project JUSTAment. It gives them an  opportunity to pass on their professional knowl- edge and experience to young people by being   a senior partner. The mentoring project was  developed by the Association for International  Youth Support Frankfurt in cooperation with the  city of Oberursel near Frankfurt. The goal is to  improve the long-term job opportunities of peo- ple who have left junior high school or secondary  school.  http://frankfurt.vij.de  Mentor program Big Brothers Big Sisters Another charity that can count on reliable sup- port from Lufthansa employees is Big Brothers  Big Sisters Germany (BBBSD). It supports children  and young people between six and 16 years of  age by assigning them a volunteer mentor for one  year. The mentors act as role models and persons  of trust. This independent charity is supported by  the Benckiser Foundation for Youth Support and  several corporations.  www.bbbsd.org  Corporate volunteering Talking is silver, taking action is golden –  Corporate volunteering at Lufthansa Corporate volunteering – the employees voluntary commitment to citizens responsibilities – is an  element in Lufthansas concept of corporate citizenship. The Group promotes the volunteer work  of its employees with a wide range of offers to get involved on a project basis or long-term during  their time off. Students of the boarding school Hansenberg with business@school patroness Andrea Pernkopf (center). business@school – Imparting knowledge in practice-oriented ways  Since 2002, Lufthansa has supported the education initiative business@school,  which was founded by the management advising company Boston Consulting  Group. Every year, more than 70 high schools with senior classes participate in the  initiative. The goal of business@school is to make students of grades 10 to 13 fami- liar with business topics in practice-oriented ways and to encourage them to develop  their own business ideas. In 2010, more than 50 Lufthansa employees participated in  the project as volunteers, including Andrea Pernkopf, Director Product Development  Leisure Travel at Lufthansa. The business@school patroness describes her impressi- ons: It is impressive to see with how much commitment and keenness the students  picked up business knowledge in the course of a school year and how much crea- tivity went into developing a new business model including a business plan.   a 94 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 94 title of a traveling exhibit that Lufthansa developed  in cooperation with the environmental foundation  NatureLife-International. The exhibit presents extra- ordinary physical abilities and phenomena in the  animal world and is meant as a concrete contribu- tion to deepen peoples knowledge of nature and  make them more aware of species protection at  the same time. The exhibits premiere was celebrated on August  10, 2010 at the Museum of Natural Science in  Stuttgart, at Castle Rosenstein, and subsequently  continued its tour at the Museum of Hunting and  Fishing in Munich. It will be on view in Aachen  from June 29 to July 15 and in Pforzheim from  November 29 to December 16, 2011. Further stops  will be in Frankfurt, Berlin, Hamburg and other  major German cities. Additional information is  available at  www.naturelife-international.org Environmental sponsorship Imparting knowledge:  Traveling exhibition World Champions of Nature The year 2010 was marked both by biodiversity  and numerous international sports events. Animal  species also perform at the highest levels every  day. Therefore, World Champions of Nature is the  sive use. In this region, the environmental founda- tion NatureLife-International is committed above  all to the Tian Zi Biodiversity Research and De - velopment Center in the Bulang Mountains. Over  the past four years, work was started to renatu- ralize an area of about 6 square kilometers. The  model project demonstrates that it is possible to  turn remnants of primeval forests into species- rich secondary forests by means of reforestation.  Apart from making a contribution to the protec- tion of nature, species and climate, this project  creates jobs that give the rural population an eco- nomic perspective. The method of Rainforestation Farming was  developed on the island of Leyte in the Philip- pines by the Visayas State University, Hohenheim   University and the foundation NatureLife-Interna - tional. In the meantime the model project on  Leyte has become established. Numerous   farmers and municipalities on the island use it  with success. Rainforestation Farming creates species-rich secondary forests Since 2007, the Lufthansa Environmental Spon- sorship Program has supported the project Rain- forestation Farming in western China, in an area  close to the borders with Laos and Myanmar. The  goal is to establish a sustainable system of land  use to lessen the effects of many years of exces- The project partners during an information visit to the island of Leyte.  A film presentation in the context of the exhibition World Champions of Nature.  a 95 Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 95 New cranemobile for Gro Mohrdorf The Crane Information Center in Gro Mohr- dorf, Mecklenburg Western Pomerania, received  a new vehicle in September 2010. As part of its  work in environmental sponsorship, Lufthansa  presented a van with an attractive paint scheme  to the Crane Protection Germany Working Group,  which has its headquarters there. The crane- mobile serves rangers and employees on their  trips to the resting and breeding areas of these  impressive large birds, located in the Rgen- Bock region. Additionally, the van is an adver- tising medium for the information center, which  welcomes more than 15,000 crane enthusiasts  per year.  www.kraniche.de Crane protection  Sponsorships at Frankfurt Zoo For the first time since 1962, a Demoiselle crane  chick hatched at Frankfurt Zoo in May 2010.   Lufthansa agreed to sponsor the newly-born   offspring and the parents for a number of years.  For some time, the company has maintained a  sponsorship of a pair of Red-crowned cranes at  Frankfurt Zoo. www.zgf.de Lufthansa supports the reintroduction of the  Eurasian crane in England The Eurasian crane has been considered extinct  in the UK since the 17th century. However, the  Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust (WWT) and the  Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB)  have been working for some time to reintro- duce the crane as a breeding species. With sup- port from Lufthansa, the first eggs from breeding  crane pairs at the biosphere reserve Schorf- heide-Chorin in Brandenburg were flown to En - gland in 2010, using special breeding containers  that had already been tested in air transport. Over  the next five years, 30 crane eggs per year are  to find their way to the British Isles. Breeding and  raising the young birds will take place at the Slim- bridge Wetland Centre in Gloucestershire, which  has already gathered experience with raising  crane chicks. 7th European Crane Conference At the invitation of the Crane Protection Germany   Working Group and with significant support from  Lufthansa, about 130 scientists and commit- ted crane protection activists from more than 20  countries met from October 14-17, 2010 in Stral- sund for the 7th European Crane Conference. The  program included presentations and discussions  on topics such as the state of crane research,  breeding and resting behavior, and the influence  of climate change on migration behav ior, in par- ticular on the Eurasian or Common crane. The  participants adopted two resolutions demanding  that the relevant states and governments imple- ment additional measures to protect endange- red crane populations. In particular, they deman- ded that illegal hunting of cranes in the area of  the Adriatic Flyway be stopped and that pro- tected areas along the local migratory routes  be declared and guaranteed. The experts also  appealed to Armenia, Georgia, Turkey and Iran to  protect the migratory routes, breeding and resting  areas of the Eurasian crane in those countries  and set up cross-border reserves. In addition to the Crane Protection Germany Working Group,  Lufthansa supports the crane protection projects of the   following environmental and nature conservation organizations: EuroNatur Foundation Project countries: Spain and Israel www.euronatur.org Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel (SPNI) Project country: Israel www.birds.org.il NatureLife-International Project country: South Africa  www.naturelife-international.org International Crane Foundation Project country: USA, worldwide  www.savingcranes.org South African Crane Working Group Project country: South Africa  www.ewt.org.za  a 96 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 96 8,000 to 10,000 migratory animal species. The  research competition UNEP/CMS Thesis Award  on Migratory Species Conservation addresses  young researchers worldwide, whose doctoral  dissertations provide new insights into the biol- ogy and ecology of migratory species and addi- tionally suggest concrete protection measures –  for example concerning cranes, whales, bats and  elephants. www.cms.int  Research for the protection of migratory animal species Lufthansa has endowed an international disserta- tion prize since 2004, with the goal of supporting  the efforts of the Convention on the Conserva- tion of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS).  The research award, which includes prize money  worth 10,000 euros, will be presented for the  third time already in November 2011; the regis- tration deadline was April 15, 2011. The signatory  nations to the CMS have worked for more than  30 years to protect the habitats of the estimated  fly to their certain deaths every year. The respon- sibility lies with bird hunters along the coastal area  between Slovenia and Albania, who threaten bird  populations. Among the victims are birds of prey  that are threatened worldwide as well as species  such as skylark and quail, but also the crane. In  Albania, Croatia and Montenegro, hunters concen- trate above all on the coastal areas because this is  exactly where the few remaining intact resting areas  used by migratory birds are located. After an ardu- ous flight across the Mediterranean Sea, the birds  arrive at the coast in a state of exhaustion, where  they are already being expected by the hunters. Since its foundation in 1987, EuroNatur has been  working intensely on making the Adriatic Flyway  more secure for migratory birds. The campaign  mentioned aims at generating public awareness of  this highly charged topic by providing comprehen- sive information. www.euronatur.org  EuroNatur and Lufthansa: Commitment to secure migratory routes  In 2010, about 300 professional and amateur photog- raphers from 22 countries participated in the 17th  edition of the EuroNatur photography competition  Nature Treasures of Europe. The charitable foun- dation EuroNatur has organized the competition for  many years together with Lufthansa, the magazine  natur+kosmos and the nature-film festival NaturVi- sion. The participants submitted almost 1,400 pic- tures of European flora, fauna and landscapes. The  12 most beautiful pictures were used for EuroNaturs  2011 calendar and given an award. Proceeds from  the sale of the calendar are used by EuroNatur to  finance part of their nature protection projects. Among these projects is the long-standing cam- paign Crime scene Adriatic – Bird hunting in  the Balkans, which Lufthansa accompanies with  communications and logistical measures. On the  Adriatic migratory route, which leads from central,  northern and eastern Europe and Siberia in the  direction of Africa, about 2 million migratory birds  One tree per passenger: Lufthansa supports the   Million Tree Project  For each passenger who traveled in September 2010 on the inaugural flight of  the new Lufthansa Airbus A380 Peking from Beijing to Frankfurt, one tree was  planted in the Kulun Qi province in Inner Mongolia. The aviation company thus  supports the Million Tree Project of the Shanghai Roots & Shoots Foundation,  which intends to plant 1 million trees by 2015. The foundation aims at limiting the  advance of deforestation in areas that were used by humans until recently and to  reduce emissions in China. Each passenger received a planting certificate to   commemorate the occasion. www.jgi-shanghai.org   a 97 Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 97 For the first time, Lufthansa made a long-term  commitment to a German symphony orchestra:   In 2010, the aviation company became the   First Global Partner of the historic Grzenich- Orchester Cologne, which was founded in 1827  by citizens of this cathedral city and ranks as   one of Germanys finest ensembles. With this  commitment we want to take responsibility and  give a clear signal for our close ties to Cologne,   said Stephan Gemkow, Chief Financial Officer   at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Cologne is home to  Lufthansas tradition, its legal corporate head- quarters and more than 2,500 committed  employees. The companys financial support allows the  orchestra to strengthen Ohren auf (literally:  Open your ears!), its educational program for  children and young people, over the long-term.   It facilitates visits to rehearsals and concerts,  music projects, workshops and encounters.  Having taken the role of a trailblazer in impar- ting musical education, the Grzenich-Orchester  has already inspired more than 50,000 students  and about 10,000 teachers since the 2000/2001  season. Another area of emphasis is placed on  supporting Grzenich-Orchester guest perfor- mances at important musical venues and   Cultural commitment and education Lufthansa is First Global Partner of the  Grzenich-Orchester Cologne Species protection on vacation – Lufthansa in-flight video points the way Many animal and plant species as well as their  genetic resources and entire ecosystems are  threatened by extinction today. To cast a light  on the decline in biodiversity, Lufthansa has for  many years regularly provided information about  the issue of species protection in the in-flight  programs of many long-haul flights. In 2010, the  company produced a new short film in cooper- ation with the environmental foundation Nature- Life-International. Entitled Fascination Nature,  it informs about the background and goals of  species protection. The video provides tips for a  responsible way of handling nature and makes a  contribution to further increase awareness among  travelers and the public at large of the need to  conserve biodiversity. The film is also appropriate  for use as a medium in environmental education  and for information work in environmental and  species protection.  The short film Fascination Nature is also available on DVD including a brochure   and can be ordered free of charge at www.lufthansa.com/responsibility The partnership with the Grzenich-Orchester underscores both Lufthansas understanding   as a premium brand and the orchestras elevated artistic rank and prestige.  a 98 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 98 The public, including numerous Lufthansa cus- tom  ers, was just as enthusiastic as the press. The  Daily Telegraph summed it all up in two sen- tences: The ten-day Lufthansa Festival doesnt  try to be all things to all men. It just explores one  thing – Baroque music – superlatively well. And  in its review of cultural events in 2010, the editors  elected the concert given by the ensemble Imag  -  inarium directed by violinist Enrico Onofri the  Classical Concert of the Year. A novelty in 2010  was the availability of the Festival-Friends offers  for concertgoers who booked tickets for several  concerts and feel closely connected to the festi- val. The public took up this offer so well that it  will be continued in the years to come. The long- standing cooperation with the Lufthansa system  partner Rolls-Royce and the media partnership  with BBC Radio 3 again proved to be success- ful. The concerts broadcast by the BBC had an  audience of about 800,000 listeners around the  world. The next Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music  takes place in May 2011. Under the motto   Hanseatic to Adriatic – Journey through the  Heart of Europe the latest edition of the festival  describes a wide arc from northern and central  Germany to Venice by way of Poland, Bohemia  and Austria. From Buxtehude and Bach, Tele- mann, Zelenka and Biber to Vivaldi. Among the  performing artists are the Collegium Vocale Gent  conducted by Philippe Herreweghe, The English  Concert, Gustav Leonhardt, Cantus Clln, Hille  Perl, St Jamess Baroque and the Sonatori della  Gioiosa Marca. www.lufthansafestival.org.uk Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music in London The 26th Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music  took place in 2010 under the motto Fountain of  the Baroque – Italian Pioneers from Monteverdi to  Vivaldi. From May 13-22, the particular influence  of Italian composers of the 17th and early 18th  century on the development of music was illus  -  trated in 12 concerts: Italy as the cradle of baroque   music, a source of inspiration for all subsequent  generations and pioneer of a modern music  freed of dogmas and ossified rituals. In the   Lufthansa Lecture entitled Monteverdi the  Modern Man, Robert Hollingworth, singer and  director of the ensemble I Fagiolini, very clearly  illustrated the context from the perspective of  musical history to festival visitors. The event   presented internationally renowned ensembles  such as the Gabrieli Consort & Players, the Euro- pean Union Baroque Orchestra, La Risonanza,  St Jamess Baroque with the Westminster Abbey  Choir as well as La Venexiana, who gave a gran- diose opening concert of Monteverdis Vespers.  In addition, Baroque Fever, Imaginarium and  Paolo Pandolfo were ensembles and a soloist  less well known but artistically absolutely of equal  rank who came to St. Johns, Smith Square. renowned festivals, pursuing the goal of promot- ing the international renown of Cologne as a city  of music. At the same time, the musical public  in this city on the Rhine will also benefit audibly  from the sponsoring agreement: Regular engage- ments of first-rate soloists and guest conductors,   who will add their special touch to the 40 or so  symphonic concerts that the orchestra plays  every year at the Cologne Philharmonie. The start  of Lufthansas commitment was also the occasion  to launch the Grzenich-Orchester Sponsors  Club. It is to set the foundations for generating  more than one million euros per year in sponsor- ing revenues over the long-term. www.guerzenich-orchester.de  The Gabrieli Consort & Players have been among the top ensembles of ancient music for many years.  They created one of the festivals highlights at St. Johns, Smith Square with Handels La Resurrezione.  a 99 Balance 2011 | Corporate Citizenship 99 tions and guided tours of Lufthansa facilities. www.teachfirst.de  For information about activities that Lufthansa has  jointly organized with universities, see the chapter  Corporate training and continuing education on  page 57. Schools in for equal opportunity:  Teach First Deutschland Lufthansa supported the charitable initiative  Teach First Deutschland for the third year in  2010. The Group was the first DAX-30 corporation  to get involved in this project in 2008. Teach First  aims at creating better educational opportunities  for children and young people. The initiative facili- tates the school education of pupils with adverse  starting conditions by enabling additional, com- petent teaching staff (fellows) to become active  for two years at selected schools. Since the start  of the school year 2010, about 100 fellows have  been active at schools in Baden-Wrttemberg,  Berlin, Hamburg and North-Rhine/Westphalia.  The Lufthansa School of Business supports this  involvement with free seminars for these new   teachers. In addition, the Group offers the fellows  opportunities to get to know the Lufthansa world  and its options for starting a career at presenta- Wojciech Wieczorek, who is exceptionally talent-  ed, gave an impressive performance of their art.  The musical repertoire included masterworks by  Mendelssohn-Bartholdy and Beethoven. For the  first time, concertgoers were not welcomed by  Wolfgang Mayrhuber, but by Christoph Franz, the  new Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO  of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. A good tradition: The Lufthansa New Years Concert For connoisseurs of classical music the Lufthansa  New Years Concert in Berlin is always one of  the first highpoints in the musical calendar of  the year. The traditional event, which took place  for the 14th time on January 18, 2011, attracted  about 1,200 guests to the concert hall at Gendar- menmarkt – among them numerous Lufthansa  status customers and representatives of politics,  business and culture. The RIAS Youth Orchestra  directed by the American conductor Garrett Keast  and the young Polish violinist   Entirely public: Kunst privat! In the context of the project Kunst privat! (literally: Private art!) the company  opened the doors of the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt (LAC) on June  19 and 20, 2010 to give interested citizens the opportunity to view the artwork  specifically created for this building by seven artists. The annual initiative of the  Hesse Ministry of Economics, Transport and Development, which took place  for the sixth time in 2010, counted 30 international corporations and regional  companies in Frankfurt, Wiesbaden and Darmstadt among its participants –  includ ing numerous banks, insurance companies and medium-sized com- panies. The private collections, which underscore the cultural commitment of  companies, are usually open only to employees. The picture on the left shows  the enormous neon sculpture by Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans in the LAC.  a 100 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2011 100 Sports sponsorship Lufthansa – The Airline of Sports Lufthansa further expanded its role as the Airline  of Sports in 2010. At the beginning of the year,  the commitment focused in particular on the Win- ter Games and Paralympic Games in Vancouver.  The company looked after the German national  teams on the way to their competitions and   served as first contact in all questions of mobility   on location for the athletes and officials of the  German Olympic Sport Confederation (DOSB)  and the German Paralympic Sports Confederation   (DBS).  In the context of the patronage program of the  German Sports Aid Foundation, three young ath- letes sponsored by Lufthansa were able to crown  their participation in the disciplines of Nordic  combination, Alpine skiing and biathlon with a  medal. This kind of advancement of highly talent-  ed young athletes is one central area of sup- port given by the German Sports Aid Foundation  through Lufthansa. Currently, ten athletes receive  a financial supplement to the foundations basic  support. In 2011, the emphasis will be on the  Summer Games that will take place in 2012 in  London.  Lufthansa has been the foundations first nation-  al sponsor since 2007 and regularly supports  events such as the Golden Sports Pyramid,   the Sports Ball, the Festival of Encounter and  the Elite Forum in Liebenberg. Furthermore,   Lufthansa supports the campaign of the German  Sports Aid Foundation, launched in January 2010  with the slogan Your name for Germany, which  aims at generating additional funds for high-per- formance sports among the Groups employees,  passengers and customers. In the reporting year,  the number of donations could be increased  significantly by the use of a truck that toured Ger- many, as well as other events and campaigns. Since January 2010, Lufthansa has also been  National Sponsor of the organization promoting   Munichs candidature for the Winter Games  and Paralympic Games 2018. With compre- hensive communication measures the com- pany is making a contribution to increasing the  populations level of acceptance of the applica- tion and creating a positive environment for the  vote of the International Olympic Committee. For  example, in March 2011 a large-scale welcome  gate above the highway access road at Munich  Airport drew attention to the application. The  airports Terminal 2 also sported an Olympic look  under the motto Winning the Games. Lufthansa  also offers the opportunity to anyone interested to  support the Olympic application via a dedi cated  Web site. The different facets of Lufthansas commitment  to sports are described in the current brochure  Lufthansa – Airline des Sports (available in   German only) www.lufthansa.com/verantwortung In addition, Lufthansa has compiled everything  that sports fans might want to know about sports  events on its Internet page (available in   German only) www.lufthansa.com/fanfl ug  Lufthansa underscores Munichs application for  the Winter Games and the Paralympic Games  2018 on the Internet page (available in   German only)  www.lufthansa.com/muenchen2018 Lufthansa employees support top athletes: Impressions of the Sports Aid Foundation Day at the Lufthansa   Aviation Center with the participation of biathlete Miriam Gssner, one of the athletes sponsored by Lufthansa.  a 101 Balance 2011  101 at 8 to 12 kilometers above sea level at  the poles. The temperature in the tro- popause, the transition layer between  troposphere and stratosphere, drops to  only about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It  rises again in the stratosphere. The so- called ozone layer is also located in the  stratosphere at altitudes of about 25 to  30 kilometers. Todays commercial air- craft fly at cruising altitudes of between  8 and 13 kilometers. According to the  latest research, air traffic emissions do  not contribute to the reduction of the  ozone layer. B.A.U.M. – Bundesdeutscher Arbeits- kreis fr Umweltbewusstes Management  e.V. – Federal Working Group for Envi- ronmentally-Aware Management B.A.U.M. was founded in 1984 as the  first independent environmental initiative  of German business. At currently 450  members, it is the largest of its kind in  Europe. Lufthansa has been a member  of the Working Group since 1997. www.baumev.de BDI – Bundesverband der Deutschen  Industrie e.V. – Federal Association of  German Industry www.bdi-online.de BDLI – Bundesverband der Deutschen  Luft- und Raumfahrtindustrie e.V. –  Federal Association of German Aviation  and Space Industry www.bdli.de BDL – Bundesverband der Deutschen  Luftverkehrswirtschaft – Federal Associ- ation of the German Aviation Industry www.bdl.aero  Carbon dioxide (CO2)  Gas resulting in nature from the burning  or decomposition of organic masses (e.g.   plant material) and from the breathing  process of humans and animals. The  greenhouse gas CO2 remains for about  100 years in the atmosphere. Scientists  attribute the increase of atmospheric  CO2 over the last 100 years to the burn- ing of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural  gas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel, 3.15  tonnes of CO2 result from the combus- Glossary ACARE – Advisory Council for Aeronau- tics Research in Europe Created in 2001, the ACARE council  consists of representatives from the EU  member states, EU Commission, Euro- control, the European aerospace indus- try, research institutions and others. Its  main task is to develop and implement  the strategic research agenda (SRA) for  Europes aerospace sector. www.acare4europe.org AEA – Association of European Airlines www.aea.be AIRE – Atlantic Interoperability Initiative  to Reduce Emissions Transatlantic program in the framework  of SESAR to reduce emissions from air  transport. ASPI – Advanced Sustainable Perfor- mance Indices  Lufthansa features in the ASPI Index,  which was set up in 2001. This index  depicts the financial performance of the  120 best companies of the Dow Jones  EURO STOXX according to the criteria of  sustainability. The prerequisite for being  listed in the ASPI Index is the systematic  integration of the long-term interests of  stakeholders in the context of corporate  policy, strategy and activities. The index  is run by the agency Vigeo in coopera- tion with Stoxx Ltd. www.vigeo.com ATM – Air Traffic Management  Air Traffic Management ensures both the  safe and efficient movement of aircraft in  all phases of operations. Atmosphere  The whole mass of air surrounding the  Earth. It is divided into various layers,  distinguished from one another by  distinct differences in vertical bands  of temperature. Important for air traf- fic are the two lower layers: the tropo- sphere and, above it, the stratosphere.  The tropospheres upper boundaries  vary depending on season and latitude.  They lie at altitudes of 16 to 18 kilome- ters above sea level at the equator, and  tion process. Currently, about 2 percent  of man-made CO2 emissions are due to  worldwide air traffic.  Source: IPCC/WRI 2007 Carbon monoxide (CO)  Chemical compound consisting of one  carbon and one oxygen atom, formed in  the incomplete combustion process of  substances containing carbon. For air- craft engines, the level of CO emissions  depends greatly on the thrust level: The  emissions per kilogram of fuel burned  are higher at idle settings, while taxiing  and on approach than during the climb- ing and cruising phases. Chapter-4 aircraft  Aircraft that meet the regulations of the  strictest noise protection standard cur- rently in force – the Chapter-4 noise  standard. The Environmental Commit- tee (CAEP) of the ICAO agreed on this  standard in September 2001. As a result,  all aircraft newly certified from 2006  must remain cumulatively below the  Chapter-3 noise levels by 10 decibels  or more. The maximum noise emission  values for aircraft were introduced by  the ICAO under Annex 16 to the conven- tion on international civil aviation. Noise  levels depend on the aircrafts maximum  takeoff weight and number of engines. Cash fl ow   Indicator used to assess a companys  financial strength and earnings potential.  It is calculated as the difference between  the inflow and outflow of cash and cash  equivalents generated from ongoing  business activities during the financial  year. CDA – Continuous Descent Approach Procedure for a flights approach phase  that reduces noise emissions 20 to  40 kilometers ahead of the runway  threshold (Frankfurt). At Frankfurt Airport,   it can only be used at night due to ca - pacity restrictions. CO see Carbon monoxide CO2 see Carbon dioxide  a 102 Balance 2011 102 1,000 Hz) and the pain threshold at the  value 130. An increase of 10 dB cor- responds to a tenfold increase in the  sounds intensity. For the perceived   volume, a difference of 10 dB corre- sponds to half or double the volume.  However, the human ear is not equally  sensitive across the entire range of fre- quencies. Low and high sounds are not  perceived as being equally loud even at  the same intensity. For measurements,  this difference is equalized and noted  accordingly. The best known such nota- tion is the A value, marked by the index  dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the  EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Deci- bel) unit is used internationally. Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik  (DNWE) – German Network for Busi- ness Ethics  DNWE is a nonprofit organization, in  which Lufthansa has been a member  since January 1998. DNWE has about  600 current members, including many  from German business, politics, religion  and science. At the same time, DNWE is  a national association of the European  Business Ethics Network (EBEN). www.dnwe.de Diversity  In a corporate context, diversity refers  to all characteristics that distinguish  employees from one another. Diver- sity management offers approaches  for handling human differences for the  benefit of company and employees alike.  DLR – German Aerospace Center The DLR serves scientific, economic  and social purposes. It maintains 30  institutes, testing facilities and opera- tional sites. Its goal is to help – using  the means of aviation and space flight  – to secure and shape the future. In its  work, the DLR also seeks cooperation  and allocation of research tasks among  European partners. www.dlr.de Dow Jones Sustainability World Index The leading sustainability index world- wide lists the top 10 percent of compa- nies in each industry, whose sustainable  approach to corporate management is  exemplary.  econsense – Forum for Sustainable  Development of German Businesses  An association of globally active cor- porations and organizations in German  industry that have integrated the guiding  principle of sustainable development  into their corporate strategies. Lufthansa  is a founding member of this cross- industry network, which was set up in  2000. www.econsense.de EMAS – Environmental Management  and Audit Scheme   Colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit  regulations. European regulations   concerning environmental management  and certification. Equivalent continuous noise   level (Leq)  The Leq is a measure for the energetic   average of all sound pressure levels  over a defined period of time. All sound  events that differ in intensity and duration  are summarized according to mathemat- ical rules. The resulting average value is  an accepted and proven measurement  of the noise quantity occurring over an  observed time interval.  Ethibel – Ethibel Sustainability Index The independent Belgian agency Ethibel  has listed Lufthansa in its Ethibel Invest- ment Register and the Ethibel Sustaina- bility Index (ESI). The ESI offers institu- tional investors, asset managers, banks  and investors a comprehensive over- view of the financial results of compa- nies that distinguish themselves by pur- suing sustainable business practices.  Since the merger with Vigeo and Stock  at Stake in 2005, this index is part of  Vigeo. However, Forum Ethibel continues  to be responsible for the ethical criteria  and the composition of the ESI. Updates  of and calculations for the index are per- formed by the internationally renowned  index provider Standard & Poors. www.ethibel.org FAB – Functional Airspace Block  Instrument of the Single European Sky to  evolve the fragmented ATM over Europe,   oriented by national airspace bound- ar ies, into a cross-border coordinated  ATM. Currently, there are nine different  Codeshare  A codeshare is a flight segment that is  sold under the flight number of one air- line, while being operated either partly or  entirely by another airline. Both compa- nies maintain their independent profiles  in the market. Compliance  Compliance describes the entirety of all  measures that ensure the lawful conduct  of companies, their management bodies  and their employees with regard to legal  directives and interdictions. Corporate responsibility (CR) Corporate responsibility expresses to  which degree a company assumes  accountability for the effects its business  activities have on employees, customers,   society and the environment. Corporate University  Corporate education institution for pro- fessionals and managers. See also   Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB). Customer Profile Index (CPI)  The Lufthansa Passenger Airlines, in  cooperation with renowned institutes,  continuously conduct worldwide surveys  and thus assess the level of customer  satisfaction. These data are compiled  in the Customer Profile Index, which  informs the entire company in the form  of a single figure about the current status  of customer satisfaction. CVA – Cash Value Added Indicator for mea suring performance  of value creation. When the cash flow  generated in a period (EBITDAplus) is  greater than the minimum cash flow  required to cover the cost of capital, the  CVA is positive and value is created. Decibel (dB) Measuring unit for the intensity and  pressure of sound. The difference in  intensity between the softest sound the  human ear can perceive and the pain  threshold is 1:10 trillion. To depict this  enormous range objectively, acoustics  uses the logarithmic decibel scale. On  this scale, the value 0 is assigned to  the perception threshold (for a sound of   a 103 Balance 2011  103 FAB projects in the EU that have reached   different levels of development. Accord- ing to SES regulations, the EU member  states must take the measures neces- sary to implement the FABs by Decem- ber 4, 2012. FABEC – Functional Airspace Block  Europe Central Shared airspace that Germany, France,  Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands  and Switzerland intend to set up by  December 2012.  Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT)  Airlines distinguish between freight per- formance offered (FTKO, freight tonne  kilometers offered) and its sold freight  performance (FTKT, freight tonne kilo- meters transported). See also tonne  kilometers.  FTSE4Good  Index introduced by the Financial Times  and the London Stock Exchange in  2001. The FTSE4Good lists only compa- nies with above-average performance in  the areas of human rights, social stan- dards and environmental protection.  Lufthansa has been listed since 2001. www.ftse4good.com Fuel Dump  Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency  situations. A procedure used on long-haul  aircraft before unscheduled landings (e.g.  in the event of technical problems or   serious passenger illness) to decrease  the aircrafts weight to the maximum per- missible landing weight. In the event of a  fuel dump, special air space is assigned to  the aircraft, if possible above uninhabited  or thinly populated areas. Fuel is usually  dumped at altitudes of 4-8 kilometers. A  minimum altitude of 1,500 meters and a  minimum speed of 500 km/h are required.  The aircraft may not fly a fully closed   circle. The dumped kerosene forms a   fine mist in the turbulence behind the   aircraft. Despite the use of highly sensitive   methods of analysis, no contamination  has been determined so far in plant or soil  samples after fuel dumps. Global Compact see  UN Global Compact  Great Circle Distance  Shortest distance between two points on  the Earths surface, measured in kilome- ters (great circle kilometers) or nautical  miles. The center of a great circle is the  center of the Earth. Greenhouse gases  Gaseous substances that contribute  to the greenhouse effect and have  both natural and human (anthropo- genic) causes. The most important  natural greenhouse gases are water  vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2) and  methane (CH4); the most important  anthropogenic greenhouse gas is car- bon dioxide from the combustion of fos- sil fuels. It accounts for about 77 percent  of the greenhouse effect attributable  to human activities. Methane, primarily  generated by agriculture and large-scale  animal husbandry, contributes about 14  percent to the anthropogenic green- house effect. Other artificial greenhouse  gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluoro- carbons (FCs and HFCs), sulfur hexa- fluoride (SF6) and chlorofluorocarbons  (CFCs). Source: World Resources Insti- tute (WRI), 2005. Hub  In air transport, a hub refers to a central  traffic point or an airlines transfer air- port. Passengers as well as freight are  transported from their original starting  point to one of the airlines home air- ports (hub). From there, they are car- ried to their destination by a second  flight alongside passengers and freight  from other departure points, but with the  same destination. HVO biofuel – Hydrotreated   Vegetable Oil Biofuel based on hydrotreated plant  oil, which Lufthansa is testing for six  months under regular operating con- ditions. Hydrotreated vegetable oils  are plant oils that are transformed into  hydrocarbons by means of a cata- lytic reaction involving hydrogen  (hydrogenation). HWFAP – Hard Wall Forward   Acoustic Panels Noise-absorbing panels with a homo- genous hard-wall surface at the engine  inlet that significantly reduce noise  emissions.  IATA – International Air Transport  Association The umbrella organization of interna- tional commercial aviation. www.iata.org ICAO – International Civil Aviation  Organization A United Nations agency that develops  internationally binding norms for civil   aviation. www.icao.int ICC – International Chamber of  Commerce The ICC was founded in 1919 as the  World Business Organization. More than  1,500 business organizations and over  5,000 corporations are organized in the  worldwide framework of the ICC. Lufthansa  has been a member since 1955. www.icc-deutschland.de ILO standards  Work standards of the International   Labor Organization, which include  among others the bans on child labor,  forced labor and discrimination as well  as the fundamental right of freedom of  association for employees.  Pro Recycling Paper Initiative Founded in 2000, the initiative unites  various industries and aims at promoting  an intensive usage and the acceptance  of recycling paper. Lufthansa is one of  the initiatives founding members. www.papiernetz.de IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on   Climate Change An international UN panel of experts  on climate change, founded in 1988  by the World Meteorological Organi- zation (WMO) and the United Nations  Environmental Program (UNEP). The  latest worldwide scientific, technical and  socio-economic information, relevant for  climate change, are analyzed and pro- cessed to advance the understanding of  climate change.  www.ipcc.ch  a 104 Balance 2011 104 ISO 14001 – International environmental  management system Companies hereby receive an effective  instrument that allows them to take envi- ronmental aspects into consideration in  decisions relating to corporate policies  and to continuously improve the situa- tion of environmental care in relation to  all daily tasks. www.iso.org Kerosene  Fuel for jet and propeller engines that   is chemically similar to petroleum. Like  diesel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is   produced by distilling crude oil; unlike  these fuels, kerosene does not contain  halogenated additives. Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) Germanys first corporate university. It  has received multiple awards for the  worldwide standards it establishes for  the development and training of profes- sionals and managers. The LHSB sup- ports processes of change within the  Group and promotes a shared manage- ment culture.  Mentoring  Instrument for targeted support of junior  employees. Focuses on regular personal  contacts between mentor and mentee. MRO  Acronym standing for maintenance,  repair and overhaul of aircraft MSC standard – Marine Stewardship  Council Leading worldwide certification program  for fish and seafood from sustainable  fishing. MTOW  Acronym standing for maximum takeoff  weight of an aircraft Nitrogen oxides (NOX)  Chemical compounds consisting of one  nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX  is defined as the sum of NO and NO2  compounds. Natural sources include  lightning and microbes in the soil. Nitro- gen oxides are also generated in com- bustion processes under high pressures  and temperatures. Both of these para- meters have been increased in modern  aircraft engines to significantly reduce  fuel consumption as well as emissions   of carbon monoxide and unburned  hydrocarbons. However, future combus- tion chambers of an advanced design  could help reduce NOX emissions by  85 percent. Depending on the type of  aircraft and operational conditions, this  value varies between 6 and 20 kilos per  tonne of fuel burned. Air traffic has a  share of 2-3 percent in man-made NOX  emissions. Climate models show that  nitrogen oxides have increased the con- centration of ozone at cruising altitudes  by a few percentage points. NOX see Nitrogen oxides No-frills carrier  Airline which largely offers low ticket   prices but with reduced service levels  and sometimes additional charges on  board and on the ground. Flights are  mostly from secondary airports and   therefore outside population centers. Operational towing Procedure of pushing aircraft back from  their parking positions by means of trac- tors or tow trucks until they reach the  point from which they taxi under their  own power. Ozone Molecule consisting of three oxygen  atoms formed in the stratosphere. The  ozone layer located in the stratosphere  has an important protective function,  as it absorbs harmful ultraviolet light.  While ozone at higher altitudes is bro- ken down massively by chlorofluoro- carbons (CFCs), it develops close to the  ground under the influence of sunlight  from numerous precursor substances  (summer smog) and irritates the  mucous membranes. At current levels,  nitrogen oxide emissions from air traffic  at cruising altitudes cause an increase  in atmospheric ozone, analogous to the  generation of summer smog, estimated  by scientists at 3-4 percent on the heav i- ly-flown North Atlantic routes. Passenger kilometers (PKO/PKT)  Measure for transport performance in  passenger carriage (number of passen- gers multiplied by distance flown). Here  one distinguishes between available  transport performance (PKO, passen- ger kilometers offered or synonymously  SKO, seat kilometers offered) and actual  transport performance (PKT, passenger  kilometers transported). RSB – Roundtable for Sustainable  Biofuels International initiative to develop a global  standardization and certification system  for agrofuels.  SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel  Users Group Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufactur- ers and providers of refinery technology  whose goal is to accelerate the develop- ment and commercialization of sustain- able fuels for the air transport industry. SES – Single European Sky Describes the efforts of the European  Commission undertaken since the late  1990s with the goal of restructuring the  European airspace in terms of opti- mizing traffic flows and dissolving the  airspaces fragmented structure, defined  by national borders and interests, by  creating a limited number of Functional  Airspace Blocks (FABs). SESAR – SES Air Traffic Management  Research This project is carried out by Eurocontrol  within the EU project SES with the proj- ect partners and in close coordination  with the ICAO. SJU – SESAR Joint Undertaking A publicly and privately funded EU proj- ect involving Eurocontrol and industrial  partners (e.g. Airbus). Seat kilometer  Measure for the transport capacity  available (SKO, seat kilometers offered). Seat load factor (SLF)  Passenger-related measure of utiliza- tion of aircraft: The ratio of transport per- formance (PKT, passenger kilometers   a 105 Balance 2011  105 Transparency International  Anti-corruption organization, of which  Lufthansa has been a member since  1999. www.transparency.de UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons Organic mixture of carbon and hydro- gen that results from the incomplete  combustion of fuels containing hydro- carbons or from the evaporation of fuel.   VOC – Volatile Organic Compounds Volatile organic substances that are   characterized by high steam pressure  and thus evaporate easily into the atmo- sphere at room temperature. VOCs are  present in solvents, cleaning agents,  fuels and other substances. In the pres- ence of nitrogen oxides and intense  sunlight, VOCs lead to the generation of  ozone. UNEP – The United Nations Environ- mental Program www.unep.org UN Global Compact  Global network in whose context the  United Nations cooperates with private- sector corporations and civil action  organizations to advance human rights,  labor standards, environmental protec- tion and anti-corruption measures. Deut- sche Lufthansa AG has been a member  since 2002.  www.unglobalcompact.org Water vapor The most important greenhouse gas,  even ahead of carbon dioxide. Without   water vapor from natural sources, the  Earths surface would be around 22  degrees Celsius cooler. This makes  water vapor responsible for two-thirds  of the natural greenhouse effect (33  degrees Celsius). For each kilo of kero- sene burned, 1.24 kilos of water vapor  are released. Concerns that air traf- fic might increase the concentration of  water vapor in the stratosphere and thus  change the climate have been refuted  by scientific research. The German  Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded that  even a one hundred-fold increase in the  quantity of water vapor emitted by air  traffic would not result in a detectable  climatic signal. Work-life balance  Refers to a healthy equilibrium between  work and private life. WRI – World Resources Institute Founded in 1982 as a nonprofit organi- zation. This independent environmen- tal think tank has its headquarters in  Washington, D.C. and is concerned with  subjects related   to global warming, diverse ecosystems,  government systems and structures,  renewable energies and the use of  resources. The WRIs work goes beyond  scientific research and aims at finding  pragmatic solutions to protect the envi- ronment, advance sustainable develop- ment and improve peoples general life  situation. www.wri.org transported) to capacity (PKO, passen- ger kilometers offered). Slot  Designated point in time at which an  airline may use an airports runway for  takeoff or landing.  Stakeholder  Groups or individuals who formulate   their demands on a company (e.g.  attainment of corporate goals) and pur- sue these either personally or through  representatives. This includes share- holders, employees, customers,   suppliers and others. Sustainable development  According to the guiding principle of  sustainable development formulated   in 1987 by the World Commission for  Development and the Environment  (Brundtland Commission), sustainable  development is a form of development   that meets the needs of todays gener- ation without jeopardizing the abilities   of future generations to satisfy their  own. For businesses, this means acting  responsibly not only in economic mat- ters but also in environmental and social  issues. All three aspects – economic,  ecological and social – must be kept in  balance. Tonne kilometer (TKO/TKT)  Measure of transport performance (pay- load multiplied by distance). One dis- tinguishes between available transport  performance (TKO, tonne kilometers  offered) and the actual transport perfor- mance (TKT, tonne kilometers trans- ported). In calculating payloads, passen- gers are taken into account by means of  a statistical average weight. Trace gases  Gases of which there are only very small  amounts present in the atmosphere  (e.g. ozone, methane, nitrous oxide, etc.)  but which are of great significance for  the Earths climate and the chemical  processes in the atmosphere.   a 106 Balance 2011 106 Contact partners Environment Group Environmental Issues Dr. Karlheinz Haag Vice President Group Environmental Issues Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 94974 karlheinz.haag@dlh.de Jan-Ole Jacobs Environmental Management Telephone: +49 (0)30 8875 3020 ole.jacobs@dlh.de Dr. Gerd Saueressig Noise Research Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 90890 gerd.saueressig@dlh.de Dr. Andreas Waibel Emissions/Climate Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 93816 andreas.waibel@dlh.de Jrgen Briese Cosmic Radiation Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 93964 juergen.briese@dlh.de Corporate Communications Stefanie Stotz Team Leader Corporate and Finance  Communications Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 51014 stefanie.stotz@dlh.de Dr. Peter Schneckenleitner Spokesman Politics, Environment and  Sustainability Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 94969 peter.schneckenleitner@dlh.de Environmental Sponsorship Program Axel Kleinschumacher Director Corporate & Internal Communications  Lufthansa Group Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 36899 axel.kleinschumacher@dlh.de Human Resources/Social Issues Group Human Resources Policies Dr. Martin Schmitt Senior Vice President Executive Personnel Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 62328 martin.schmitt@dlh.de Monika Rhl Director Change Management and Diversity Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 28300 monika.ruehl@dlh.de Employee Safety Volker Schierle Director Employee Safety volker.schierle@dlh.de HelpAlliance e.V. Rita Diop First Chairwoman Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 47872 rita.diop@dlh.de Cargo Human Care e.V. Fokko Doyen First Chairman fokko.doyen@dlh.de Investor Relations Frank Hlsmann Senior Vice President Investor Relations Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 28001 investor.relations@dlh.de Jobst Honig Investor Relations Manager Telephone: +49 (0)69 696 28011 jobst.honig@dlh.de Lufthansa Group companies You can find contact partners in the Lufthansa  Group companies at: www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Please note that www.lufthansa.com is the central contact point for all inquiries concerning customer  service. Under the header Help & Contact you will find full information on how to contact Lufthansa.   a 107 Balance 2011  107 Furthermore, Lufthansa is an active member in   a number of sustainability and environmental  working groups and committees, including:   AEA – Climate Change Working Group  BDI – Committee on the Environment  BDLI – Working Group Eco-efficient Flying   DRV – German Travel Association –   Environmental Committee   econsense – Management Circle and several   project groups (Sustainability Management,  Renewable Resources, Sustainability/Financial  Markets)  IATA – Environmental Committee  Star Alliance – Environmental Concept Team   VDR – The German Business Travel   Association – Sustainability Committee Memberships Lufthansa also documents its striving for respon- sible business practices with numerous mem- berships in environmental and sustainability-  re lated organizations. Furthermore, in the context  of different initiatives the aviation company seeks  active exchanges with other economic organi- zations and social groups. The goal is to partici- pate in shaping the future of sustainable business  practices and social responsibility, and to further  develop the companys own activities.    B.A.U.M. – Bundesdeutscher Arbeitskreis fr  Umweltbewusstes Management – Federal   Working Group for Environmentally-Aware  Management  www.baumev.de    BDI – Initiative Wirtschaft fr Klimaschutz –   Initiative of German Industry for Climate Protection  www.wirtschaftfuerklimaschutz.eu   BDL – Bundesverband der Deutschen Luftver- kehrswirtschaft – Federal Association of the  German Aviation Industry   www.bdl.aero   DNWE – Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik –  German Network for Business Ethics  www.dnwe.de    EABA – European Algae Biomass Association  www.eaba-association.eu   econsense – Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung  der Deutschen Wirtschaft e.V. – Forum for   Sustainable Development of German Business  www.ecosense.de    ICC – International Chamber of Commerce,  German chapter  www.icc-deutschland.de    German Air Transport Initiative  www.initiative-luftverkehr.de    Pro Recycling Paper Initiative  www.papiernetz.de    SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group  www.safug.org   Transparency International   www.transparency.de    UN Global Compact (see on page 20)  www.unglobalcompact.org  108 Deutsche Lufthansa AG Corporate Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany Balance is a registered title.  May 2011 www.lufthansa.com/responsibility