Sustainability  Report 2010  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 3 Aledson Ferreira da Silva   e Thiago Caser, na  Unidade Mucuri (BA) Lanielder Sousa, Cleide Costa,   Amilton Kanieski, company employees  at Suzanos Teresina (Piau) office  4 Annual Sustainability Report About the Report Suzano 13 Profile 14 Mission, Vision and Values 15 Acknowledgement 16 Key Indicators 19 Message from the CEO 22 Strategy and management model 28 Operating performance  Forestry Business Unit  Pulp Business Unit  Paper Business Unit Capital Built 36 Financial and economic performance 41 Risk Management 44 Intangible assets 46 Corporate governance 48 Shareholding Structure 48 Organizational structure Financial  Capital  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 5 Seedling nursery  in the municipality  of Cidelndia  (Maranho) 50 People Human  Capital 78 Environmental Natural  Capital 94 IbASe Social Report 96 GRI Summary 102 Corporate  information 64 Customers 66 Suppliers 68 Government and society 70 Community Social  Capital  6 Annual Sustainability Report 2010 Highlights Record production   of 2.7 million tons  of pulp and paper Over 415,000 seedlings  planted daily The company achieved  the 108 million mark of  planted eucalyptus seedlings First company in  the industry to quantify  its products carbon  footprint Record-breaking Net  Revenue: R$ 4.5 billion EBITDA was   R$ 1.7 billion, 47.6%  higher compared to 2009 Suzano 2024 Plan, acquisition of  the Conpacel plant and the KSR  distribuitor for R$ 1.5 billion Personnel  development: over  292,000 hours  of training  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 7 About the Report 93% of the stakeholders  deem the Report to be  excelente or good The purpose of this Sustainability Report is to provide in- formation on our economic, social and environmental ini- tiatives that were adopted in 2010—many of which have  been ongoing since before this period and have already  been covered in the previous report related to 2009, dis- closed in April 2010, which did not require revision. Un- less stated otherwise, the information contained herein is  related to the operation of all of our units in Brazil and  abroad. In order to provide a transparent report, for the  fifth consecutive year, we have adopted the third edition  of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) model, self-declar- ing level C application, presented with the same measure- ment methods as previous reports. Financial and economic  information is compliant with current law in Brazil and was  audited by Ernst & Young. (GRI 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9,  3.10, 3.11, 3.13). The consolidated financial statements were prepared  and reported according to accounting practices adopted in  Brazil, which encompass Brazilian Securities and Exchange  Commission (CVM) Standards and Edicts, Guidelines,  and Interpretations issued by the Brazilian Accounting Stan- dards Committee (CPC) and are in accordance with the  International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) issued  by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).  The 2009 figures were adjusted for comparison purposes. Operating and financial information are presented based  on amounts consolidated in Brazilian reais. All executive officers, as well as several department  managers, were consulted to select the data and informa- tion included in this report. (GRI 3.5) To raise the most relevant matters for our stakeholders,  this year we combined two methodologies: (1) we once  again sent questionnaires to people who had responded  last year and (2) we systematized all of the dialog tools that  we have with our audiences. (1) The questionnaire was sent to 40 people, including  employees, customers, suppliers and community mem- bers; of these 15 responded. Most of them (93%) deem  the Report to be excellent or good. One of the suppliers  stated that all of the aspects stated identify the poten- tial impacts and solutions applied, in a clear and objective  manner (...), as well as the information shown in charts  and tables, which makes the year over year comparison  easier. Among weaknesses, stakeholders point to the  fact that the Report does not mention future goals and  tends to focus on strengths. The chapters on the environ- ment and relationships with suppliers and employees were  the ones deemed most interesting in 2010. (2) We also systematized the information from some of  the dialog tools we have with our audiences, namely:  The Suzano em Campo (Suzano in the Field) book,  which shows the demands of the communities neighbor- ing our forestry units;  Customer Satisfaction Survey, carried out by our Pulp  Business Unit as well as by our Paper Business Unit;  ICCT (Instrumento de Caracterizao de Comunidades  Tradicionais – Traditional Communities Characterization  Tool), which seeks to listen, identify, and characterize the  communities with traditional traits in the areas surround- ing our operations;  Social Dialog, which includes discussion and action fo- rums with communities in the state of So Paulo; We also take into account the comments made by Bu- reau Veritas Certification an external consulting firm hired  to audit this Report. Please see the consolidation of the results below, listed  by stakeholder: (GRI 4.17)  8 Annual Sustainability Report The result of these consultations and the quantitative  indicator survey was structured based on SIGMA Sustain- ability – Integrated guidelines Guidelines for Management, which seeks to protect  and improve the five types of capital: manufactured, fi- nancial, human, social, and natural. This concept was de- veloped by the British Standards Institution (BSI), which  identifies these capitals as the foundation on which the  companys bottom line is produced, in line with sustain- able development.  Manufactured capital: This includes assets and infra- structure that contributes to our production.  Financial capital: Shows the business perfor- mance and our level of success in relation to share- holders and investors.  Human capital: Includes health, knowledge, skills,  motivation and our employees capacity for building re- lationships.  Social capital: Demonstrates added value to our eco- nomic activities through our relationships, partnerships,  and cooperation for human development.  Natural capital: Shows how we address our relation- ship with natural resources and the processes involved in  delivering our products and services. For questions and suggestions regarding the content of  this Report, please contact us using the following com- munication channels: Suzano Responde: 0800 774 7440 or  suzanoresponde@suzano.com.br Investor Relations: ri@suzano.com.br (GRI 3.4) Stakeholder Topics of interest Communities Company practices to preserve biodiversity; use of water for company plantations and mills; and  eucalyptus plantations that threaten food security at the sites. Customers Suzanos care in relation to the environment and with the communities where the products they  purchase are produced; information about company certifications; Suzano growth strategies and  impacts to the production chain. Suppliers  Suzano growth strategies and the companys relationship with strategic audiences. Employees Company practices to preserve biodiversity; use of water for company plantations and mills; social  projects developed in the communities; Suzano growth strategies; and the companys relationship  with its strategic audiences, especially its employees. Topics of interest Where to find the Report Company practices   to preserve biodiversity In addition to our compliance with environmental legislation, which includes maintaining Legal  Reserves and Permanent Preservation Areas (PPA), we use other practices related to this topic which  can be found in the Environment/Biodiversity and Ecofuturo chapters. Use of water for   company plantations and mills Consumption indicators and information on water management can be found in the chapter  on the Environment. We also suggest that you visit our website (www.suzano.com.br), where  the Eucaliptocultura e Desenvolvimento Socioambiental (Eucalyptusculture and Social and  Environmental Development) publication can be found, which contains comparative data on water  consumption in eucalyptus farming. Food security in the   locations in which we operate In the Community chapter and in the Investment in Social and Environmental Responsibility table,  there is information on our social projects, which seek to generate income and develop agriculture in  the communities where we operate. Suzanos environmental measures   and care for the communities   where our products are produced. Information is provided throughout the Report, mainly in the Community and Environment chapters. Information on company certifications Suzano has many certifications. The complete list is available in the Certifications chapter. Suzano growth strategies and   its impacts on the production chain Information can be found in the Suzano, Strategy, and Management Model chapters. Company relationship with   its strategic audiences In the Report, there are chapters for our many stakeholders, including information about Suppliers,  Customers, Employees, Communities, and Society in general. Social projects developed in  communities The Community chapter and the Investment in Social and Environmental Responsibility table provide  information on our social and environmental projects.  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 9 Employees Adilson Tenorio  da Silva and   Issamu Fukuda, Suzano  Unit (So Paulo)  10 Annual Sustainability Report In line with the  Suzano 2024 Plan,  Suzano acquired  FuturaGene,  a benchmark  company in  biotechnology Suzano  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 11 Employee Dikla Melech at  the Futuragene lab in Israel  12 Annual Sustainability Report 310,000 hectares of planted  forests, mainly in the states  of Bahia, Esprito Santo,  So Paulo, Minas Gerais,  Maranho Piau,   and Tocantins  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 13 We are a forestry-based listed company controlled by  Suzano Holding and belonging to the Suzano Group. We  have been operating for 87 years in two segments: market  pulp, sold in 31 countries, and paper, sold in 86 countries,  whose portfolio is composed of four lines, approximately  30 brands, among which Report, TpPremium and Recic- lato. We are the second largest producer of eucalyptus  pulp in the world, among the top ten in market pulp, and  the leader in the paper market in Brazil and Latin America.  (GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8) We operate through three Business Units – Forestry,  Pulp and Paper. In 2010, we defined a new strategic  plan that includes extending our operations to two more  fronts: biotechnology, via acquisition of the Futuragene  company, and renewable energy, with the announce- ment that we had organized the Suzano Renewable En- ergy company which will start operations in 2013. The  organic growth of pulp will be made possible through  our new units in the states of Maranho and Piau, which  will add 3 million tons per year to our production capacity  by 2015. We also acquired the remaining 50% of Conpa- cel (So Paulo Pulp and Paper Consortium) assets and the  KSR Distributor, which belonged to Fibria, which will be  controlled by Suzano as from February 01 and March 01,  respectively. (GRI 2.9). Our three industrial units in Brazil are located in Suzano  (So Paulo), in Embu (So Paulo), and in Mucuri (Bahia)  and we also have a division which specializes in distrib- uting print production, SPP-Nemo. Our administrative  headquarters is located in the city of So Paulo, where we  employ 4,352 direct employees and have around 8,000  outsourced employees. Suzano owned, leased, and Su- zano partner forests total approximately 671,000 hect- ares, with 310,000 hectares being forestry farms which  are concentrated in the states of Bahia, Esprito Santo,  So Paulo, Minas Gerais, Maranho, Piau, and Tocantins.  (GRI 2.3, 2.4 e 2.8) We have three sales offices abroad, in China, the United  States and Sweden, and two subsidiaries, one in England  (Sun Paper) and another in Argentina (Stenfar) that sell our  products. (GRI 2.3 e 2.5) We closed 2010 with a record net revenue of R$ 4.5  billion, 14.2% higher than in 2009, and a net profit of R$  769 million. (GRI 2.8) Our new strategic positioning has been reflected in a  new organizational reality for a forestry base company  which, following a review in 2010 led us to redefine our  Mission and Vision and to reinforce our Values. Our strongest competitive edge is being a forestry based  company, positioned as one of the lowest cost producers  of pulp in the world and a regional leader in the paper  market in which we operate. We are also able to extract  business adjacent to our forestry business such as renew- able energy and biotechnology. (GRI 2.9) Organic growth of pulp in the  amount of 3 million tons/year will  be made possible with our new  Maranho and Piau Units Profile Report Multiuso 90g Suzano Pulp  14 Annual Sustainability Report To offer renewable forestry-based, pulp  and paper products, while being globally  recognized for developing innovative  solutions and continually seeking excellence  and sustainability in our operations. Mission (GRI 4.8) Vision (GRI 4.8)  Integrity and Safety  Social and Environmental Responsibility  Excellence  Global Vision  Leadership  Entrepreneurship  Quality Relationships  Passion Values (GRI 4.8) Strong and kind. To be among the most profitable and best  forestry-based companies in the world and  to be recognized for practices that respect  people and the environment.  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 15 Acknowledgment (GRI 2.10) Our actions in the economic, social, and environmental areas during the period have led us to achieve many  titles and awards, namely:  Best Company in the Pulp and Paper Industry: Best in Agribusiness award, granted by Globo Rural  magazine.  Best Company in the Pulp and Paper Industry, for the second consecutive year in the Isto  Dinheiro  magazine ranking.  Model-company in Corporate Social Responsibility in Brazil from Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade, for  the seventh consecutive year, this time for our Corporate Emissions Inventory.  poca Climate Change Award, awarded by poca magazine, for our Corporate Emissions Inventory.  RISI Latin America recognized our CEO, Antonio Maciel Neto, for the second year running as CEO of the  year. Antonio Maciel Neto was also one of the five finalists for the Global CEO of the Year award, a category  included in the PPI Awards.  Antonio Maciel Neto was considered the Best CEO in Latin America in the Pulp and Paper industry;  Bernardo Szpigel, Best CFO in Latin America in the Pulp and Paper industry; and Andrea Fernandes,  Best Investor Relations professional in the Pulp and Paper industry by Institutional Investor Maga- zine, nominated by buy-side analysts through the Latin Executive Team Ranking.  Industry Award from the Brazil Pulp and Paper Technical Association (ABTCP), in the Sustainability  and Forestry Development category.  Certified by the British Retail Consortium, a management system used in England, granted by the coun- trys retailers.  One of the ten most globalized companies in the Country according to the Brazilian Transnational rank- ing, developed by Fundao Dom Cabral.  Brazilian Environmental Benchmarking Program, in which our Social Performance Matrix was selected  in the good social and environmental practices ranking.  Fernando Pini Brazilian Award for Graphic Excellence, awarded by the Brazilian Graphic Industry As- sociation (Abigraf) and the Brazilian Association of Printing Technology (ABTG) to the Paper Business Unit,  for coated printing papers and coated and uncoated paperboard for printing.  Graphprint Award, given by the largest printing companies in the country, for coated printing and writing  papers, uncoated printing and writing papers, recycled papers, and paperboard.  6th Mogi News/Chevrolet Alto Tiet Social Responsibility Award, given for water quality monitoring  on the Paraitinga River.  16 Annual Sustainability Report Financial Indicators 2008 2009 2010 Net Revenue (millions of R$) 4,064 3,953 4,514 EBITDA (millions of R$) 1,469 1,161 1,703 Net Profit (millions of R$) (451) 947 769 Volume Sold (thousand tons) 2,428 2,896 2,763 Ebitda Margin (%) 36 29 38 Investments (millions of R$) 483 659 603 Net Debt (millions of R$) 5,459 4,111 3,421 Net Debt/Ebitda 3.7 3.5 2.0 Evolution of production (thousand tons) 2008 2009 2010 Total production 2,664 2,678 2,745 Market Pulp 1,524 1,590 1,617 Total Paper 1,140 1,089 1,128 Coated P&W paper 124 118 134 Paperboard 258 235 252 Uncoated P&W paper 758 736 742 P&W: Printing and Writing Distribution of Added Value (DVA) – Consolidated (eC1) (millions of R$) 2008 2009 2010 Personnel 409,557 461,578 513,113 Salaries 326,308 324,426 408,504 Benefits 66,193 119,066 83,663 Employee Severance Fund (FGTS) 17,056 18,086 20,946 Taxes, Fees and Contributions (143.623) 321,950 181,572 Federal taxes (113.246) 406,527 205,401 State taxes (34.423) (88,098) (28,120) Municipal taxes 4,046 3,521 4,291 Third party capital remuneration 2,159,960 (510,439) 517,858 Interest 965,707 516,787 548,781 Leases 64.303 61,715 73,669 Monetary Variations 1,129,950 (1,088,941) (104,592) Earnings on invested capital (451,308) 946,521 768,997 Dividends/interest on invested capital 0 227,866 220,686 Retained earnings/losses for the period (451,308) 718,655 548,311 Total  1,974,586 1,219,610 1,981,540 Key Indicators (GRI 2.8) Our EBITDA reached  R$ 1.7 billion,   46.7% higher than  the 2009 result  The 2009 and 2010  figures include  adjustments introduced  by the International  Financial Reporting  Standards (IFRS)  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 17 Environmental indicators (thousands) 2008 2009 2010 Investments related to the   Companys production/operation  9,970 7,014 24,704 Investments in programs and/or external projects 228 1,256 1,542 Total investments in the environment 10,198 8,270 26,246 Investment in social and  environmental responsibility   millions of R$ 2008 2009 4,064 4,514 54 46 3,953 42 58 42 58 2010 Ebitda/Margin millions of R$ Margin/EBITDA (%) EBITDA 2008 2009 1,469 1,161 36 29 2010 1,703 38 Market value   millions of R$ 2008 2009 3,708 6,284 2010 6,043 2008 52 2009 55 2010 81 Composition of   the Net Revenue 35% Uncoated  7% Coated 13% Paperboard 45% Pulp Net Revenue   millions of R$ Foreign market (%) Domestic market (%)  18 Annual Sustainability Report Eucalyptus plantation, city of  Itapetininga (So Paulo)  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 19 The year of 2010 will be remembered for the conclusion  and dissemination of the Suzano 2024 Plan. After an in- depth analysis of global macro trends, the strengths Suza- no has developed in the past 87 years, and our sharehold- ers and employees aspirations, we were able to define a  long term outlook that runs to 2024, when Suzano Pulp  and Paper will celebrate its 100-year anniversary. Many of the initiatives set forth in the Suzano 2024  Plan were already developed in 2010. We have worked  on many fronts in our developments in the Northeast. We  will start up two industrial units, in the states of Maranho  and Piau, by 2013, increasing our pulp production capac- ity by 3 million tons. We have made advances in obtain- ing the necessary environmental permits and by acquiring  land. We have hired approximately 2,500 people that are  already working on the Northeast operation. One of the other fronts of the Suzano 2024 Plan devel- oped in 2010 is in the area of biotechnology. We acquired  FuturaGene, a biotechnology company, with a research  and development center in Israel, as well as field tests in  Brazil, the United States, and China. In recent years, Fu- turaGene has developed technologies to improve eucalyp- tus productivity as well as for other forestry species used  for pulp production, power generation, and other applica- tions. This acquisition reinforces our eucalyptus genetic im- Message from the CEO (GRI 1.1) In July, we announced  the creation of Suzano  Renewable Energy.   As of 2013 we will   produce 3 million tons   of wood pellets. provement program, which began three decades ago and  has been carried out by our Forestry Technology Center. In July, we announced the creation of Suzano Renew- able Energy, an independent company that will begin  wood pellet production activities. We will enter the bio- mass market for energy generation in 2013. This development was driven by our competency in the  forestry area, our ability to execute industrial develop- ments, our solid relationship with logistics operators and  the huge potential of the energy biomass market, espe- cially in Europe. At the end of the period, and also aligned with the Su- zano 2024 Plan, we announced the acquisition of a 50%  share in Consrcio Paulista de Papel e Celulose (Conpacel)  assets and a 100% share of KSR, the largest paper and  printing products distributor in Brazil, part of the Fibria  Group. The transaction totaled R$ 1.5 billion. The transi- tions were made, respectively, on January 31 and Febru- ary 28, 2011. This initiative will contribute towards Suzano  Pulp and Papers consolidation as the leader in the printing  and writing papers segment in Brazil and in South America. In turn, these initiatives also led us to adapt our corpo- rate identity. Regarding the scope of the Strategic Planning  Cycle, we established a new Mission and Vision and rein- forced our Values, which were widely disseminated among  employees and senior management. We have implemented many initiatives through strict ex- ecution of our Excellence in Management Model (MEG),  including the Operational Excellence Program and the Six  Sigma Program. In these cases, we had returns in the or- der of R$ 57 million and we identified many opportunities  to improve our processes. We also developed important  initiatives in Human Resources related to recruiting, talent  development and retention, as well as improvements in  our compensation system. All of these initiatives have impacted our operations in a  satisfactory manner. The Forestry Business Unit celebrated  the milestone of having planted 108 million eucalyptus  seedlings, or an average of 415,000 seedlings planted per  business day during the year. That is an extraordinary re- cord in Brazil.  20 Annual Sustainability Report In the pulp market, at the beginning of the year, we ob- served a supply restriction, as a result of the earthquake in  Chile. This issue was normalized during the year. Consequently, prices presented a successive increase un- til mid-2010; yet, by the second half of the year they had  been corrected as a result of bullish Chinese demand. The  average price in 2010 was 57.8% higher than 2009 and  sales reached 1.6 million tons. The Paper Business Unit focused on strengthening its  relationship with customers, registering 3.6% growth in  sales volume compared to the previous year. In line with  the operational excellence strategy, the Paper Business  Unit also increased its use of assets and gained a higher  0.6 percentage point rise in the rate of global efficiency for  its machinery as compared to 2009. Additionally, six new  products went to market. We closed 2010 with record production volume of 2.7  million tons of pulp and paper and a sales volume of 2.8  million tons. Net revenue also reached record R$ 4.5 bil- lion and net profit was R$ 769 million. EBITDA was R$  1.7 billion, which represents a 46.7% growth compared  to 2009. Investments totaled approximately R$ 603 mil- lion and include maintenance costs with our assets and  organic growth programs. These investiments were es- sential for the Companys economic sustainability in the  medium and long term. We believe that building the foundation for sustain- able growth is much more than just keeping our opera- tions competitive and presenting a good bottom line. It  encompasses social and environmental responsibility and  quality relationships—beliefs that have led us to conclude  our Sustainability Master Plan, with which we aspire to be- We reached a record of 108 million  planted eucalyptus seedlings or  415,000 seedlings planted daily. come a benchmark in relationships with the communities  in which we operate. Along the same lines, we created  the Suzano Sustainability Advisory Committee, which will  be composed of internal and external leaders and whose  objective will be to improve our social and environmental  initiatives, providing guidelines so that we can apply sus- tainable practices to everything we do. Suzano Pulp and Papers activities in the area of sustain- ability reflect the commitment embedded in our corporate  DNA and, in 2010, they were recognized by the market- place, resulting in many awards and titles. Among them  are Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade Model Company and  poca Climate Change Award, from poca Magazine— both granted as a result of our Emissions Inventory. In ad- dition, our Social Performance Matrix was included in the  Brazilian Environmental Benchmarking Program. We have been signatories of the Global Compact, creat- ed by the United Nations (UN), since 2003, and not only do  we believe in these principles but they also pervade every  corporate social responsibility initiative that we have de- veloped along with our employees and service providers. I would like to share these acknowledgments, which are  reason for great pride and encourage us to face challenges  with all of those who, in their day to day help us to write  new pages in this story of success: customers, suppliers,  investors and especially, the Suzano team, recognized for  their ambition and competence in the Brazilian and inter- national industries. In 2011, we will proceed with imple- mentation of the Suzano 2024 Plan, with a strong empha- sis on operational excellence. Antonio Maciel Neto Chief Executive Officer  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 21 Location Map (GRI 2.4, 2.5, 2.7)  Main destinations   of exports Brazilian and  international offices Ports Maranho Aracruz Vitria Suzano embu Santos Argentina eUA China Switzerland england Israel Mills Mucuri Limeira Piau Forests  22 Annual Sustainability Report Our strategy was widely reviewed and updated in 2010,  within the scope of the Strategic Planning Cycle. Reassess- ment regarding our top competencies and markets and  the path we want to take resulted in the launch of a plan  with a long-term vision: the Suzano 2024 Plan. This plan makes it clear that our competency in forestry  is our greatest source of competitiveness and, from there,  our goal is to supply profitable products and services us- ing our renewable forests. We will remain strong in the  paper segment, focusing on Latin Am erica, significantly  increasing our production capacity in the pulp market  and increasing our scope of action in new products and  services, such as production of wood pellets for renew- able energy, third-party forestry management services,  and biotechnology. We believe that with this focus on operations together  with innovation, sustainability, and operational excellence,  we will become one of the most important and efficient  corporate organizations in the world focusing on the for- estry–based industry by 2024—when we will complete  100 years of operations. Strategy and  Management Model Growth in the Northeast In the pulp area, we reviewed and advanced the stages  to expand our operations in the Northeast with the aim of  doubling in size by constructing two lines of pulp produc- tion in Maranho and Piau. In the state of Maranho (the  first line will start up in 2013), we moved forward in the  process of obtaining environmental permits and acquiring  lands, planting 7,000 hectares in 2009 and 2010, which  will bring planted area to a total of 41,000 hectares. In  Piau, 35,000 hectares have already been planted, 23,000  of which to supply this unit. At the same time, we continued the process of obtain- ing environmental permits, we identified an area near So  Luis where we intend to build a port, we began basic en- gineering and signed technical proposals for the Maran- ho Unit, and we are already in the negotiation stage with  commercial proposals from our main suppliers. In late 2010, an important phase was concluded with  the announcement of a financing operation contract with  the BNDES in the amount of R$ 2.7 billion to build the  industrial unit in the state of Maranho and, among other  things, to implement infrastructure and the necessary sup- port to operate the unit, build a cogeneration plant for  biomass energy, raise working capital, and purchase do- mestic machinery and equipment. Additionally, with the  purpose of making our capital structure more suitable, we  will privately issue debentures that must be converted into  company issued shares totaling R$ 1.2 billion. R$ 2.7 billion was obtained  through a financing operation  with the BNDES (Brazilian  Development Bank) for  investments in the   Maranho Unit. Paper As a result of the Suzano 2024 Plan, we made a pro- posal to buy 50% of the assets of the Consrcio Paulista  de Papel e Celulose (Conpacel) and of the KSR distributor,  which belong to the Fibria Group. These acquisitions were  concluded on January 31 and February 28, 2011, respec- tively. The quality of the assets and the strength of our  distribution business will consolidate our strength in Brazil  and in other Latin American countries.  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 23 biotechnology We have also made headway on other fronts involving  the Suzano 2024 Plan. Acquisition of FuturaGene, in which  we held a 7% stake and with which we have had a tech- nological cooperation agreement since 2001, will result in  important synergies for developing our forestry production.  The company is headquartered in England and its main re- search and development center is in Israel. Not only does  it carry out field experiments in Brazil, the United States,  and China, but it has also developed biotechnologies to  improve eucalyptus and other forest species used to manu- facture pulp, generate energy, and be used in other ap- plications. Its acquisition will therefore reinforce our eucalyptus ge- netic improvement program which began three decades  ago and spearheaded by our Forestry Technology Center  (CTF), whose biotechnology division is now part of Futura- Gene. Even without using biotechnology, the CTF had al- ready developed a eucalyptus genetic base capable of pro- ducing some of the highest yield forests in the world and  with the potential to adapt to different soils and climate  conditions and to several end uses. In addition to the gains expected for our operations, the  synergies add potential to FuturaGenes actions in the field  of forestry biotechnology as an independent business. In the second half of 2010, we dedicated ourselves to  integrating our operations with FuturaGene, as well as  creating the organizational structure and the companys  governance model, while it remained operational, with  contracts closed in key markets and advances in research. Renewable energy Suzano Renewable Energy will begin operations in 2013. The decision to invest in the production of wooden pal- lets was based on our experience with the concept of en- ergy forestry, which involves specific clones and specialized,  denser, and higher productivity crops. Our ability to execute  industrial ventures, the solidity of our relationship with lo- gistics operators, and the great market potential for renew- able energy, especially in Europe, were the main reasons  that motivated us to enter this market. The company will absorb our experience in forestry man- agement and production to manufacture wood pellets to  be used for generating energy for export. The pellets are  formed of ground, dehydrated and compressed wood par- ticles that are light, have a high energy content, and rep- resent the most efficient method of transporting biomass  over long distances. To serve these purposes, in 2010, we made significant  headway in the conceptual engineering of the project and  signing of Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with  customers. We also began negotiations with state gov- ernments in the Northeast Region (where Suzano Renew- able Energy will be located) to acquire land, licensing, and  forestry crops. After many visits to the United States and  European countries, we discussed and chose the technol- ogies to be employed, built a team that will act internally,  and contracted all of the equipment suppliers. Suzano Renewable Energy will have an independent  management, however it will have two types of con- tracts with us: sharing non-operational services, such  as Human Resources, IT and Communications, and  forestry management, in which we will be responsible  for the planting, harvesting, and seedling production  phases. The objective of the partnership is to avoid  redundancy in shared services related to research and  development and make the best of our competency in  the forestry area. 2 new businesses  were launched  within the scope  of the Suzano  2024 Plan, namely  biotechnology and  Renewable energy  24 Annual Sustainability Report Management Model Since 2001, our management model has been based  on the concepts of the National Quality Foundation (FNQ)  Management Excellence Model (MEG). The Model has  eight criteria–Leadership, Strategies and Plans, Custom- ers, Society, Information and knowledge, People, Pro- cesses and Results. MEG is present in the day to day of  our employees and is taken into account by our Commit- tees, Subcommittees, and Work Groups. Alignment with  this model garnered us the Brazilian Quality Award (PNQ)  in 2001 and 2008. Adopting the model allowed us to  have a systemic view of all management processes and  quarterly assessments compared to benchmarks, with the  support of 20 facilitators. Employees Jean Kerley Lyrio  da Silva, Eduardo Andrade de  Oliveira, Wedson Pinheiro da  Silva and Fabrcio Jos da Silva,  at the Mucuri Unit (Bahia) 24 R$ 57  million was the total cost  reduction absorbed  by the Six Sigma  methodology  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 25 Management Model Brazilian Quality Foundation The Strategic Planning Cycle is an example of a prac- tice aligned with MEG. As the foundation for building our  business, it is carried out annually and includes five steps:  Strategic Orientation, Strategic Planning, Multi-year Plan,  Budget, and Results and Targets. Furthermore, we maintain technology management,  intangible asset, risk, and personnel policies and because  we are aware of the importance of this system, in 2010  we moved forward in consolidating a knowledge manage- ment model. The Internal Controls and Competitiveness  departments jointly began development on mechanisms  to create, standardize and disseminate guidelines and pro- cedures, through the Document Pyramid. The pyramid is  a method that classifies all of the documentation used in  the company according to its levels. To disseminate this  concept throughout the entire company, key employees  are being trained to manage documents in each depart- ment. These initiatives will be essential to improve routine  processes and avoid rework and overlapping efforts. To uphold our management model we count on tools  such as the SAP system, which has gone through some  updates throughout the year, and on other programs such  as Operational Productivity, whose objective is to increase  productivity, which is one of the assumptions of the 2024  Plan and which will therefore increase our competitiveness. In order to train employees with in-depth operational  and technical knowledge in each of the departments, we  have maintained the Boinas Verdes (Green Beret) program,  which is based on the master/specialist relationship. When  recruiting engineers at the mills to participate in courses  given by professionals with vast experience in specific pro- cesses, in Brazil and abroad, the program helps to build  new knowledge. That is, in addition to conveying informa- tion, masters share critical issues and potential problems  with specialists. They document the case studies and the  solutions encountered. We have adopted the Six Sigma methodology since  2007, which has accumulated cost reductions on the or- der of R$ 57 million and has been incorporated more and  more into our organizational culture. In fact, since late  2009, green belts have been trained internally by black  belt instructors, demonstrating the maturity of the initia- tive, which has already trained 383 employees as green  belts, 37 as black belts, and 27 as executive black belts. In  2010, as a program incentive, the Paper Business Unit held  the second edition of the Six Sigma rally that selected the  authors of the best projects developed from among the 60  participating green belts using this methodology. One of the improvements made to  the knowledge management model  was the adoption of a Document  Pyramid, a method that classifies all  documentation used at the company Leadership Strategies   and Plans Customers Society People Results Processes In fo r m at io n  an d  kn o wl ed ge      In fo r m at io n  an d  kn o wl ed ge  26 Annual Sustainability Report  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 27 In 2010, 2.7  million tons of  pulp and paper  were produced Line 2 Drying machine and  DCS system at the Mucuri  Unit (state of Bahia) Manufactured  Capital  28 Annual Sustainability Report Twenty vessels will be required,  with a total capacity of 50,000  tons used to meet the demand of  the Maranho and Piau Units Operational Performance Our Business Units, Forestry, Pulp and Paper, as well as  FuturaGene, operate with the help of three internal Service  providers that work to preserve our corporate values and  reinforce differentials such as innovation. Therefore, we  have significantly advanced in many operational segments. In procurement, thanks to the conclusion of the Strate- gic Sourcing work that began in 2009, we created market  intelligence and adopted the account executives concept,  which led to stronger ties with our suppliers, by closing  long term contracts, clearly understanding market de- mands, and increasing the amount of business opportu- nities. This strategy has also prevailed in our operations  abroad, in line with the purpose of making each depart- ment international. For instance, by hiring a purchasing  executive in China, this market is being closely monitored,  and therefore opportunities to purchase supplies and  equipment with a good value for money have become a  huge advantage. In logistics, where 80% of the costs are directly related  to exports, we were able to overcome many the challenges  posed by the ups and downs in the international market,  while also creating business partners. The business part- ners get together on a weekly and monthly basis with the  Business Unit officers, and thus identify customer needs  and ways to service them appropriately. In order to deter- mine the level of efficiency of this service and to improve  it, we have created 12 indicators, which throughout the  year have clearly shown how the department has evolved. We have also innovated in logistics with many initiatives  that have resulted and will result in significant cost reduc- tions. One of them was adopted in Mucuri, where 25% of  paper produced for exports is now packed into contain- ers at the mill instead of at the Portocel- Barra do Riacho  Specialized Terminal. In addition to expediting the process,  the measure has presented significant savings resulting  from the elimination of high operating costs in the port  area. Our intention is to extend it to all production in the  industrial unit, which further down the line will also hold  the customs warehouse area, for cargo to be sent directly  to the ships. Another initiative approved at the end of the year by the  Board of Directors was the creation of LogFcil, a Suzano- owned logistics company responsible for transporting pulp  produced in Mucuri to Portocel. Up to that point, only  5% of the operation was carried out by the companys  own fleet. In addition to reducing costs, this initiative will  allow the company to streamline logistics operators ac- tivities and have more control over the quality of services  rendered. We have also recorded gains in efficiency with our ship- ments thanks to a project developed throughout the year,  to make routes and schedules more suitable. The proj- ect allows us to consolidate orders and cargo so that the  trucks can leave fully loaded, whenever possible. In 2010, Information Technology (IT) developments in- cluded the consolidation of a single internal technology  platform, the conclusion of approximately 50 SAP system   Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 29 enhancements to eliminate gaps, and the establishment of  a partnership with IBM to improve our system security. We  also initiated a process to outsource part of our IT infra- structure which up to now had been hosted at the Suzano  Unit. The idea is to expand system reliability to be able to  meet the demand of our planned growth. From the industrial side we also took some significant  steps in the past year. At the Suzano Unit, we reached  record-breaking levels of overall efficiency – which is how  we measure machinery efficiency, with some levels being  global benchmarks. The level of stability at the manufac- turing unit has been outstanding, resulting in increasingly  competitive costs. In addition to all of these developments, the Operations  area made every effort to prepare the Company in 2010  for full compliance with the Northeast expansion goals.  Teams from the Procurement, Logistics, IT and Industrial  departments were dedicated full-time to this preparation.  Thus teams have already begun discussions with partners  to resolve issues related to the construction of highways,  railways, ports and ships (a total of 20 vessels with 50,000- ton capacity will be required) specifically to meet the de- mand from the Maranho and Piau units. 50 Seedling nursery, city of Cidelndia (Maranho) new SAP applications  were developed   to improve the system   and eliminate gaps  30 Annual Sustainability Report We were among the companies that planted the most  during 2010 (67,000 hectares or 108 million trees or  425,000 seedlings per business day) and consumed the  most planted forests (almost 8.3 million cubic meters or  34,000 hectares) in the pulp and paper sector in Brazil.  What really sets us apart is how we have promoted sus- tainable growth through forestry research and develop- ment for 43 years. We own approximately 671,000 hectares in states of  So Paulo, Bahia, Esprito Santo, Minas Gerais, Tocan- tins, Piau and Maranho. Of this total 310,000 hectares  are eucalyptus plantations, of which 11,000 hectares are  on leased land; 29,000 hectares of our own land is used  for infrastructure, 87,000 hectares are areas available for  planting, and 256,000 hectares, or approximately 40% of  the total area, is earmarked for environmental preserva- tion, legal reserves and other areas.  256,000 Forestry business Unit Mucuri (Bahia) We already hold a large part of the land acquired for  the new industrial units (Maranho and Piau). The Ma- ranho Unit, for example, not only has its own forests,  which have been in formation since 2008, but will also  rely on wood supplied by Vale forests (Vale Forestry Pro- gram). In both locations we implemented new forestry  partnership programs. hectares  or approximately  40% of the total  area is earmarked  for environmental  preservation  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 31 Moreover, we have 100,000 hectares occupied by plant- ings of local producers in the states where we operate who  participate in the Forestry Partner Program and who are  responsible for part of our industrial supply. Average productivity of our plantations is 44 m3 per  hectare per year. We continue to be above the national  average (which is also the highest worldwide),of 41 m/ hectare/year for eucalyptus trees, according to Brazilian  Association of Forest Plantation Producers (Abraf) data. We have reached 11 tons / hectare / year of pulp volume  in our productive areas. In our experimental plantings, new  clones have reached 13 tons / hectare / year or 18% more  pulp produced using the same area. In 2010 we entered forestry asset sale agreements rang- ing over approximately 50,000 hectares in the state of  Minas Gerais; around 13,000 hectares were eucalyptus  plantations. The sale value of these assets totals R$ 334  million. Demobilization of these assets will not impact cur- rent operations or future projects. Additionally, because of our focus on forestry technol- ogy development, we were able to begin planting in drier  climates, such as in Maranho and in Piau. We have in- vested in the diversity of our genetic material and devel- oped clones with great potential for adaptation, ensuring  productivity and resistance to diseases. For the new units, we count on experience and the in- vestment in forestry technology developed over a period of  three decades in region. This allows us to have commercial  plantations in these regions that have little silviculture his- tory and with expected productivity above 40 m3/hectare/ year, where tests were carried out with over 5,000 clones  and dozens of eucalyptus species. Since 2006, we have held the largest range of forestry  certifications in the world, with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001,  OHSAS 18001, SA 8000, FSC, and Cerflor. (EN30) Moreover,  the forests we own are nationally and internationally certi- fied, which is a testament to the fact that our management  meets the highest socio-environmental standards. We continue to expand certifications to certain areas  within the Forestry Partnership program; an unprecedent- ed project in the pulp and paper industry. Our objective is  to have our partners become increasingly aligned with our  objectives of creating sustainable income opportunities,  modernizing working relations and expanding know-how  by sharing experiences. In addition to all of these achievements, we have opti- mized our assets and have sought to identify new business  opportunities as well as other uses for wood, in sync with  our strategy to add value to our forestry assets. It is also worth noting that our aim to become a refer- ence in sustainable operations has reinforced the need for  the Forestry Business Unit to align its governance model.  Innovations include creation of the Suzano Sustainability  Consultation Council, spearheaded by consultant Lineu  Siqueira Jnior, who has worked with companies and enti- ties such as the Norwegian Forestry Group (NFG), Ima- flora, and the Rainforest Alliances Sustainable Agriculture  Network (SAN), in which internal and external leaders  will take part. This Council is geared towards legitimizing  our socio-environmental actions, guiding application of  sustainable practices in our businesses, and monitoring ac- tivities within the scope of the Sustainability Master Plan. (Learn more about it and the changes in the governance  structure of the Business Unit in the Environmental chapter). The largest number of  forestry certifications in  the world, with the ISO  9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS  18001, SA 8000, FSC, and  Cerflor Occupational Fitness  Program, Mucuri (Bahia) Ginstica laboral, Mucuri (BA)  In addition to good commercial results, the Pulp Busi- ness Unit has directed its efforts towards expansion proj- ects in the Northeast which will increase our market pulp  availability to around 4,700 tons. To accomplish this, the Pulp Business Unit continued its  efforts to strengthen bonds with customers by holding  and participating in a series of events, such as interna- tional conferences held in London, Chicago and Shang- hai, where our representatives met with top clients in or- der to reinforce the unique qualities of our products and  the strategic philosophy that underpins the Companys  long-term commitments, and teamwork. We also held  meetings aimed at Brazilian customers, who account for  approximately 20% of our portfolio, in order to share our  vision of the future with them and understand how to  provide them with even more support for development  of the domestic market. In 2010, the pulp market suffered a significant impact as  result of the three following natural events: the earthquake  in Chile, the excessive amount of rain in the southern US  and the harsh winter in the Northern Hemisphere, which  compromised the production of the companies located in  those regions. All of this resulted in an imbalance, around  the world, between supply and demand and consequently  led to price hikes throughout the period. In this context of limited supply, we sold 1.6 million tons in  2010; a mere 9.7% less than the volume sold in 2009, which  totaled 1.7 million tons. In 2009, however, we counted on  high inventory levels that were sold to China, since the de- mand from the Chinese market exceeded past averages and  analyst forecasts – factors that contributed to the exceptional  result that year. In 2010, of the total volume commercialized,  39% was sold to Europe, 33% to Asia, 19% to Latin America  (including Brazil), and 9% to North America. Pulp business Unit Bale of SUZANO PULP,  Mucuri Unit (Bahia) 32  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 33 We started an organizational restructuring that will al- low for more efficient management of our future market  position. We held a meeting in So Paulo with commer- cial teams from the Business Units, including the interna- tional offices, known as the Sales Meeting, that resulted  in the formulation of commercial strategies and identifi- cation of key customers and market niches selected to  allocate production coming from expansion projects in  the Northeast. The role of our international offices, which  are fundamental to the success of our global operations  strategy, was reinforced by the creation of five-year  growth plans, the hiring of associates who have mastered  the local language and culture, and the transfer of execu- tives from China to Brazil. Based on market research, we have also identified our  strengths and mapped opportunities for improvement.  As a result, we have defined an action plan to improve  our service level through initiatives such as joint projects  in technical development, improving our technical support  and streamlining our logistics. The preparation for our expansion in the Northeast  shall continue in 2010. The Paper Business Units internal  departments, the international offices, and departments  critical to the success of our commercial strategy, such as  Research and Development and Logistics, will continue  planning and executing the activities that will guarantee  our success in expansion projects. Suzano Pulp and Paper Office in Fort Lauderdale, Florida (USA) Pulp Sales   (thousands of tons) Foreign market (%) Domestic market (%) 1,780 2008 2009 2010 1,320 18 82 85 15 18 82 1,607 Final destination   of pulp sales 2010   Sales volume 19% Latin America/ Brazil  9% North America 33% Asia 39% Europe Pulp sales per   segment 2010 32% Tissue 36% Printing &  Writing 7% Others 25% Special:  34 Annual Sustainability Report Paper business Unit Aerial view of the Limeira Unit (So Paulo) The highlight of 2010 was the strong upswing in do- mestic market demand and the renewed demand in the  international markets where we operate. This scenario, along with price readjustments, resulted in  improved profitability. Total volume sold reached 1.2 mil- lion tons, 3.6% higher compared to 2009. Our sales in the Brazilian market reached 643,000 tons,  growing by 8.7% compared to 2009. Paperboard, which  reached a growth of 13%, was especially noteworthy,  mostly as a result of the significant growth in the consum- er industry which uses this product to produce packaging. In the domestic market, some noteworthy measures  include those adopted by the So Paulo and Federal ad- ministration to hinder the improper use of tax exempt pa- per–purchasing tax exempt paper for school book print- ing–thus establishing more competitive behavior in the  domestic market. Exports totaled 513,000 tons and were sent to South,  Central and North America and Europe. Latin America,  including Brazil, accounted for 73.5% of our sales,  which was 7.7% higher compared to 2009. The rea- son for this growth can be attributed to better ties with  customers in the region and more focus on distribution  channels. We promoted changes in organizational structure that  allowed us to further strengthen ties to all of the links in  our business chain allowing for a more effective contact  between users and transforming agents for Suzano Pulp  and Paper papers. We created a Technical Consulting  area that has allowed our customers to achieve important  gains in productivity through better use of our products.  We have consolidated new concepts for managing and  servicing the Distribution channel in the domestic market.  Through the Report brand, we developed and remod- eled promotional tools and established an unprecedented  partnership in the sector, together with Terracycle, with  the purpose of guaranteeing appropriate disposal of our  product packaging. We held the first South America Cus- tomer Meeting; we have increased the percentage of cus- tomers serviced directly by our sales team in this region  and carried out technical training events for customers in  order for them to get the best out of our several types of  papers. We participated in important events in our indus- try, including the FLIP (International Literature Festival of  Paraty) and the Book Biennial, two of the most important  literature-related events in Brazil. We also participated in  the Expoprint tradeshow, the largest business tradeshow  and means of disseminating new technologies in the  Brazilian and Latin American printing market. We estab- lished communication partnerships with renowned com- panies from other sectors, with the purpose of leveraging  our brand awareness and informing our customers about  the features of our products. We improved our price and income management model  by implementing analytical processes that are structured  and based on statistical models (through the Six Sigma  methodology). We took significant steps in the process of  innovation by launching new products and prospecting  ideas such as the I Paperboard Technology Roadmap,  a process developed using the main links in the develop- ment and production chain for packaging in the domestic  market. We offered six new products to the market:  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 35  Art Premium Barr paperboard, which is more grease  resistant  Art Premium paperboard with 30% post-consumer  scraps  TP White paperboard with an exclusive line for the  North American market  uncoated Plen Bold paper with more body  uncoated Plen Soft paper with reduced production  costs  uncoated paper with security components for the  North American market These new products reinforced our portfolio that contin- ues to include Report ColorLok, Report Senninha, Report  Cores, Reciclato Suzano, Eclipse, Artwork, Cartolina Sen- ninha, Supremo Alta Alvura, Supremo SBS Board, Supre- mo Duo Design, Royal Tech, Royal Quartz, TP White,  TP White Pharma, TP White Zero Transfer, TP Premium,  ArtPremium, Super 6 Premium, ExtraKot, Neopack, Pa- pelcarto Reciclato, and others. SPP-Nemo Expansion of our customer base, improvement in com- mercial initiatives, and structural improvements have  created major advances in all operational measures at  SPP-Nemo, our division specializing in printing product dis- tribution in the domestic market. We have advanced in the digital world by including  social networks in SPP-Nemos strategy and have already  reaped the first results, receiving our first orders through  Twitter, with the transaction being concluded through the  internet sales channel. Items sold were part of another pio- neering initiative by the distributor: the Marque sua pre- sena no Twitter (Be on Twitter) promotion. At the end of  2010, we had almost 400 followers; of these, 27.4% were  printing companies and publishing houses and 28% were  opinion makers. In the industrial area, we intensified integration between  the sales and production teams in an effort to guarantee  the best and most effective use of our productive assets.  We use the Six Sigma methodology to incorporate new im- provements into our commercial and production planning  processes. We improved the efficiency of our conversion  equipment by reducing the number of SKUs produced. We  introduced new concepts into our working capital man- agement processes, which allowed us to obtain a signifi- cant reduction compared to the previous year. These measures, along with the advances in our Global  Efficiency Program, have allowed us to reach an elevated  rate of efficiency with our paper production machines. Paper production at the Limeira Unit (So Paulo) Paper   Exports 2010   Sales Volume Paper sales   Sales volume 2008 2009 2010 1,162 43 57 1,116 47 53 1,156 44 56 4% Others 10% Europe 12% North America 18% South/Central America 56% Brazil Foreign market (%) Domestic market (%)  36 Annual Sustainability Report Employees Ricardo Fernandes  de Miranda and Monica Cristina  Mariano Lozano do Carmo,   at the So Paulo Office  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 37 In 2010, net  revenue reached  a record   R$ 4.5 billion Financial  Capital  38 Annual Sustainability Report The Companys consolidated financial statements for  the periods ending on December 31, 2010 and 2009,  were prepared according to accounting practices ad- opted in Brazil, which encompass Brazilian Securities and  Exchange Commission (CVM) Standards and Edicts,  Guidelines, and Interpretations issued by the Brazilian Ac- counting Standards Committee (CPC) and are in accor- dance with the International Financial Reporting Standard  (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards  Board (IASB). Net Revenues In 2010, our net revenues totaled a record of R$ 4,513.9  million, 14.2% higher in comparison to 2009. During this period we sold 1.6 million tons of pulp,  9.7% less in relation to the previous year; this was due to  the sale in 2009 of stocks accumulated in 2008, as a result  of the 2008 international crisis, and of 1.2 million tons of  paper, 3.6% more than 2010, which was driven by the  growth of Brazilian economy. The share of international paper and pulp sales in our  total net revenue was 57.6% or $ 2.6 billion compared to  the 2009 figure of 58.1%. Financial and  economic performance Forestry Unit Team  at the Teresina Office  (Piau) Reduction of the net debt/ EBTIDA ratio from 3.5 times in  2009 to 2.0 times in 2010. Revenue from pulp sales accounted for 44.7% of total  revenue in 2010 compared to 40.7% in 2009, reflecting  the recovery in pulp prices during 2010. EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes,  Depreciation and Amortization) The cash generation measured by EBITDA was R$  1,703.3 million in 2010, 46.7% higher than in 2009. This increase was due principally to: successive increases  in pulp prices in the domestic and international markets  throughout 2010; paper price hikes in the international  market and price stability in the domestic market; and in- creased paper sales in the domestic market. Additionally,  this increase in margin was mainly impacted by the dispos- al of the aforementioned assets. EBITDA margin reached  37.7% in 2010, 8.4 pp higher in comparison to 2009.  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 39 Net Profit Net debt reached R$ 769.0 million in 2010 compared  to a profit of R$ 946.5 million the previous year. This was  the result of increased net financial expenses and of the  accounting result of the net monetary and exchange varia- tions impacted by the appreciation of the Brazilian Real. Indebtedness and Ratings On December 31, 2010, the consolidated net debt  was R$ 3,421.0 million and EBITDA for the last twelve  months was R$ 1,703.3 million. Therefore, the net debt/ EBITDA ratio was 2.0x compared to the 2009 year-end  figure of 3.5x. Cash and short-term investments were maintained at a  high level throughout the year and 2010 ended with a bal- ance of R$ 3.7 billion, compared to $ 2.5 billion in 2009. In December 2010, Moodys provided a Baa3 (Invest- ment Grade) rating in foreign currency to the issuance of  USD 650 million in senior notes which will mature in 2021,  as well as a Baa3 rating on the global scale and Aa1.br  on the Brazilian domestic scale for the R$ 500 million in  debentures issued which will mature in 2014 and 2019.  The ratings perspective remains stable. Standard & Poors  reaffirmed our BB+ corporate rating on the global scale  (stable) and also related to the issuance of senior notes. Dividends Our corporate by-laws, in line with the principles of leg- islation in force, establish a minimum mandatory dividend  of 25% of adjusted net profit for the period. The amount  granted to preferred class A and B shares will be 10%  higher than that granted for common shares. In 2010, R$ 207.6 million were distributed as inter- est over our own capital, with R$ 58.8 million credited  and paid on September 10, 2010 and R$ 148.7 million  credited on December 30, 2010 for payment on March  15, 2011. Distribution of dividends totaling R$ 220.7 mil- lion was approved at the Shareholders Meeting; of this  amount, the amounts forecast as interest on our own  capital for fiscal year 2010 were discounted, therefore  leaving a remaining payable dividend balance of R$ 13.1  million paid on May 9, 2011. 138 114 161 231 221 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 28 25 30 27 29 Earnings distributed (millions of R$) Payout (%) Composition of  the Net Revenue 35% Uncoated  7% Coated 13% Paperboard 45% Pulp Net Revenue   millions of R$ 2008 2009 4,064 4,514 54 46 3,953 42 58 42 58 2010 EBITDA/Margin  millions of R$ Margin/EBITDA (%) EBITDA 2008 2009 1,469 1,161 36 29 2010 1,703 38 There was no dividend distribution in 2008 given that we had loss   of R$ 451 milion. Foreign market (%) Domestic market (%)  40 Annual Sustainability Report Our corporate capital is represented by 140,039,904  common shares (SUZB3) and 268,852,497 preferred shares  (SUZB5 and SUZB6) traded on BM&FBovespa. Of this total,  on December 31, 2010, the Company held 4,154,685 pre- ferred shares and 6,786,194 common shares in treasury.  Our shares are part of Level 1 corporate governance and  were included in the stock markets Corporate Sustainabil- ity Index (ISE) for the sixth year in a row. In late December, SUZB5 preferred shares were quoted  at R$ 14.78, having recorded a 6.9% loss in value during  the year. In the same period, Ibovespa and IBRX-50 showed  appreciation of 1.0% and 0.8%, respectively. The daily av- erage of deals was 2,087 and financial volume reached R$  19.4 million, increasing 73.4%, and 56.7%, respectively.  Suzanos market value on December 31, 2010, was R$ 6.0  billion. Free float was 45.4% of total shares. Share dispersion (number of shareholders per asset level) Share levels 2008 2009 2010 No. of  shareholders Number   of Shares No. of  shareholders Number   of Shares No. of  shareholders Number   of Shares Over 5.0 million 17 215.0 14 191.3 14 263.0 From 2.0 to 4.99 million 10 29.3 13 38.5 13 39.1 From 1.0 to 1.99 million 12 17.9 13 17.3 18 25.4 From 500 thousand to 0.99 million 22 14.9 25 17.2 34 22.4 From 200 to 499 thousand 52 15.4 73 22.2 75 23.5 From 50 to 199 thousand   126  12.9  156  15.8  179  18.5 From 10 to 49 thousand 274  6.2 354 8.0 450 10.1 From 100 to 9.9 thousand 2,465 2.9 3,404 4.2 5,517 6.9 Less than 100 shares 1,114 0.0  1,104 28.5 1,168 0.0 Total 4,092 314.5 5,156 314.5 7,468 408.9 Capital market 45.4% Research of how we are perceived done by Institutional  Investor recognized Suzanos CEO and CFO as the best in  the pulp and paper industry. Buy-side analysts also recog- nize the company as having the best Investor Relations  professional in the industry. of total shares. Investments In 2010, our investments totaled R$ 603.1 million, 8.4% lower  than the amount invested in 2009. Investments in maintaining  current capacity totaled R$ 330.3 million, with R$ 97.9 million go- ing to the industrial area and R$ 232.5 million to the forestry area.  R$ 260 million were invested in expansion projects in Maranho  and Piau and R$ 12.7 million were placed in other projects. Free float was   Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 41 Risk Management (GRI 1.2 and 4.11) The company has doubled in size in the past five years  and this has posed many challenges, among which is the  challenge of continuously maturing our business process  control and risk management mechanisms. To face these challenges, we took important steps in  2010, including establishment of the no surprise policy  with the purpose of being followed by all managers when  conducting business, so as to provide top management  with all necessary information in due time to make the  best decisions. Motivated by this intention, we created Internal Controls  Management, linked to Controlling Executive Manage- ment, which is responsible for coordinating actions for im- provement in business process controls framework, seek- ing to mitigate inherent internal and external risks, aligned  with our growth strategy. The department has started to  work in an integrated manner with other business areas to  identify the existing controls, risks involved and minimum  mechanisms required to manage them. The diagnosis is  the foundation for establishing in-depth control plans and  for adopting monitoring tools. The dedicated team that is working on our extension in  the Northeast also strengthened the activity risk manage- ment process during 2010. They held business talks with  all of the people responsible for the areas involved with  the project and identified 87 risks—ten of which were high  priority—and created and applied action plans to mitigate  them. The idea is that this work is done continuously; that  is, during each new project phase any other eventual risks  are identified and mitigated. This kind of activity also re- sults in potential business opportunities. Not only did it result in these activities, but it also result- ed in continuous monitoring of all other risks to which we  are exposed and development of action and contingency  plans to mitigate them based on the methodology used by  Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway  Commission (COSO), a non-profit and globally recognized  organization that created a method to make operations  control reports more effective and thus strengthen a com- panys capability to manage risks inherent to business. Our internal framework includes a Risk Subcommittee,  linked to the Strategy Committee, and the Risk Workgroup,  coordinated by the departments. After establishing the moni- toring methodology, the first step is to map and prioritize all  corporate risks. Each department will monitor their own risks,  as well as establish action, contingency and control plans. The  Risk Workgroup is responsible for mapping, prioritizing and  reporting action plan status of department risks. Implementation of  risk management  to identify risks and  create action plans  for dealing   with them. Marcelo Gomes and Gustavo Renaud during a meeting at the Suzano Renewable Energy office (So Paulo)  Financial risks External risk factors related to market price fluctuation  can create an undesired level of volatility to cash genera- tion and the bottom line. To manage volatility so as not to  create any distortion or losses to our consistent long term  growth, we have policies and procedures to manage finan- cial risks. The purpose of the policies and procedures is to  protect cash flow and net worth against any market price  fluctuations of supplies and products, exchange and inter- est rates, price and correction indexes or even any other  assets or instruments traded on net markets or not (mar- ket risks), where the value of our assets, liabilities or cash  generation may be exposed. Additionally, we streamlined  contracting of financial instruments to protect risk expo- sure by using natural hedging and correlations between  different asset and market prices. By doing so, we avoided  wasting resources by contracting operations in an ineffi- cient manner. The purpose of these financial operations  is to protect the company against exposure. Risks that do  not result from our operational activities cannot be used. Our funding and exchange hedge policies are guided  by the fact that over 50% of the net revenues arising  from exports is priced in US dollars, whereas a large part  of production costs are backed by the BRL. That kind  of structural exposure allows us to contract financing  for exports in US dollars at more competitive costs than  local financing lines and conciliates financing payments  with sales flow receipts, resulting in a natural cash flow  hedge for these commitments. Exceeding revenues in  US dollars not backed by debt commitments and other  obligations are sold in the foreign exchange market  when resources are internalized. We used the COSO (Committee  of Sponsoring Organizations  of the Treadway Commission)  methodology to manage our  business risks. Employe Iraci Candida da Silva,   Rio Verde Unit (So Paulo) 42 Market Risks Market risks are mainly represented by fluctuations in the economy of the  markets in which we operate, which reflect consumption, and by fierce compe- tition, as seen in 2010, for instance, in coated paper, as a result of the strong  entry of imported products. These events were mitigated thanks to our diversification strategy, not only  in products, but also in business lines. The paper business operates with four  lines with the goal of launching five new products annually. In 2010, we includ- ed entry into two net market niches, biotechnology, which has already been  consolidated, and renewable energy, in the guidelines established by  our Annual Strategic Planning Cycle. Additionally, we maintain  permanent practices to improve our ties to customers and try  to establish long term contracts with them, resulting in  high satisfaction and loyalty levels.  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 43 Operational Risks To avoid any eventual risks in growth project delays and  the potential need to increase our previously defined in- vestments to execute them, we have contracted financ- ing according to suitable conditions for our profile and  amortization term, at compatible rates. We also adopted  mitigation measures by creating an exclusive Risk Com- DCS at Line 2, Mucuri Unit mittee for our operations in the Northeast, composed  of representatives from all project fronts, which follows  guidelines established by C.O.S.O. - Committee of Spon- soring Organizations. Additionally, we continually monitor stages and invest- ments with the support of specialized partners.  44 Annual Sustainability Report Intangible Assets In our opinion, intangible assets are assets without  physical or financial substance that meet the follow- ing two requirements: a) future economic benefits that  can be attributed to them most flow to the organiza- tion; b) cost measurement of the intangible assets must  be possible and reliable. In line with our strategic pil- lars—growth and profitability, competitiveness and sus- tainability—we also recognize that they are part of our  capital since they differentiate us in the domestic and  international markets. Based on this understanding, our own policy of intangible  asset management establishes the guidelines so that we can  identify, assess, develop, maintain and protect them. To do  so we develop metrics to verify their growth and publish  their statement annually to disseminate and share them  with society, seeking to add value to our company. In order to comply with this policy, in 2010, we listed  our main intangible assets: corporate image, processes  and technology, products and services, sales channels,  brands and patents, and employee know how. These as- sets materialize into:  Management Standard Certifications: With the ex- ception of Maranho and Piau, all of our units are ISO  14001-certified and audited by Bureau Veritas Certifica- tion. Moreover, all of our production areas comply with  Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) standards and guidelines.  Management model based on Brazilian Quality  Foundation criteria (FNQ): In 2001 and 2008, the  FNQ granted us the National Quality Award, for compli- ance with the following criteria; leadership, strategy and  plans, customers, society, information and knowledge,  people, processes, and results.  Relationship with capital markets: We have dedi- cated teams and communication channels to maintain  a direct relationship with investors, potential investors,  and capital market analysts. (Learn more in the Corpo- rate Governance chapter).  Technology and new product management: Many  in-house programs feed our pursuit of operational ex- cellence and one of our most important differentials:  innovation. We also have a goal of launching at least  five new products annually. (Learn more in Strategy and  Management Model chapter and Operational Perfor- mance/Paper Business Unit chapter).  Personnel and team management: We defined qual- ity relationships as one of our corporate values. In order  to attain that value, we developed a program, aligned  with the best market practices, to attract, retain and  integrate people through fair compensation, benefits,  and personal and professional opportunities for growth.  (Learn more in the People chapter). Angela Maria Vieira da Silva  and Michely Cristina Lopes  at the Forestry Technology  Center, city of Itapetininga  (So Paulo)  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 45 Our main intangible assets are:  corporate image, processes and  technology, products and services,  sales channels, brands and  patents, and employee  know how  Strategy management: We have a Strategic Planning  Cycle, with five stages that add to and fine tune our  sustainable growth strategy annually. (Learn more in the  Strategy and management model chapter).  Knowledge built on workforce: That we are con- fident our workforce is our most important asset,  therefor we many common mechanisms to promote:  Develop and standardize procedures in all areas,  through Which We seek to Consolidate the knowl- edge management model. (Learn more in the Strategy  and management model chapter).  Brands and corporate image: Our image shows a  path of achievements recognized by the market by the  many awards and prizes received. It also adds value to  the more than 30 brands of papers, many of which are  established in the domestic and international markets.  (Learn more in the Operational performance/ Paper  Business Unit chapter).  46 Annual Sustainability Report Corporate Governance We ran our business based on policies and guidelines  formulated using the principles of good corporate gover- nance: transparency, equality, accountability, and respon- sibility. We are part of Level 1 corporate governance at  BM&FBovespa and, for the sixth year running, we are also  in this stock markets Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE),  which is made up of companies that are committed to cre- ating value in the long term for shareholders. We have established continual and honest dialog with  the capital market and investors and have placed all neces- sary information at their disposal so that they may assess  our performance and its alignment with the growth strate- gies defined in the Annual Planning Cycle. Two channels of communication are aimed specifically at  these stakeholders: the e-mail address ri@suzano.com.br  and the phone number for the Investor Relations depart- ment (5511) 3503-9061. Since 2006 we have maintained a Code of Conduct  that expresses the ethical principles that guide our corpo- rate behavior. In 2010, it was adapted to include some of  our policies and has become the topic of an online course  given to associates through e-Suzano. (Learn more in the  People chapter) (GRI 4.8) Our governance structure also includes a Conduct  Committee, which is responsible for managing the Code  of Conduct and for ensuring its compliance, and an Exter- nal Ombudsman, a confidential channel which answers  questions and submits reports of unethical conduct. The  Ombudsman is run by an independent consultant and  can be reached by telephone (0800 7714 060) and via  e-mail: ouvidoriaexterna@austernet.com.br. Our financial statements have been audited since 2004  by the company of Ernst & Young Terco Independent Au- ditors which is also responsible for reviewing our internal  controls. Reports issued are presented and discussed by  the Audit Committee along with external auditors. Likewise, our principles were absorbed during the de- velopment of the Sustainability Master Plan, carried out  during the year through a partnership with the Ecofuturo  Institute, for which we were recognized as a benchmark  in this matter. The Plan required some structural changes  to the Forestry Business Unit. The changes included the  creation of the Sustainability Executive Management, Re- gional Social and Environmental Managements, and the  Corporate Sustainability Intelligence department. (Learn  more in the Environment chapter) 87%  Our principles were absorbed  during the development of the  Sustainability Master Plan of our employees  participated in the Code of  Conduct training course  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 47 Richard Lopes Novak, Flavio de Jesus Dvulatka,  Daniel Turci Pedroso and Antonio dos Santos  Maciel Neto, employees at the So Paulo office  48 Annual Sustainability Report Share structure Parent  company 52% Free Float 45% Treasury 3% BU = Business Unit Pulp bU Operations Service  Provider Finance Service   Provider Human Resources  Service Provider PS = Service Providers Forestry bU board of Directors (CA) 9 members (4 independent) biotechnology Management Sustainability   and Strategy Audit CA Committees CeO Investor  Relations Strategy Organizational Structure We exercise corporate governance through the Board of Direc- tors, supported by the Management, Sustainability and Strategy,  and Audit committees, and through the Executive Board. We fur- thermore maintain a permanent Audit Committee made up of  three full members and three alternates. (GRI 4.1) To reinforce this structure, 13 Committees, 17 Subcommittees,  and several Work Groups have been established and tasked with  promoting integration between areas while contributing to en- hancing and disseminating strategic topics and practices. (GRI 4.1) Moreover, our Business Units (Forestry, Pulp, and Paper) are sup- ported by three internal Service Providers: Operations, Finance,  and Human Resources. Paper bU Suzano energy  Renewable  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 49 board of Directors The Board is made up of nine members, one of whom is  between 30 and 50 years of age and the remaining eight  of whom are over 50. Four of them are independent and  one is an honorary member. The members gather every  quarter and, when needed, extraordinarily. In 2010 there  were 26 meetings. (GRI 4.3, 4.9 e LA13)  David Feffer – Chairman  Daniel Feffer – Vice president  Boris Tabacof – Vice president  Jorge Feffer – Member of the Board  Cludio Sonder – Member of the Board  Antonio Meyer – Independent member  Oscar Bernardes Neto – Independent member  Marco Bologna – Independent member  Nildemar Secches – Independent member  Augusto Esteves de Lima Junior – Honorary member (Board member bios are available in the Reference Form,  at www.suzano.com.br/ri) executive board Is made up of one CEO and six officers, five of which  between 30 and 50 years old and two above 50 years old.  (LA14)  Antonio Maciel dos Santos Neto – CEO  Andr Dorf – CEO of Suzano Renewable Energy  AlexnadreYambanis – Head of Pulp Business Unit  Bernardo Szpigel– CFO and Legal Officer  Carlos Anbal de Almeida Jnior – Head of Paper Busi- ness Unit  Carlos Alberto Griner – CHRO  Ernesto Pousada Jnior – COO  Joo Comrio – Head of Forestry Business Unit (Executive board member bios are available in the Refe- rence Form, at www.suzano.com.br/ri) Support  Committees (CO) – Management Model, Standard- ization and Certification, Investments, Operational Ex- cellence, Strategy, Personnel Management, Conduct  Management, Innovation, Fiscal-Tax, International Man- agement, Communication, Processes and Sustainability.  Subcommittees (SC) – Facilitators of the Management  Model, Credit, Risk Management, People Management,  Quality, Cash Flow, TOT (operation, Fiscal, Tax), Invest- ments, Operational Excellence, Six Sigma, Forestry Stan- dardization and Certification, SPP Standardization and  Certification, Operations Service Provider Standardiza- tion and Certification, Innovation, Sustainability, Con- duct Management and GAP Closure.  Workgroups (GT) – Workgroups are created when  needed in order to debate, learn more about, and de- liberate on the measures to be taken concerning specific  topics related to our operations. Tax Committee The tax committee is composed of three effec- tive members  Luiz Augusto Paes  Rubens Barletta  Jaime Luiz Kalsing (Tax committee member bios are available in the  Reference Form, at www.suzano.com.br/ri)  50 Annual Sustainability Report Marcio de Oliveira Ruas,  Mucuri Unit (Bahia)  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 51 People are the foundation  of our growth Human  Capital  52 Annual Sustainability Report In line with the strategy of multiplying our value through  organic growth and diversification of business, the per- sonnel management model focused on HR for Growth  in 2010. Its goal is to promote the structure necessary to  provide support for the expansion planned in the states of  Maranho and Piau which, by 2014, will include training  for around 16,000 professionals in the region. We began formulating initiatives to train this contin- gent while identifying the educational infrastructure that  will need to be available to the regions of Imperatriz (Ma- ranho) and Palmeirais (Piau) as well as the investments  needed for this. In that sense we are initially creating a  consortium to train people to work at the project site,  with the support of the Maranho State Government, city  halls, trade associations, unions, construction companies  and others. We have also mobilized technical learning cen- ters, such as the Brazilian Industrial Learning Service  (Senai) of Bahia, which is experienced in training  people for working with pulp and will support  our actions in Maranho, the Senai school of  Maranho, and the Federal Institute of Edu- cation, Technology and Science of Maranho  (IFMA). The goal is to educate and train people in local  communities, creating jobs and strengthening develop- ment in the region. This practice is completely in line with  our policy of prioritizing local people in order to therefore  contribute to the development of the communities with  which we interact. (eC7) At the end of the year, we had a total of 4,352 direct  employees, most of whom (54%) are located in the south- west region of the country and 61% of whom work in  operations. By moving forward in our primarization strat- egy, especially in forestry areas, 40 workers who  had before been outsourced workers were  absorbed during the year, which brought the  number of primarized employees to 300 by  the end of the year. Abroad, we maintained  another 186 professionals. Our turnover  for the fiscal year was 15%. People Vincius Precioso,  Mariana Zayat  Chammas and Bruna  Regis Machado at the  So Paulo office 52 16,000  professionals  trained by 2014 in the  Maranho and Piau regions  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 53 Profile per region (LA1) 2008 2009 2010 Employees % Employees % Employees % South 23 0.6 14 0.4 14 0.3 Southeast 2,241 63.3 2,257 58.4 2,355 54.1 Midwest 3 0.1 2 0.1 3 0.1 Northeast 1,273 36.0 1,589 41.1 1,980 45.5 North – – – – – – Total 3,540 100 3,862 100 4,352 100 Profile per gender (LA2) 2008 2009 2010 Employees % Employees % Employees % Women 368 10.4 402 10.4 545 12.5 Men 3,172 89.6 3,460 89.6 3,807 87.5 Total 3,540 100 3,862 100 4,352 100 Profile per gender (in %) (LA2) 2008 2009 2010 Women Men Women Men Women Men Officers 0 100 0 100 0 100 Managers 7 93 8 92 11,1 98,9 Specialists 28 72 29 71 34,5 65,5 Back office 26 71 28 72 25,4 74,6 Operational 2 98 2 98 3,9 96,1 Trainees 11 89 0 100 – – Total employees 10 90 10 90 12,5 87,5 Profile per age group (in %)  (LA13) 2008 2009 2010 less than  30 years  old From 30  to 50  years old Over 50  years old Less than  30 years  old From 30  to 50  years old Over 50  years old Less than  30 years  old From 30  to 50  years old Over 50  years old Officers 0 66.7 33.3 0 63.6 37.4 0 80 20 Managers 3.5 72.9 23.5 6.1 74.9 18.9 8.2 75.1 16.7 Specialists 22 65.6 12.4 24.5 62 13.5 28.9 58.2 12.9 Back office 32.6 56.5 10.9 35.1 55.9 8.9 33 56.9 10.1 Operational 32.4 62.1 5.5 33.3 61.1 5.6 35.6 58.6 5.8 Trainees 100 0 0 100 0 0 100 0 0 Total employees 27.8 63.1 9.1 29.2 62.1 8.8 31.3 60 8.7 Employee Bruna Bin and service provider Marjorie  Cristina da Cruz, at the Rio Verde Unit (So Paulo)  54 Annual Sustainability Report Company relations One highlight from the period was the consolidation of  the Personnel Performance Management System, whose  application advanced to the specialist level. Not only did it  result in action and retention plans, but by using individual  competency assessments, this project was reflected in the  payment and succession methodologies, strengthening  the process of merit-based gains. Therefore, at the execu- tive level, 19 people were promoted, twice the amount  compared to new hires. In the operational area, we contin- ued our evaluation and feedback policies. Based on those  Profile per type of job position and work contract  (LA1) 2008 2009 2010 Full time Part time Total Full time Part time Total Full time Part time Total Officers 7 – 7 11 – 11* 15 – 15 Managers 312 – 312 359 – 359 425 – 425 Specialists 732 1 733 733 1 734 784 1 785 Back office 359 – 359 370 – 370 485 – 485 Operational 2,122 – 2,122 2,387 – 2,387 2,642 – 2,642 Trainees 7 – 7 1 – 1 – – – Total 3,539 1 3,540 3,861 1 3,862 4,351 1 4,352 *Up to 2008, officers only meant elected officers. As from 2009, we have included elected and non-elected officers. initiatives, all employees underwent performance evalua- tions and received development initiatives during the year.  (LA10, LA11 and LA12) As a result of the promotions, the ratio between the low- est salary paid by Suzano and the current minimum wage  in operational units is 2.6 monthly salaries. All employees  are guaranteed free choice of union association regulated  by collective bargaining agreements, closed in the period  without any breaches and within the preestablished dead- lines, including notifications. (eC5, LA4, LA5 and HR5) Karen Su Lam and Zilka  Pimenta Saleh at the  So Paulo office  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 55 Job turnover per region (Brazil) (LA2) 2008 South Southeast Midwest Northeast Admissions 5 202 0 159 Dismissals 5 252 0 116 Turnover rate (%) –  Dismissals 21.40 11.00 0.00 9.30 Total Turnover rate (%)  –Corporate dismissals 10.50 2009 South Southeast Midwest Northeast Admissions 0 247 0 505 Dismissals 9 251 1 183 Turnover rate (%) –  Dismissals 52.20 11.30 34.30 13.90 Total turnover rate (%) – Corporate dismissals 12.50 2010 South Southeast Midwest Northeast Admissions 1 312 1 538 Dismissals 2 219 0 147 Turnover rate (%) –  Dismissals 14.50 9.50 0.00 8.40 Total turnover rate (%) – Corporate dismissals 9.10 Turnover rate per age group (LA2) 2008 2009 2010 less than  30 years  old From 30  to 50  years  old Over 50  years  old less than  30 years  old From 30  to 50  years  old Over 50  years  old less than  30 years  old From 30  to 50  years  old Over 50  years  old Total dismissals 116 193 64 147 231 66 122 195 51 Turnover rate (%) 11.5 8.6 19.9 14.9 10.3 20.6 10 7.9 14.1 Total – Turnover rate (%)   Total dismissals 10.5 12.5 9.1 Turnover rate per gender (LA2) 2008 2009 2010 Women Men Women Men Women Men Total 68 305 68 376 57 311 Turnover 18.4 9.5 18.2 11.8 12.4 8.6 Total – Turnover rate (%) 10.5 12.5 9.1 South 2 Southeast 219 Midwest 0 Northeast 147 Turnover per region Men 57 Women 311 Turnover per gender Turnover per age group <30 years old 30 to 50  years old 195 > 50  years old 51 122  Ratio between base-salary and gender (%) – 2010 (LA14) 2008 2009 2010 Men Women Men Women Men Women Officers ND ND ND ND ND ND Managers 99.8 103.0 99.6 104.8 99.0 107.0 Specialists 102.3 94.0 103.6 91.3 107.0 86.0 Back office 113.1 68.2 113.5 65.1 113.0 61.0 Operational 100.5 74.4 100.7 69.0 102.0 60.0 Trainees 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 – – Bernardo Giesta Romano, Paula Bottacin  Koumbis Mandaloufas, Gilciane Magiero  Beltrame Cogo and Oseas Soares da Silva,  Mucuri Unit (Bahia) Our employees receive a wide range of benefits, above  and beyond what is set forth by law and which include,  among other things, health and life insurance and food  vouchers. Moreover, we have had a private pension plan  with a defined contribution since 2005, Suzano Prev, in  which employees can participate with up to 12% of their  salaries with the company matching 0.5% of the salary for  those who receive up to R$ 1,849.30. For employees that  earn more than this, we contribute up to 6% of the differ- ence between the total amount and the nominal salaries.  (LA3 and eC3) In line with one of our values (quality relationships), we  also promoted a qualitative leap in our Inclusion Program  for People with Disabilities during the period. Different  than in previous years, when we were looking to fill our po- sitions, with experienced professionals, we have extended  our program. We began to not only carry out recruitment  and selection, but also to train these people, giving them  the behavioral and technical skills to facilitate their place- ment at the company and in their jobs. In 2010, 71 people  with disabilities were hired, with 35 of them taking part in  this program and undergoing two months of training be- fore joining their departments. This led us to end the year  with 141 people with disabilities in our units. 56  Suzano Papel e Celulose 2010 Under the same view in relation to diversity, we main- tain and disseminate equal treatment for all, including  compensation between men and women, and we moni- tor, report, and manage actions resulting from incidents  of discrimination. Therefore, we have not registered any  cases of discrimination that were informed to our hotlines  for the period. (HR4) Solidarity, another characteristic of Suzano, is encour- aged internally through the Volunteer Program, which in  2010 came to our administrative headquarters in So Pau- lo and was benefitted by the launch of the Volunteer Por- tal (www.voluntariadosuzano.com.br), an online meeting  place for increasing and potentializing volunteer activities.  At the end of the period, 344 employees and service pro- viders, which is 86% more than in 2009, took part in two  special initiatives in the area of education. They worked  as volunteer educators in the Formare schools, training  young people for the job market. Since 2005, we have  maintained three schools through a partnership with the  Iochpe Foundation, which are located in the Suzano (So  Paulo) and Mucuri units, and another in the Embu (So  Paulo) unit since 2009. With 11 classes having graduated  and three currently ongoing, the initiative has educated  212 young people, 54% of which have entered the labor  market and 36 of which are working at Suzano. Another  initiative is the Suzano at School project, in partnership  with Junior Achievement, which encourages public school  students from grades 6 through 9 to finish school and find  out more about careers and business. Volunteer employ- ees are also part of other initiatives with the purpose of  strengthening our ties with local communities and encour- aging them to exercise their roles as a citizens. All of these initiatives, and especially the manner in  which we execute them, were noted by employees in the  Employee Satisfaction Survey carried out during the year  by the Hay Group, one of the largest consulting firms in  this line of work. There was 96% adherence to the sur- vey, an increase of five percentage points compared to the  last cycle in 2007. Items that showed the largest increase  compared to the previous survey were cooperation with  workteams (a 22% increase) and professional growth op- portunities (a 21% increase). And more: 82% of partici- pants stated they were proud to work for the company  and 76% would recommend it as a good place to work.  Survey results became the basis for the development of  action plans at many different functional levels. Volunteer Work Project 2009 2010 % Suzano na Escola (Suzano  at School – state of Bahia) 20 45 125 Suzano na Escola (Suzano at  School – state of So Paulo) 0 46 n/d Formare Suzano 70 141 101 Formare Mucuri 60 67 12 Formare Embu 35 45 29 Total 185 344 86 Diversity Management (%) – 2010 (LA13) Disabled persons 3.2 African descent ND Women 12.5 People under 30 30.1 People between 30 and 50 years old 60.9 People over 50 8.9 Disabled employees (%) (LA13) 2008 2009 2010 Officers 0.0 0.0 0.0 Managers 0.0 0.3 0.2 Specialists 1.0 1.0 1.3 Back office 3.0 3.2 9.3 Operational 3.0 2.8 3.2 Trainees 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2.0 2.3 3.2 of professionals  participated in the employee  satisfaction survey, an increase  of 5 percentage points compared  to the previous cycle 96% 57  58 Annual Sustainability Report Training and Development In 2010, we intensified our training program, which to- taled 292,000 hours—an average of 67.2 hours per pro- fessional—and required investments of R$ 4.3 million, as  part of the preparation for consistent growth. One of the  main topics was the concept of Strong and kind, which  is part of our Mission, Vision and Values and is spread  throughout management at every level. (LA10) Also as a result of the adjustment made to our organi- zational identity, which involved over one thousand em- ployees, a multi-disciplinary team, including the executive  board and our CEO, went into the field to spread the new  Vision and Mission and the new Values to employees.  The Code of Conduct update brought about formatting  of a module on document guidelines on E-Suzano, our  distance learning portal. All employees received informa- tion on the new code and signed a term of acknowledge- ment, with 87% of them have already been trained. The  training courses, talks, and other activities developed  throughout the year were also related to human rights  practices and totaled 21,000 hours, involving 90% of  direct employees. (HR3) The Intern program, in turn, was broadened and en- hanced. With 157 members, 118% more than the pre- vious fiscal year, it included behavioral training modules  and visits to mills. It was adopted by 90% of managers.  In the end, 51 interns who graduated during the last  cycle were incorporated into our workforce. To promote  this initiative among college students and therefore  facilitate the programs objective of attracting and se- lecting talent, we participated in recruiting events or- ganized by academia, including the 9th FEA Junior USP  Recruiting and Career Tradeshow, the 20th Poli Junior  USP Integration Workshop, and the Virtual Curriculum  Networks Tradeshow. Training by functional category (LA10)  (average h/empl./year) 2008 2009 2010 Officers 27.22 8.32 26.33 Managers 57.55 65.17 71.82 Specialists 37.93 36.9 34.42 Back office 27.29 24.61 25.61 Operational 61.58 96.88 84.10 Overall average* 52.72 75.34 67.22 Employees Lucas Costa Furtado,  Rogerio Baldan and Eraldo Cordeiro  Almeida Junior at the Suzano   Leader Development Program * The overall average is the total of employees divided by total hours.  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 59 Safety, health and quality of life We work under the assumption that integrity, health  and safety of our direct employees and outsourced per- sonnel are values that we continually pursue. That is why it  is part of our Social Responsibility, Health and Safety policy,  certified by OHSAS 18001 and is disseminated among all  employees who are committed to its guidelines and goals.  In the scope of the Occupational Health and Safety Sys- tem (SSO), we have also maintained a strong commitment  towards the continuous improvement of our routines by  promoting audits of operational and behavioral deviations. Our commitment is also translated into improvement  of processes, machinery, and equipment and the develop- ment and adoption of preventive and health campaigns  such as the Safety Dialogs, daily meetings with operational  employees and weekly meetings with back office person- nel, to reinforce the need for 100% safe behavior, in ad- dition to the Zero Accidents program which trains and  awards teams for their performance in relation to safety  indicators. We have Health and Safety Workgroups throughout all  departments in our units which report to Directive Work  groups (GT SIG), made up of multidisciplinary represen- tatives from several areas. We have established collective  bargaining agreements with the unions that represent our  employees, valid for all staff, which, among other mea- sures, guarantees the use of personal protection equip- ment and the right to refuse to work under unsafe condi- tions. In 2010, 100% of employees that work in the safety  area also participated in a course through the E-Suzano  portal on the Code of Conduct, which includes guidelines  related to respecting human rights, totaling 2,145 hours.  (LA6, LA9 and HR8) Therefore, in 2010 our accident frequency rate (with or  without days away from work, of direct and outsourced  personnel) was 3.01%. The severity rate was impacted by  a casualty at the Suzano Unit, resulting from a flaw in pro- cedure, which was not followed according to the safety  departments instructions. We have provided full assis- tance to the victims family, with an HR professional moni- toring them directly and service from the PASSO program  (Family Assistance Program), which is part of our Quality of  Life Program. (LA7) We believe that health and safety are directly related to  quality of life. We have continued many actions that seek  to promote leisure and integration of our employees, their  family members and the communities during the period. These actions are included in our Quality of Life Program  which is made up of four pillars: health, relationship, mind,  and culture. The PASSO program, created in 2010, is an example of  these actions. The purpose of the program is to provide  support to employees so that they can deal with personal  or family problems such as drug addiction, financial diffi- hours  in total 2010  training hours 292,000 Marcos Vieira de Souza, employee at the Embu Unit (So Paulo)  60 Annual Sustainability Report culties or others. Contact with the multidisciplinary team— including psychologists and social workers—is done  through an toll free hotline, available 24/7 at all units. We  have already serviced 289 people in the period within the  scope of the new program. (LA8) The Sade Nota 10 (Top Form Health) program promotes  physical evaluations, incentives to quit smoking, quality  of diet improvement, exercising and reducing obesity. In  2010, a total of 2,711 people participated. Another incentive connected to the Quality of Life Pro- gram was the inauguration in Mucuri of Cine Suzano, a  movie theater providing employees and community mem- bers with leisure activity by presenting two monthly ses- sions—one for adults and another one for children—at  different locations in the city. Along the same lines, we have a Corporate Visit Pro- gram, which was extended during the period. Now, every  employee can participate in monitored visits also in Bahia,  accompanied by up to three family members, to learn  more about the Mucuri Unit and the seedling nursery. In  So Paulo they can visit Parque das Neblinas park. With this  initiative they have the opportunity to learn more about  our industrial and forestry processes by watching videos  and attending lectures. In 2010, 308 employees and fam- ily members visited the Mucuri Unit and 418 visited Parque  das Neblinas park. Health and Safety Management* (LA7) 2008 2009 2010 Accident frequency rate 4.97 (1) 3.08 (1) 3.01(1) Days away from work rate 31.02 (2) 16.46 (2) 19.94 Absenteeism rate 1.1% (3) 0 (3) 2.1 Absolute number of casualties 0 1(4) 1(5) * Our records follow the NBR 14.280 standard. (1) Accidents with and without days away from work (direct employees and service providers). Data includes  minor injuries. (2) Just accidents (does not include days discounted) (direct employees and service providers). (3) Takes into account all absences during the year. (4) Accident that resulted in casualty of a worker from a company rendering services at the SPP-Nemo distributor  unit in So Paulo (So Paulo). (5) Accident that resulted in a casualty at the Suzano Unit (So Paulo) arising from failure to follow procedure as  established by safety department guidelines.  Severe Diseases Assistance Programs – 2010 (LA8) Education and  Training Counseling Prevention/risk  control Treatment/ health  insurance Included in programs YES NO YES NO YES NO  YES NO Employees X X X X Employees families X X X X Community members X X X X Olismar Santos de Matos, employee at the Itabat nursery (Bahia)  The PASSO  (Family Assistance  Program), launched  in 2010, has  already serviced  289 people Health & Safety   Management by Unit (LA7) Frequency rate with days away from work 2008 2009 2010 Suzano 0.33 0.00 1.3 Rio Verde 0.00 0.00 2 Mucuri 0.19 0.70 0.56 Embu 0.00 1.89 1.76 Bahia/Minas Gerais  Forestry Unit 0.17 0.14 0 So Paulo Forestry Unit 0.39 0.00 0.49 Maranho Forestry Unit – 0.00 0 Piau Forestry Unit –  0.00 0 SPP 0.00 3.21 5.2 So Paulo Office 0.00 0.00 0 Consolidated 0.23 0.27 0.52 Frequency rate without days away from work 2008 2009 2010 Suzano 6.23 6.40 3.69 Rio Verde 8.11 5.76 0 Mucuri 6.16 3.72 4.11 Embu 5.03 1.89 8.81 Bahia/Minas Gerais  Forestry Unit 2.07 1.08 0.81 So Paulo Forestry Unit 5.12 1.65 1.98 Maranho Forestry Unit – – 1.8 Piau Forestry Unit – – 3.36 SPP 0.00 0.00 2.6 So Paulo Office 0.00 0.00 0 Consolidated 4.74 2.81 2.49 Number of days missed Suzano 64 0 18 Rio Verde 0 0 200 Mucuri 4 36 49 Embu 0 9 26 Bahia/Minas Gerais  Forestry Unit 23 28 0 So Paulo Forestry Unit 53 0 30 Maranho Forestry Unit – 0 0 Piau Forestry Unit – 0 0 SPP 0 0 29 So Paulo Office 0 0 0 Consolidated 31 16 20 *Until 2009, Maranho and Piau unit figures were reported together.   As from 2010, the figures are separate. 2,711 Waldir Rosa da Silva,  employee at the Embu  Unit (So Paulo) 61 participants  in the Top Form  Health Program  62 Annual Sustainability Report Quality and Respectful  Relationships: Suzano   values that reach out   to our communities Social  Capital  Children at the Golfinho Community  Association, Mucuri (Bahia)  64 Annual Sustainability Report Customers A customer Satisfaction  Survey showed a 65%  and 66% favorability rate,  respectively in the pulp and  paper areas SUZANO PULP booth at the International  Pulp and Paper Congress and Exhibition  promoted by the Brazilian Pulp and Paper  Technical Association (ABTCP) With that same purpose, we participated in many  events during the period, including Brazil Day, within  the scope of ExpoTime—culture and business trade- show in Shanghai, China—and Expoprint, the largest  printing chain technologies dissemina- tion and business meeting in Latin  America, held in So Paulo. The focus of our Business Units in 2010 was intensification  of relationship building with customers. Examples include  events promoted by the Pulp area for its workers aimed at  further instilling the concept of adding value to the product  to offer superior services in addition to research that was car- ried out by the Paper area to better understand the distribu- tion segment outside of Brazil and thus adjust and enhance  operations. (Learn more in the Operational Performance/Pulp  Business Unit and Paper Business Unit chapters). In addition to operational measures such as these, we  maintained actions that sought to strengthen our relation- ships with customers, such as the Visitor Program, which  was expanded during the year and brought 1,600 people,  including customers and residents from neighboring com- munities, to learn about our mill and forestry processes at  the Mucuri and Suzano units. 64  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 65 In order to measure customer perception of our prod- ucts and services, we carry out periodical surveys. In 2010,  they showed satisfaction levels of 65% and 66%, respec- tively for the pulp and paper areas. (PR5) We also adopted marketing actions to demonstrate  the differentials of our products, among which was our  participation in 2010 Earth Month, an initiative from one  of the most important self-service chains in the world to  increase the supply of sustainable products in its stores.  At that time, Suzano participated with Reciclato Branco  paper (recycled white paper), which is used for printing  the label on one of the most important chocolate powder  drinks in Brazil. These initiatives as well as all of the specific campaigns  developed throughout the period, including those directed  at end users, were aligned with our internal standards and  procedures in regards to sample requests and monitoring,  supplier agreements, quote/payments controls, standards  and procedures for contracting agencies, and hierarchy  levels for payment and contract approvals in the SAP sys- tem. That is because we have not adhered to any volun- tary codes for communications and marketing. However,  thanks to our internal measures, we have not registered  any noncompliance with advertising, promotion and spon- sorship rules and codes. (PR6 and PR7) Likewise, we have not received any claims in relation to  privacy violation or loss of customer data. The strict com- pliance with our Code of Conducts guidelines contributes  to the aforementioned, where all information related to  customers must remain confidential. Moreover, our stan- dard contracts include a non-disclosure clause and estab- lish a breach of contract for a partnership in the event of  noncompliance. Additionally, we have a contract with an  independent company responsible for managing emails  sent to customers, and a controlled access system restrict- ed to electronic mail. (PR8) Although our products are not subject to health and  safety regulation, production processes are carried out  under strict internal control that complies with Brazil- ian and international norms and standards applicable to  the industry. Therefore, we have not registered any non- conformities or impacts of our products and services on  health and safety. In relation to labeling, supply and use,  our pulps packaging and safety data sheets contain all in- formation on the product and service and the paper area  strictly complies with Brazilian law on this matter. Despite  this, an error in the metric description on the packaging or  Report Seninha paper caused us to receive three warn- ings from Instituto de Pesos e Medidas (IPEM – Measure- ments and Weight Institute), resulting in a R$ 8,291.00  fine. The amount was paid and the packaging was fixed  immediately. (PR2, PR3, PR4 and PR9) Report Colored Multipurpose Paper  66 Annual Sustainability Report Suppliers Supplier management was deemed one of our strengths  in the Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade 2010 (2010 Exame  Sustainability Guide), which chose the 20 model companies  in Brazil in corporate social responsibility. Our score was 8.5,  much higher than the overall company average of 5.1. One of the factors that allowed us to stand out was the  fact that we give priority to local labor, resulting in ben- efits not only for the communities but also for both our  own and our partners business. If on the one hand these  professionals allow us to understand, respect and preserve  regional cultures, on the other they are motivated by us to  increment their results. In that sense, one of the programs we have is the Suzano  Suppliers Award, given since 2006. The objective of the  award is to disseminate our practices directed at sustainable  management and to value our partners actions. Categories  include supplies, services, logistics, and innovation. The pro- gram also chooses the Supplier of the Year. In 2010, criteria  were restructured and we included topics related to occu- pational safety and social and environmental responsibility.  Winners were Comgs (supplies), Tide Florestal (services),  Embrac (logistics), and Dupont (innovation). Comgs was  chosen supplier of the year.  Another one of our initiatives for adding value which  was intensified during the period was closing long term  contracts, an advantage for both parties: for us, because  they result in gains in costs and terms; for our partners, be- cause it strengthens the relationship of trust and guaran- tees them the peace of mind they need to plan their flows. Our policy of preferring local partners was also applied  within the Northeast extension scope. We held two meet- ings with these professionals, in Imperatriz and So Luis,  in the state of Maranho, resulting in 186 companies reg- istered. Thus, we closed the year with 3,651 active suppli- ers – expenditures with these professionals was 66% in  So Paulo, 8% in Bahia and 6% in Esprito Santo.  (eC6) In  order to select material suppliers or service providers, we  adopted strict criteria so as to comply with labor, fiscal and  environmental laws as well as social and environmental  conduct and to protect the health of these companys em- ployees. These issues, as well as the adoption of practices  that respect human rights, are also set forth in all of our  standard contract. Furthermore, we hold annual audits at  critical suppliers to certify that they are not using child or  slave labor or unfit labor practices. In 2010, we carried out  25 audits, which accounts for 6% of the total amount of  critical suppliers. We did not find any noncompliance with  any of these rules. We are also committed to the Programa  Na Mo Certa (In the Right Hands Program), to fight sexual  exploitation of children and teenagers. The guidelines of  this program are constantly disseminated among suppli- ers. (HR1, HR2, HR5, HR6 and HR7) The Forestry Partnership Program is yet another mecha- nism through which we contribute to the social and eco- nomic development of the regions where we operate. In  2010 it was reformulated and began to focus more on  small farmers. (Learn more in the Operational Perfor- mance/Forestry Business Unit chapter). was the score that  Suzano received  from the exame  Sustainability Guide  for corporate social  responsibility 8.5 Active Suppliers per Region (eC6) 2008 2009 2010 Region Suppliers % Suppliers % Suppliers % So Paulo 2,285 71.25 2,019 71.37 2,425 66.42 Bahia 232 7.23 181 6.40 308 8.44 Esprito  Santo 196 6.11 170 6.01 232 6.35 Minas  Gerais – – – – 126 3.45 Maranho – – – – 149 4.08 Piau – – – – 103 2.82 Tocantins – – – – 7 0.20 Others – 15.41 – 16.12 301 8.24 Total 2,713 100 2,370 100 3,651 100  Alambari nursery (So Paulo) 67  Our commitment to sustainability can be seen on sev- eral fronts. We are a signatory member of the Brazilian  Global Compact Committee, a UN initiative to mobilize the  corporate community in adopting ten principles related to  human rights, labor relations, the environment, and the  fight against corruption. We are also signatories of the  UNs Eight Millennium Goals to be reached by 2015, which  cover eradication of poverty, health, quality of life, and the  environment, as well as the Corporate Pact for Integrity  and Against Corruption, sponsored by the Instituto Ethos  de Negcios e Responsabilidade Social and the United Na- tions Development Program (UNDP), and the National pact  for the Eradication of slave labor, also coordinated by Ethos  Institute and by the International Labor Organization (ILO).  We are moreover part of the Sustainable Amazon Forum  and the Brazilian Corporate Council for Sustainable Devel- opment (Cebeds), which is the Brazilian representative of  the World Business Council for Sustainable Development  (WBCSD). (GRI 4.12) In 2010, we signed the Corporate Charter for the Pres- ervation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity, launched in  September by the Corporate Movement for Preservation  and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity (MEB). In this docu- ment, companies have voluntarily undertaken many com- mitments to benefit Brazilian biodiversity and have submit- ted many proposals to the federal government with that  purpose. A representative of our Sustainability department  also participated in the United Nations Conference of the  Parties (COP 16) for Climate Change, held in December in  Cancun, Mexico. Government and Society Capoeira workshop at  the Golfinho Education  Center, Mucuri (Bahia) 68  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 69 Transparency in our relationship with the government is  also a part of our financial contributions made to political  parties and candidates to office. The donations are either  made as products (paper) or cash, in a reputable manner  observing legislation in force and according with the norms  of our Code of Conduct. In the 2010 elections, funds were  donated to political parties or candidates without any ideo- logical discrimination. The list of parties and candidates that  received the donations in 2010 can be seen at the Electoral  Superior Court (TSE) website: www.tse.gov.br. (SO6) Our ethical conduct also translates into actions to settle  any potential cases of corruption. It is part of the internal  audit procedures, which seeks to identify potential deviation  risks by mapping our processes. The audit cycle takes place  every three years, whereby the most critical processes are  audited on an annual basis, which is valid for all units. Our  Code of Conduct, which also establishes norms related to  the topic, was subject matter of an online course available  to all of our employees in our distance learning portal. (SO2  and SO3) During the period, there were no registered cases of cor- ruption in our units. We also were not mentioned in legal  proceedings for unfair competition, trust and monopoly  practices, nor were we subject to fines or penalties for non  compliance with the law and regulations. (SO4, SO7 and SO8) Parque das Neblinas park, So Paulo Cooperana – Seamstress  Coop of Juerana, city of  Caravelas (Bahia) Moreover, we are members of many Brazilian and in- ternational entities that advocate for social and environ- mental advances, such as the Forest Stewardship Coun- cil (FSC) and Ethos Institute, and which also advocate for  the interests of our industry with the Brazilian Pulp and  Paper Association (Bracelpa), Brazil Pulp and Paper Tech- nical Association (ABTCP), Brazilian Planted Forests Farm- ers Association (Abraf) and the Florestar Fund. We have  also developed partnerships with some globally renowned  non-governmental organizations, such as The Nature Con- servancy (TNC) and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). (GRI  4.13) We have contributed to the development of public poli- cies through these organizations, as well as through our  own initiatives. Some examples include work developed  through a partnership with the Getlio Vargas Foundation  (FGV) to adapt to the national reality of the GHG Proto- col—a methodology used to account for greenhouse ef- fect gases—and the creation of National Reading Day, in  2009, which resulted from articulation with the Ecofuturo  Institute, which is maintained by us. Additionally, one of  our executives chairs the ISO 26000 Global Committee;  the ISSO 26000 is a manual of guidelines and guidance  launched at the end of 2010 so that companies include  social responsibility in their business strategies. We moni- tor the legislative agenda and other topics of our concern  and that concern the pulp and paper industry. More- over we maintain the Internal Governmental Affairs  System (SIAG), a tool available through the inter- net that contains the biographies of federal  political officials and also the biographies for  the state and municipal officials of where  we operate. (SO5)  70 Annual Sustainability Report In 2010, we extended our Social Performance Matrix  to every state where we work. Developed in 2009 at the  Mucuri Unit, it gathers a set of tools for diagnosing and  relating with communities neighboring our forestry areas.  Among the initiatives connected with it, we can highlight  the Social Inventory, carried out before we begin any ac- tivities in order to prevent any potential impacts, identify  the communitys social assets and maintain an active dia- log with them. When carrying out this work, we mark the  areas that have a social and environmental conservation  value indentified on our premises–cemiteries and caryocar  trees, for instance. With the help of another tool, the Tradi- tional Community Characterization Instrument (ICCT), we  map the adjacent communities to our properties that have  traditional traits, such as quilombolas (descendents from  slaves) and quebradeiras de coco babau (babassu coconut  breakers), and have adopted practices to relate with them,  backed by external research and anthropologists opinions.  In 2010 there were no registered cases of violation of in- digenous rights or any other type of settlement surround- ing our units. (HR9) Communities We are also able to improve our dialog with local groups  through the Social Performance Matrix, by using the Su- zano em Campo (Suzano in the Field) book, which guides  employees in regards to their relationship with neighbors  that surround our units. In all of them, our own employees  and outsourced employees were trained and they visit the  communities periodically, so as to promote the relation- ship and register their requirements. In 2010, we received  1,240 manifestations through this channel, whereby most  of them (86%) were in the state of Bahia, were the system  had been applied since the beginning of the year. Of said  manifestations, 77% are requests type demand, that is,  specific support requests that include donating sports ma- terial, sponsorships of popular festivities, visits to the mill  and requests for paper and wood. Manifestations about  the impact of our operation, such as noise complaints,  dust and damage to property, represent 3% of the total.  In 2010, the Social Performance Matrix was selected to  be part of the ranking for good social and environmental  practices put out by the Brazilian Environmental Bench- marking Program. (SO1) In the states of Maranho and Piau, where we are be- ginning our activities, we are taking advantage of the op- portunity to create the relationships with the communi- ties to show them how we operate. In addition to having  met with entity representatives, community leaders and  educational centers, we have participated in events such  as the 10th Imperatriz Trade and Industry Show (Fecoimp),  the 42nd Agricultural and Ranching Expo of Imperatriz  (Expoimp), the 15th Regional Agricultural and Ranch- ing Expo of Porto Franco (Expofran) and the Imperatriz  Book Showroom. In Teresina (PI), we held the 1st Euca- lyptus culture and Environment Seminar, a debate with  the community about eucalyptus growing, its social and  environmental impacts, and the means to manage them.  We participated in Ruraltec, a trade show held by the  Piau Federal University where Agronomy students could  visit our forests in the region. In the nine states where we operate, we have main- tained and increased our social investments, focusing on  guaranteeing food security. Within the scope of one of the  Nelson Garcia Jnior, employee, at the Suzano na Escola Project, SP  71 initiatives, the Community Agriculture Project, at the Piau  mill, five community farming fields were created. Rice, corn, beans and cassava will be farmed on these  fields through a consortium, in an area of eight hectares  per unit. In parallel to that initiative, workshops on con- sortium farming and seed selection were held with 190  families who were directly benefitted. At the Maranho  mill, we granted 189.3 hectares to implement the project,  which will benefit 113 families. Another one of our initia- tives at the Maranho unit, Sustainable Extractivism will  receive support from the Chico Mendes Institute, including  construction and refurbishment of two production units in  two extractivism reserves in the region. In 2011, we will  continue our work to strengthen the local production ar- rangement for the babassu coconut chain by building two  other production units. In all, 11 communities will benefit  (five in Tocantins and six in Maranho). Sustainable Extrac- tivism also takes place in Piau, focused on the souari nut  production chain.(EC8) In So Paulo, we continued with the Social Dialogs, by  promoting 17 meetings during the year, in eight munici- palities (Alambari, Angatuba, Biritiba Mirim, Itatinga, Pi- lar Do Sul, Paraibuna, Salespolis, and So Miguel Arcan- jo). As a result of the dialogs, we promoted Workshops  to Develop Social and Environmental Projects aimed at  civil society and government representatives in two of the  municipalities: So Miguel Arcanjo and Pilar Do Sul. A to- tal of 48 representatives from institutions took part in the  workshops. They were trained in project development  and funding. In the end, eight projects were developed  by the group to be used for local development. This year  we  are planning on promoting open bids for  these communities in 2011. The Educate and Train Program, carried out  through a partnership with the Ayrton Senna  Institute and local city halls continued  to provide support to children in  elementary school, to improve  school infrastructure and promote reading. It was put into  practice in seven municipalities in the extreme south of the  state of Bahia, four in the north of Esprito Santo, and three  in the east of Minas Gerais. This initiative has directly trained  over one thousand instructors and involved another 11,600,  in turn benefitting over 92,091 students. Additionally, 108  schools have underwent refurbishment since 2008. (EC8) To carry out all of these initiatives, we invested R$ 41.9  million over the year; these funds, along with internal so- cial and environmental projects, resulted in total funding  of R$ 80.8 million. In order to stay in tune with the needs of stakeholders,  we have a Suzano Responde (Suzano Answers Hotline)  communication channel which was set up to answer ques- tions and take suggestions and criticisms via email (suza- noresponde@suzano.com.br). In 2010, we received 4,345  calls, of which 1,321 (30%) were made by people in the  community with which we interact. Of the total calls, 78% asked for information about  our operations and 9% requested information about our  products. The percentage of complaints was 2%. Educate and Train Program,  partnership with the  Ayrton Senna Institute  Golfinho Educational Association, Mucuri (BA)  72 Annual Sustainability Report Investments in social and environmental  responsibility (domestic and international) DIMENSION OBJECTIVES MILLENNIUM GOALS Economic Development Initiatives, programs and projects geared to generate  opportunities for the community through professionalization  and income generation activities Goal 1: Eradicate hunger and poverty Health Initiatives, programs and campaigns focused on preventing  diseases, providing health and dental assistance and  maintaining clinics and hospitals. The activities benefit mainly  the communities where the companies are located, as well  as their employees and family members Goal 4: Reduce child mortality Goal 5: Improve expectant mother health Goal 6: Fight AIDS, malaria and other diseases Education, Training and Professional Development Initiatives, programs, projects and campaigns focused on  educational activities, incentives for courses and schools  and encouraging development and professional training.  The activities benefit mainly the communities where the  companies are located, as well as their employees and family  members Goal 2: Quality elementary and   secondary education for all Environment Initiatives, programs and projects focused on environmental  preservation, as well as awareness, especially among  the younger generation, about the importance of the  environment and its preservation. Private Natural World  Heritage Reserves of public use, under the responsibility of  sector industries, are also recorded Goal 7: Quality of life and respect for the environment Culture Initiatives, programs and projects destined to redeem,  disseminate and encourage culture in Brazil, expanding  access thereto  Goal 8: Everybody working towards development Community Support Programs, projects, initiatives and campaigns destined to  promote initiatives to foster citizenship, social reintegration,  community service and encourage solidarity Goal 1: Eradicate hunger and poverty Goal 3: Equality between men and valuing women Sports, Integration and Leisure Initiatives, programs and projects designed to encourage  sports activities, social integration and leisure, specifically for  employees and family members, as well as the communities  where the companies are located Goal 8: Everybody working towards development Volunteer Work Initiatives, programs and projects focused on encouraging  and training company employees on volunteering and  practice of their citizenship Goal 8: Everybody working towards development Subtotal Mucuri Project/BNDES/Corporate Management Investment in infrastructure carried out in the southern tip of  Bahia State to construct the second pulp line at the Mucuri  mill and investments in corporate management Goal 2: Quality elementary and secondary education for all Goal 4: Reduce child mortality Goal 5: Improve expectant mother health Goal 6: Fight AIDS, malaria and other diseases Goal 7: Quality of life and respect for the environment Goal 8: Everybody working towards development Subtotal OVeRALL INVeSTMeNT TOTAL (SO1)  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 73 TARGET MAIN PROJECTS Amount invested (in R$) Number of projects Number of people serviced  or benefitted 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Rural communities near the Suzano  (So Paulo State), Mucuri (Bahia State),  Maranho and Minas Gerais Units State Productive Community, Sustainable Extractivism,   and Native Bees Projects. 1,145,627 1,404,419 4 7 2,000 7,708 Mainly Suzano and Embu (So Paulo  State), Mucuri (Bahia State), Imperatriz  (Maranho State) and Teresina   (Piau State) Units employees and  family members Paineiras Hospital, Sesi (employee participation),  Dental Coverage, Health Coverage (does not include  employee participation), Employee Fitness Program,  Quality of Life Week 23,341,086 28,713,808 6 8 116,339 49,269 Urban and rural communities near the  Suzano and Embu (So Paulo State),  Mucuri (Bahia State), and Urbano  Santos (Maranho State) Units, in  addition to schools throughout   Brazil that have been granted the  Ecofuturo Award Scholarships, and Educar e Formar (Educate and Train)  Program, Seedling Project, Formare, Encouraging  Undergraduate Education, Professional Training,  Estudar  Crescer (Learning Leads to Development  Program), School Material Assistance, School  Material Kit, Schools (Maintenance of Casa do  Estudante in Bahia and other schooling units), Junior  Guard, Children Maranho Education Center, 1st  Sustainability Education Ecofuturo Award 11,995,696 14,320,329 14 22 204,756 163,958 Urban and rural communities  surrounding the Suzano and  Embu  (So Paulo State), and Mucuri Units  (Bahia State), and forests Monitoring the environment, water resources and  fauna population, FSC certification adjustments,  ecology trails, data collection on mammals, additional  sampling of stacks and consumption material,  water and effluents monitoring, nursery studies and  research, climate change, recovery initiatives, forestry  dialogs, Pomar Project, dredging of a lake and  effluent treatment 8,791,118 26,189,422 17 27 1,330,351 2,701 Urban and rural communities near the  Suzano and  Embu (So Paulo State),  Mucuri (Bahia State), and Maranho  Units State, employees, family  members and third parties, schools  throughout Brazil through the   Cultural Contest Symphony, the EmCantando Choir, Max Feffer Choir,  Eucalyptus Band, Bumba Meu Boi Folklore Festivity,  Sociedade Cultura Artstica (Arts and Culture Society),  Foundation Apoio of the University of So Paulo/ Mindlin Library, Ler  Preciso Community Libraries, Ler  e Escrever  Preciso Cultural Contest, Cine Tela Brasil,  Fliporto Paraty   and Pernambuco 3,487,365 2,744,398 12 13 252,144 2,110 Urban and rural communities near the  Suzano and Embu (So Paulo State),  Mucuri (Bahia State), and Maranho  Units State,  employees, family  members and third parties Associao Golfinho, support provided to the NGO  Ecofuturo Institute, Social and Environmental Sub- committee donations, Funds Defending the Rights of  Children and Teenagers, Social Indicators and Social  Dialogs and About Suzano 4,442,020 5,470,121 6 9 5,428 91,500 Urban communities near the Mucuri  Unit (Bahia State), employees, family  members and third parties. Races in  the states of So Paulo, Minas Gerais,  Rio de Janeiro, Federal District and  Rio Grande do Sul, as well as in the  northeast region  Expenses with clubs (CAM and GREJE), Confeder  Brazilian Judo initiative, IV Supercopa basketball  tournament in the Northeast 875,631 852,871 5 4 131,262 1,877 Urban and rural communities near  the Suzano and Embu (So Paulo  State), and Mucuri Units (Bahia State),  employees, family members   and third parties Social Programs/Campaigns, Suzano at School/Junior  Achievement, Reading Day, Reading Sponsors 78,333 178,412 4 4 10,155 8,850 54,156,876 79,708,909 68 94 2,052,435 327,973 Urban and rural communities near the  Mucuri Unit (Bahia State), employees,  Piau and Maranho States Social Center, Sustainability Master Plan,   In the FIELD Suzano publication 1,200,000 976,234 6 3 4,336 3,730 1,200,000 976,234 6 3 4,336 3,730 55,356,876 80,850,014 62 71 2,056,771 331,703 Suzano Pulp and Paper acknowledges the ISO 26.000 as a reference  document that establishes social responsibility guidelines  74 Annual Sustainability Report The ecofuturo Institute As sponsors of the Ecofuturo Institute, we share the same  mission as the Civil Society Organization of Public Interest  (Oscip); of creating and disseminating knowledge and prac- tices for the collective construction of a culture of sustain- ability with individuals and social groups. The Institute believes that knowing how to read, write,  and debate effectively is essential to accessing the knowledge  necessary for promoting sustainability for all living things. Thus, it works to influence public policy by partnering  with institutions, companies, the government, researchers,  the community and universities through programs based on  models that can be replicated. Created in 1999, the Reading  is Necessary program seeks to contribute to reducing func- tional illiteracy, preparing new generations to critically use lan- guage and develop competency in written communication. It  accordingly seeks to develop a sustainability culture both on  an individual and community level. The following projects are  part of Reading is Necessary program: Reading is Necessary Community Library: currently  there are a total of 85 units in 11 Brazilian states. These  libraries receive approximately 500 individuals on a monthly  basis who take advantage of 138,600 books and 112 com- puters made available. Through this program, that receives  technical advise from the Brazilian Foundation of Childrens  Literature (FNLIJ), a total of 2,247 reading coaches and li- brary aides have been trained, of which 994 are public  school teachers Theses coaches and aides are responsible  for assisting readers when selecting/understanding books. Indicators: Ricardo Paes de Barros, from the Institute of  Applied Economic Research (Ipea), conducted a number of  surveys to analyze the Reading is Necessary Community Li- brary project in regard to its sustainability and its impact on  academic performance. These surveys resulted in indicators  that are able to measure the quality of the services provided  by the libraries and their impact on factors such as school  dropout and grade promotion rates. According to the study,  there was a 46% decline in the normal dropout rates be- tween 2000 and 2005 for schools in areas neighboring the  libraries in comparison with other schools. The grade pro- motion rate increased natural progress by 156%. Ler e Escrever  Preciso (Reading and Writing is  Necessary) Cultural Contest: biennial contest that  Reading and Writing is  Necessary Community  Library, COOPAMARE  cooperative, So Paulo seeks to promote reading, contemplation and authorship  through the written word, promoting interaction between  participants and the topics chosen based on access to spe- cific preselected and produced sources. Private and public  school students and teachers, social educators, and pub- lic and community library professionals throughout Brazil  may participate. The theme of the 7th edition, launched  last November and scheduled to end November 2011, is  Lets Take Care of Life. The goal is to foster reading, reflec- tion and debate regarding the necessary care required for  quality of life for all living things, which is done by using  literary pieces as a reference for reflection and writing. The  top 60 texts will be published in a collective book. The  last contest, which ended in 2008, mobilized 550,000 stu- dents, 9,200 guidance counselors, 3,200 teacher contest  participants, and 7,200 schools from 2,980 municipalities  spread throughout 17 Brazilian states. National Reading Day (October 12): established by  Law 11.899/09 as result of the networking efforts carried  out by The Ecofuturo Institute since 2006, this day seeks  to create awareness and educate society about the impor- tance of reading literature as from infancy. In 2010, the  campaigns website was completely redesigned to share  content regarding the subject. The new website included   Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 75 first-time publication of the book What is Literature For?  (Pra que serve a literatura?) with articles from 10 differ- ent authors and researchers. The Institute talked to both  industry and non-industry players, including 51 institutions  and 400 non-governmental organizations, and was thus  able to engage 3.5 million people. Ecofuturo Education for Sustainability Award: in its  2nd edition, and taking advantage of the fact that 2010  was the International Year of Biodiversity, the organizers  chose the theme of Knowing How To Care to invite public  and private school teachers to prepare and submit projects  that promote sustainability lessons in a wider context. The  selection criteria included: creativity, originality and unique- ness; suitability of the proposal for the target audience;  centralization within a transversal theme; multidisciplinary  potential; coherence with the theme and reference works  provided by the Ecofuturo Institute Given the national reach of the contest, 290 projects were  submitted from 26 states. The projects prepared by the ten  finalists will be included in the Knowing How to Care book,  volume 2, with the authors will receiving R$ 3,000 each and  the schools where they teach receiving computers. In terms of the environment, the Ecofuturo Institute man- ages Parque das Neblinas, an old eucalyptus tree farm that  belonged to Suzano. Because of its characteristics, we decid- ed to transform it into a mosaic of Preservation Units in the  90s. On the 2,788-hectare area, research and management  programs are developed to spread knowledge in partner- ship with renowned educational and environmental institu- tions and the Mogi das Cruzes and Bertioga City Halls – mu- nicipalities where the Park is located. There are three lines of  research: biodiversity surveys (birds, mammals, amphibians,  fish, plants, and insects), restoration of the Atlantic Coastal  Rain Forest (analysis of old eucalyptus plantings), and forest- ry product management (palm tree, heliconia, cambuci, and  wood). To encourage reflection on the relationship between  humans and the environment, the Parque das Neblinas can  be visited through the Visitor Program, which includes train- ing for local guides to accompany visitors and promote en- vironmental awareness. Since the initiative started in 2003,  over 16,000 people have visited the area. Based on the experience acquired in managing the Parque  das Neblinas, the Ecofuturo Institute created the Ecofuturo  Reserves Program, which provides technical assistance and  consulting to landowners, government agencies, non-gov- ernmental organizations and companies that own forestry  reserve areas. The goal of the Program is to diagnose the  current scenario, develop management programs, and  manage public or private Preservation Units in order to pro- mote protection and recovery of the natural environment,  social development of local communities, and consolidate  ties between the private sector and society. Additionally, Ecofuturo runs Programa Investimento  Reciclvel (Recyclable Investment Program), offering sup- port to recyclable material collector coops and associa- tions seeking to improve production and management  processes as well as increase productivity, ultimately im- proving income potential. The Recyclable Investment Program is the result of a  partnership between Suzano Pulp and Paper, the Santand- er Group, the Avina Foundation and the Banco do Brasil  Foundation, coordinated by the Ecofuturo Institute. The  third year of the program, in 2010, benefited three coops.  In total, the institute now supports 14 entities in achieving  autonomy and sustainability as a business unit. For the first time, Ecofuturo published its Social Report.  The purpose of the report is to identify, from year to year,  in detail, the origin of funds, where they are invested,  and employee social indicators, among other figures and  information. The report was prepared based on the model developed  by the Brazilian Institute for Social and Economic Analysis  (Ibase), an organization founded by sociologist Herbert de  Souza (also known as Betinho) and it is available online  at: www.ecofuturo.org.br. The website was also relaunched  this year. The result was a simpler, more direct and well- organized channel that helps internet users find what they  are looking for in a few clicks, converging with other digital  media such as Facebook, Twitter, Youtube and blogs. A group of visitors at the Parque das Neblinas auditorium, So Paulo  76 Annual Sustainability Report Mosaic  planting:  preservation of  native forests,  Mucuri (Bahia)  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 77 Preserving and taking care  of biodiversity allied with  innovative initiatives, such  as calculating our carbon  footprint, are all part of our  environmental activities Natural  Capital  78 Annual Sustainability Report Our practices clearly show our commitment to sustain- ability; maintaining 256,000 hectares of FSC-certified (For- est Stewardship Council) areas and being the first pulp and  paper company to calculate its carbon footprint. In 2010, we delved deeper into this area by conclud- ing our Sustainability Master Plan in partnership with the  Ecofuturo Institute, through which we intend to become  a reference in this area. This platform seeks to consolidate  the lessons we have learned, expand our knowledge, take  advantage of successful internal and external experiences,  strengthen our relationship with stakeholders, and make  sure we take sustainability issues into consideration in our  strategic decisions. We believe that sustainability is the ability to allow  growth cycles to renew themselves—this means creating  bases for growth that integrate competitive operations,  social and environmental responsibility, and quality rela- tionships. We therefore worked beyond the triple bottom  line concept to develop the Plan. Not only does it cover  environmental, social and economic issues, but it also  included components related to innovation, governance  and communication. Based on these six dimensions, we  established 38 guiding, which we will use to move for- ward in 2011 in the following phases: initiative and proj- ect results, definition of goals and indicators, revision of  procedures and policies, internal and external dissemina- tion, and oversight. At the same time, we continued initiatives to reduce the  impacts of our industrial activity on the environment. To do  this, we invested R$ 22.5 million, achieving positive results  on several fronts, especially those related to water con- sumption and waste disposal. In the Forestry Business Unit,  investment in environmental projects and activities totaled  R$ 3.5 million (which does not include the Maranho and  Piau units); this includes quantitative and qualitative sur- veys of microbasins spread throughout our areas, as well  as of the flora and fauna. (eN30) As a consequence of our responsible conduct, during  the year, we received no fines or non-monetary sanctions  for incompliance with applicable environmental laws and  regulations in our industry. (eN28) The environment The Trilha da Cachoeira (Waterfall Trail), Parque das Neblinas (So Paulo)  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 79 Atmospheric emissions In 2010, as result of the markets recognition of our ini- tiatives related to climate change, we were granted three  important awards: the poca Award on Climate Changes,  sponsored by poca magazine; the title of Model Compa- ny by Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade (Exame Magazines  Sustainability Guide); and the Best in the Sector Award in  the Sustainability category, granted by the Brazilian Pulp  and Paper Technical Association (ABTCP). Carbon Footprint The other front, whose scope of calculation is greater  than the Corporate Emissions Inventory and which we  were pioneers in 2009, is the carbon footprint survey of  our products. In 2010 we obtained the first results for  pulp footprints produced at the Mucuri Unit - Suzano  Pulp. This required approximately R$ 160,000 in invest- ments. (eC2) The carbon footprint calculates Greenhouse Gas Emis- sions associated with all of the phases of a products life- cycle; in other words, from the production of industrial  and forestry products used in the manufacturing process  Emission Inventory* (eN16 and eN17) 2008 2009 2010**** Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight**(in tons of CO2)  996,295 743,140 798,656 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight***(in tons of CO2) 227,846 160,085 257,656 * This inventory does not include the new areas in the states of Maranho and Piau, given that in 2008 they had not yet been acquired. ** Scopes 1, 2, and 3 of the Greenhouse Gasses Inventory carried out every year by the Company are included in the indicator. The concept of scope is in accordance with the  WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol. *** Scopes 1, 2, and 3 of the Greenhouse Gasses Inventory carried out every year by the Company are included in the indicator. The concept of scope is in accordance with  the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol. **** This year we included SPP-Nemo emissions, our division that specializes in the distribution of printing products in Brazil, as well as our Home Office. Scope 1: Direct GHG Emissions – Suzano GHG emissions (physical emissions) which encompasses emissions from the burning of fuel, manufacturing processes, waste  treatment and the transportation of company assets. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions – liquid emissions from the import and export of power, as is the case with imported and exported electricity and steam. Scope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions – all of the other sources of emissions that can possibly be attributed to the companys activities. Outsourced transport services were  included in this scope. The actions that drove most of our projects were partic- ularly concentrated on two fronts. One of them is the Cor- porate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Inventory, carried  out since 2003, which uses the GHG Protocol methodol- ogy and seeks to quantify emissions of these gasses in a  particular phase of the production chain. In 2010, the find- ings compared to the prior period totaled 981,646 tons  of equivalent CO2, which under scopes 1, 2, and 3 of the  inventory. (6, eN17 and eN18) We carried out the Corporate  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions  Inventory in 2003 until their final disposal, using the product life cycle ana- lytical approach. The results of the Suzano Pulp carbon footprint were  calculated using the PAS 2050 methodology, subsequently  validated and certified by the Carbon Trust, which grants  the Carbon Reduction Label seal.  80 Annual Sustainability Report The PAS 2050 methodology is the most recognized and  the only one publicly available for measuring the carbon  footprint of products using a lifecycle analysis approach.  The Carbon Trust is a British institution recognized world- wide for promoting a low car- bon economy. The results of  the Suzano pulp carbon foot- print, shown in the table be- low, are presented by region  where Suzano pulp is sold. col, both of which are spearheaded by the Getlio Vargas  Foundation (FGV), the Climate Forum (sponsored by the  Ethos Institute), and the Technical Committee on Climate  Change of the Brazilian Pulp and Paper Technical Associa- tion (ABTCP) as well as the Thematic Committee on Ener- gy and Climate Change directed by the Brazilian Business  Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS).  We also  monitored international negotiations related to the matter  through a partnership with the Institute for International  Trade Negotiations (Icone). Suzano Pulp (Mucuri Unit) Region Carbon  Footprint GHG Inventory China 900 kg of CO2e/ tons of pulp 383 kg of CO2e/tons   of pulp Europe 750 kg of CO2e/ tons of pulp 383 kg of CO2e/tons  of pulp United States 800 kg of CO2e/ tons of pulp 383 kg of CO2e/tons  of pulp This project made Suzano the first pulp and paper com- pany in the world, and the first in Latin America in any  field, to measure the carbon footprints of all its products  following the PAS 2050 methodology and obtaining the  Carbon Reduction Label certificate. It will continue in 2011 and will be extended to other Suza- no products. Based on the results of the Corporate Emissions  Inventory and the carbon footprint, we mapped opportuni- ties to reduce emissions and began feasibility studies for these  projects in order to fulfill our commitment to reduce GHGs as  established with the certifying institution. For the fourth consecutive year, in 2010, we also com- pleted the questionnaire developed by the Carbon Disclo- sure Project (CDP), an independent organization that has  the largest global database regarding corporate impact on  climate change. Furthermore, we participated in the Chi- cago Climate Exchange (CCX), the largest carbon credit  exchange for carbon originating from planted forests,  and participated in a number of initiatives related to cli- mate change, including: Empresas pelo Clima (Pro-Climate  Companies) and the Brazilian Chapter of the GHG Proto- We  are the first pulp and paper  company in the world, and the  first in Latin America in any field,  to measure the carbon footprints  of all its products following the  PAS 2050 methodology and  obtaining the Carbon Reduction  Label certificate.  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 81 Eucalyptus plantation, Mucuri Emissions Management (EN 19 and EN 20) tons Mucuri Industrial Unit Emissions 2008 2009 2010 SOx (total) 627 1,073.25 420.1 NOx (total) 787 888,56 1,193.9* Particulate Material (total) 3,066 3,167 3,248 TRS (total) 11 67 28.9 Suzano Industrial Unit Emissions 2008 2009 2010 SOx (total) 131 159.62 161.46 NOx (total) 729 1,980.55 2,070.88** Particulate Material (total) 322 236.87 256.89*** TRS (total) 2.18 2.59 1.75 Embu Industrial Unit* Emissions 2008 2009 2010 NOx 8.68 7.54 4.62 Rio Verde Industrial Unit* Emissions 2008 2009 2010 NOx (total) – 83 NA *Considering L1 and L2 pulp production only. Increase resulting from the instability of the production process ** This year new boilers were included in the sample system (CBC1 and CBC2 and natural gas) *** Estimate calculated based on the 2009 sample (CBC3) because of the questions raised in relation to the  figures calculated in 2010  82 Annual Sustainability Report Water Our challenge is to be a benchmark in regard to water  consumption by 2017. Thus we continually teach employ- ees about the need to avoid waste, by requesting them  to submit ideas for the Click Award (15 of which were  approved and adopted over the year) as well as the need  to for operational initiatives along the same line. Some  noteworthy ideas included the establishment, within the  Strategic Planning Cycle, of daily consumption targets (of  all which were in 2010 by all industrial units), daily moni- toring of the progress of these targets on a public electron- ic panel, and the continuation of Workgroups specifically  aimed at dealing with this topic. In 2010, these actions were reinforced by consump- tion optimization projects as well as by the use of Six  Sigma methodology tools able to identify specific issues  and their respective solutions. The highlight was an ini- tiative developed at the Rio Verde Unit which involved  partially closing the water and effluent circuit, result- ing in reuse of one-third of the effluent in the produc- tion process. This proportionally reduced the volume of  waste disposed into the water source. The waste gen- erated is treated, making it suitable to return into the  environment, thus complying with and even exceeding  legal requirements. Serto Waterfall  (Itatinga River),   Parque das Neblinas  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 83 Water Management (eN 8 and eN 9) 2008 2009 2010 Mucuri Unit Total water  consumption   per source Mucuri River water consumption (specific) 33.0 m3/t 32.6 m3/t 29.8 m3/t Mucuri River water consumption (total)* 52,406,046 m3 53,584,020 m3 52,754,560 m 2008 2009 2010 Suzano Industrial Unit Total water  consumption   per source Tiet River water consumption (specific) 41.05 m3/t 37.04 m3/t 34.36 m3/t** Tiet River water consumption (total) 27,950,700 m3 24,108,936 m3 24,342,846 m3** Water sources  significantly  affected by water  withdrawal Tiet River flow (total) 41,400 m3/h 91,067 m3/h 114,000 m3/h Water consumption (total) 3,190 m3/h 2,752 m3/h 2,770 m3/h % of withdrawal 7,71 3.03 2.44 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Total water  consumption   per source Tiet River water consumption (specific) 18.37 m3/t 18.74 m3/t 16.34 m3/t Tiet River water consumption (total) 1,014,751 m3 926,091 m3 882,454 m3 2008 2009 2010 Embu Industrial Unit Total water  consumption   per source Embu-Mirim River water consumption (specific) 9.6 m3/t 7.9 m3/t 6,7 m3/t*** Embu-Mirim River water consumption (total) 477,525 m3 301,287 m3 285,395 m3 Groundwater consumption (total) 22,375 m3 22,562 m3 23.403 m3 Water consumption (total) 499,900 m3 323,849 m3 308.798 m3 2008 2009 2010 Forestry Unit Total water  consumption   per source Nurseries and outlet consumption – Bahia 105,152.04 m3 123,836.72 m3 134.550,96 m3**** Nurseries and outlet consumption – So Paulo 47,323 m3 55,473 m3 58.139,04 m3 Nurseries and outlet consumption – Bahia (specific) 3.76 m3/thousand  seedlings 4.13 m3/thousand  seedlings 4.29 m3/thousand  seedlings Nurseries and outlet consumption – So Paulo (specific) 2.66 m3/thousand  seedlings 4.74 m3/thousand  seedlings 3.31 m3/thousand  seedlings *The amount of water captured from the Mucuri River represents 0.1% of the average annual flow ** Includes Taiaupeba *** It also considers the consumption of underground water. ****This number considers the consumption of water in the nurseries. In the MA and PI units no data is available since they do not yet have their own nurseries. In the region  of the Mucuri unit, water consumed for planting is considered insignificant and, therefore, authorization is unnecessary. Until 2009, a combined number was reported for the  Bahia and So Paulo units. Starting in 2010, their numbers were expressed separately.  84 Annual Sustainability Report Mucuri Unit (Bahia)  Effluent Treatment   Plant (ETP)  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 85 effluents and Solid Waste In 2010 we successfully took on the challenge of reduc- ing and promoting correct disposal, in line with an inter- nal guideline to completely eliminate waste by 2012. We  made a great effort to commercialize and use materials  more efficiently, which involved entering into regional  partnerships with small farmers, especially at Mucuri. At a  symbolic cost, we supplied them with some of the euca- lyptus hulls which have high heat content when burned.  We reused the rest of the material to correct soil in planted  areas. The same occurred with lime mud, 100% of which  was sold. Furthermore, the Company developed a revolutionary  project in 2010 that is still in the environmental licens- ing and technical analysis phase by the So Paulo State  Waste Center. The project will send all the waste from  the Suzano and Rio Verde units to companies that will  transform it into agricultural supplies. The goal is to add  value to the material by forming blends – an experience  that has already been tested by both the industrial and  forestry areas and which proved successful. After pro- cessing, the agricultural supply produced using the waste  will returned to the Company and be used on our eu- calyptus plantations in the state of So Paulo, closing a  cycle, which is not only aimed at stopping this waste from  going to landfills, but also at guaranteeing effective re- use. We hope that project approval by the appropriate  government agencies is concluded by mid-2011 so that  it will be implemented in the state of So Paulo by the  end of the year. We will therefore be better prepared to  replicate it in other regions. Also in relation to effluents, we made noteworthy in- vestments in 2010, specifically at the Mucuri Unit, where  we were able to significantly reduce the organic load at  the outflow of the Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP). They  were able to obtain these results thanks to operational  management of the area, which included optimization of  the processes and more efficient control of chemical prod- uct losses. The ETP also underwent operational improve- ments, such as the addition of pure oxygen. All of these  initiatives had a great impact both on the state as well as  plant performance. 9% The Mucuri Unit was able  to reduce its effluents by  86 Annual Sustainability Report Effluent and Waste Management (eN 21, eN 22, eN 24 and eN 25) 2008 2009 2010 Mucuri Industrial Unit Total water discharge  by quality and  destination Generation of liquid effluents 45,681,703 m3 46,224,461 m3 42,851,521 m3 Organic load (DBO5) in the final effluent (total) 1,686 t 1,684 t 1295 t Chemical oxygen demand (DQO) in the final effluent (total) 18,542 t 19,795 t 19,668 t Absorbable halogens (AOx) in the final effluent (total) 118 t 85 t 125 t * Total weight of waste  by type and disposal  method Hazardous waste 93 t ND 15,4 t Non-hazardous waste 228,434 t 262,397 t 398,753 t Weight of waste  transported, imported,  exported, or treated  that is considered to  be hazardous under  the terms of the Basel  Convention Composting 52,739 t ND 0 Recycling 7,758 t 7,671 t 91,554 t Recovery ND 37,838 t – Incineration 2,161 t 12,361 t – Landfill 69,524 t 70,748 t 221,936 t Stored at the site 96,249 t 133,779 t 50,745 t 2008 2009 2010 Suzano Industrial Unit Total water discharge  by quality and  destination Generation of liquid effluents 28,385,096 m3 24,952,374 m3 22,927,848 m3 Organic load (DBO5) in the final effluent (total) 694 t 649 t 640 t Chemical oxygen demand (DQO) in the final effluent (total) 5,189 t 4,377 t 4,021 t Absorbable halogens (AOx) in the final effluent (total) 32.7 t 24.31 t 18 t Total weight of waste  by type and disposal  method Hazardous waste 8.8 t 27 t 63 t ** Non-hazardous waste 121,473 t 86,672 t 113,168 t *** Weight of waste  transported, imported,  exported, or treated  that is considered to  be hazardous under  the terms of the Basel  Convention Reuse  104,615 t 59,586 t 36,236 t Recycling – – 33,266 t Recovery – – 10,757 t Incineration < 1 t 7.64 t 0.02 t **** Landfill 25,667 t 27,119 t 33,299 t Stored at the site 30,000 t 30,000 t 33,299 t Identification, size,  protection status and  rate of biodiversity of  bodies of water and  habitats significantly  affected by water  discharge and drainage Tiet River flow 41,400 m3/h 91,067 m3/h 114,000 m3/h Effluent flow 3,206 m3/h 2,850 m3/h 2,617 m3/h  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 87 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Total water discharge  by quality and  destination Generation of liquid effluents 934,771 m3 842,815 m3 796,360 m3 Organic load (DBO5) in the final effluent (total) 127 t 118 t 64 t Chemical oxygen demand (DQO) in the final effluent (total) 435 t 301 t 144 t Total weight of waste  by type and disposal  method Hazardous waste < 1 t <1 t 32,751 t  ***** Non-hazardous waste 4,894 t 2,086 t 9571 t ***** Weight of waste  transported,   imported, exported,  or treated that is  considered to be  hazardous under the  terms of the Basel  Convention Reuse 4,894 t 1,334 t 0 Recycling – – 8,288 t Recovery – – 744 t Incineration < 1 t < 1 t 0.01 ****** Landfill 427.5 t 390.8 t 427.48 t  ******* On-site storage 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 Embu Industrial Unit Total water discharge  by quality and  destination Generation of liquid effluents 482,902 m3 288,376 m3 265,729 m3 Organic load (DBO5) in the final effluent (total) 4.34 t 2.5 t 1.9 t Chemical oxygen demand (DQO) in the final effluent (total) 56.17 t 37.63 t 33.3 t Total weight of waste  by type and disposal  method Hazardous waste – 3.0 t 85.5 t Non-hazardous waste 2,917 t 2,057 t 3,035,4 t Weight of waste  transported, imported,  exported, or treated  that is considered to  be hazardous under  the terms of the Basel  Convention Reuse 16 t 519 t 233 t Recycling 123 t 809.53 t 954. 2 t Recovery – – – Incineration 0.006 t 0.0035 t 1.84 t  ******** Landfill 2,917 t 2,057 t 1,979.5 t On-site storage 0 2.96 t 0 *Resulting from the increased use of active chlorine because of pulp quality problems. **Stored waste was sent for recovery. ***Increase arising from direct dredging of lakes (not carried out in 2009): primary sludge that was classified for recycling and mainly the wood knots. This waste, however,  is recycled internally, and returns to the pulp extraction process. ****Incineration of health center waste; organic solvents were not incinerated. ***** Waste added that was not computed or sent to the units, especially secondary sludge that is recycled internally. ******Only lab waste was incinerated. *******Different figures published in 2008 and 2009, since other types of waste were included that were not previously considered. ********Increase as a result of accumulation from previous years, when only health center waste was sent to be incinerated.  88 Annual Sustainability Report Energy and Chemical Recovery Our industrial operations are managed with a view  toward reducing energy consumption and creating self- sufficient generation. At the Mucuri Unit, for example,  we produce 97.8% of the energy consumed internally,  mostly using renewable sources, such as wood waste.  This is possible thanks to the chemical recovery process  we use at our mills. It enables us to recover the chemi- cals used in pulping and at the same time allows us to  use the waste from the wood cooking process to gener- ate energy. The chemical recovery process is concluded  with virgin lime, which together with sodium sulfate  and soda, will produce green and white liquor, which  may return to the beginning of the process for a new  wood cooking cycle, with minimal replacement.  These actions have resulted in gains such as those report- ed by the Suzano Unit, which in 2010 consumed 358,195  GJ/t of BPF fuel; accounting for 68% less than in 2009.  The power required to operate the Suzano, Embu and  Rio Verde Units comes from the Amador Aguiar Hydroelec- tric Plant. Suzano owns 17.9% of the Hydroelectric Plant. Employee Edney Svio da Silva, Suzano Unit (So Paulo)  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 89 Energy Management (eN3 and eN5) 2008 2009 2010 Mucuri Unit Direct power  consumption  specified according  to primary source   of energy (GJ) Purchased electricity consumption 156,403.5 90,964 119,700 Consumption of electricity produced at mill  3,973,549.90 4,043,260 3,977,712 BPF Fuel oil consumption  2,794,350 2,049,453 2,344,248 2008 2009 2010 Suzano Industrial Unit Direct power  consumption  specified according  to primary source   of energy (GJ) Purchased electricity consumption 1,433,265 1,459,983 1,510,800 Consumption of electricity produced at mill 890,489 737,278 801,553.26 BPF fuel consumption 664,493.18 1,135,422.08 358,195 Natural gas consumption 5,027,565.98 4,105,793.26 4,704,325.38 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Direct power  consumption  specified by type  of primary energy  source (GJ) Purchased electricity consumption 167,709 151,390 154,652.22 Natural gas consumption 472,585 469,123.05 476,762.55 2008 2009 2010 Embu Industrial Unit Direct power  consumption  specified by type  of primary energy  source (GJ) Purchased electricity consumption 121,993 111,476 124,027.8 Natural gas consumption 204,186 172,861 289,406.4 2008 2009 2010 Forestry Unit* Direct power  consumption  specified by type  of primary energy  source (GJ) Diesel consumption – own fleet 213,694.4 1,302,779 157,456 Diesel consumption – outsourced fleet – – 682,799 Gasoline consumption – own fleet 13,526 10,240 11,045 Gasoline consumption – outsourced fleet –  –  4,734 Gasoline consumption – own fleet – passenger transportation –  –  52 Diesel consumption – own fleet –  –  49,586 Biodiesel consumption – outsourced fleet – – 68,769 Ethanol consumption – own fleet (in liters)  – 169,277.04 69,307 Ethanol consumption – outsourced fleet (in liters)  – – 300,062 Indirect power  consumption  specified by type  of primary energy  source (GJ) Purchased electricity (administrative buildings) 3,710 2,417 NA * We were unable to obtain information regarding third party consumption in Maranho and Piau.  90 Annual Sustainability Report Biodiversity We reserve close to 40% of our areas for conservation of  native vegetation, which represents 256,000 hectares dis- tributed throughout the states of So Paulo, Minas Gerais,  Esprito Santo, Bahia, Maranho, Tocantins and Piau that  are considered legal reserves, permanently preserved by  the Private Natural Heritage Reserve (RPPN) and others. In 2010, an area of 302.7 hectares of native vegetation  in the Cerrado biome, located between the municipalities  of Angatuba and Bofete (So Paulo) was recognized as a  RPPN. There, as well as in the area we maintain on the  banks of the Mucuri River (which is in the process of gain- ing RPPN status) we monitored the birds, identifying 500  species, with more than 100 being endemic to the Atlantic  Coastal Rain Forest and around 30 endangered species.  Moreover, we restored more than 400 hectares of Atlantic  Coastal Rain Forest by planting native species through our  restoration program. We also took measures to monitor  exotic species in over 920 hectares of natural areas. In 2009 the So Paulo State Secretariat of the Environ- ment had already granted RPPN status to 518 hectares of  the Parque das Neblinas, which today is deemed to be a  reference in relation to the management of private preser- vation units. Many projects to preserve endangered spe- cies are carried out in the area which is located in Bertioga,  at the Serto dos Freires Farm, and belongs to Suzano;  projects include preservation of the Wooly Spider Monkey  (the largest primate native to the Americas) and fruit trees  commonly found in the Atlantic Coastal Rain Forest, such  as the juara palm and the cambuci, a priority for preserva- tion of the biome. (EN11 and EN15) Our forests are managed in a way that seeks compatibility  with preservation. One example is the Fazenda Itabaiana,  in the Imperatriz (Maranho) region, which was acquired  from Vale in 2009 and is managed in partnership with the  company through a technological cooperation contract  signed at the time of purchase. With around 850 hectares,  the property is a true outdoor laboratory, where genetic im- provement experiments are done to develop the most ap- propriate varieties of eucalyptus for the climate conditions  of the region as well as research on the potential of other  species of Brazilian flora. (EN11, EN12, EN13 and EN14) In 2010, we entered into a partnership with the non-gov- ernmental organization TNC to prepare Biodiversity Preser- vation Plans which will cover the native forests under our  Aerial view of Parque das Neblinas, So Paulo  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 91 control in the following biomes: Atlantic Coastal Rain Forest,  Cerrado and Caatinga. Part of the scope of the work will be  to assess the inter-connectivity of the remaining native veg- etation and recommendation of actions in order to establish  ecological corridors and restore and preserve the areas. (EN14) In line with the objective of contributing to preservation of  regional biodiversity on our properties, we have also adopted  the Programa de Monitoramento Integrado de Fauna (Inte- grated Monitoring of Fauna Program) in So Paulo. Through  this program, we hope to obtain a protocol of procedures  that are suitable for the preservation of endangered species. This initiative led us to identify several species that are listed  on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)  Use of land - own properties (EN11) Type of use Area (in ha) Plantation 310,000 Available for plantation 87,000 Preservation 256,000 Infrastructure 29,000 Total 682,700 Preservation Units in   Areas Neighboring Suzano (EN11) Forestry  Business   Unit (UNF)  – Bahia APA Costa Dourada (Environmental Protection  Area) APA Conceio da Barra (Environmental Protection  Area) Floresta Nacional do Rio Preto (National Forest) Parque Estadual de Itanas (State Park) Reserva Biolgica Crrego Grande (Biological  Reserve) UNF –   So Paulo APA de Botucatu* (Environmental Protection Area) Parque Estadual de Carlos Botelho (State Park) Parque Nacional da Serra do Mar (National Park) Estao Ecolgica Angatuba (Ecological Reserve) * We have forestry areas in the Botucatu Environmental Protection Area. Red List and on Brazilian conservation lists, including the giant  anteater, manned wolf, puma, ocelot and oncilla. (EN15) The year 2010 was declared by the UN to be the Interna- tional Year of Biodiversity and it was marked by a series of  developments such as the unprecedented convention for the  protection of our planets genetic resources and diversity of  species, signed at the 10th Conference of the Parties to the  Convention on Biologic Diversity (CDB-COP10), held at Na- goya, Japan. It is within this context that we participated on  the Technical Committee on Biodiversity of the Brazilian Busi- ness Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS), which  prepared a report that included the key practices of Brazilian  companies which was taken to Nagoya. Additionally, we signed the Corporate Biodiversity Move- ment manifesto, which seeks to promote mobilization of  the domestic business community, with the support of civil  society in defining a single common agenda related to the  preservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. SPP-Nemo Distribution, So Paulo  92 Annual Sustainability Report With the exception of Reciclato papers, which are com- posed of 75% pre-consumer scrap and 25% post-con- sumer scrap, and of cardboard, our other products use vir- gin fibers in their production process. However, to mitigate  environmental impacts, we maintain collection recycling  bays in the industrial units where packages that are not  returned to suppliers (a measure we prioritize) are placed  in order to be later donated or sold as scrap. Thus, 100%  of this kind of material is appropriately disposed of. Since  late 2010, we have also maintained the Brigada Report  program to recover and reuse cut-size paper packages.  Through this program, our 127 brigade employees collect  the material and deposit it at specific sites. It is then sent  to TerraCycle do Brasil to be transformed into eco-friendly  products such as handbags, ball and cases. (eN26, eN27) Furthermore, we assess the impact on consumer health  and safety at all phases of our products and services life- cycles, which encompasses research and development,  certification, manufacturing and production, advertising  and marketing, storage, distribution and supply, use and  service, disposal, reuse and recycling. (PR1) The impact of transportation is reduced through Emis- sions Inventory initiatives that measure the volume of  greenhouse gasses emitted during products lifecycles, in- cluding transport operations to shipping ports (in the case  of exports) or regional warehouses. (eN29) Reuse of materials (eN2) 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Recycled   materials used Scrap paper 21,022 t 9,623 t 30,342 t Percentage of recycled processing material 1.37 0.66 43 2008 2009 2010 Embu Industrial Unit Recycled   materials used Scrap paper 13,845 t 17,710 t 6,409 t Percentage of recycled processing material 30.28 37.92 14 SPP-Nemo Distribution, So Paulo Materials, Products and Services, and Transportation  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 93 Material consumption (eN1 and eN2) Materials used per weight or volume (eN1) 2008 2009 2010 Mucuri Industrial Unit Materials used by  weight or volume Wood consumption (total) 2,451,129 t 2,544,449 t 2,841,126 t Consumption of caustic soda, sodium sulphate,   virgin lime, calcium carbonate and optical bleach. 101,424 t 107,709 t 155,223 t Starch consumption – – 11,142 t Material consumption (total) 2,552,553 t 2,562,158 t 3,007,491 t Percentage of renewable materials 96 96 95 2008 2009 2010 Suzano Industrial Unit Materials used by  weight or volume Wood consumption (total) 1,377,395 t 1,305,704 t 1,345,171 t Consumption of caustic soda, calcium carbonate,   sodium sulphate, optical bleach and virgin lime. 255,647 t 249,268 t 160,125 t Starch consumption – – 23,647 t Material consumption (total) 1,633,042 t 1,554,972 t 1,577,718 t Percentage of renewable materials 84 84 89 2008 2009 2010 Rio Verde Industrial Unit Materials used by  weight or volume Pulp raw material consumption (total) 47,293 t 41,964 t 58,167 t Consumption if caustic soda, optical bleach and calcium carbonate (total) 5,747 t 4,790 t 5,525 t Primary sludge and starch consumption – – 7,041 t Material consumption (total) 53,040 t 46,754 t 70,734 t Percentage of renewable materials 89 90 92 2008 2009 2010 Embu Industrial Unit Materials used by  weight or volume Pulp raw material consumption (total) 45,726 t 38,155 t 35,390 t Kaolin and calcium carbonate consumption (total) 5,697 t 8,554 t 7,848 t Starch consumption – – 1,650 t Material consumption (total) 51,423 t 46,709 t 44,888 t Percentage of renewable materials 89 81.7 82.5 2008 2009 2010 Forestry Unit Materials used by  weight or volume NPK limestone consumption (total) 1.14 t/ha 2.44 t/ha 5.1 t/ha* * Increase arising from the inclusion of all forestry areas in the Maranho and Piau units.  94 Annual Sustainability Report Annual Social balance – IbASe – 2010 1 – Base of Calculation 2010 Amount (Thousands of reals) 2009 Amount (Thousands of reals) Net revenue (NR) 4,290,871 3,642,299 Operational bottom line (OBL) 966,762 1,141,698 Gross payroll (GP) 414,043 354,749 2 – Internal Social Indicators Amount  (Thousand) % of GP % over NR Amount  (Thousand) % of GP % over NR Food 22,335 5.39% 0.52% 20,162 5.68% 0.55% Compulsory payroll charges 97,186 23.47% 2.26% 84,132 23.72% 2.31% Social security 4,714 1.14% 0.11% 4,893 1.38% 0.13% Health 30,729 7.42% 0.72% 25,998 7.33% 0.71% Occupational safety and health 8,292 2.00% 0.19% 6,768 1.91% 0.19% Education 7,118 1.72% 0.17% 5,603 1.58% 0.15% Culture 62 0.01% 0.00% 57 0.02% 0.00% Training and professional  development 4,624 1.12% 0.11% 2,396 0.68% 0.07% Daycare or daycare assistance 302 0.07% 0.01% 209 0.06% 0.01% Profit sharing 46,782 11.30% 1.09% 41,818 11.79% 1.15% Others 14,378 3.47% 0.34% 12,892 3.63% 0.35% Total – Internal social indicators 236,522 57.12% 5.51% 204,928 57.77% 5.63% 3 – External Social Indicators Amount  (Thousand) % over OBL % over NR Amount  (Thousand) % over OBL % over NR Education 5,214 0.54% 0.12% 4,281 0.37% 0.12% Culture 2,682 0.3% 0.1% 3,431 0.3% 0.1% Health and sanitation 2 0.00% 0.00% 0 0% 0% Sports 688 0.07% 0.02% 876 0.08% 0.02% Fighting hunger and food safety 491 0.05% 0.01% 0 0% 0% Others 6,936 0.72% 0.16% 7,099 0.62% 0.19% Total contributions to society 16,013 1.66% 0.37% 15,687 1.37% 0.43% Taxes (excluding payroll charges) 347,376 35.93% 8.10% 354,447 31.05% 9.73% Total – External social indicators 363,389 37.59% 8.47% 370,134 32.42% 10.16% 4 – Environmental Indicators Amount  (Thousand) % over RO % over NR Amount  (Thousand) % over RO % over NR Investments related to the companys  production/operation 24,704 2.56% 0.58% 7.014 0.61% 0.19% Investments in programs and/or  external projects 1,542 0.16% 0.04% 1.256 0.11% 0.03% Total investments in the environment 26,246 2.71% 0.61% 8.270 0.72% 0.23% Regarding the establishment of  annual targets to minimize waste,  overall consumption in production/ operations and increase efficient  natural resources use, the company:  (  ) has no targets (  ) fulfills from 0 to 50% (X) fulfills from 51 to 75% (  ) fulfills from 76 to 100% (  ) has no targets (  ) fulfills from 0 to 50% (X) fulfills from 51 to 75% (  ) fulfills from 76 to 75%  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 95 6 – Relevant information  regarding the exercise of  corporate citizenship 2010 2011 Targets Ratio between the highest and lowest  wage at the company 28,9 No target established Total number of occupational accidents  14 5% reduction Social and environmental projects  developed by the company   were defined by: (  ) board (X) board and  management (  ) all the  employees (  ) board (X) board and  management (  ) all the  employees The standards of occupational health and  safety in the workplace were defined by: (  ) board and  management (  ) all the  employees (X) everyone  + Internal  Committee  on Accident  Prevention (  )  board and  management (  ) all the  employees (X) everyone  + Internal  Committee  on Accident  Prevention Regarding freedom to belong   to a union, the right to collective  bargaining and internal representation   of the workers, the company: (  ) does not   get involved (X) follows the  ILO standards (  ) encourages  and follows  the ILO (  ) does not get  involved (X) follows the  ILO standards (  ) encourages  and follows  the ILO Social security includes: (  ) board (  ) board and  management (X) all the  employees (  ) board (  ) board and  management (X) all the  employees Profit sharing includes: (  ) board (  ) board and  management (X) all the  employees (  ) board (  ) board and  management (X) all the  employees When selecting suppliers, the same  standards of ethics and social and  environmental responsibility   adopted by the company: (  ) are not  considered (X) are  recommended (  ) are required (  ) are not  considered (X) are  recommended (  ) are required Regarding employee participation in  voluntary work programs, the company: (  ) does not get  involved (  ) supports the  initiative (X) organizes  and encourages (  ) does not get  involved (  ) supports the  initiative (X) organizes  and encourages Total number of customer   complaints and criticisms: filed with the  company  1,200 filed with  the Procon  – Consumer  Protection  Agency  0 filed in Court  0 filed with the  company   1,269 filed with  the Procon  – Consumer  Protection  Agency  0 filed in Court  0 % of complaints and   criticisms answered or solved: filed with the  company  100% filed with  the Procon  – Consumer  Protection  Agency  0% filed in Court  0% filed with the  company  100% filed with  the Procon  – Consumer  Protection  Agency  0% filed in Court  0% Total added value to be   distributed (in thousand R$): In 2010: 1,993,057 In 2009: 962,910 Distribution of Added Value (DVA): 9% government 25 % employees 10% shareholders 26% third parties 30% withheld (24.80)% government 41.46% employees 23.67% shareholders (54.88%) third parties 64.95% withheld 7 – Other Information  Waste, water and energy indicators were included.  Accidents with leave of absence (direct + third party employees).  Suzano always responds to any technical complaint (insatisfaction) related to our products and services. (*) We corrected the % figure of management positions held by women (2009). 5 – Personnel Indicators 2010 2009 Number of employees at the end of the period 4.352 3.862 Number of employees hired during the period 852 752 Number of third party personnel 8.084 6.855 Number of interns 157 72 Number of employees over 45 years of age 882 801 Number of women who work in the company 545 402 % of management positions occupied by women 10,68% 7,57%* Number of black people that work at the company n/d n/d % of management positions occupied by black people n/d n/d Number of professionals with disabilities or special needs 141 88  96 Annual Sustainability Report Profile Level Page Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker in the organization regarding the relevance of sustainability 19 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 70 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 13 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 13 and 35 2.3 Operational Structure 13 and 48 2.4 Location of organizations headquarters 13 and 21 2.5 Number and name of countries where the organization operates that are relevant to sustainability 13 and 21 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 13 2.7 Markets served 13 and 21 2.8 Scale of reporting organization 13 and 16 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 7 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 15 Reporting Parameters Reporting Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 7 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 7 3.3 Reporting cycle 7 3.4 Contact point information 8 Report Scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 7 3.6 Boundary of the report 7 3.7 Limitation on the scope or boundary of the report 7 3.8 Basis for reporting 7 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 7 3.10 Effects of any restatements of information 7 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 7 GRI Content Summary 3.12 Table identifying the location of standard disclosures 96 Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regards to seeking external assurance for the report 7 and 100 Governance, Commitments and engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 48 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 49 4.3 Statement of the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent or non-executive members 49 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 49 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives and the organizations performance  – 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided – 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organizations strategy on  economic, environmental, and social topics – 4.8 Statements of internal mission and values, codes of conduct, and principles 14 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organizations identification and management of economic, environmental and social  performance 49 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance bodys own performance – GRI Summary GRI (3.12)  Answered   Partially answered   Not answered  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 97 Profile Level Page Commitment with external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 41 4.12 Charters, principles and other initiatives to which the organization subscribes 68 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 69 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 Stakeholder engagement 7 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 7 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 7 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders 7 and 8 Performance Indicators Level Page economic Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16 EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities due to climate change 79 EC3 Coverage of the organizations defined pension benefit plan obligations 56 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 23 and 24 * EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 54 EC6 Policy, practices, and spending on locally-based suppliers 66 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 52 EC8 Investments in infrastructure and services 71 EC9 Description of significant indirect economic impacts – environmental Indicators EN1 Materials used 93 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 93 EN3 Direct energy consumption 89 EN4 Indirect energy consumption – EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 88 and 89 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services,   and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 88 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved – EN8 Total water removal per source 83 EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water 83 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused – EN11 Location and size of land inside, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 90 and 91 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas   and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 90 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 74 90 EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 90 EN15 Endangered species – EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 79 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 79 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and results obtained 79 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances – EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 81 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 86 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 86 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills – EN24 Weight of transported waste deemed hazardous 86 EN25 Water bodies and related habitats affected by discharges of water 86 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 92 2002 according with C C+ B B+ A A+ Required Self-declared  Optional examined by third parties  examined by the GRI With  external  Audit With  external  Audit * A financial statements report is available on the website.  98 Annual Sustainability Report Performance Indicators Level Page EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed 92 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 78 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials 92 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments 78 Social Indicators – Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 53 and 54 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 55 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time vs. temporary employees – LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 54 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 54 LA6 Workforce represented in health and safety committees 59 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and work-related fatalities 59, 60 and 61 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members  regarding serious diseases 60 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 59 LA10 Average hours of training 58 LA11 Programs for employability 54 LA12 Performance and career development reviews 54 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 49 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men 56 Social Performance – Human Rights HR1 Significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses 66 HR2 Significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights 66 HR3 Human rights training 58 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination 57 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be at risk 66 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor 66 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 66 HR8 Security personnel trained in aspects of human rights 59 HR9 Number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 70 Social Performance – Society SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities 70 and 72 SO2 Percentage and total number of Business Units analyzed for risks related to corruption 69 SO3 Employees trained in organizations anti-corruption policies and procedures 69 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 69 SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying 69 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties 69 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 69 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 69 Social Performance – Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement 92 PR2 Number of incidents of non-compliance with health and safety regulations 65 PR3 Labeling procedures 65 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning information and labeling 65 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 65 PR6 Adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship 65 PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 65 PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 65 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and service 65  Suzano Pulp and Paper 2010 99 The United Nations Global Compact relies on the engagement of the private sector to advance in the context of social responsibility,  seeking to establish a global economy that is more sustainable and inclusive. The principles set forth by the Pact are aligned with Su- zanos Ethics and Code of Conduct. They include commitments related to the protection of human rights, labor rights, the environment  and anti-corruption. Please find below, our performance index in relation to the ten Global Compact principles that are related to the key GRI Indicators,  principles that assure the Report quality, according with GRI. Global Compact GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES GRI RELATION PAGES 1 Respect and protect human rights HR1, HR2, HR3 58 e 66 2 Make sure no human rights are abused HR2, HR3 58 e 66 3 Support freedom of association in the workplace LA4 54 4 Abolish forced labor HR7 66 5 Abolish child labor HR6 66 6 Eliminate discrimination in the workplace LA10, LA11, LA13 e LA14 49, 54, 56 e 58 7 Support a precautionary approach vis--vis environmental challenges EN (todos) 78 a 93 8 Promote environmental responsibility EN1 a EN30 78 a 93 9 Encourage the employment of technologies that do not harm the environment EN16 a EN25 79, 81, 86 e 92 10 Combat corruption in all its forms, including the use of extortion and payoffs. SO2, SO3 e SO4 69 SA 8000 is a  social responsibility standard in the workplace designed to improve working conditions, ensure that worker rights are  respected and that there is dignity in work relations, both within the company and in the production chain (suppliers and sub-suppliers).  In 2010, we worked hard to maintain our certifications and began the process of implementing actions in the Maranho and Piau areas  to build the base for obtaining certification in these areas. We also began a plan in preparation for expanding certification to include the  offices of the SPP-Nemo branches, our paper distributor. REQUIREMENTS  GRI RELATION PAGES IV.1 – Child labor HR6 66 IV.2 – Forced and compulsory labor HR7 66 IV.3 – Health and safety LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, 59 a 61 IV.4 – Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining LA4, LA5, LA9 54 and 59 IV.5 – Discrimination LA13, LA14, HR4, HR8 49,56, 57 and 59 IV.6 – Disciplinary practices HR4 57 IV.7 – Working hours LA1 53 and 54 IV. 8 – Compensation EC3, EC5, 54 and 56 IV.9 – Management System – Suppliers and subcontractor control EC6 66 SA 8000  Annual Sustainability Report 100 INTRODUCTION Bureau Veritas Certification Brasil (Bureau Veritas) has  been contracted, for the fifth consecutive year, by Suzano  Papel e Celulose S.A. (Suzano), to conduct an indepen- dent verification of its 2010 Annual Sustainability Report  (hereinafter referred to as Report), including analysis of  the content, quality and scope thereof. The information  published in the report is of full responsibility of Suzanos  management. Our responsibility is limited to the indepen- dent assessment of its content according with the scope  established below. SCOPE OF WORK Suzano requested Bureau Veritas Certification to include  in the scope of work, independent verification of informa- tion relating to:  Data and information provided in the 2010 Report;  Suitability and reliability of complementary systems  and processes used to collect, review and compile re- ported information;  Assessment of the Report in accordance with the prin- ciple of Materiality, Stakeholder Engagement, Context  of Sustainability, Range, Balance, Comparability, Ac- curacy, Regularity, Clarity and Reliability, as defined  in the GRI G3 (2006) Sustainability Reporting Frame- work. Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification  of information relating to:  Activities outside the defined verification period;  Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief,  aim or future intention) by Suzano.  Economic and financial information contained in this  Report obtained from financial statements that have  been analyzed by independent auditors. METHODOLOGY Our work was conducted in accordance with Bureau  Veritas standard protocol for Independent Verification of  Sustainability Reports, based on current best practices1 en- compassing the following activities: 1. Interviews with personnel (process owners) involved  in preparing the Report; 2. Analysis of documentary evidence provided by Su- zano for the reporting period (2010); 3. Audit of performance information and data in relation  to principles that assure quality of the report, accord- ing with GRI G3 standard3; 4. Visit to the Mucuri (Bahia), Teresina (Piau), Imperatriz  (Maranho), Suzano (So Paulo) units as well as the  So Paulo head office; 5. Review of stakeholders engagement activities devel- oped by Suzano; 6. Systematic assessment used to determine key issues  included in the Report, taking into consideration the  context of sustainability and balance of the informa- tion published. The verification process was planned and carried out  in such a manner as to provide a reasonable level of  verification in relation to the Reports compliance with  the principles of Inclusion, Materiality and Respon- siveness, as well as the accuracy of the performance  information published by Suzano, thus providing an  acceptable basis for our conclusions. OUR FINDINGS  Within the scope of our work, the information and  data presented in the Report were deemed to be ac- curate and free of any significant error or false state- ments and accessible to and easy for stakeholders to  understand;  Most of the information included in the Report was ob- tained from and managed by Suzano Integrated Man- agement System, which is certified by the following  internationally recognized standards: ISO 9001/2008,  ISO 14001/2004 and OHSAS 18001/2007;  Internal published information collection, analysis and  compilation mechanisms, as well as the control of rel- evant documents and its traceability, may be consid- ered to be reliable;  In 2010 Suzano created the sustainability intelligence  department whose focus was to consolidate all of the  information related to GRI indicators;  In the State of the Piau activities are still primarily con- centrated in silviculture; In the state of Maranho we  confirmed that the definition of the basic engineering  phase of the new unit was being carried out, as de- tailed in the Report. Thus it was clear that there was  no expansion of industrial units since the last pub- lished Report; Independent assurance statement   by Bureau Veritas Certification  Suzano Papel e Celulose 2010 101  Regarding the Principles of Materiality and Stakeholder  Engagement, the same methodology applied in previ- ous years continued to be used. In 2010 in particular,  a questionnaire was sent to the stakeholders who had  already been consulted in 2009, and the Company  systematized existing tools, such as the Social Per- formance and Operational Dialogs Matrix, seeking to  increase stakeholder interaction in the regions where  forestry management units are located;  Suzanos goals and objectives are detailed in a disperse  manner throughout the Report, making it difficult for  the reader to understand the performance of the pro- cesses in terms of sustainability, with the exception of  those covered by the published GRI indicators;  Based on our verification, we have concluded that the  Report was prepared in compliance with content and  quality criteria specified in the GRI G3 Framework,  meeting the Principles therein established and cover- ing the required indicators in an adequate manner, and  therefore classify Suzano at a C+ level of application. OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT  We reiterate the need to further train personnel re- sponsible for preparing the information related to GRI  performance indicators. Production of data compliant  with the Group of Indicator Protocols specified in  the Sustainability Reporting Framework (GRI G3) is ex- tremely important;  Establish a formal procedure that engages all relevant  stakeholder groups in order to establish a medium-  to long-term strategy in determining materiality. Seek  greater interaction with the following groups: Market  Analysts, Forestry Wood Partners and NGOs;  Goals and objectives could be detailed in a more sys- tematic and objective manner, clearly showing the  reader what Suzanos priorities are in terms of sustain- able development;  Specify management controls for many of the GRI-G3  indicator categories, thus increasing compliance with  the GRI Framework protocol Levels of Application;  Taking into consideration recent development of the  so-called MAPITO region (southern Maranho and  Piau and northern Tocantins), Suzano could improve  the method it uses to identify and evaluate material  subjects for future publications;  Consider the presentation of more information re- garding the use and availability of water resources  at the Forestry Business Units. In the MAPITO region,  this matter is extremely important and should be ad- equately covered in future reports.  Specify in the Risk Management chapter how Suzano  assesses environmental and social matters in the pro- cess of expansion in the Brazilian northeast;  Submit the Report to Stakeholders deemed to be opin- ion makers for their evaluation, publishing their opin- ions in an attempt to increase transparency in rela- tion to the Principles of Stakeholder Engagement and  Materiality;  Suzano recently acquired a biotechnology company  and disclosed that it intends to set up a renewable  energy company in 2011. Seeking compliance with  the GRI Protocol, the importance of these new activi- ties should be analyzed in relation to the impacts on  sustainability and the level of Suzanos control or influ- ence; STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND IMPARTIALITY Bureau Veritas Certification is an independent profes- sional services company that specializes in Quality, Health,  Safety, Social and Environmental management with almost  180 years history in providing independent assurance ser- vices. No member of the assurance team has a business rela- tionship with Suzano. We conducted the assurance review  in an independent manner, and believe that there was no  conflict of interest. Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across  the business to maintain high ethical standards among  staff in their day to day business activities. CONTACT Bureau Veritas Certification is available to clarify any ques- tions at its website www.bureauveritascertification.com.br/ faleconosco. asp or by telephone: (+5511) 5070-9800. 1 Bureau Veritas independent assurance protocol is based on the Interna- tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) and GRI Sustai- nability Reporting Framework.  Annual Sustainability Report 104 Suzano Pulp and Paper  Annual Sustainability Report General Coordination Cristiane Malfatti editing Adriana Claudino GRI Indicators Workgroup Coordination: Rebeca Barbosa Knijnik Working group: Adna Alves Avancini, Adriana Aparecida Fernandes, Alberto Carvalho de Oliveira Filho, Ana Maria Couto Jimenez, Ana Paula So- ares Silva, Berta Marchiori, Camila Castanho SantAna, Dalton Henrique Angelo, Daniel Carlos Moreno, Elisabete Flores Pagliusi, Fabricio Neves  de Sa, Fernanda Pontual Vilmar Nardy, Giulianna Daibem Bazalia Gori, Guilherme Cassab Narchi, Henrique Araujo Torreira De Mattos, Luciana  Batista Pereira, Luciane Soares Ribeiro Beserra, Lucimara Roncolato Castilho, Ludmila Pereira Conrado, Marcio Andre Ramos Dos Santos, Marcio  Caliari, Marcos A. Cordeiro, Maria Cristina de Oliveira Wendling, Mariana Helena Andreatta, Mariana da Silva Telles Scaldini, Marina Stefani Car- lini, Marisa Aparecida Camazano, Naiara Cristina de Carvalho, Rodrigo Alberto Traverso Sienra, Rosely DAlessandro Onizuca, Sara Juarez Sales. Copy and editing Editora Contadino Grammar Review Eliete Soares Graphic Project DLippi Comunicao Integrada Photographs Azael Bild, David Garb, Kriz Knack, Mari Vaccaro, Pisco Del Gaiso, Rafael Sato, Ricardo Correa, Ricardo Teles e Srgio Zacchi  Printing DLippi Print – a FSC-certified printing company Acknowledgements We would like to thank all employees and business partners that participated in preparing this edition and, especially, individuals who gave us  images to use in this publication. We thank our stakeholders who responded to the questionnaire assessing the 2010 Sustainability Report: Employees: Andre Sprenger da Mota, Barbara Cristina Garcia, Camila Pavo Chabar, Renato Miguel Lipener, Mariana Zayat Chammas, Nara  Michelin Ribeiro Customers:  Cesar Leal Silva (Vlid Grfica), Andr Correa (Kimberly-Clark Brasil) Suppliers: Jos Carlos de Almeida (JFI), Monica Yamamoto (Trip), Carlos Freire e Andr Leal (Braskem), Edson Hernandes (Renner Protective  Coatings), Mauricio Isidoro Oliveira (Belgo Bekaert Arames) This report was printed: Cover – with Duodesign 250 gsm paperboard Pages – with Couch Matte 150 gsm paper Suzano Pulp and Paper papers are produced from renewable eucalyptus forests. Each tree used was planted specifically for this purpose. Mayo 2011 Please feel free to contact us to answer any questions and/or make suggestions regarding the content of this report, through the following  communication channels: Suzano Responde: 0800 774 7440 ou suzanoresponde@suzano.com.br Investor Relations: ri@suzano.com.br  Native Atlantic Coastal Rainforest trees were planted   to offset the carbon emissions produced from   publishing this report  The FSC seal guarantees that this report was printed  on paper made from wood from certified reforestation  projects, in accordance with the strict social,  environmental and economic criteria established by  the international organization FSC - Forest Stewardship  Council in addition to the use of other controlled sources. Soybean product acknowledged by the  American Soybean Association