2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT safe  profitable growth  B TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 About Our Report 01  2010 Performance At A Glance 02  Presidents Message 04  How We Manage Corporate Responsibility 06  Safety 09  Environment 13  People 16  Communities 20  Progress Against 2009 Targets And Future Plans 21  Key Numbers 23  Forward-looking Information 25  Board Of Directors And Executive Throughout 2010, Talisman made great strides in our business,  continuing to improve the underlying profitability and growth  potential of the company. Equal in importance is the work   and advancements that were made toward our corporate  responsibility efforts.  This report highlights successes and areas of improvement   for our corporate responsibility performance. It describes   our activities across a range of topics, focusing on safety,  environment, people and communities. To prepare this report,  we have considered issues important to both our business   and key stakeholders, including ethical business conduct,  employee practices, human rights and community relations. In last years Corporate Responsibility report, we included more  quantifiable targets as a measure of our performance. This   year, we have continued this emphasis on key performance  indicators (KPIs). An overview of our progress against 2009  targets and new targets for 2011 can be found on page 20. This report has been prepared using the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) Sustainability reporting guidelines, application  level A+. Talismans last report was published in April 2010 and  the next report is scheduled for publication in May 2012.  Talismans KPIs can be found at www.talisman-energy.com  and selected KPIs have been reviewed by an independent   third party, Ernst & Young LLP.  Additional information on Talismans corporate responsibility  performance can be found online at www.talisman-energy.com. This report provides performance data on all aspects of our company on a consolidated basis. Unless otherwise indicated, figures are reported in metric units, and all financial information is reported in Canadian dollars.  Unless the context indicates otherwise, reference in this report to Talisman or the company is intended to include, for reporting purposes only, the direct or indirect subsidiaries of Talisman Energy Inc. and partnership  interests held by Talisman Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries. Talisman defines its stakeholders as its employees, shareholders, suppliers, service providers, communities, indigenous groups, investors, debtholders,  governments, regulators and non-governmental organizations affected by, or that can affect, the companys operations. As an international oil and gas company, our business takes us around the  world in search of exploration and development opportunities. We are strongly  committed to being a socially responsible company and, in our efforts for  continuous improvement, we pay close attention to our safety, environmental,  community and people practices.  Talisman Energy Inc. is an  independent oil and gas exploration  and production company – with the  purpose of safe, profitable growth. About Our Company 1 Enterprise value of common shares plus book value of debt as at December 31, 2010 Colombia production, exploration  and development Peru exploration United States Marcellus Shale  development conventional production Eagle Ford  Shale conventional production Canada  Montney Shale  development and piloting Quebec Shale  piloting midstream Our Business Strategy Is Focused On:   establishing safe, long-term profitable growth from our  operations in North America shale and Southeast Asia  repositioning the international portfolio for renewal  through high-impact exploration in selected areas   operating our conventional North Sea business and  conventional portfolio in North America at maximum  efficiency to maintain stable, high-quality production   and cash generation for at least the next decade. We are committed to conducting our business safely and   in an ethically, socially and environmentally responsible  manner. We participate in the United Nations Global  Compact and are included in the Meritas Jantzi Social   Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability North America   Index. Talisman was the first Canadian company to join   the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights  Plenary Group developed by the United States (US) and  United Kingdom (UK) governments. In 2010, Talisman   was also included on the Jantzi-Macleans list of the 50 Most  Socially Responsible Companies in Canada. Talisman is listed on the Toronto and New York stock exchanges  under the symbol TLM. Net Income  $648 million  ($0.64 per share) Capital And   Exploration   Expenditures $4 billion  Global Workforce 3,078 employees Production  417,000  barrels of oil  equivalent   per day  (approximately 50%   oil, 50% natural gas)  Enterprise Value  $25 billion 1 2010 Key Facts  Headquartered in Calgary, Canada, our main operating areas are North America,   the North Sea and Southeast Asia. In addition, we are pursuing a number of   international exploration opportunities.  North America Talisman is becoming a leading, returns-focused shale  producer in North America. We have a diversified portfolio   that includes interests in shale plays in British Columbia and  Quebec in Canada, and Pennsylvania, Texas and New York   in the US. We also continue to invest in conventional oil and  natural gas properties in Western Canada. We expect future  growth to come from low-cost, long-life shale assets. North Sea With a decade of sustainable production ahead of us in   the North Sea, we are focused on offshore development and  exploration activities near the coasts of UK and Norway. Our  North Sea production is predominantly light, high-value oil   and liquids. Our plan is to maintain the region as a stable  cash-generating business.  Southeast Asia We are involved in exploring and developing oil and natural   gas in Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, Australia and Papua   New Guinea (PNG). Current production from the region is  predominantly oil and liquids or natural gas linked to oil prices.  Our Southeast Asia operations are expected to continue as   a growth area, with new projects coming on stream over the  medium term and with significant exploration upside. International Exploration  We are building an international exploration portfolio that will  contribute to our renewal through the discovery of significant  new hydrocarbon resources. In Peru and Colombia, we are  building an oil-focused core region. In Southeast Asia, we are  exploring prospects offshore Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam  and onshore PNG. In addition, we are also looking for exploration  opportunities to sustain North Sea production. We are also  pursuing material growth opportunities in Poland and in the  Kurdistan region of northern Iraq. Where We Operate Kurdistan region   of northern Iraq  exploration Algeria Poland shale piloting North Sea United Kingdom offshore production   and development offshore exploration Norway offshore production   and development offshore exploration Indonesia production Australia offshore production  and development Papua New Guinea exploration offshore exploration Malaysia/Vietnam offshore production Vietnam offshore exploration  and development Malaysia offshore exploration  1 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 At Talisman, continuous improvement means learning from both our successes and challenges,  and using these insights to enhance our performance. In 2010, while we had many noteworthy  accomplishments, we also identified some areas to improve on. We: 2010 Performance At A Glance  Carried out a comprehensive review of our global drilling  operations in the aftermath of the BP plc Deepwater Horizon  incident and used our findings to apply additional rigour to  our design, procedures and safety processes in preparation  for our first deepwater well.  Improved our combined employee and contractor lost-time  injury frequency by 18% from 2009, delivering another  year of improved performance, however falling short of   our 30% target.  Suffered a fatality when contractor Evaristo Chimpa  tragically lost his life on the Pastaza River in northern Peru.  We immediately ceased all river operations to undergo a  safety review and identified opportunities to improve our  river barge operations in all applicable regions.    Reduced the number of spills greater than a half-barrel by  31% to 109 from 157 in 2009.   Experienced a spill from a shale gas drilling operation in  Bradford County, Pennsylvania, of which approximately  1,700 litres (450 gallons) of diesel were recovered. As  a result, we implemented a number of improvements to  prevent offsite impacts from our shale gas developments  across North America.  Rolled out 10 Golden Rules for Safe Operations – compliance  with these rules is a condition of working at any Talisman site.   Developed a new global community relations policy (GCRP)  to create a consistent, best-practice approach to interacting  with, and gaining the support of, local stakeholders.  Updated our policy on business conduct and ethics (PBCE)  to include prohibition of facilitation payments.  Invested $8.5 million worldwide in community initiatives.  Launched our first global employee survey to more than  3,000 employees in seven languages and achieved a  response rate of 82%.  Immediately after this incident, I asked for an intensive  worldwide review of all of our drilling operations, with an  emphasis on operational integrity and process safety. The  findings were reviewed by the Board of Directors and fully  discussed throughout the company. While we were satisfied  with the overall results of this evaluation, we were able to use  our findings to improve upon many of our existing processes  and put in place more extensive readiness reviews for our  deepwater and higher-risk operations. At Talisman, we are on a five-year journey to move to top- quartile safety performance, and we have made significant  gains in the past couple of years. In 2010, we lowered our lost- time injury frequency rate by 18% over 2009, which itself had  reduced 40% over 2008. Despite our continued progress, we  did not meet our own internal aspiration and have refocused  our efforts again as we enter 2011. An assessment of our 2010  incidents indicated that priority areas for our attention this year  include our North American drilling and completion operations  and our start-up exploration projects around the world. We  have implemented special programs in these areas to ensure  continued progress toward our safety goals.  Although we make concerted efforts to keep all workers  safe at all times, tragically, we experienced a fatality in 2010  when contractor Evaristo Chimpa lost his life on the Pastaza  River in northern Peru. All of us at Talisman extend our  sincere condolences to Mr. Chimpas family and friends. We  immediately ceased all river operations to undergo a detailed  and comprehensive investigation. We have since used the  findings to improve river operations in all areas where we rely   on barges to supply our activities.  Wherever we operate, we try to minimize our impact on the  environment, work with the support of local communities and  share the economic benefits of our activities. We commissioned  a report by Washington-based Foley Hoag, an internationally  renowned legal and corporate social responsibility consultancy,  on the issue of free, prior and informed consent for indigenous  communities. We also received guidance from the World  Resources Institute and several other expert organizations  and individuals on this topic. Stemming from this report, we  developed and issued a new community relations policy to help  guide our interactions with local communities wherever we work.  As an example, in Peru we undertake a rigorous process to  ensure local communities are made aware of our plans and  are offered access to additional support to understand and  evaluate the impacts on their communities. After this process,  community members hold a vote, which requires a two-thirds  majority before we can commence operations. In North America, as we increase our shale activities, we see the  tension between an affordable, abundant and clean energy source  and public concerns, particularly with respect to water. Talisman is  committed to environmentally responsible shale development, and  we continue to look for ways to decrease our use of fresh water  02 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Presidents Message Welcome to Talisman Energys 11th Corporate Responsibility Report.  The year, for all of our industry and most particularly  for those directly affected, was dominated by the  devastating explosion on the Deepwater Horizon  drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico. This was   a tragic reminder of what can go wrong.  03 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 and to protect surface and ground water resources. Since   mid-2010, we have achieved nearly 100% reuse of flowback  water in Pennsylvania, our largest shale operation. In 2011, we  will further increase environmental monitoring by developing and  piloting a sector-specific water intensity performance indicator. We have created a series of partnerships with agencies that  provide support in the regions we operate, or that have a  global focus on an important issue such as clean drinking  water. In 2010, we partnered with the Centre for Affordable  Water and Sanitation Technology. The Calgary-based, not- for-profit organization provides education, training and  technical consulting in water and sanitation to organizations  that serve the poor in developing countries. And, already in  2011, we accepted an invitation to participate in the United  Nations Global Compact LEAD program, comprised of a  group of companies committed to defining best practices for  sustainability leadership. As well, we have recently announced  a partnership with the World Resources Institutes Aqueduct  project focused on measuring and mapping water risk. Of course, beyond local boundaries, hydrocarbons are also  a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. Talisman  continues to look for ways to leverage technology to improve  energy efficiency and reduce our carbon footprint; you will   see examples in this report.  Another challenge for the oil and gas industry is the aging  demographic profile of our workforce. In a global, exciting  and highly technical business, there is more we can do to  attract and retain a new generation of engineers, geologists,  accountants and other talented people. This is a great industry  with great opportunities, in need of the best people. We are  implementing a series of programs to build our capacity   within the firm, and to develop our employees to their  maximum potential. To meet these challenges, we recognize that Talisman must  produce energy safely, responsibly and with the support of  communities impacted by our activities, in order to preserve  our license to operate. As you will read in this report, we  continue to build and enhance our activities to ensure Talisman  remains a responsible corporate citizen. We are proud of our  accomplishments to date, but we recognize that it must be a  process of continuous improvement.  2010 was the first year we publicly shared some of our targets  for improvement. This was to demonstrate our commitment to  advancement and to set visible benchmarks for our stakeholders.  The scorecard at the end of this report highlights some of our  successes and areas for continued improvement. For 2011,  we have added two new performance indicators relating to  recordable injuries and overdue preventative maintenance.  Talismans purpose is safe, profitable growth. We believe that  corporate responsibility programs must be fully integrated into all  business activities. As the complexity of our business increases  and the scale of our operations grows, we will continue to make  substantial investments in the development of our people.  I would like to thank the Talisman Board for its important role  in providing oversight to our corporate responsibility activities.  Most of all, I would like to thank the more than 4,600 Talisman  employees and contractors around the world who live our  values and conduct their business every day in an ethical and  responsible manner.  John A. Manzoni President and Chief Executive Officer  Talisman Energy Inc. February 28, 2011 John A. Manzoni President and Chief Executive Officer OUR VALUES:  safety. passion. results. respect. excellence. teamwork. honest communication.   04 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 1. Our Values Provide A Solid Foundation Corporate responsibility at Talisman starts with our values.   They reflect what we stand for as a company and guide our  conduct at the highest level.  safety: our goal is to create working conditions where we  cause no harm to people passion: we inspire others by the passion we demonstrate  for our work results: we have a bias for results and take initiative to get  things done efficiently, creating value for our shareholders respect: we take time to consider and appreciate other  peoples points of view and treat the environment with respect excellence: we strive for excellence in what we do and how  we do it teamwork: by working effectively together, we can deliver  results far beyond our individual capabilities honest communication: we show courage to speak  honestly and support others to do the same 2. Our Management System Drives   Continuous Improvement Our global management system for health, safety, security,  environment and operational assurance (HSSE/OA) helps us to  manage HSSE/OA risks, set common expectations for workers  and is central to understanding and improving our performance.  Building on the standards in this detailed framework allows   us to translate many of our corporate values into actionable  commitments for our employees and contractors. In 2010, this system was expanded to include global projects  and drilling and completions activities. Now known as the  Talisman operating management system, it provides a single  system that will further integrate our key HSSE/OA priorities  into our daily operations and effectively manage related risks.  We will continue implementing this system throughout 2011. 3. Our Board Provides Oversight  Our Board of Directors (Board) oversees the conduct of   the business and management, including efforts to manage  corporate responsibility. The Board ensures systems are   in place to manage key financial and non-financial risks,  including environment, health and safety. We have well- established structures in place to ensure the Board can  How We Manage Corporate Responsibility OUR VALUES Our people put these values into action daily. Their dedication to making Talisman a  great corporate citizen is built into the policies, systems, procedures and practices we  put in place to keep us improving. Our commitment to corporate  responsibility is rooted in our   company values.  05 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 function independently of management. All of our 11 directors  are independent, except for Talismans president and chief  executive officer.  In addition, the Boards health, safety, environment and  corporate responsibility (HSECR) committee oversees our  health, safety and environment initiatives, policies and systems.  In 2010, the mandate of this committee was expanded to  include oversight for policies on security, community   relations and human rights. 4. Ethical Conduct Is Fundamental To How   We Do Business Our policy on business conduct and ethics (PBCE) provides  our employees and contractors with guidelines on a range of  issues, including personal conduct, human rights, community  relations and health, safety and environment. All employees  and contractors are required to complete annual training and  to sign a certificate of compliance. Training has been updated  to reflect changes to the PBCE, which now references the new  GCRP and prohibits facilitation payments.  Integrity Matters Talismans Integrity Matters hotline was available to both  internal and external stakeholders throughout 2010. The  hotline is a confidential option for submitting inquiries or  complaints regarding ethics matters and other areas of  concern, such as human resources or workplace practices.   It is managed by an independent third-party with global  operations that offers services in more than 140 languages.   All matters reported through this vehicle in 2010 were  investigated for possible breaches of business conduct   and actions were taken where appropriate. 5. We Follow International Standards For Human  Rights, Security And Transparency We promote adherence to and respect for human rights  principles in all our areas of operation. We are a signatory to   the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which supports   a number of principles related to human rights, labour, the  environment and anti-corruption. In early 2011, we were invited  to participate in its LEAD program, which is comprised of a group  of 54 companies committed to defining best practices for  sustainability leadership. We are also the first Canadian company to participate in the  Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Plenary  Group. The Voluntary Principles guide companies in maintaining  the safety and security of their operations, within an operating  framework that promotes respect for human rights and security. In addition, we are committed to transparency in our dealings  with governments. We are a member of the Extractive Industries  Transparency Initiative (EITI), and publish all royalties, taxes  and other material payments to host governments across our  global operations.  6. We Engage And Listen To Stakeholders  In carrying out our business, we communicate and consult with  a wide range of stakeholders. They can include landowners, local  communities, Aboriginal and indigenous people, regulators and  governments. We create opportunities to engage stakeholders  early in a project cycle and frequently throughout our activities.  Our goal is to share information, learn from external perspectives  and build strong relationships in the community – all with a view  to supporting our long-term success.  6 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 06 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Our Approach  Keeping our people safe is a company-wide effort, and one to  which all Talisman employees are dedicated. Our objective is  to become a consistent top-quartile safety performer. We strive  for high levels of safety vigilance through safe work practices,  site visits, reporting, education and training, as well as the  commitment of our people. We are not satisfied with the status  quo and have set key indicators for improved performance. We  continually learn from both our incidents and successes. We  set clear expectations through our global standards and follow  up to provide assurance, thorough tracking and reporting.  Our Performance One of the key safety measures we track is the rate of lost time  due to workplace injuries. Our lost-time injury frequency (LTIF)  was down 18% from 2009. Although this was still a significant  achievement, it fell short of our 30% improvement target. More  work is required to achieve our goal of zero safety incidents in  our workplace. Our 2011 target is to further reduce LTIF by 20%,  compared to 2010. In addition to tracking key performance indicators, we have  been focusing our attention on incidents and potential incidents.  We have learned a significant amount about where we need to  advance our safety performance. Contractor management will  be a main area of improvement for 2011. Site supervision for  drilling and completions in North America will become more  rigorous. Control of the work on our sites will be enhanced. As  well, we will manage our onshore operations with very clear  accountabilities between Talisman and our contractors. We will  become more structured in our standards upon entry into new  areas and how we start new projects. Fatality In Peru Although we make concerted efforts to keep all workers safe  at all times, tragically, we experienced a fatality in 2010 on the  Pastaza River in northern Peru. On April 27, contractor Evaristo  Chimpa died from injuries sustained after the guide boat he  was travelling on suddenly lost power and was struck by the  contractor-operated barge it was supporting. Immediately, we  ceased all river operations in the region. Through a detailed and  comprehensive investigation, we adapted our processes and,  subsequently, we identified opportunities to improve certain  procedures and controls, particularly in the area of operator  training and vessel inspection. We have since used the findings  to enhance the safety of river barge operations in Peru and to  make improvements in Colombia and PNG, where we also rely  on barges to supply exploration activities.  Communicating 10 Golden Rules For Safe Operations Crucial to managing personal safety is building an entrenched  safety culture where clear rules and procedures are consistently  followed to prevent personal injuries. To reinforce our commitment  to safety, we have established our 10 Golden Rules for Safe  Operations. These rules form part of our global safety culture  standard. Compliance with these rules is a condition of working  at any Talisman site. In 2010, we rolled out the rules to our  global workforce. They were published in nine languages and  were supported by a communications campaign of posters,  DVDs, booklets, online guidelines for supervisors and face-to- face conversations. Safety Safety is our top priority. It is paramount to our  business that we create a work environment that is  incident-free, where we do no harm and workers are  not exposed to hazards.  Driving Continuous Improvement Global Lost-time  Injury Frequency per one million exposure hours 2008 2009 2010 0.0 0.4 0.8 1.2 1.6 2.0 In 2010, our global  lost-time injury frequency  (LTIF) was 0.88 per million  exposure hours, down  from 1.08 in 2009.  7 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 07 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Reinforcing Safe Behaviours On The Worksite Across all our operations, we place a strong emphasis on  peer-to-peer observations and supervisor mentoring to raise  awareness of job hazards and correct safety behaviours. In  2010, we renewed these programs in our North America and  UK operations. In North America, we provided additional  training on behaviour-based safety for new and existing  workers, and we introduced safety observation training for  leaders. In the UK, we used a program that promoted peer- to-peer behaviour-based safety among workers. Through  this continuing program, employees are trained in effective  techniques for carrying out safety conversations in order to  coach and encourage co-workers to follow safe work practices.  Improving Contractor Management Our company works with thousands of contractors worldwide  who provide diverse services to our operations. In some areas,  they represent a significant portion of the local workforce.  Contractors are expected to follow the same safety standards  as our employees. In 2010, to bring more consistency to  contractor performance, we implemented a global contractor  health, safety and environment (HSE) management standard.  The standard provides a common system for evaluating and  selecting contractors and working with them to enhance safety  practices. As a first step, we categorized contractor jobs based on  the level of hazardous work. For tier-one contractors involved in  the most hazardous work, we now consider their previous safety  performance as a prequalification for employment and we require  regular safety meetings between Talisman safety managers and  the contractor. Looking forward, our goal is to have all tier-one  contractors operating to this new standard by the end of 2011. Reducing The Risk Of Critical Incidents   In Our Facilities Process safety involves plant equipment, processes used   to operate a plant, and people who use the processes.  By encouraging people to follow the proper operating procedures  in our facilities, we can prevent major incidents, such as fatalities,  spills and fires. For the past year, we achieved a zero backlog  of repair orders for safety-critical equipment. In other words, if  this equipment needed to be repaired, we fixed it immediately  and reported these corrective actions to management. Global Review Of Process Safety After BP Incident  On April 20, 2010, an explosion on BPs Deepwater Horizon  drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico resulted in a fire that sank the  rig, causing 11 fatalities, multiple serious injuries and the largest  oil spill in history. In response to this devastating incident, we  conducted a thorough review of all aspects of our global drilling  operations, including well design, procedures, training and  equipment. This company-wide investigation reaffirmed that  Talisman has appropriate measures and barriers in place to  maintain high levels of safety. While this gave us confidence in  the processes and procedures we have in place, we recognize  that there are inherent risks associated with any kind of complex  operation. While removing risk entirely is unlikely, we were able  to use our findings to apply additional rigour to our designs,  procedures and safety processes.  At the same time, the review also identified the opportunity to  develop a more robust incident response plan. For example,  as Talisman expands our operations and enters new regions, a  commitment to consistent standards is increasingly important.  Immediately after our review in 2010, we shared the companys  expectations for well operations and process safety with all  site supervisors throughout our global drilling and completions  business. We are also developing a global standard on well  control, which will set out clear expectations for onshore and  offshore operations. This standard will be introduced in 2011.  We plan to drill our first deepwater well in the Indonesian  Makassar Strait later this year. At Talisman, we are on a five-year journey to move  to top-quartile safety performance, and we have  made significant gains in the past couple of years.  John A. Manzoni, President and Chief Executive Officer  08 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Stories From Our Regions  Breaking The Chain Of Events That Can Lead To Major Incidents  Our Norway operations use a barrier management system to maintain high levels of process  safety at the Gyda platform in the North Sea. The system covers 17 barriers (technical,  organizational and operational measures) designed to prevent events that can lead to major  incidents such as spills, fires or explosions. Each barrier is monitored by a technical authority,  and the overall risk index for each barrier at the site is updated each day and shown on an  online data management system. Since its launch in 2009, the system has increased  awareness of daily process safety practices on Gyda. In 2011, it will be expanded to the Yme  platform in the North Sea. The system is also being considered for other Talisman regions.  Improving Personal Safety Through A Four-Point Plan In the UK, our operations apply a four-point plan to improve personal safety on 11 offshore  installations in the North Sea as well as the Flotta Oil Terminal. Since introducing the plan in  2008, it has been updated each year to address safety priorities. In 2010, the plan was used   to stress the importance of visible site leadership, safety interventions, awareness of work-site  hazards and effective procedures for personal safety. The program has helped our UK  operations decrease lost-time injury frequency by more than 50% in the past two years. Based on  this success, we plan to expand use of the four-point plan to other operating regions in 2011,  including Malaysia, Norway and North America. Providing Medical Care In Remote Locations In PNG, we have acquired about 400 kilometres of seismic data since we commenced onshore  activities in 2009. Here, our exploration programs take place in challenging and remote jungle  environments where workers can be exposed to a variety of health risks, including endemic  diseases such as malaria and cholera and other hazards such as crocodiles and poisonous  snakes. For the people working on our behalf in these environments, we have established a  variety of arrangements for health and medical support, including medical evacuation via air  ambulance to hospitals in Australia, and heli-portable medical clinics staffed with doctors   and paramedics. These arrangements are also available for assisting members of the local  communities. For instance, in 2010, Talisman provided medical assistance and evacuation   for a child from a village located near one of our remote camps who had been bitten by a  poisonous snake.  Norway UK Papua New Guinea Safety in action: a barrier management system  in Norway, a four-point plan in the UK and  medical care in remote locations.  09 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Environment At Talisman, we are committed to environmental  performance that meets or exceeds regulations wherever  we operate. Understanding and minimizing our impact on  the environment is a priority in every decision we make.  Our Approach Our pursuit for continuous improvement in environmental  performance includes integrating environmental considerations  into our business and making efficient use of resources. We  carefully plan all projects and operations so as to minimize our  impacts to air, land and water. We also draw on technological  innovation and best practices to ensure we are using energy,  water and other materials we need to operate our daily  business activities as efficiently as possible.  Strengthening Spill Prevention We track and record spills across our global operations as a   key indicator of environmental performance. We take all spills  seriously. By investigating for root causes, developing corrective  actions and sharing what we learn, we work to prevent similar  incidents from occurring in the future.  In 2010, the number of spills greater than one-half barrel in   our global operations decreased from 157 in 2009 to 109. Responding To A Spill In Pennsylvania In March 2010, we experienced a spill from a shale gas  drilling operation in Bradford County, Pennsylvania, of which  1,700 litres (450 gallons) of diesel were recovered. The spill  leaked offsite into a nearby field. Upon discovery of the spill,  Talismans environmental response crews were immediately  notified and began implementing containment and recovery  operations. Working with local regulators and stakeholders, we  took prompt action to remediate the area impacted by the spill  and to thoroughly investigate the incident. As a result of our investigation, we implemented a number of  improvements to prevent future offsite impacts from our shale gas  developments across North America. We installed plastic liners  under drilling and completions sites in order to prevent any  spilled fluids from reaching the environment. We also upgraded  connector equipment to help prevent leaks, introduced new  operating procedures for tanks and increased spill prevention  training for our field staff.  Managing Responsibly, Limiting Our Footprint Global Spills number of spills (>0.5 bbl) 415 74 83 Total spills (2008 not categorized) Hydrocarbon spills Other spills 70 39 2008 2009 2010 In 2010, our global operations  recorded 109 spills greater than  one-half barrel, a decrease of  48 from 2009 levels. Our total  spill volume in 2010 was 501  cubic metres.  0 100 200 300 400 500  10 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Protecting And Conserving Water  Shale gas development uses fracturing fluid, which consists   of greater than 99.5% water and sand with less than 0.5%   of other chemicals, to fracture the shale and release trapped  gas for production. In North America, increased shale gas  development has raised concerns about possible impacts   on the environment, including aquifers and surface water. Our industry must apply and be granted permits from the  government to withdraw surface water. Most of the water   used for shale gas development is taken directly from nearby  lakes and rivers. At Talisman, we take great care to protect aquifers. Before  starting to drill, we carry out voluntary testing of domestic   wells in the vicinity. We follow stringent wellbore casing  techniques that meet or exceed industry guidelines designed   to protect fresh water and we monitor our practices and   strive for continuous improvement in each well program. To minimize our environmental footprint, we are focused on  recycling water to reduce the amount of fresh water used in  our developments. This involves recovering flowback water  (fracturing fluid that flows back through the wellbore to the  surface), storing it and reusing it to fracture future wells. Since  mid-2010, we have achieved nearly 100% reuse of flowback  water in Pennsylvania, our largest shale gas operation. Reuse  of flowback water reduces the cost of offsite waste disposal and  helps to conserve water resources. As the pace of Talismans shale development increases, so   will our focus on enhancing our water management practices.  In 2010, we developed a water management strategy to define  best practices for water withdrawal, reuse, disposal and  conservation in our North America shale gas operations. This  strategy outlines a number of objectives to minimize fresh water  use, reduce water disposal and increase the use of alternative  water sources. Talisman is active within the industry to drive continuous  improvement in water management. We have partnered   with the World Resources Institute in their Aqueduct project.  The projects overarching goal is to share research and  information on the multiple drivers of water risk, in order   to better manage increasingly scarce water resources around   the world. We are also participating in initiatives led by IPIECA  and GEMI (Global Environmental Management Initiatives)   to develop oil and gas-focused water risk tools and best  management guidelines. Wherever we operate, we try to minimize our impact on the  environment, work with the support of local communities and  share the economic benefits of our activities. John A. Manzoni, President and Chief Executive Officer  11 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Minimizing Our Footprint  We conduct studies to identify and avoid encroaching on  environmental features, such as streams and wetlands, early in  the planning stages for our exploration projects. We minimize  the size of land to be cleared and look for opportunities to avoid  sensitive environmental areas through routing and schedule  adjustments. In some cases, as in our shale gas developments,  we drill multiple wells from a common pad to minimize our  footprint on the land and the community.  In 2010, we took additional global actions to reduce our  environmental footprint, including:  In North America, we introduced the use of geographic  information system (GIS) technology to enhance our ability  to identify and map environmental features in planning for  shale gas well sites.   In PNG, where possible, we located our remote camps for  our seismic crews in areas of the rainforest previously cleared  by the indigenous people for villages and agriculture. This  allowed us to minimize tree clearing and land disturbance.  In Colombia, we hired environmental inspectors to monitor  our seismic activities to ensure compliance with government  regulations and our own standards. Based on input, we  adjusted seismic locations to safe distances from streams  and water bodies.  Managing Emissions Greenhouse gas emissions pose significant regulatory and  reputational risks to our industry. A priority for Talisman is   the use of economic energy measures that can be integrated  into our daily business to improve energy efficiency and  operations. For example, in Alberta, Canada, we operate a  waste heat recovery unit at our Bigstone gas plant and a  cogeneration facility at our Edson gas plant. Both facilities help  to reduce fuel consumption and, together, they reduce carbon  dioxide (CO2) emissions by more than 40,000 tonnes a year. We also monitor and participate in regulatory initiatives.   Since 2008, our Talisman UK and Norway operations have  participated in Phase II of the European Union Emissions  Trading Scheme. The market-based scheme involves the  trading of greenhouse gas emissions allowances to ensure  emissions reductions by industrial emitters across Europe.  Since 2008, equipment upgrades and operating efficiencies  have enabled our UK operations to reduce emissions by about  25%. In 2010, CO2 allowances for our UK operations slightly  exceeded emissions. Our Norway operations have had to  purchase CO2 quotas for each tonne of CO2 emitted since 2008.  Longer term, we recognize a need to develop a consistent  approach to climate change across our global operations.   We are evaluating a set of global requirements for greenhouse  gas emissions and energy efficiency. In 2010, we also  developed an online information package to increase internal  awareness of climate change science and possible emissions  reduction strategies.   12 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 17-Point Spill Prevention Plan We conduct conventional oil operations in the Shaunavon fields in Saskatchewan,  Canada. In the past, we have experienced a higher incidence of hydrocarbon spills  and leaks in this operation due to older equipment. In 2010, we assessed the historic  information and developed a 17-point action plan to reduce the number spills. The  plan sets out a series of actions for field staff, including maintenance of pumpjack  equipment and inspections of pipelines. This approach has already helped to reduce  spill frequency at Shaunavon by 45%. We are now looking to adapt the plan for other  areas of our North America operations. Protecting Rare Bird Species  During an environmental impact assessment in Colombias Block 9, an endangered  bird species (the small yellow-eared parrot) was identified in the foothills region. We  adjusted our seismic line to avoid the birds habitat and, with participation from the  local community, developed a plan to minimize our impacts. We also contributed to  the building of an ecological walking trail and visited local schools to increase  awareness of the importance of species protection.  Investing In Biodiversity Studies  The State of Terengganu on the east coast of Malaysia is well known for its natural  environment heritage. Despite its designated and protected marine parks, there is  limited information on coastal ecosystems and marine mammals in the region. In 2010,  Talisman committed more than US$100,000 to the Malaysian Nature Society (MNS)   to support its project to provide environmental monitoring of marine and coastal  ecosystems. Talismans project partnership with MNS will focus on areas in Terengganu  and Sabah and working with local communities to monitor coastlines in addition to  conducting marine mammal observation. Stories From Our Regions  Canada Colombia Malaysia Preserving our environment through  prevention, protection and investment.  13 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Our Approach  Critical to our future growth and success is our ability to   attract and retain quality individuals who contribute positively   to our culture. We want to be an employer of choice. With   that goal in mind, in 2010 we set out to identify and build   our professional and leadership capabilities. We also focused  our attention to how we work together and how we can ensure  Talisman is a great place to work. We asked employees for  feedback through a global survey and we embarked on a   plan to enhance our people strategy.  Our Workforce As of December 31, 2010, Talisman employed a global  workforce of 3,078 employees. With our people located in   15 countries around the world, we benefit from the diversity   of experiences and knowledge that comes from a global  workforce. In hiring for our regional operations, we employ   local people whenever possible. In 2010, approximately 74%   of all regional hires were local to that area. In light of our  exploration, production and business activities, we employ   a variety of professionals such as engineers, geologists,  accountants, lawyers and skilled field operations staff. Seeking Employee Input And Ideas Recognizing that our company continues to be in a stage of  transformation, we commissioned our first-ever global survey   of employees in late 2010. The survey asked for their opinions  on topics related to working at Talisman, including leadership,  empowerment, work-life balance, safety, communications and  career development.  Our target of 70% completion was exceeded when 82% of  employees took the time to participate in the survey. Employee  comments indicated a number of areas of strength:  They understand, feel aligned with and support our  corporate goals and objectives. They feel accountable,  motivated and recognized.  They believe in what we do as a business, are willing to go  the extra mile and are optimistic about our future.  They take pride in and feel that Talisman is a socially  responsible company. The results also clearly identified some areas we need to  improve, including simplifying how we work and investing in  the development of our employees.  Based on what our employees told us, our global people   priority will be enhanced development. We will continue our  comprehensive approach to developing all employees, with a  focus on our professionals and leaders. Our expectation for  2011 is that all employees will have development conversations  with their leaders and development plans in place. We have  increased our training budget and expect these funds to be  allocated. We are also putting in place more programs and  activities to help enhance employees on-the-job experience.  Our commitment to people development will be an ongoing  focus that will carry on beyond 2011. People We have a responsibility to our people to treat them with  respect, to enable them to reach their full potential and   to create a work environment in which they can excel.   In doing this, we attract and retain talented people. Valuing And Developing Our Employees Employee Breakdown By Geography (includes full-time and part-time  permanent employees) Canada  1,576 US  208 UK  376 Norway  249 Malaysia  341 Peru  90 Colombia  28 Kurdistan region  of northern Iraq  14 Vietnam  48 PNG/Australia  50 Indonesia  89 Algeria  1 Netherlands  4 Poland  4 Global  3,078  14 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Attracting And Recruiting The Right People  A diverse workforce helps ensure we are benefiting from a   wide range of backgrounds, perspectives and experiences.   We recruit globally to find the right skills to support and lead  our business strategy. Our business spans many geographies  and includes a variety of oil and gas products, making it  extremely important for us to hire experienced people to share  their knowledge and mentor our next generation of leaders. To recruit new people to the industry, we also hire students  from universities and technical schools. We visit campuses  worldwide to promote Talisman as a great place to work and  provide cooperative education and summer job opportunities.  Upon completion of their studies, students may be hired into  full-time positions at Talisman. Investing In The Development Of Our People We believe that the development of our people begins with a  conversation. Talisman is committed to having conversations  that lead to development actions. We recognize that these plans  need to be supported by opportunities for experience, exposure  and education. By providing these opportunities, as well as the  framework, support and necessary tools for development, we  are equipping our employees to guide their own careers.  While 2011 will see an increased focus in the area of  development, we will support this focus by building on the  programs already in place. In 2010, our employees could   take advantage of a wide range of training and development  activities aimed at helping them broaden their skills. In  addition to traditional classroom training, we provide a variety   of experiential learning opportunities, such as cross-functional  teams, secondments and project work, to expose employees to  new ideas and continuous learning. In 2010, we invested more  than $6 million in learning and development expenditures   for employees.  Developing our leaders is critical to our success. Strong  leadership is essential to achieving our goals and creating a  climate that inspires employees to deliver results. In late 2010,  we launched our development program for key senior leaders.  The program offered participants an opportunity to focus on  strategic thinking, executive decision making and personal  leadership styles. Recognizing the broader importance of these  skill sets, we are in the process of developing a program for  our emerging leaders that will launch in 2011. Setting Goals And Rewarding Performance  Our total rewards philosophy recognizes that achievement   of business success is largely a reflection of the companys  performance and the contributions of our people. The link  between individual and business success is the premise for  our compensation philosophy. We have put considerable effort into how individual performance  plans are created and evaluated. This starts by having goals that  are specific, measurable, achievable, results-focused and time  bound. We have created a variety of feedback channels for our  leaders, this includes reviews from their peers, those who report  to them and the person they report to. We also offer workshops  for employees to support effective conversations on performance.  Our performance management system is now in its third year  and it is helping employees clearly identify their goals, the  expectations of their work and the reward and recognition for  varying levels of performance.  While the type and design of plans vary by country, they are  developed in consideration of overall total compensation, market  competitiveness and in support of employee performance  aligning with business success and increasing shareholder  value. This flexibility provides opportunity to reward performance,  as well as to share the benefits of corporate success with  participating employees across the company. We also offer educational assistance programs, flexible health  plans and a global employee and family assistance program.  15 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Stories From Our Regions  Talisman Recognized As One Of Albertas Top Employers For the second consecutive year, Talisman was named one of Albertas top 50 employers by  the editors of Canadas Top 100 Employers. The designation recognizes Alberta employers  who lead their peers in offering exceptional places to work. Companies are chosen based on  work atmosphere, benefits, training and skills development, and community involvement.  Supporting Post-Secondary Education Globally  One of the ways we contribute to developing future professionals in our industry is by investing  in post-secondary education. In 2010, we contributed more than $1 million in funding to  post-secondary institutions worldwide.  Here are some of our key contributions in 2010:   Canada: We committed $1 million to the University of Calgary to support the Natural  Sciences and Engineering Research Council/Talisman Energy Research Chair in Drilling  Engineering. These funds, delivered through the Schulich School of Engineering, are  aimed at developing technologies and operating practices to enhance precision drilling  and helping to limit impacts to the land and water. We are also a foundation sponsor of the  University of Calgarys Global Executive Energy MBA offered through the Haskayne School   of Business. Our contribution of $1 million will go toward development of the program as  well as enrolment costs for some Talisman employees or partners.   Malaysia: In 2008, Talisman began a five-year commitment to fund scholarships in partnership  with the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Universiti Sains Malaysia and University of Malaya.   To date, more than US$240,000 has been disbursed to 32 engineering and geology students  from across Malaysia.   Vietnam: Starting in 2009, we have funded a scholarship program in Vietnam that supports  two professionals each year to undertake post-graduate degree courses in geosciences,  engineering and business administration at the University of Alberta.  Norway: We offer a scholarship program for foreign students to attend the masters degree  program in petroleum technology at the University of Stavanger. Since its inception in 2006,  more than 34 students have participated. Canada Malaysia Vietnam Norway We are implementing a series of programs to   build our capacity within the firm, and to develop  our employees to their maximum potential. John A. Manzoni, President and Chief Executive Officer  16 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Communities It is important that we bring direct benefit to the  communities where we operate. We do this through  employment opportunities, new infrastructure and  support for community programs.  Our Approach  We openly communicate with local community members to  make sure they have access to information on our projects and  business activities. Through community consultations, we have  meaningful conversations to understand local perspectives and  to ensure they are taken into account in our decision making.  We do this early in the process and frequently, because the  opinions and concerns of our stakeholders matter. We also  invest in local projects and initiatives that benefit the  communities wherever we operate.  New Global Community Relations Policy  Our new GCRP marks an important evolution in our commitment  to working with our local communities. In particular, when  working with communities, we commit to engaging them in   a fair and open discussion of our activities and addressing their  concerns – this is the foundation of our new GCRP. Approved in late 2010 and introduced in early 2011, the policy  outlines our objectives, which include respecting the rights and  interests of indigenous and tribal communities, understanding  their cultural needs, finding ways for communities to share in  the economic benefits of oil and gas development, and meeting  the expectation that we will do no harm. The policy underwent extensive review by key internal and  external stakeholders, including consultation with companies,  civil society organizations and experts in indigenous rights  working within governments. Prior to crafting the policy,  Talisman commissioned a report by Washington-based Foley  Hoag, an internationally renowned legal and corporate social  responsibility consultancy, on the issue of free, prior and  informed consent (FPIC) for indigenous communities.  Guidance was provided by the World Resources Institute   and several other expert organizations and individuals. Our new policy moves us to a more systematic approach for  gaining the support of communities. Incorporating the broad FPIC  principles means we will work with communities, at the earliest  stages of development, to gain support for the work we plan to  do. While governments have the final say on how resources are  developed, this policy demonstrates Talismans good faith attempt  to involve and respect our community neighbours. Sharing Information About Our Shale Developments Our commitment to our community partners is that we will  make every effort to share information and address their  concerns. As an example, in North America there is public  concern about shale development, including the use, sourcing,  treatment and disposal of water. In addition, there is concern  about the use of fracturing fluids to fracture the shale and  recover the gas. We are committed to open and transparent  communications on our shale operations, including full  disclosure of fracturing fluids.  In 2010, we conducted more than 100 open house meetings   in Pennsylvania, British Columbia and Quebec, where we met  with landowners, community groups and others to discuss our  development activities and our plans to minimize environmental  impacts. As a further measure, we began publishing a listing   of fracturing chemicals used in our Pennsylvania operations   on our Talisman Energy USA website. In 2011, we will list  fracturing chemicals for all of our shale gas developments  across North America on both our corporate and Talisman  Energy USA websites. The Talisman Energy USA website also  provides detailed information on our drilling procedures as   well as any notices of violations and our corrective actions.  In Quebec, we took an active part in public hearings on shale gas  exploration and development led by the provincial governments  Bureau des audiences publiques sur lenvironnement (BAPE).  Engaging With Communities, Providing Local Benefits  17 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 We shared information on our shale gas development activities,  the purpose of fracturing fluids and the different operating  practices we use to protect fresh water. Building Relationships With Aboriginal Communities  Talisman works with Aboriginal and indigenous communities in  an honest and respectful manner to build strong relationships.  Talisman proactively engages communities on our projects,  allowing time for review of our development plans and an  opportunity to provide feedback on general areas of concern  that could require further consultation. Early and ongoing  consultation with communities has allowed Talisman to respond  to concerns and arrive at solutions that benefit both the company  and communities. In 2010, we continued to build on our strong existing relationships  with Aboriginal communities in Alberta and British Columbia.   In northeast British Columbia, for example, we continue to   work closely with communities near our projects. Three of   these communities are West Moberly First Nations, the Saulteau  First Nations and the Halfway River First Nation. A focus of our  discussions in 2010 with these communities was the hiring of  Aboriginal-owned businesses to support our shale gas exploration  efforts. We also invested more than $40,000 in local initiatives  that support education and training, culture retention, health  and wellness and youth and elders in these communities.  In areas like the Quebec lowlands, where we are in the   early stages of exploring for shale gas, we began developing  relationships with Aboriginal neighbours such as the Le Grand  Conseil De La Nation Waban-Aki, representing the Conseil   de Bande des Abnakis de Wlinak and the Conseil de   Bande dOdanak.  Engaging Communities In Colombia  We continued to apply an open and transparent approach to  engaging communities in all operating regions. For example,   in Colombia we are conducting seismic operations in a number  of areas, including Block 8, a remote rainforest environment  bordering on four indigenous reserves. In 2010, we adopted   a creative approach to involve indigenous and non-indigenous  communities to educate them on our seismic project. We  hosted interactive outdoor presentations and produced a  storybook, both in Spanish and native languages, created   with local indigenous people to explain different aspects of   the project. The name of the project – Dajitaneja – means   for all in a local indigenous language.  We also partnered with a local independent civil society  organization, Fundacin Ideas para la Paz (FIP), to promote  transparency in our community engagement activities. In 2010,  FIP representatives attended our meetings with indigenous  communities to act as impartial observers and monitor our  engagement with these communities. Started in 2009, this  partnership has provided ongoing feedback in the field on our  engagement activities and an additional level of assurance to  Talismans human rights performance.  Engaging Communities In Peru  Talisman has operator interests in five onshore blocks and is  non-operator of two blocks covering 8.7 million net acres in the  Maranon basin of northern Peru. Since we began exploration in  Peru in 2004, most activity has been in Block 64, where light  oil was discovered in 2005 and confirmed in 2009.  We recognize the unique nature of these local communities   in Peru, and before operational activity begins, Talisman must  have the consent and support of two-thirds majority of each  impacted community. Sharing information, being  transparent and engaging   with communities are key   to building relationships.  18 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Our consultation process involves public meetings and  workshops to explain plans and listen to concerns, using third  parties and local language as necessary. This is followed by the  negotiation of compensation for disruption and impact, which  runs in parallel with a formal environmental impact assessment  study required by the Peruvian government. We have consulted  and received consent for exploration and seismic activities in  Blocks 64, 101, 134 and 158. We also have good neighbour  agreements with almost all of the communities on the Morona  River. For instance in Block 64, land access, compensation  and bilateral code of conduct agreements, signed with the  previous operators, were renegotiated. Talisman is committed  to open dialogue with all stakeholders. We are engaging with   a number of organizations, including non-governmental  organizations, in North and South America to understand  concerns and receive feedback on how to improve our  operations and practices in Peru. In the fall of 2010, we began an environmental impact  assessment study for a proposed production project in the  Situche Central region of Block 64. As part of the study,  scientists are collecting environmental and social data from   the area where the project would take place. Results of the study  will be shared with local communities through public workshops. More Than $8 Million Contributed To Communities We contributed approximately $8.5 million to community  initiatives worldwide in 2010. We focused our donations and  sponsorships in areas that are important to our business and  communities, with a focus on youth and education.  In 2010, we made a commitment to contribute $1 million   over five years to the Centre for Affordable Water and   Sanitation Technology (CAWST). The Calgary-based, not-for- profit organization provides education, training and technical  consulting in water and sanitation to organizations that serve   the poor in developing countries. Talisman funds will be used   to grow a global network of water expertise and training to  improve access to clean drinking water and sanitation in areas  of greatest need in developing countries.  Responding To International Relief Efforts During the year, our company and our employees responded to  international campaigns to assist people affected by devastating  natural events. We provided more than $500,000 globally to  registered charities assisting with the earthquake relief efforts in  Haiti and flood relief efforts in Pakistan, Vietnam and Colombia.  The money was used to provide clean water, medical assistance  and other relief items for affected communities. More recently, in early 2011 we were affected directly when   a destructive flood in Brisbane, Australia, caused our regional  office to temporarily close and forced some of our employees   to provisionally relocate. We worked to ensure the safety of our  workers throughout this event and, in the aftermath, contributed  $50,000 to help with relief efforts. Total Community  Contributions Worldwide ($ millions) 7.5 6.3 8.5 2008 2009 2010 0 2 4 6 8 10 We focused our donations  and sponsorships in areas  that are important to our  business and communities.  We recognize that Talisman must  produce energy safely, responsibly  and with the support of communities  impacted by our activities.  19 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Stories From Our Regions  Giving Generously To The United Way Talisman actively supports the annual United Way of Calgary fundraising campaign to build strong,  healthy families and communities in Calgary and the surrounding area. Each year Talisman  employees and executives volunteer significant amounts of time and energy throughout the  campaign. In 2010, for the fourth consecutive year, Talisman and its employees raised more than  $1 million for the United Way campaign. In an additional effort to raise awareness and create  opportunities for employees to participate, we held our first A Day Makes A Difference campaign,  which involved a week of volunteer activities for a range of charitable projects. Led by our  executive team, more than 200 employees volunteered as part of the campaign.  Supporting Education In Peru, we are committed to offering full education scholarships for indigenous students in the  areas where we are working. In 2010, 20 students from the Loreto region and the communities   of Fasam, Nuevo Osham and Sabaloyacu benefited from these scholarships, which included the  cost of materials, lodging, food and transportation. In addition, we funded a training course in  Lima for 30 community members on basic health-care techniques. Helping To Rebuild Communities  We have carried out seismic exploration activities in the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq and   commenced drilling our first operated well earlier this year. As a condition of our investment,   we provided capacity-building payments of US$220 million in 2008 to the Kurdistan Regional  Government (KRG) to rehabilitate local communities damaged by past conflict. We have taken steps  to ensure these dollars are managed transparently. The KRG has established a committee to oversee  allocation of $200 million of the initial capacity-building payments, which are allocated specifically to  the Garmian region, an area in great need of infrastructure support. Talisman has a seat on that  committee. To date, about $75 million has been invested in projects to build roads, improve water  sanitation, drill water wells, build schools and provide affordable housing developments. Canada Peru Kurdistan Supporting our communities through  consultation, education, medical support  and capacity building.  20 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Progress Against 2009 Targets And Future Plans What We Said In Our  2009 Report What We Achieved   In 2010 What We Plan For 2011 Management  Systems  operationalize 2009  global standards  develop and introduce three  additional global standards  operationalized five global  standards: KPI periodic  reporting; incident reporting,  investigation and analysis;  leadership and commitment;  safety culture; and contractor  HSE management   four global standards were  approved in 2010: management  of change; risk management;  integrated emergency and   crisis management; and   process safety – equipment  integrity element  operationalization of global standards will be a focus  over the next five years  each region will implement five Golden Rules for Safe  Operations, an important part of our global safety culture  standard; the remaining five rules will be implemented  in 2012   introduce and operationalize a global well control standard  focus will be on the global contractor HSE management  standard for our highest risk operations, and on  operationalizing the emergency and crisis management  structures at all levels of the company  development work will continue on several standards  to be ratified in 2012 Safety  achieve 30% reduction in  loss-time injury frequency  (LTIF) from 1.08 per million  exposure hours and   no fatalities   reduce unintentional  hydrocarbon releases by 20%  achieve zero backlog of  overdue safety critical repairs  achieved an 18% reduction in  LTIF, reporting 0.88 per million  exposure hours and one fatality  unintentional hydrocarbon  releases reduced by 66%  zero backlog of overdue safety  critical repairs  achieve 20% reduction in LTIF  new metric: achieve 20% reduction in total recordable  injury frequency (TRIF)  reduce unintentional hydrocarbon releases by 20%  achieve zero backlog of overdue safety critical repairs  new metric: zero overdue safety critical preventative  maintenance man-hours Environment  reduce the number of spills  by 20% from 157 in 2009   achieved a reduction of 31%  reduce the number of spills by 20% People  100% completion  of 360-degree feedback  reviews for all managers  70% response rate on  global employee survey  100% completion of  feedback reviews  82% response rate achieved  all of our global permanent workforce will have actionable  development plans completed. This will be supported  through targeted learning for employees and leaders on  how to have robust development conversations  for the last two years Talisman has rolled out 360-degree  feedback reviews for our managers and senior leaders. To  assist our next generation of leaders in developing others,  we will implement a similar process in which they will  receive feedback from both their leader and employees Community  Relations  contribute $7.5 million to  communities in 2010  develop global community  relations policy  contributed $8.5 million to  community investments  policy developed and  approved in 2010, launched   in January 2011  contribute $9.7 million to community investments  partner with one international agency to address  important global issues identified by the United   Nations Global Compact that are relevant to our   core competencies and affect people in our regions  develop tools for implementation of the global  community relations policy In our 2009 report, Talisman introduced quantitative and qualitative performance targets  focusing on safety, environment, community relations and people. We introduced these  targets to continue to build on the performance improvements already achieved. In  addition to current metrics, we are adding two new key performance indicators (KPIs)   to report against in 2011, relating to total recordable injuries and overdue safety critical  preventative maintenance. As well, our 2011 targets are divided into leading (proactive)  and lagging (improvement) metrics to allow us to not only track and report on incidents,  but focus on prevention and intervention.  21 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Key Numbers This table provides a snapshot of different areas of  our corporate responsibility performance. For a full  list of key performance indicators and detailed notes,  visit our online Corporate Responsibility report at  www.talisman-energy.com Indicator 2008 2009 2010 Health   and Safety Lost-Time Injury Frequency injuries expressed as a rate per one million exposure hours 1.83 1.08 0.88 Number of Fatalities number 3 0 1 Environment Number of Spills greater than a half-barrel 415 157 109 Volume of Spills greater than a half-barrel, expressed in cubic metres 1,149 1,196 501 Number of Unintentional Hydrocarbon Releases not previously  reported 345 118 People Number of Employees full-time permanent employees 2,966 2,820 2,975 Employee Turnover expressed as %, not including retirements 6.4 3.5 6.4 Communities Community Contributions $ million in total funding to community initiatives    7.5    6.3    8.5 Economic Production thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day 432 425 417 Net Income $ millions 3,519 437 648 Exploration and Development Expenditures $ millions 4,395 3,784 3,935 Remuneration to Employees $ millions in compensation and benefits 653.7 583.7 728.1 1  In mid-2010, we moved to a more robust definition for unintentional hydrocarbon releases, resulting in the 2009 number being restated. 1  22 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 Our Responsibilities Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed  in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance  Engagements ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements other than  Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Scope Of Our Engagement We have carried out a limited assurance engagement in  relation to specific corporate responsibility performance  indicators in Talismans Corporate Responsibility Report (the  Report) for the year ending December 31, 2010 which  covers corporate responsibility performance information that   has been prepared by Talisman Management.    The subject matter of our engagement, as agreed with  management, is as follows:  Total number of spills >=0.5 bbls  Total volume of spills >=0.5 bbls  Total unintentional hydrocarbon releases  Total number of fatalities  Global lost-time injury frequency (LTIF)  Total number of employees  Total number of directors  Total voluntary turnover rate  Global learning and development expenditure ($)  Global employee remuneration ($)  Total community contributions ($) Criteria Talisman has prepared its specified performance information   in accordance with the GRI G3 Guidelines or where relevant,  internally developed criteria. Talisman Management Responsibilities The Report was prepared by the management of Talisman,   who is responsible for the collection and presentation of the  performance indicators, statements, claims in the Report   and the criteria used in determining that the information is  appropriate for the purpose of disclosure in the Report. In  addition, management is responsible for maintaining adequate  records and internal controls that are designed to support   the reporting process. There are currently no prescribed  requirements relating to the preparation, publication and  verification of sustainability reports. Level Of Assurance Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of  assurance on which to base our conclusions. The procedures  conducted do not provide all the evidence that would be required  in a reasonable assurance engagement and accordingly, we do  not express a reasonable level of assurance. While we developed  an understanding of managements internal process when  determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our limited  assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance  on internal controls. Work Performed In order for us to provide a conclusion in relation to the above  scope of work, we have sought to answer the following  questions for the Subject Matter reviewed: Completeness  Has Talisman fairly presented performance information  concerning the selected performance indicators with respect  to the boundaries and time period defined in the Report?  Has Talisman included sustainability performance  information from all material entities in its defined boundary  for its reporting of the selected performance indicators?  Has Talisman accurately collated corporate data relating to the  selected performance indicators from operations level data? Accuracy  Is the data reported for the selected performance indicators  sufficiently accurate and detailed for stakeholders to assess  Talismans performance? Our assurance procedures at Talismans corporate head office  included but were not limited to:  Interviewing selected personnel at Corporate and selected  international sites to understand the key sustainability issues  related to the selected performance data and processes for the  collection and accurate reporting of performance information  Where relevant, performing walkthroughs of systems and  processes for data aggregation and reporting  Checking key assumptions and the evidence to support  the assumptions  Checking the accuracy of calculations performed, on a sample  basis, primarily through inquiry and analytical procedures  Checking that data and statements had been correctly  transcribed from corporate systems and/or supporting  evidence into the Report To the Board of Directors and Management of Talisman Energy Inc. (Talisman) Independent Assurance Statement  23 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 This corporate responsibility report contains or incorporates   by reference information that constitutes forward-looking  information or forward-looking statements (collectively  forward-looking information) within the meaning of applicable  securities legislation. This forward-looking information includes,  but is not limited to, statements regarding:  business strategy, plans, goals, objectives and outcomes;  expectations of growth, onstream timing, drilling and  exploration in Southeast Asia;  expectations of future economic conditions;  expected results from the Talismans portfolio of oil and  gas assets;  the potential of shale gas and shale gas development  within Talismans asset portfolio;  the companys international exploration strategy and  expected discoveries;  implementation of water consumption intensity and  protection performance indicators;  HSSE/OA and people standards, strategies, goals,  management systems, programs and policies;  2011 performance targets, objectives and policies in HSSE/OA,  safety, environment, community relations and people;  safety priorities, goals and development of safety initiatives  and systems (for example, the development of global  standards on well control);  expected environmental initiatives and practices, including  water management practices related to North American  shale operations;   implementation of global safety standards and rules;  reductions in lost-time injury frequency;  reductions in unintentional hydrocarbon releases and spills; Limitations Of Our Work Performed Our scope of work did not include providing conclusions   in relation to:  The materiality, completeness or accuracy of data sets  or information relating to areas other than the selected  performance data, and any site-specific information   Information reported outside of Talismans 2010 Corporate  Responsibility Report  Managements forward-looking statements  Any comparisons made by Talisman against historical data  The Report being in accordance with all of the requirements  of GRI G3, or to a particular application level  The appropriateness of definitions for internally  developed criteria Our Conclusions Subject to our limitations of scope noted above and on the  basis of our procedures for this limited assurance engagement,  we provide the following conclusions: Completeness Nothing has come to our attention to cause us to believe that:  Talisman has not fairly presented performance information  concerning the Subject Matter with respect to the boundaries  and time period defined in the Report  Talisman has not included sustainability performance  information from all material entities in its defined boundary  for its reporting of the Subject Matter  Talisman has not accurately collated corporate data relating  to the Subject Matter from operations-level data Accuracy Nothing has come to our attention to cause us to believe   that data reported for the Subject Matter is not materially  accurate and insufficiently detailed for stakeholders to   assess Talismans performance. Ernst & Young LLP Calgary, Canada February 25, 2011 This corporate responsibility report contains or incorporates by reference information that  constitutes forward-looking information or forward-looking statements (collectively  forward-looking information) within the meaning of applicable securities legislation. This  forward-looking information includes, but is not limited to, statements regarding: Forward-looking Information  24 TALISMAN ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010  reductions in backlog of overdue safety critical  repairs and preventative maintenance;  contributions to community investments;  implementation of 360-degree review process for  next-generation leaders; and  the expectation that the companys values will ensure  continued success. The forward-looking information listed above is based on  Talismans 2011 capital program as announced on January 11,  2011. Talisman set its 2011 capital expenditure plans assuming:  (1) Talismans production in 2011 will be approximately 5 to  10% greater than 2010, excluding the BP Colombia acquisition;  (2) a WTI oil price of approximately US$75/bbl; and (3) a  NYMEX natural gas price of approximately US$4/mmbtu.  Information regarding business plans generally assumes that   the extraction of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids  remains economic.  Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking  information. Forward-looking information is based on current  expectations, estimates and projections that involve a number  of risks that could cause actual results to vary and in some  instances to differ materially from those anticipated by Talisman  and described in the forward-looking information contained in  this corporate responsibility report. The material risk factors  include, but are not limited to:  the risks of the oil and gas industry, such as operational risks  in exploring for, developing and producing crude oil and  natural gas, market prices and demand and unpredictable  facilities outages;  risks and uncertainties involving geology of oil and  gas deposits;  uncertainty related to securing sufficient egress and markets  to meet shale gas production;  the uncertainty of reserves and resources estimates, reserves  life and underlying reservoir risk;  the uncertainty of estimates and projections relating to  production, costs and expenses;  the impact of the economy on the ability of the counterparties  to the companys commodity price derivative contracts to  meet their obligations under the contracts;  potential delays or changes in plans with respect to  exploration or development projects or capital expenditures;  fluctuations in oil and gas prices, foreign currency exchange  rates and interest rates;  the outcome and effects of any future acquisitions  and dispositions;  health, safety and environmental risks, including risks  related to the possibility of major accidents;  uncertainties as to the availability and cost of credit and  other financing and changes in capital markets;  risks in conducting foreign operations (for example,  political and fiscal instability or the possibility of civil   unrest or military action);  changes in general economic and business conditions;  the possibility that government policies or laws may change  or governmental approvals may be delayed or withheld,  including with respect to shale drilling; and  results of the companys risk mitigation strategies, including  insurance and any hedging activities. The foregoing list of risk factors is not exhaustive. Additional  information on these and other factors that could affect the  companys operations, financial results or strategy are included  in Talismans most recent Annual Information Form. In addition,  information is available in the companys other reports on file  with Canadian securities regulatory authorities and the SEC. Forward-looking information is based on the estimates and  opinions of the companys management at the time the  information is presented. The company assumes no obligation  to update forward-looking information should circumstances or  managements estimates or opinions change, except as  required by law.  Talisman makes reference to production volumes throughout  this corporate responsibility report. Where not otherwise  indicated, such production volumes are stated on a gross basis,  which means they are stated prior to the deduction of royalties  and similar payments. In the US, net production volumes are  reported after the deduction of these amounts. US readers may  refer to the table headed Continuity of Net Proved Reserves  in Talismans most recent Annual Information Form for a  statement of Talismans net production volumes by reporting  segment that are comparable to those made by US companies  subject to SEC reporting and disclosure requirements.  Natural gas is converted to a barrel of oil equivalent (boe) at  the ratio of six thousand cubic feet (mcf) to one barrel of oil  (bbl). Oil is converted to natural gas equivalent (mcfe) at the  ratio of one bbl to six mcf of natural gas. The boe and mcfe  measures may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation.   A boe conversion ratio of six mcf to one bbl and a mcfe conversion  ratio of one bbl to six mcfe are based on an energy equivalence  conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip and  does not represent a value equivalence at the wellhead.  designed and produced by smith + associates www.smithandassoc.com Printed on acid-free paper containing 80% post-consumer fibre and processed chlorine  free. The inks used are environmentally friendly VOC-free inks. Please recycle. Board Of Directors Charles Williamson 2  Chairman, Talisman Energy Inc.  California, United States Christiane Bergevin 3,4 Quebec, Canada Donald Carty 1,5 Texas, United States William Dalton 1,2,3 Arizona, United States Kevin Dunne 4,6 Tortola, British Virgin Islands Harold Kvisle 5,6 Alberta, Canada John Manzoni 2,4 Alberta, Canada Lisa Stewart 5,6 Texas, United States Peter Tomsett 4,5 British Columbia, Canada John Watson 1,6 Alberta, Canada Charles Winograd 1,3 Ontario, Canada Executive John Manzoni  President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Blakeley  Executive Vice-President   International Operations (East) Richard Herbert  Executive Vice-President  International Exploration Bob Rooney  Executive Vice-President   Legal and General Counsel Paul Smith  Executive Vice-President   North American Operations Scott Thomson  Executive Vice-President  Finance and Chief Financial Officer Nick Walker  Executive Vice-President   International Operations (West) Helen Wesley  Executive Vice-President   Corporate Services 1 Member of Audit Committee 2 Member of Executive Committee 3 Member of Governance and Nominating Committee 4 Member of Health, Safety and Environment and   Corporate Responsibility Committee 5 Member of Human Resources Committee 6 Member of Reserves Committee 11 10  Talisman Energy Inc. 2000, 888 – 3rd Street SW Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 5C5 Telephone: (403) 237-1234 Facsimile: (403) 237-1902 Email: tlm@talisman-energy.com www.talisman-energy.com Talisman has produced a separate  Annual Report, which is available   by contacting the company and can   also be viewed or downloaded at   www.talisman-energy.com 2010 ANNUAL REPORT safe  profitable growth WE WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU Questions and views on this report and Talismans corporate responsibility efforts   may be directed to the vice-president of corporate affairs at: Talisman Energy Inc.,   2000, 888 – 3rd Street SW, Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 5C5   Telephone: 403-237-1234 Facsimile: 403-237-1902 Email: tlm@talisman-energy.com Additional information on Talismans corporate responsibility performance can be found  in our online report at www.talisman-energy.com