Emphasizing the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources,  to Contribute to Society through Our Business  Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Step 1 Step 2 Step 6 Step 5 Step 4 Step 3 Formulation of  review plan Performance of review Review report Check of  final edition of  CSR Report Quality assurance procedures Submittal of  review report  Confrmation of re-  view scope, subject  items, information  collection methods,  etc.  Decision on review  procedures, review  schedule  (Head-  quarters, business  sites to be visited for  review), etc.  Review at Sekisui  Chemical Head-  quarters  Review at visited  business sites (perfor-  mance of procedures  including feld obser-  vation, analytical  procedures, docu-  mentary verifcation,  inspection of mate-  rials, and inquiries)  Reporting results of  completed review,  matters for com-  ment, etc.  Follow-up on items  such as matters  pointed out in Step 3  Check of appropri-  ateness of the review  by professionals  other than the review  team  Obtaining manage-  ment confrmation  letter  Submittal of Inde-  pendent Review  Report Summary of Independent Review Procedures Sites visited: Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters, Tokyo Headquarters, and Taga Plant Independent Review Report 65 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 We aim to contribute to sustainable society through its business with our Mission Statement  Create social value while fulfilling stakeholders expectations. Our desire is to make contributions toward building a better society with a recognition, at all times,  of what society demands over the short and long terms. As globalization of our businesses advances and the our stakeholders grow more diverse, we have  prepared this CSR Report to communicate to all stakeholders around the world our lasting  philosophy and efforts. Cover photo: Sekisui Chemical  Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui  Heim Co., Ltd. Miyajima Marsh, near the plant of Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd., which produces  Sekisui Heim products, and Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd., which produces pipes  and other products. In 2002 Miyajima Marsh was designated under the Ramsar  Convention, intended to preserve precious wetlands internationally. Ranked 113th in Nikkei Environmental  Management Ranking Winner of the Environmental Advertisement  Prize and Minister of the Environment Prize in  Nikkei Advertising Awards Ranked 20th in Nikkei Quality  Management Ranking Ranked 17th in Nikkei Ranking of Best  Companies to Work For Earned SAM Silver Class CSR rating Earned selection for FTSE4 Good  Global Indexes Ranked 119th in Nikkei NICES ranking system Awarded Award for Excellence in Toyo Keizai Sustainability Reporting Award Ranked 87th in Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking Included in the Morningstar Socially  Responsible Investment Index Our Philosophy for CSR Evaluations CSR in General Environment Human Resources CS and Quality 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  The pages of this report are structured in line with  the Sekisui Chemical Groups concept of its Corpo- rate Social Responsibility (CSR) in terms of Three  Prominences — in the Environment, CS & Quality,  and Human Resources — along with Three  Attitudes of Sincerity: in Compliance, Risk Manage- ment, and Disclosure & Communication. We have decided on the information that should be  covered in this report through consideration of its  importance both to society and to Sekisui Chemical  Group, based on inputs including surveys  conducted within and outside the Group and  independent review. A separate Data section has been established to  ensure that the report is both comprehensive and  easy to read. Continuing efforts for which there was not enough  room in the report are covered on the Sekisui  Chemical Group website. Information about Sekisui Chemical Groups  business is disclosed publicly through this report  and the Annual Report, which reports financial  information concerning the Group. To ensure the reliability of this report, its environ- mental and social reporting have been subjected to  independent review. C O N T E N T S About Our Report Guidelines Complied with or Referenced This report complies with the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI)  Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver.3.1 (G3.1), at the B+  application level as defined in those guidelines. A GRI  Guidelines comparison table is available on the Sekisui Chemi- cal Group website. In preparing this report, we also have referred to the Ministry  of the Environments Environmental Reporting Guidelines  (2007 Edition). Scope of This Report Entities Encompassed by this Report: The basic function of  this report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical  Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key  roles in those activities. Timeframe Encompassed by this Report: April 2010 - March  2011 (including examples of activities through May 2011) Scope of Independent Review The environmental and social information in this report has  been subjected to an independent review for the appropriate- ness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of  calculation. The Verified logo is used to indicate that each item  of such subject information has been reviewed. Disclaimer Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this  report includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui  Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on  current plans and projections and management plans and manage- ment policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors  could cause the results of business activities in the future and other  circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in  the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted  through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may  not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data  for past fiscal years has been revised in connection with expansions in  scope, revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental  load coefficients. Top Message Our Company Our Strategies Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Our CSR Corporate Governance & CSR management CSR Activities Recovering from the Great  East Japan Earthquake 3 5 6 7 9 10 11 13 Compliance Risk Management Disclosure & Communication 57 59 60 61 Independent Review Report History  Editors notes 65 66 66 15 17 19 21 1 2 Bases of CSR Three Prominences Special Features 43 Our Philosophy / Global Talents / Career Development  and Evaluation / Decent Work and Diversity / Safety Human Resources 35 Our Philosophy / Customer Satisfaction / Quality /  Education and Training / R&D, Intellectual Property,  and Procurement CS & Quality 23 Our Philosophy / Environment-Contributing Products /  Climate Change / Resource Efficiency /  Air, Water & Soil / Biodiversity Environment Toward a Sustainable Society Housing Businesses Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Businesses High-Performance Plastics Businesses Global Presidents Meeting Nature Conservation & Social Contribution Verifed 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Together with expressing our deepest concern for the victims of  the Great East Japan Earthquake, we offer our heartfelt hopes and  prayers for a quick recovery of the affected areas. Sekisui Chemical Group has numerous customers and  business partners in the areas affected by the earthquake. As an  enterprise involved in the residential and water infrastructure  businesses essential to building the infrastructure of society, truly  our social mission is to continue supplying products and services  just as we did before the earthquake. While the road to restoration  and recovery is a very long one, we will do our absolute best on  behalf of our communities, customers, and business partners. Although a number of Sekisui Chemical Group business  facilities were damaged by the earthquake and tsunami, we have  strived to restore our production and other systems and have  resumed operation at such facilities. In the future, the Group will  dedicate its combined abilities not just to aiding the recovery of  affected areas but also to building safe and secure residences and  communities as well as a sustainable society. Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR management efforts are  based on the principles of the Three Prominences in the Envi-  ronment,  CS & Quality, and Human Resources and the Three  Attitudes of Sincerity of Compliance, Risk Management, and  Disclosure & Communication. The greatest result in fiscal 2010 was expansion and growth  of Environment-Contributing Products. We defined Environment-  Contributing Products as those that can contribute to reducing  societys environmental load instead of just incorporating the  perspectives of consideration for the environment, and we have  strived to expand the lineup of such products. As a result, in  fiscal 2010 we surpassed our target of sales of Environment-  Contributing Products accounting for a percentage of 33% of net  sales. In addition, the effects of Environment-Contributing  Products on reducing carbon-dioxide emissions have grown to a  level largely offsetting carbon-dioxide emissions from our  domestic production activities, as we have demonstrated steady  progress toward the goal in our vision for 2030 of achieving the  carbon negativity. At the same time, the year also saw some matters requiring  reconsideration. A problem arose concerning fires in MJS tele-  phone exchange systems that we had supplied, greatly  inconveniencing customers and other related parties. It cannot  be denied that behind this problem was insufficient sensitivity in  the areas of compliance and risk management. We intend to  prevent reoccurrence of such problems through reviewing  related systems together with striving to raise consciousness of  such matters. Over the past five years, the percentage of Sekisui Chemical  Groups sales ratio of overseas businesses has roughly doubled. As  seen in developments such as substantial increases in numbers of  Group companies and employees overseas, globalization  is accelerating. Based on such circumstances, we believe that it is extremely  important to share Group ways of thinking and values. For this  reason, each year we hold a meeting in which the presidents of  overseas affiliate companies gather together in one place. In  deploying CSR management at overseas affiliates, the most  important things are ensuring that the presidents of overseas  affiliates understand the importance of CSR management and  can speak on the subject in their own languages and working  together to address issues common to overseas areas. For this  purpose, we will strive to grow our businesses and achieve  permeation of CSR management while continuing to hold  area-specific company presidents conferences together with  these meetings. In addition, in the future too we will continue  supporting the United Nations Global Compact as a platform for  deploying CSR management on a global basis. To be a Company Sustainable  for the next 100 years Top Message Groupwide Contributions Toward  Disaster Recovery Reviewing Fiscal 2010 Global CSR Efforts 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  In CSR management, I place the greatest importance on being a  company that will maintain its presence even 100 years in  the future. For this purpose, we need first of all to reform our business  model with constant sensitivity to changes in the external  environment, as we in Sekisui Chemical Group continue SHINKA  (evolution) ourselves. Another important element is that of energizing the organi- zation internally. For this purpose, it is important that each and  every employee working in Sekisui Chemical Group at all times  feels that he or she plays a leading role, as well as having pride in  his or her own work. We believe that when each employee is conscious and  proud of his or her membership in Sekisui Chemical Group –  through contributing to sustainable society by expanding  Environment-Contributing Products with a balance between  ecological and economic objectives while also growing our  businesses in the area of the environment, supplying truly satisfy- ing products and services by being open to customer feedback,  and achieving an environment in which individual employees can  grow through their work, seeing themselves as leaders and taking  on challenges with full devotion to their work – Sekisui Chemical  Group will be able to grow as well. In the future as well, we will aim to be a sustainable  enterprise with presence, evolving Sekisui Chemical Group  CSR management. President Aiming to be a Sustainable Company for the next 100 years 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Our Company Sekisui Chemical Co., ltd. Sekisui Chemical Group Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. has three division companies inside, and Sekisui Chemical Group conducts its businesses through these companies. Company President Company President Company President Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Housing Piping Materials Construction Information Technology Medical Functional Materials Functional Materials Real Estate Automotive President Renovation Brokerage services and  rental management for outstanding  preexisting homes Pipe rehabilitation Steel Frame Modular Housing Sekisui Heim Series Water and sewer pipes, pies for  electricity, gas, and  telecommunications use Home maintenance,  expansion, remodeling Timber-framed Modular Housing Two-U Series Construction materials and  equipment (rain gutters, decking  materials, insulation materials) Modular baths Interior sheets for aircraft cabin Interior and exterior sheets for  motor-vehicle use Synthetic wood Interlayer film for laminated glass Molded automotive components Expanded polypropylene interior  materials LCD and display materials Optical and semiconductor  materials Diagnostic reagents Medical devices Packing tape Packing and agricultural films Molded products for industrial use Established: March 3, 1947 Capital: 100.002 billion yen Employees: 19,770 Domestic Subsidiaries: 121 Overseas Subsidiaries: 81 Affiliated Companies: 18 Net Sales: 915.4 billion yen Operating Income: 49.3 billion yen Net Income: 23.5 billion yen Company Profile (As of March 31, 2011) 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Midterm Management Plan GS21-SHINKA!  Main Products and Services (results based on Sekisui Chemical research) Through prominence in technology and quality, Sekisui Chemical Group will contribute to improving  the lives of the people of the world and the earths environment, by continuing to  open up new frontiers in residential and social infrastructure creation and chemical solutions. Group Vision Our Strategies Housing Company Frontier SHINKA HR SHINKA Manufacturing SHINKA Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company High Performance  Plastics Company Next- generation  businesses Realization of  the Group Vision A prominent, highly  profitable leading company Frontier 7 Core businesses Residential and  Social Infrastructure Creation Chemical Solutions In 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its group vision, identifying the ideal form the group would aim to achieve over the medium  to long term. To realize this group vision, it develops management strategies centered on midterm management plans. In fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated the  midterm management plan GS21-SHINKA! covering the  period through the 2013 fiscal year. Under this plan, with  the goal of being a prominent, highly profitable leading  company, we will implement our Frontier SHINKA efforts  through global deployment and deployment across the  value chain and developing new growth segments, along  with innovations in production (Manufacturing SHINKA)  and human resources (HR SHINKA). Our business strategies call for establishing what we  call the Frontier 7 — seven high-growth fields including  the IT, automotive, and medical fields and the pipe  rehabilitation and residential environment businesses —  and focusing our efforts on these as leading businesses of  the future. Residential  Homes with solar power generation  systems Cumulative total of 100,000 homes  (highest figure in Japan) (73% with zero energy costs) Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Water and sewer pipes of rigid PVC Second highest market share in Japan  (24%)  No-Dig sewage pipe rehabilitation  method Top market share in Japan (21%)  by total distance covered Information Technology  LCD sealant materials Top market share in the world Automotive  Interlayer film for automobile  laminated glass Top market share in the world (54%) Medical  Clinical diagnostic reagent for  good/bad cholesterol Top market share in the world (50%) 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Sekisui Chemical Group is actively advancing globalization of its businesses. As a  result, in fiscal 2010 overseas sales accounted for 19.7% of net sales – double the share  in the 2004 fiscal year. Activities now underway aim to reach a level of 30% by the 2013  fiscal year. Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Europe Companies Employees 23 1,203 China Companies Employees 12 1,241 Japan Companies Employees 86 15,476 Asia/Oceania Companies Employees 16 691 (not including China) 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  2013 2010 2004 19.7% 30.0% 9.5% Japan 15,476 Total: 19,770 Employees by Region China 1,241 Japan 80.3% U.S. 5.8% Europe 5.5% Asia 7.4% Percentage of net sales from overseas Other 1.0% Americas (North, Central, South) Companies Employees 18 1,159 Note: Figures current as of March 31, 2011 (consolidated basis) Key: Housing Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products High Performance Plastics Headquarters Americas (North, Central, South) 1,159 Europe 1,203 Asia/Oceania 691 Net Sales by Region 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Company Creed Mission Statement Group Vision Management Strategies Midterm Management Plan Employees Local Communities and the Environment Business Partners Customers Shareholders Sekisui Chemical Groups Principle (Our Principle) Satisfy customer needs to the  fullest extent Provide the best possible  services to customers Deepen relationships with business  partners and associated companies Promote coexistence and  co-prosperity through fair  transactions Strive for the sustained  growth of corporate value Ensure the clear and timely  disclosure of information Establish a culture that  encourages employees to set  their own goals and take on  new challenges Assure the validity of  performance-based  evaluation Contribute to society and the  environment with our products Build harmony with local  communities as a good  corporate citizen CS & Quality Environment Human Resources Disclosure &  Communication Compliance Make the ecology and economic  activities compatible Enhance each employees awareness Gain and maintain the full  trust of our customers Risk Management Refect stakeholders  opinions in corporate activities Encourage employees to  positively set their own goals Three Attitudes of Sincerity CS & Quality Environment Human Resources Make the ecology and economic  activities compatible Gain and maintain the full  trust of our customers Encourage employees to  positively set their Three Prominences Take thorough steps to pre-  vent trouble occurring and  reduce the generation of    after-the-event risks In 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group established its Mission Statement  calling for it to create social value while fulfilling stakeholders  expectations. In 2009, it established Our Principle, bringing  together the Company Creed, the Mission Statement, the Group  Vision, and its management strategies. The Mission Statement identifies Customers, Shareholders,  Employees, Business Partners, and Local Communities and  the Environment as five key stakeholders and declares that  Sekisui Chemical Group will meet their expectations. Sekisui Chemical Group considers CSR to refer to contributing to  sustainable society through its businesses: in essence, making the  Mission Statement reality. We believe that promoting CSR management increases the  quality of corporate management. It is our philosophy that sustained business growth and  business innovation require the continuation of serious efforts at  CSR management without regard for conditions of business  environment and continuation of reform and SHINKA (evolution). Sekisui Chemical Group has identified as key themes of CSR  management Three Prominences — in the Environment, CS &  Quality, and Human Resources — and the Three Attitudes of  Sincerity — in Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure &  Communication. The Three Prominences in particular have been  chosen because efforts in the areas of the Environment and CS &  Quality are the natural responsibilities of a manufacturer and it is  human resources who advance such efforts. Efforts under the midterm management plan also have a  focus on CSR, and we believe that issues to address in the future  are those of achieving further permeation of CSR within the  organization and deployment of CSR management on  a global basis. CSR: The Foundation of Management Three Prominences and Three Attitudes of Sincerity Our CSR Our Principle Our CSR 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Chairperson: President Members: Division Company Presidents,    Headquarters Directors,    3 Employees   Representatives:    the chairperson of    the Labor Union, a Representative of    Female Employees, and    a representative of employees of    afliated companies Reports, Deliberations Board of Directors Environmental  Subcommittee CS & Quality Subcommittee HR Subcommittee Compliance Subcommittee CSR Committee Operating Officers Board of Directors President Operating Officer President Operating Officer President Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer President and CEO External Directors Housing Company High Performance  Plastics Company Urban Infrastructure  & Environmental  Products Company Headquarters Corporate Auditors (including External Corporate Auditors) Note: See the Corporate Governance Report for details. To maximize corporate value, Sekisui Chemical Group has built its  management structure based on a system of three division  companies. Believing that increasing the transparency and  fairness of management and pursuing swift decision-making are  important to continually increasing corporate value amid a  changing business environment, it implements a variety of efforts  related to corporate governance. Together with assigning operating officers specializing in  business execution to each division company, an Executive  Committee has been established to serve as the top decision- making body in each division company. As such, a broad range of  authority has been transferred from the Board of Directors to the  Executive Committee. The Board of Directors strives to achieve  continual improvements in corporate value as an organization  responsible for decision on basic policies of Sekisui Chemical  Group management as well as high-level decision-making and  supervision of business execution.  Appointment of external directors  Operating officer system (term: one year)  Early issue of notices of general meetings of shareholders  Exercise of voting rights electronically in general meetings  of shareholders  Formulation of rules on corporate information disclosure To advance CSR management powerfully, the CSR Department  consists of the sections responsible for groupwide CSR planning  and strategy and for the key CSR themes identified as the  Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources. As venues for deliberation on CSR management, the CSR  Committee and each of four subcommittees — the Environmental  Subcommittee, the CS & Quality Subcommittee, the Human  Resources Subcommittee, and the Compliance Subcommittee —  meet at least once every half-year. Chaired by the President, the CSR Committees membership  also includes the president of each division company and three  representatives of employees — one key group of stakeholders—to  help improve deliberation and policies. Each Subcommittee  promotes groupwide efforts for Sekisui Chemical Group while  ascertaining and deliberating on companywide topics as they relate  to matters such as issues involved in the themes of which each  subcommittee is in charge and the state of activities in each division  company. Under this system, operating officers must take part in  the subcommittees concerned with their areas of responsibility. CSR is put into practice within daily business activities through  breaking down the matters deliberated on in the CSR Committee  and each subcommittee to their appropriate places in the manage- ment plans of each division company and headquarters. Corporate Governance CSR Management Strengthening the Business Execution Function Compliance Surpassing the Requirements of  Japanese Law A CSR Department made up of environmental,  CS and quality, and HR sections The CSR Committee, with Participation by  Top Management and Employee Representatives Promoting CSR in Unity with Management Planning Corporate Governance & CSR Management 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  VOICE The ways of thinking and behavior of CSR are a core component of  social activities, spreading across society as a whole and even into  public- and private-sector organizations. Even within Sekisui Chemical Group, while reports have been  made in the past on the efforts of each business facility, there have  been few opportunities to share information on subjects such as the  issues and challenges of actual CSR management and promotion.  For this reason, this opportunity for CSR staffs to meet together and  exchange opinions has proven highly significant for the future  spread of CSR management. I believe that CSR is not a difficult matter. Rather, it is  something that we already put into practice every day. However, it  is important that each individual and company has a strong  recognition of that fact. This should be the key to transforming  behavior. In the future, I would like us to aim to carry out activities to  enable each individual to have a stronger awareness of his or her  relations with society, through sharing  information on unique activities suited to  each business facility and those involving  interaction with local communities,  based on the theme of a rewarding place  to work. Sekisui Chemical Group has incorporated CSR plans within its  management plans, to link its business activities  to its CSR activities. Since 2010 was the middle year of the midterm manage- ment plan GS21-SHINKA!, the plan was subjected to a check on its  progress and a review. Overall, plans have progressed on schedule. Efforts were  reviewed as needed in light of environmental changes in  each area. In promoting CSR, activities in the field – at business facilities and  affiliated companies – are essential. Key to such activities are the  individual CSR staffs. For this meeting, in November 2010 a CSR staff meeting was  held in order further to spread CSR efforts across and throughout  the organizations of business facilities and affiliated companies  and to strengthen coordination among CSR staffs. In this liaison conference, which overcame the lines  between division companies, participants proactively exchanged  opinions on efforts at their facilities and companies and the  difficulties they encountered in advancing such efforts. Plans call for holding this meeting periodically in the future  as well. A scene from the CSR staff meeting CSR Staff Meeting CSR Activities Midterm Plans Naoyuki Kuga Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011   Increase Environment-Contributing  Products  Reduce greenhouse gas emissions  33% of net sales  (target: 27%)  21% reduction from FY1990 level (domestic) (target: 14% reduction)   Over 40% of net sales  Maintain reduction above 20% of  FY1990 level (domestic)  Reduce by over 5% from FY2008 level (overseas) (unit: GJ/ton-CO2)  Reduced by 4.2 billion (from  FY2004 level)  Reduce by 5.0 billion (from FY2004  level)  2 cases (target: 0 cases)  0 cases  Increased Global Talents  employees to 224 people  Expanded international recruiting  300 people  22 cases of using an Intra-group  Job Posting System for  post-hiring transfers  25% of new graduate recruits  were women (target: 30%)  30%  20 cases/year  External failure costs  Major quality issues  Global talents  Career development & evaluation  Decent work & diversity  Continue raising awareness  Develop overseas compliance  Establish an overseas crisis  management system  Construct a Sekisui Chemical  Group risk management system  Enhance external recognition and  perception of the Company  Continue open dialogue with  employees  Education and instruction catered to  staff level and specific groups  Compliance and local law training at  overseas bases  Constructed overseas safety measure  programs  Created overseas crisis management  guidelines  Constructed a Sekisui Chemical Group  risk management system  Earned Sustainable Asset Management  (SAM) Silver Class CSR rating  Earned selection for FTSE4Good Global  Indexes  Included in the Morningstar Socially  Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI)  Continue raising awareness  Cultivated key individuals for  overseas compliance  Continue overseas development  Continue risk management  activities  Increase communication efforts in  each region Three Prominences Main Activities Theme FY2013 Targets Main Activities Theme FY2010 Results FY2013 Targets Three Attitudes of Sincerity Environment Compliance Risk Management Disclosure &  Communication CS & Quality Human  Resources FY2010 Results Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and  standards regarding CSR. In March 2009, it announced its support  for the United Nations Global Compact and joined the Global  Compact Japan Network, an organization of companies in Japan  that have signed on to the Global Compact. In addition, coverage of the subject of ISO 26000, an  international social-responsibility guideline established in  November 2010, has been added to this CSR Report together  with internal checking of the consistency between efforts made  and ISO 26000 and employing ISO 26000 as a reference for  future efforts. Main Areas of Progress in the CSR Midterm Plan Respect for International Norms 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Sekisui Chemical Group engages in businesses related to  intermediate materials in fields such as the housing business,  the infrastructure business, and the information-technology  and automotive fields. Each of these is essential to formation of  the infrastructure of society. We consider it our social responsi- bility to continue these businesses in a manner unchanged  from before the earthquake and to fulfill our responsibility to  supply products to our customers. Without restricting ourselves to these responsibilities  alone, we also intend to contribute to the building of a sustain- able society through proposing and providing to society safer,  more secure energy-conserving homes and infrastructure that  is strongly resistant to disasters. For Customers In the housing business segment, our activities include check- ing on the state of damage and handling repairs, through  successively visiting customers residing in affected areas on an  individual basis along with strengthening the customer service  centers serving affected areas. To overseas customers we are providing individual  explanations concerning the supply structure. We also are  responding to the issue of contamination by radiation, taking  developments on the part of government and industry associa- tions into consideration. Contributing to recovery through business Supply of Products Production facilities in affected areas resumed production  activities steadily following the earthquake, and by April 1  production had been restored at all sites. Since then production  activities have continued with the exception of some tempo- rary stoppages due to aftershocks and other causes. In the housing business segment, while difficulties remain  in the procurement of some parts and materials, the production  system mostly has been restored. As requested  by the government of Japan, temporary housing was produced  at plants in eastern Japan and constructed at sites in affected  areas. While some facilities such as model home centers and  sales offices are unavailable for use due to the earthquake and  evacuation measures in the vicinity of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi  nuclear power plant, the sales structure has been maintained. In the infrastructure business segment, there are expecta- tions of growth in demand for temporary housing and PVC  pipes for water-supply and sewer use. In Japan, operation of  facilities in the Hokkaido, Kansai, and Kyushu regions has been  increased in light of the possibility that plants in the Kanto  region could be affected by rolling power outages. Overseas, a  system capable of supplying imports to Japan is being  prepared through efforts to attain JIS certification and certifica- tion under the relevant associations with jurisdiction at  PVC-pipe production facilities in China, South Korea,  and Taiwan. In the area of procurement of parts and materials, we are  striving to secure stable procurement of raw materials and  subsidiary materials. Recovering from the Great East Japan Earthquake  The 9.0-magnitude earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011 and the ensuing tsunami had a massive impact  on the areas directly affected by the disaster and on Japan as a whole. While Sekisui Chemical Group was affected  as well, at present the Group has resumed its operations with its intension to meet its responsibilities to  customers and will contribute to the recovery of affected areas through its business activities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 13  Immediately following the March 11 earthquake, an emergency  task force led by the President was set up at Sekisui Chemicals  Tokyo Headquarters, and that same day a virtual conference room  for emergency communication was set up on the intranet and  efforts were made to confirm the safety of employees and their  families. On March 14, shipment of relief supplies to employees in  affected areas began and the decision was made to donate relief  funds to affected areas. Efforts also were made in the area of  customer service through establishment of an emergency  customer service center. This information was made available  through keeping it up to date at all times on the Sekisui Chemical  website. The President also visited the affected areas to express  concern for and to encourage employees. No employees have lost their employment due to  the earthquake. Post-earthquake responses Damage Aid activities to affected areas The safety of some employees has yet to be confirmed. At the  time of publication, efforts to confirm the safety of employees  and their families continued. While there was some damage to the buildings and equip- ment of production facilities, as of April 1 all production facilities  had resumed operation. At the same time, some sales facilities  suffered damage due to partial destruction of their buildings  and flooding. Relief for employees harmed by the earthquake Together with efforts such as providing relief supplies and  temporary housing to employees harmed by the earthquake, we  are providing mental health care as well. In addition, a site has  been added to the intranet for collecting together messages of  support from employees at affiliate companies in Japan and  around the world. As emergency aid for affected areas, on March 14 Sekisui Chemical  decided to donate 100 million yen in relief funds. Subsequently,  donations were collected from Group employees worldwide,  with more than 3,000 employees donating approximately 36  million yen in total. Sekisui Chemical donated a matching gift in  the same amount. The labor union also donated approximately  3 million yen. In addition, based on the concept of sending only what was  needed in the quantities needed, relief supplies that have been  donated include 10,000 plastic buckets, 10,000 plastic containers  for fluids, the equivalent of approximately 2,500 tatami mats of  resin foam for use as mats, and 100,000 highly dust-tight masks.  Furthemore, we conti- nue aiding recovery of  affected areas through  supply of products  such  as  temporary  housing  and  resin  piping materials. An intranet site featuring messages of support from employees at  affiliate companies in Japan and around the world Collecting donations at Sekisui-SCG  Industry Co., Ltd. (Thailand) 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  It is a fact that the average life of a home in Japan, at approximately 26 years, is  substantially lower than the averages of 45 – 75 years in the West. For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group continues development of products  suited to the needs of the times, with a focus on the environment, comfort, and  safety and security. This reflects the housing businesses mission of providing  environmentally sound homes in which people can continue to live in safety and  comfort for 60 years or longer. The building and dismantling of homes involves new resource  consumption and waste generation. In addition, the flip side of the  pursuit of comfortable living is increased use of energy by equip- ment, machinery, and other devices.  Increased carbon-dioxide emissions also constitute a problem that  cannot be overlooked. In light of such issues, there is a need to  strive to reduce environmental load throughout the life cycle of a  home: building, use (living), and waste disposal. This is the concept  of resource recycling in home building. A homes total environ- mental load can be reduced through efforts to realize effective use  of resources and zero waste emissions by producing homes in  factories to the extent possible, keeping down energy use while  living in the home through building energy-conserving homes,  and advancing recycling and reuse of resources when rebuilding  and dismantling the home. Japanese homes face strong demands for building homes with long lives, in  which people can continue to live with peace of mind over a long period of  time, and for reducing energy used when living in them. Zero Energy Cost Houses are products that make it possible to reduce  the environmental load of living in a house over a long period of time. These  homes keep down energy consumption for air-conditioning and other uses  through constraining the impact of outside air temperature by securing  high levels of thermal insulation and airtightness, as well as reducing energy  consumption from heating water through use of high-efficiency heat-pump  water heaters along with expanding power generation capacity through  efficient placement of solar power generation panels. These efforts make it  possible to reduce annual energy costs — even eliminating them completely. The Sekisui Heim homes supplied by Sekisui Chemical Group curb the  environmental impact of the home through realization of such Zero Energy  Cost House, both cutting utility costs and greatly reducing carbon-dioxide  emissions from energy used while living in the home. Residence  (living) Sekisui Chemical Groups  concept of resource recycling  home building Home building Waste disposal Reducing resource inputs Zero waste emissions Energy conservation (Zero energy Cost House) Reuse of resources (Reconstruction-system homes) Recycling    Home Energy-conservation/utility cost-cutting efects of  Zero Energy Cost House 234,000 0 CO2 emissions (kg-CO2) 500 38,000 Sekisui Heim (Zero Energy Cost House) Sekisui Heim (Fully electrifed) Ordinary home Heating and  air-conditioning (Yen) Water heating (Yen) Appliances etc. (Yen) 73,000 79,000 82,000 77,000 128,000 4,100 2,600 13,000 From Zero Energy Cost House to Smart Heim  and Homes With Energy Self-Sufficiency Advocating the Concept of Resource  Recycling Home Building Background of these Eforts: Housing Businesses Proposing Zero Energy Cost House Action 1 Toward a Sustainable Society 1 Special  Feature 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Increasing the generating capacity of the solar power-generation systems used to generate energy is essential to advancing  zero energy cost. Together with improving thermal insulation and airtightness, Sekisui Heim has strived proactively to  develop homes that can use greater amounts of solar energy, through measures including use of roof shapes that make it  possible to install large-capacity solar power generation panels and highly efficient methods of installing the panels. As a  result, through now it has sold more than 100,000 homes with solar power generation systems installed — Japans highest  level of performance in this area. As part of this sales performance, the percentage of newly constructed homes with solar  power generation systems installed has increased from 52% in fiscal 2006 to 79% in the 2010 fiscal year. The target for fiscal  2013 is 100% of newly constructed homes having solar power generation systems installed. At the same time as creating energy, it also is important to use energy efficiently. Sekisui Heim  has provided solutions that enable customers to choose effective home plans, equipment, and  devices during construction, using special software for forecasting the energy consumption  and utility costs of living, known as Q-value1 energy-cost software. While according to a 2005 survey the percentage of customer households that  actually had achieved the level of zero energy costs was 40%, in 2010 this percentage  had grown to 73 percent. Reports also indicate that realizing energy conservation and zero energy costs  has had the effect of raising customers environmental awareness as well. To lessen environmental impact more reliably and pursue the results of  such achievements to their maximum extent, it is essential not just to install  appropriate devices and equipment but to use them wisely as well. The Smart Heim concept developed from this perspective refers to  homes that can reduce carbon-dioxide emissions to a greater extent  through use of information and communication technologies (ICT) to  visualize and optimize the relationship between energy generation and  consumption in the home. For example, if one knows the times at which  the solar panels installed on a home generate the greatest amounts of  electric power then energy can be conserved through using electric  appliances during those hours as much as possible. In addition, if one  knows that electricity charges are lower at night then housework can be  completed at night to save energy, for example by using timers. Sekisui Chemical Group is the first in the home industry to include a  system for management of energy consumption in the home (Smart  Heim Navi) as standard equipment on all homes with solar power  generation systems. After reducing energy used in living (energy conservation), creating energy (energy creation), and using it wisely (energy optimi- zation), the next promising development is storage of electricity and other energy (electrical and energy storage). Storing  electricity and other forms of energy can be expected to lead to leveling — and thus increasing the effectiveness and efficiency  of — energy use, and to increasing energy stability. By 2013, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to bring to market homes designed to store electricity. Furthermore, it also plans to  link such efforts to development of energy self-sufficient homes that will make it possible to generate the energy for household  uses in the home itself, to contribute to further progress in the areas of the environment and comfort. In this way, we will contribute to building a sustainable society through achieving progress in the homes we provide,  meeting the demands of the times and the needs of our customers. 1 Q-value: a value used to indicate a buildings thermal-insulation and airtightness performance Achievement of  zero energy costs 2005 survey 2010 survey Data center Electric vehicle High-efficiency heat-pump  water heater Lighting Solar power-generation equipment Air-conditioner Internet A Smart Heim Navi screen Advancing Zero Energy Cost House Action 2 Electrical Storage and Developing Energy Self-Sufficient Homes Action 4 Energy-Optimized Homes: Practical Application of the Smart Heim  Action 3 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Comparison of Traditional Methods to the SPR Method SPR method Waste: almost none Resource use: 18.1 tons Resource use: 380 tons Waste: 300 tons Traditional  method Road subsidence due to sewer-pipe damage As the aging of water and sewer pipes advances in major cities around the world,  rehabilitation of such pipes has become a matter of pressing concern. At the same time, in rapidly growing emerging countries there are numerous regions in which the water  infrastructure itself remains underdeveloped. Sekisui Chemical Group is working proactively toward resolution of the social issue of water  infrastructure problems, which is one of the most important issues in the urban infrastructure. Sewers constitute one of the most fundamental aspects of the urban  infrastructure, and in recent years problems such as road subsidence resulting  from sewer-pipe damage due to such aging have become issues. Even in Japan,  approximately 10,000 kilometers of existing sewer pipe are said to have surpassed  their durable lives. Overseas too, the situation is similar in other developed nations. In the United  States, the Environmental Protection Agency has ordered 20 cities across the U.S.  to improve their sewer facilities. While in this way there is a pressing need for  rehabilitation of sewer pipes in cities around the world, it is a fact that  rehabilitation has not advanced sufficiently due to resulting problems such as  traffic congestion and generation of massive amounts of waste materials, since  most sewer pipes are installed underground beneath main thoroughfares. To solve such issues, Sekisui Chemical Group has independently developed the  Sewage Pipe Rehabilitation (SPR) Method. The SPR Method is one method of replacing  worn sewage pipes, known as a non-excavating method. It involves rehabilitating  pipes through using a belt made of rigid PVC resin to create a rehabilitated pipe inside  an existing sewage pipe. The new pipe is then combined with the existing pipe using  backfill material. Since this method does not require digging up existing roads or the ground  surface, it makes it possible to keep construction-related traffic restrictions to a minimum  and also to reduce greatly material use, waste generation, and noise and vibration from  construction. It also can greatly shorten the time required for construction. SPR Method Solutions, Making It Possible To  Rehabilitate Sewer Pipes Without Excavation Action 1 Toward a Sustainable Society 1 Toward Resolution of the Worlds  Water Environmental Problems Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Businesses Aging of Sewer Pipes: A Worsening Problem Around the World Background of these Eforts: Flow of construction under traditional sewer  construction method Flow of Construction Under SPR Method Day 10 Day 30 Day 40 Day 50 Day 5 Day 10 New pipes Earth Rubble Pipe winding materials Mortar Pavement Waste asphalt Waste earth Waste concrete Day 20 Road fully closed to trafc (whole day: 48 days) Trafc congestion, noise in the vicinity One lane closed in each direction (12 days) Temporary drainpipe  installation Dismantling  existing pipes Removal of  temporary  drainpipes Reflling Road pavement New pipe  installation Dismantling pavement,  lining installation Excavation Pipe winding Fixation Connection of  branch pipes *Sekisui Chemical estimates Conditions of estimates: Pipe culvert 1.71.5 m; length 30 m;  overburden 1m Special  Feature 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  An issue concerning water infrastructure in emerging countries is insufficient development of water  and sewer systems themselves in some regions. Products and technologies with approximately 60  years of performance in Japan, such as Eslon HI PVC pipes and Eslon RCP reinforced composite plastic  pipes, are contributing to solving such problems around the world. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will continue developing products to improve water  and sewer systems and enable people around the world to live in happiness and comfort. Note: See p. 38 concerning development of Eslo Hyper, which improves upon Eslon pipes. Eslon RCP Eslon HI pipes The SPR method Not just sewer pipes but water pipes and agricultural canals too require rehabilitation. In  addition, use of pipe rehabilitation is advancing overseas as well, and the SPR method  has been used in countries including South Korea, the U.S., Singapore, Hong Kong,  Russia, and Poland. To respond to such needs, we are making efforts such as further improvements to  the SPR method itself and deployment of rehabilitation methods suited to the types of  pipes needing rehabilitation, making possible pipe rehabilitation suited to a variety of  needs, including development of methods for rehabilitation of larger-diameter pipes, giving  greater freedom in cross-sectional shape to service pipes, and expanding the length of pipe  that can be wound at one time. In addition, by being the first in the world to enable construction  on sewer pipes while they still are in use we have succeeded in  keeping the impact on the vicinity of a pipe rehabili- tation project to a minimum. Furthermore, at present we are ad-  vancing automation efforts from the  perspective of ensuring worker safety.  At the same time, to spread the SPR  method we are actively developing  contractors and training technicians  to carry out SPR method work. As a result of these efforts, the  length of pipe in Japan and around  the world that has been rehabilitated  using the SPR method has reached more  than 700 kilometers. In the future as well,  we will continue striving to solve the issues  faced by society through repeated improve- ments corresponding to the needs of the times. The Omega Lining method Advancing Rehabilitation Methods Suited to  the Needs of Society Action 2 Eslon Products Contribute to Water Infrastructure Improvements in Emerging Countries Action 3 Thanks to its unique properties as a construction  method, the SPR method is recognized to be highly  earthquake resistant. In the Mid Niigata Prefecture  Earthquake that occurred in October 2004, despite  subsidence and fissures caused by the quake in  nearby roads, sewer pipes rehabilitated using the  SPR method were unaffected. For this reason,  the SPR method was chosen for the first  recovery construction project fol-  lowing the earthquake. Contributing to  Earthquake Recovery: Chosen for the First Recovery  Construction Project following  the Mid Niigata Prefecture  Earthquake of 2004 COLUMN 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Perimeter sealant Seal spacer Glass substrate Electrode Color filter Sealant Liquid crystal Cell-gap spacer Further functional improvements to existing IT devices and systems will be essential to advancing the transformation to a  ubiquitous network society. Sekisui Chemical Group develops and supplies materials essential to increasing the performance  of the LCD panels employed in products used every day by consumers, such as smartphones and LCD televisions. LCD panels generally employ a structure consisting of a liquid-crystal layer sandwiched between two sheets  of glass substrate, with sealant used around the perimeter to prevent leakage of the liquid-crystal materials and  keep them clean. If this sealant material dissolves into the liquid crystal it could cause a worsening of the LCD  image quality. Sekisui Chemical Group supplies Photolec S, a high-performance sealant material with  outstanding workability developed using our own technologies. In addition, if the liquid-crystal layer is not uniform in thickness then visual information cannot be  displayed accurately. For this reason, materials known as spacers are used to keep the layers thickness  uniform. Advanced microparticle technologies are needed to keep this ultra-thin layer only a few microns  thick uniform in thickness (there are 1,000 microns to a millimeter). Sekisui Chemical Group provides support  for further increases in the precision and functions of LCD displays on smartphones and other devices through  development of Micropearl spherical plastic microparticles. Innovation and revolutionary new products and services have been an essential part of societys  progress through today. This is likely to remain the case in the future as well. Sekisui Chemical Group already has provided numerous products beneficial to society. In the field of information technology as well, we have created numerous intermediate materials that  support the functions and performance of familiar products. According to the 2004 White Paper Information and Communi-  cations in Japan, a ubiquitous network society is one in which  information technology can be used throughout society, fully  accessible to anybody on anything at any time and in any place.  Through incorporating information technology into existing ways  of living, a ubiquitous network society makes it possible to provide  more diverse and more advanced services. One example is the  smart grid, which is expected to serve as the energy management  system of the future. Transformation to  a ubiquitous network society can be considered to play an impor- tant role in building the sustainable society we aim to achieve in  the future. Supplying Materials to Support the Functions and  Performance of LCD Panels Action 1 LCD Panel Structure Toward a Sustainable Society 1 Aiming for Products to Support the New Society High-Performance Plastics Businesses Ubiquitous Technology, a Key to  Building a Sustainable Society Background of these Eforts: Special  Feature 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Cover panel Double-faced tape ITO film LCD module Fixing keypad  in place Fixing frame in place Fixing LCD panel  gasket in place Fixing backlight  unit in place Touch panel technology, which has become firmly entrenched as an everyday technology  with the spread of devices such as handheld videogames and smartphones, makes it easier to  use the equipment on a device through intuitive operations such as touching or sliding a  finger across an area of the display. Since these touch panels sense the parts of the screen that  have been touched using a thin film called ITO film, they require advanced technology known  as sputtering technology that deposits a thin  metallic film onto a substrate. Combination with an LCD panel makes it  easier to use IT devices by uniting display and  control units. These components and materials  are adhered to each other using double-sided  tape for fixing LCD materials in place, combining  adhesiveness with light shielding and reflectiv- ity functions. Sekisui Chemical Group develops and  supplies materials like these indispensable to  building touch panels. Lightweight, compact, and thin mobile phones and other mobile devices are essential to the  ubiquitous network society. Even if each of the individual components of an electronic device has  a high level of performance, the products that combine such components together need to be  easy to use as well. Industrial tape is used to attach the components of mobile devices. In the case  of a mobile phone, thin tape with outstanding adhesiveness is used to fix in place the frame of the  LCD unit, the LCD panel gasket, and the backlight unit. The industrial tape used in mobile phones  and other devices has more functions than simple adhesiveness. Tape impenetrable by light can  serve in functions such as preventing leakage of light from the backlight unit to the back of the  mobile phone. Furthermore, use of foam combining high sealing and cushioning performance  makes it possible to eliminate gaps between parts and materials and to minimize the  effects of shocks on the parts and materials. In these ways, Sekisui Chemical Group contributes to realization of the  ubiquitous network society through supplying high-performance parts and  materials in the IT field. Supplying Materials Indispensable to Touch Panels As Well Action 2 Supplying Materials to Support Reduction in  Size and Weight Action 3 Industrial Tape Used in Mobile Phones Foam used in an LCD display component Touch Panel Structure 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Currently Sekisui Chemical Group is actively advancing the  globalization of its businesses, with overseas sales having  doubled from the 2004 fiscal year. This growth in business  has led to a rapid increase in the number of stakeholders as  well, so that in order to continue reliably fulfilling our CSR  responsibilities in the future too there is a need to actively  address social issues in individual areas together with  sharing the Group principles, values, and management  policies among employees worldwide. For this purpose  Sekisui Chemical Group has since 2007 held Global Presidents Meetings for presidents of affiliated  companies overseas. As member of the European Group I was deeply impressed how compa- nies with different structures, sizes and products are able to communicate  and agree on a plan which has the target to increase the reputation of the  Sekisui brand. In Japan the Sekisui brand has been already prevailing  among the employees. It looks like this could also be achieved in the  overseas divisions. The internal identification of  our employees with our  company is a key asset to achieve the expected growth for the future.  Individual feelings like I am part of a strong Group help difficult times. I  am expecting the started process is able to keep the one brand - one  philosophy feeling running. The local area presidents need continuously  to link each function of their company activities together. Key CSR  messages are providing the best common ground for such a project,  which will be followed up in the regional presidents meetings.  I was pleased to be a participant of the Presidents Meetings. A major  benefit of attending this meeting was the opportunity to meet with  Presidents of Sekisui Chemical Group companies from around the globe. While there were time constraints, the real benefit of these  workshops was the interaction created between Presidents within each  group, in building a communication bridge for further discussions. These  workshops have now been adopted by region. Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing very interesting and innovative  initiatives: a new intranet initiative and an employee satisfaction survey  conducted on a global basis. I feel that these initiatives will drive our  Company forward. Edmund Luksch Sekisui SPR Europe G. m. b. H.   Rocco Romiti Thai Sekisui  Foam Co., Ltd,  Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. Europe Improving the Sekisui Brand Driving Our Growth Gathering Together Top Management From Affiliates  Around the World To Discuss Issues Faced in Each Area Global Presidents Meeting 2 Asia-Pacific Special  Feature 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  In fiscal 2010 regional Presidents meetings  were held for in-depth discussion of matters  prior to the Global Presidents Meeting. These meetings are intended to  provide opportunities to discuss issues  faced in an area one after the other, as an  autonomous activity in each area. They also  have the goals of more steadily fulfilling  social responsibilities in each area and  advancing Group management, through  coordination within each area of companies  involved in different businesses. In the meetings held until now, discussions  had been conducted based on certain  specific subjects, with the objective of  deepening shared understanding of Sekisui  Chemical Group CSR. In fiscal 2010, discussion of area-specific  subjects was intensified, since issues vary by  region. On the day of the meeting, pres-  idents of more than 40 companies from  around the world (two-thirds of whom were  non-Japanese took part). The meeting began with an explana- tion by Corporate Headquarters of subjects  that should be shared throughout the entire  Group. Then, participants split into five  groups — the Americas, Europe, China,  Asia-Pacific, and South Korea — and each  identified its own subjects. Lively group  discussions were held, generating outputs  including current issues faced and courses  of action of proposals toward their solution.  The meeting concluded with presentations  to members of management including the  President of Sekisui Chemical. These presentations served to deepen  awareness of the issues on an area-wide  basis, surpassing the boundaries between  operating companies. For example, some  groups identified specific roadmaps toward  practical solutions. In the Americas Area the presidents from North America joined  together to talk about the topic of controlling functions.  We pulled  out three common programs that we could benefit from which  focused on leadership training, corporate values, and shared job  postings. Each of our specific contributions to the market are different  but the opportunity to network and share ideas with each other is  invaluable. I believe these types of frank discussions create the base  for continued growth. I understand that within each company cultures are very  different. But I believe it will be important and necessary to recognize  a common theme that has been essential to each companys success,  and those programs can be shared as a benefit to all. Looking to the future, based on these meetings and the relation- ships we have developed, we will be able to further continue to  develop a common theme. The South Korea team is made up of four companies in total: two  each in the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company  and the High Performance Plastics Company. While these companies markets, industries, and the products  they handle differ, trends related to the environment in South Korea  are changing rapidly, so all of them in common face issues related to  conservation of energy and other resources, expansion of  Environment-Contributing Products, and preserving nature. In  addition, the scope of other issues such as those concerning  employee safety and health and social contribution activities is  increasing as well, so that there was not enough time to discuss everything fully. In the future, we would like to hold Presidents meetings in South Korea as well, as  places to find clues for management improvements and business expansion. To me, this meeting is both a very valuable once-a-year opportu- nity to meet with company presidents from around the world and a  meaningful time in which we can get a true feel for the globaliza- tion of the Group. In China there are many young companies that entered the  market only a few years ago. As such, in these brainstorming  sessions we discussed a variety of issues faced by company  presidents managing businesses amid Chinas own unique political  conditions and market rules. HR and labor management in particu- lar is an issue common to all companies, and we will continue  discussing these in China Presidents meetings from now on. In the future, I hope that the numbers of issues raised and solutions proposed  from Presidents meetings will increase, so that Sekisui Chemical Groups management  capabilities will strengthen more and more. Identifying Subjects by Area  and Discussing Related Issues Creating New Synergies In  Group Management Through  Presidents Meetings Building a Foundation for Continued Growth Neil Beckhusen Sekisui Voltek, LLC. ChoonTae Lee Sekisui Korea Co., Ltd. A Place to Find Clues for Management  Improvements and Business Expansion South Korea China Toward Strengthening the Management  Capabilities of Sekisui Chemical Group Ryo Yoshii Sekisui (Qingdao)  Plastic Co., Ltd. Americas 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Pioneering a New Future  with Balance between  Ecology and the Economy Business  processes Products Local  communities Global  environment Toward  being  a leader in  environmental  management Contributing to  the environment  and society  through nature  conservation  activities Activities by  concerted eforts  of all employees Reducing  environmental  load in all business  processes Contributing to  the environment  and society  through business activities and  products In 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group established the Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030 as a vision to make clear the  courses of action and achievement levels of environmental management and serve as a guidepost to  sustainable growth. This vision depicts the type of society that Sekisui Chemical Group aims to achieve as a  society on the environmental frontier. This refers to a society in which environmental awareness and  environment-friendly lifestyles become broadly and firmly established among people and both businesses  and governments recognize the environment to be one of their most important values. To realize this vision, we have identified the three  areas of focus of preventing global warming, efficient  utilization of resources, and biodiversity and the two targets  of achieving negative carbon3, which is common to the  first two areas of focus, and preservation of biodiversity. Three areas of focus Two targets Preventing  Global Warming Efficient Utilization of  Resources Biodiversity Achieving negative carbon Preservation of biodiversity 3 Negative Carbon Exceeding greenhouse-gas emissions attributable to business activi- ties such as raw materials and production with offsetting reductions in  greenhouse-gas emissions during product use Global environmental issues constitute one of the most important  subjects faced by society and businesses. As a manufacturer,  Sekisui Chemical Group was an early mover in efforts to find  solutions to the environmental issues of society through its  products and services, in addition to lessening the environmental  load of its business. In 1962, to solve the waste processing problems in Tokyo that were a subject of concern in society at the time,  we greatly changed the practice of disposing of wastes by proposing the method of having each household place  its wastes in polyethylene garbage containers and leave them outside for collection by garbage trucks. In addition, during the years of the 1960s through the early 1970s, an era afflicted by pollution, we established  an environmental management department. Through the 1990s, we strived to lessen our environmental load  through voluntarily setting even stricter reduction targets than those required to comply with laws and regula- tions, for our environmental load including those related to wastes, carbon dioxide, and chemical substances. Furthermore, incorporating the idea of transforming management along the axle of the environment in the  term Environmentally Creative Organization, in 2003 we moved forward from the concept of environmental  conservation to that of environmental management to achieve sustainable growth while pursuing both  ecological1 and economic2 goals, positioning this as one important pillar of CSR management. While environmental issues change with the times, covering subjects including climate change, water use,  and biodiversity, Sekisui Chemical Groups approach of contributing to the environment through its products and  services remains unchanged, and in the future as well we will continue aiming to be a leader prominent in our  approach to the environment. Our Philosophy Environment We aim to be an environmental leader, pursuing both ecological and  economic goals Vision for 2030 Pioneering a New Future  See Data P19, 21 1 Ecology Caring for and contributing to the global environment,  and living in symbiosis with the local environment 2 Economy Ensuring economic benefits for both  customers and businesses The Environmental  Management Policy  and System 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  FY 2013 target FY 2010  performance Progress on the Four Key Themes of  the Environmental Top Runner Plan: SHINKA!  (See Data P. 3) Verifed Increase sales of  Environment- Contributing  Products Reduce  greenhouse-gas  emissions Reduce wastes  generated Sekisui  Eco Value Index 40% of net sales 33% Reduced 21% Increased 2%  2.2 times 20% or more reduction compared to fscal 1990  (domestic production sites) 40% reduction in base units  compared to fscal 2007  (domestic production sites) Over three times  the fscal 2007 value Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting groupwide, both in  Japan and around the world, the Midterm Environmental  Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA!, which  establishes targets for the current five-year period based on  back-casting1 from the Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030 goals. This plan establishes the four key themes of expanding  our sales of Environment-Contributing Products (see p. 25)  and reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, two inseparable  parts of achieving negative carbon, along with reducing  volumes of waste generated, which is connected to effective  utilization of resources, and increasing the efficiency of  environmental management using the Sekisui Eco Value  Index, our own environmental management indicator. In an effort to carry out environ- mental management effectively,  we have developed our environ- mental management system  (EMS) in accordance with the ISO  14001 standard and are working  to expand application of this  system throughout the entire  Sekisui Chemical Group. As of  March 2011, 59 business sites in  Japan and 21 sites overseas had  obtained ISO 14001 certification.  The number of employees at  these business sites represents  65% of all Sekisui Chemical  Group employees. We have developed a structure for collecting data on environmental load at  overseas production sites and offices and are implementing efforts to mini-  mize environmental load at each of these sites. In addition, all 45 main sites have  established targets of acquiring ISO 14001 certification and achieving the goal  of zero waste emissions. In fiscal 2010 Allen Extruders, LLC., (in the United States)  and Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. (in Germany) attained ISO 14001 certification  and a number of other companies began efforts toward acquiring certification. Overseas Sites Supply Chain We are advancing green office activities that promote efforts such as  energy saving and recycling, reducing use of paper, and promoting green  purchasing at Sekisui Chemicals headquarters buildings and at our offices at  sites across Japan. Offices We ask suppliers including subcontractors to obtain external certifications  such as ISO 14001 and Eco Action 211 and support them in these efforts. 1 Eco Action 21 Certification of environmental management systems, established by the Ministry  of the Environment of Japan 1 Back-casting A method of considering steps that should be taken at present by envision- ing a goal for the future and working backward to the present state. EMS Midterm Plan Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 24  Verifed Products and businesses that demonstrably help our  customers and society to reduce their environmental load Products or systems having lower environmental impact  compared to similar conventional products and systems Definitions During customer use, reduction of environmental load   during disposal and recycling, and alleviation of possible  resource depletion (excluding production and transpor- tation within Sekisui Chemical Group) Reduction of impacts on the natural environment  (e.g.  reduction in greenhouse gases) and social environment  (e.g. reduction of waste, conservation of resource, and  water saving/recycling) Scope of  Application Criteria for Environment-Contributing Products Environment-Contributing Products conceptual diagram Environmental contribution level Scope of environmental load reduction Environment-Contributing Products Sekisui Chemical Groups  business activities Our customers and society  High Low Conventional  environment-friendly products Products and  businesses that  demonstrably help  reduce the environ- mental load of our  customers and  society (FY) 2007 2010 33% 15% Ratio of sales of  Environment-Contributing  Products to total net sales Products or  systems having at  least a certain degree of  effect on reducing  environmental load  compared to similar  conventional products  and systems Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR is to contribute to sustainable society through business. To contribute to minimizing  the environmental load of society, it is essential that businesses create and promote widespread use of products that  will make active contributions to the environment. In fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group established Environment-Contributing Product Standards calling for an  even higher level of contribution to the environment than before, and since then it has managed such products  through a certification system. In addition to making contributions to society, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing the Three Greening Steps  intended to incorporate consideration for the environment in three stages of its value chain: development,  procurement, and manufacturing. For this purpose, we are implementing systems including Product  Assessments for Environmental Impact, Green Procurement, and Prior Assessment of Capital Expenditure.  (See the Data supplement, p. 14.) Forms related to green procurement and other materials are available on the Sekisui Chemical website. One of the targets of Sekisui Chemical Groups Midterm Environmental Plan is that of growing  the ratio of sales of Environment-Contributing Products to total consolidated net sales to 40%  or higher in fiscal 2013. (See p. 24, and p. 7 of the Data supplement.) In fiscal 2010, strong sales of houses with solar energy generation systems and an increase  in the lineup of Environment-Contributing Products led to growth in net sales of them to 302.6  billion yen. This is a ratio of 33% of total net sales, more than achieving the target of 27% for the  fiscal year. These Environment-Contributing Products have resulted in a reduction in carbon-dioxide  emissions offsetting the amount of carbon dioxide emissions generated at production activities  in Japan (according to Sekisui Chemical estimates). About Environment-Contributing Products http://www.sekisuichemical.com/suggestion/index.html System for Environmental Consideration in Products Contributing to Minimizing  the Environmental Load of Our Stakeholders  Society Through Our Products and Businesses Expansion of Environment-Contributing Products Environment Environment-Contributing Products 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment The GREEN LABEL Process Recycled again after use 1 Recycled plastic container materials Plastic container and packaging materials collected pursuant to the Containers and  Packaging Recycling Law * For details, see the pamphlet Sekisui Chemical Group Environment-Contributing Products : http://www.sekisuichemical.com/csr/environment/products/index.html Recycled again after use Sandwich  molding Recyclable plastic waste from households Waste plastics from businesses Household Munici- pality Factories etc. Waste plastic recycler Recycled plastic  container material*  recycling vender Recycled plastic  container material1  pellets Waste plastic pellets Single pane  glass Multiple pane  glass This remodeling option for Sekisui Heim makes it easy  to convert existing single pane windows to multiple  pane glass, without damaging the home. At the same time it improves thermal insulation  by 13% vs. prior to remodeling, the new sash also makes  it easy to open and close windows using a large sash  roller suited to the weight of multiple pane glass. It also  enhances security through use of double locks. Examples of Environment-Contributing Products Certified in Fiscal 2010 GREEN LABEL is a new line of recycled plastic  products intended to expand the uses of recycled  plastic resources through a three- layer structure  sandwiching recycled household plastic waste  between layers of recycled industrial plastic waste,  thus securing strength, durability, and moldability. The first product in this series, GL Container,  was introduced in January 2011. Plans call for  recycling of approximately 500 tons of plastic in   fiscal 2012. Examples of Environment-Contributing Products Environment-Contributing Products are employed in a variety of areas, including the residential, construction, information-technology, automotive,  and infrastructure fields. Numerous products are helping to minimize environmental load during use, including products such as homes with solar  energy generation systems, solar control interlayer films for automotive use, and Thermal Barrier and Heat Radiation Coating, all of which help  reduce carbon-dioxide emissions, products such as reusable system houses and recycle containers that help reduce resource consumption, and  those such as pipe renewal system, rainwater strage systems, and water recycling systems that help improve the water environment. Recycling Household Plastic Waste GREEN LABEL Series This window insulation material uses layers of air formed between transparent  film layers. Its high thermal insulation performance contributes to reducing  carbon-dioxide emissions through helping keep down electric power con-  sumption from heating and cooling. Since it can be installed in existing window frames, it can be used in  offices, factories, or homes. This product was developed through the Strategic Development of  Energy Conservation Technology Project of New Energy and Industrial Tech-  nology Development Organization (NEDO). Reducing Carbon-Dioxide Emissions Through Improving Window Thermal Insulation Efect Air Sandwich Thermal Insulation Attachments for Windows Utilizing Existing Sash Frames to Convert  Single Pane Windows to Multiple Pane Glass Comfort Sash CO2 cut 19% Single-family residence (Tokyo area) Thermal insulation improved by 13% Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 26  Development Application:  Application for certification by Business Units Screening:  Screening by internal certification screening committee Third Party Evaluation Flow of Certification of  Environment-Contributing Product  External Advisory Board A meeting of the External Advisory Board In fiscal 2003, Sekisui Chemical Group established the environment-friendly product certifica- tion system, and since then it has made progress in growing its environment-friendly  products and businesses. Environment-Contributing Products take this system a step further,  and products that make contributions to the environment at an even higher level, aimed at  minimizing the environmental load of not just the Group but customers and society as well,  are certified as Environment-Contributing Products. The External Advisory Board met in September 2010 and February 2011. Following a description of the standards for certification of Environment-Contributing Products and the  state of such certification, the board meeting featured exchange of opinions and presentations by external  advisors on recent environmental information. Attendees from Sekisui Chemical included responsible  Directors and below as well as environmental personnel of each division-company and Headquarters. Advisors presented not just opinions on individual Environment-Contributing Products but also a  variety of opinions and recommendations on this system and on environmental management in Sekisui  Chemical Group. We plan to utilize these opinions in future environmental management. When the world is full of eco products, no matter how much a company  promotes its products as contributing to the environment consumers will  see it as just singing its own praises. For this reason, in certifying  Environment-Contributing Products Sekisui Chemical Group has established  an External Advisory Board as a group of outside environmental experts to  provide advice and recommendations on the Environment-Contributing  Product certification system as a whole, in order to increase the reliability and  transparency of the system. Responsibilities of  the External Advisory Board 1. Matters related to the effectiveness of  operation of the Environment-Contributing  Products system 2. Matters related to the objectivity, fairness,  and appropriateness of the Environment-  Contributing Product certification standards 3. Other matters related to operation of the  Environment-Contributing Products system  and the system for certification of Environment-  Contributing Products in general To increase the reliability and transpar- ency of the Environment-Contributing  Product certification system, in fiscal  2010 Sekisui Chemical Group estab- lished an External Advisory Board. This  board works to further promote and  expand Environment-Contributing Pro-  ducts based on impartial review by  outside experts. Policy Board Meetings Third-Party Evaluation External Advisory Board Environment-Contributing Products Environment 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment  I would like to express my respect for the way Sekisui Chemical Group truly has been a leader in advancing  from environmentally friendly products to Environment-Contributing Products. In addition, its contributions  to the environment through business are worthy of respect as well. It probably should promote aggressively  how it contributes to the environment, society, and communities.  From the perspective of preservation of biodiversity, I would like to see a focus on protecting the traditional  culture of indigenous peoples as well. Since the wisdom of them is a wonderful thing, I would like to see their  knowledge put to use in development new products and businesses as well. Mr.Masatsugu Taniguchi Director, Strategy Design Institute, resource and environment  There is a need for alignment of vectors on courses of action that should be aimed for in preservation of  biodiversity.   If the company does not pay careful attention, it could see the rug pulled out from under it on certification  standards for biodiversity. I believe there is a need for standards showing that unlawful resources from Africa  and illegally felled timber are not used.  Concerning globalization of environmental contributions, since environmental load would increase if  developing countries reach the same economic level as Japan I would like to see global environmental load  given consideration. Dr. Juichi Shibusawa Vice-President, Network for Coexistence with Nature 1 Ecological design Design of products and services with consideration for the environment. Also known as  environmentally friendly design.  Environment-Contributing Products are highly significant in that they communicate information on the  degree of contribution from the company to outsiders. While the company is working hard to quantify its  effects, customers demands transparency of information, backing for figures, and a sense of trust.  I think perhaps it would be a good idea to adopt a different gauge than used in the past on the conceptualiza- tion of Environment-Contributing Products, such as a focus on the idea of ecological design1. Mr. Takehisa Kabeya Director, Center of Product and Environmental Aspects,                        Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry  I think that it is praiseworthy and wonderful that the company has high goals for Environment-Contributing  Products.  It is important that consumers know about the entire life cycle of a product. While they are provided with  information on the stages from product use through disposal, I would like to see consumers educated about  the loads of purchase of raw materials and of manufacturing as well.  While Sekisui Chemical traditionally has been familiar to consumers as a manufacturer of everyday products  such as tape and buckets, recently the content of its businesses has become less visible to consumers. For this  reason, I would like to see this information promoted from a CSR approach as well. Ms. Minako Oishi Vice-chairperson, Environment Committee, Nippon Association of Consumer Specialists   Sekisui Chemicals promotional methods appear more subdued than those of other chemical firms.  I think it would be a good idea to publicize the figures behind the Environment-Contributing Product  certification standards after first promoting the Sekisui way of thinking, since Sekisui is producing good  products.  I would like to see an aim at the ultimate objective of contributing to minimizing environmental load through  products and businesses, without focusing too much on the figures or logic of the certification standards. Mr. Shigenori Jimbo Nikkei Business Publications, Inc.                      Nikkei BP Cleantech Institute Comments from Advisors This is our first attempt at establishing a body such as this advisory board made up of outside specialists. It has  reminded us of the importance of utilizing feedback from outside the company. In advancing environmental management as one of our three themes of CSR, we consider Environment-  Contributing Products to be a symbol of Sekisui Chemical Groups environmental management. I agree with the idea that we should promote our positive achievements more to society. In the future as well,  I would like us to improve our image in society even more by advancing efforts in which we can demonstrate  leadership in society. We will put the opinions received from the advisory board to use in advancing environmental management  with a consciousness of the perspectives of society at all times. On the Advisory Board Hajime Kubo Head of CSR Department, director, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 28  Reducing Greenhouse-Gas Emissions Throughout the Product Life Cycle Conceptual Diagram of Carbon Negative Reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions Procure- ment Production Shipping Use R&D Development of  Environment-Contributing  Products Promotion of  Environment-Contributing  Products Carbon emissions Carbon reduction efect Raw  materials R&D Production Business activities Shipping Product Product use Exceeding greenhouse-gas emissions  attributable to business activities with  ofsetting reductions in greenhouse- gas emissions during product use Achieving carbon negative (see p. 23) requires both development and promotion of  Environment-Contributing Products and controlling greenhouse-gas emissions from  business. Sekisui Chemical Group continues related efforts throughout the entire product  life cycle. 600 400 200 0 (1,000 tons-CO2) Overseas 2007 1990 156 389 433 (FY) 2010 2009 2008 160 350 414 365 330 341 Greenhouse-gas  (Emissions from the Production Stage) Notes: Overseas data covers carbon-dioxide emissions only. Overseas fgures have increased since fscal 2009 in  connection with an increase in the number of overseas  sites due to acquisitions, etc. Fiscal 2009 fgures have been revised beginning with CSR  Report 2010 in connection with a change in rules for  collection of data on overseas sites. Japan 1 Measures to promote investing in the environment Measures under which Corporate Headquarters helps division companies cover the costs of  investment for the purpose of controlling greenhouse-gas emissions in accordance with the  resulting reductions. Adopted in fscal 2007, in fscal 2009 investment in making energy use visible so  its actual conditions could be ascertained was added to the subject of these measures as well. Activities at the Production Stage (in Japan and Worldwide) We have established the target for fiscal 2013 of reducing greenhouse-gas  emissions generated at the production stage in Japan by 20% compared to the  fiscal 1990 level. In fiscal 2010 we realized a reduction of 21% compared to the  fiscal 1990 level, thanks in part to the results of measures to promote investing  in the environment1. Since Sekisui Chemical Groups production sites overseas are subject to  considerable changes in areas such as product lineups as the overseas business  grows, the Group has established guidelines calling for achieving in fiscal 2013 a  5% reduction from fiscal 2008 in energy consumption per unit of output. Each  site is setting targets based on its own circumstances. Verifed Policy Eforts to Achieve Carbon Negative  Throughout the Product Life Cycle Climate Change GHG Emissions Environment 17% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 23% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 15% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 R&D Shipping Offices Efforts in Stages Other Than Production 14,000 tons-CO2 40,000 tons-CO2 16,000 tons-CO2 Total greenhouse-gas emissions in fiscal 2010 Typical efforts Resulting reductions Renovation of air-conditioning equipment, changing temperature  settings, installation of fans, regularly turning off lights Energy-conservation activities including regularly turning off  lights and using restraint in air-conditioner settings Reduced emissions through use of joint shipping and modal shifts Verifed 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment A leak detector (left) and an infrared camera (right) A visualization system screen Since fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing the Energy 50% Process intended to cut energy  costs by one-half through production innovations. Beginning in the first half of the year this process was imple- mented at 12 production facilities in Japan, and in the second half it started at production facilities in Europe and  North America as well. The number of facilities implementing the process will undergo steady expansion. In addition, policies to promote investment in the environment will continue to accelerate. Furthermore,  material flow cost accounting (see p. 31), which until now has been used as an indicator of waste and cost reduc- tions, will be employed to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions as well. For the Future Activities Production sites in Japan are conducting inspections through which personnel  responsible for conserving energy check volumes of heat released and look for air  and steam leaks using infrared cameras and leak detectors. Results of these inspections are used to ascertain heat, air and steam loss  converted to monetary amounts and to install insulation and make repairs to  improve the situation. For steam, efforts include steam-trap inspection by specialists  and optimization of piping. Improving Heat Release, and Leaks of Air and Steam Through Energy-Conservation Inspections The inspections that have been conducted at production sites in Japan and generated steady results are now being  deployed on a global scale. In fiscal 2010, an energy-conservation inspection system was developed in which infrared cameras and leak  detectors are installed at one U.S. production site and made available for lending to other sites in the U.S. as requested.  In fiscal 2010, the three plants of Sekisui Voltek, LLC., Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC., and Sekisui Specialty Chemicals  America, LLC. conducted these inspections, and in the future they will be deployed in other regions as well. Three U.S. Plants Conduct Inspections on  Heat Release, and Leaks of Air and Steam The High Performance Plastics Company, which accounts for roughly one-half of the entire Sekisui  Chemical Groups greenhouse-gas emissions, is advancing introduction of a system to visualize  electric power and steam to help reduce emissions. Already, five plants including Sekisui Chemicals Musashi Plant are implementing systems that  make it possible to identify energy waste and irregularities and to judge the extent of deterioration  of equipment and assess factors such as results of switching to new equipment. Visualizing Energy at  Five Sekisui Chemical Sites  Including the Musashi Plant Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 30  VOICE Wastepaper 4.7% Wood chips 3.9% Metal scrap 3.1% Sludge 11.0% Glass and ceramics  scrap 20.2% Plastics waste 49.2% Oil waste, acidic waste,  alkaline waste 5.4% Plasterboard 0.5% Burnt residue 0.4% Others 1.7% Since 1998, Sekisui Chemical Group has promoted Zero Waste Emissions  Activities intended to reuse as resources all the waste it generates. While we have achieved zero waste emissions at main production  facilities and housing construction and remodeling sites, we also are  advancing global activities toward the goal of achieving zero waste  emissions at all subject facilities by fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2010, two new  facilities in Japan achieved it. This brings the number of facilities achieving  this goal, including affiliated companies, to 41 in Japan and three overseas,  for achievement rates of 89% and 19%, respectively. Based on our recognition of the environmental impact of the wastes generated by our business and products,  Sekisui Chemical Group pursues reduce, reuse, and recycle throughout the product life cycle. Since fiscal 2006, Sekisui Chemical Group has employed Material Flow Cost Accounting (MFCA)1 in pursuit  of both ecological and economic goals to reduce waste and costs. The midterm environmental plan (see the Data supplement, p. 3) includes the target of achieving a  total reduction of 5 billion yen vs. fiscal 2008  on a cumulative basis over the five-year  period from fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2013. In  fiscal 2010, we reduced costs by 1.3 billion  yen through efforts including increasing the  thickness precision of housing exterior wall  panels and decreasing the volume of  materials disposed of as defective. Total  waste generated by production sites also  decreased by 9% from the fiscal 2007 level. Policy Zero Waste Emissions Pursuing the Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle  Throughout the Product Life Cycle Resource Efficiency Material Flow Cost Accounting Environment Breakdown of  Generated Waste 3R Reduce Recycle Reuse Production Construction Use Disposal Development Since fiscal 2009 we have worked to achieve the goal  of zero waste emissions in September 2010. Although  we were three months late in achieving this goal as a  result of efforts related to selection of waste recovery  venders and screening preparations, we were  certified in December as a zero waste emissions plant. In addition to monthly environmental meet-  ings and employee training, our activities also have  included preparation and posting of waste segrega- tion guides and recycling routes. We feel that at  present we have just cleared our target. In the future  we will strive to put wastes to  effective use and restrain waste  generation as we work toward  continual improvements. Takashi Saito Iwate Plant, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. 1 Material Flow Cost Accounting  (MFCA) A method of assessing costs com-  prehensively by tracing the fow  of materials within production  processes and focusing on the  losses (wastes) generated in these  processes. Use of this method  realizes new cost savings and  reductions in environmental load  by making hidden inefciencies  visible through treating wastes as  negative products that generate  costs. Verifed 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment Per unit of output index Total Waste Generated in New Housing Construction Water Intake at Production Sites  Total Waste Generated and Waste per Unit of Output  Production Facilities Total waste generated 60 50 20 10 0 120 60 30 80 40 100 40 20 0 (1,000 tons) (FY 2007: 100) (FY) 2010 2013 (Target) 2009 2008 2007 43.6 100 96.7 102.1 60 39.3 36.0 39.5 94.7 20,000 10,000 5,000 0 15,000 (1,000 tons) (FY) (Target) 2010 2009 2008 2007 15,287 2013 16,985 16,923 16,541 16,517 5 4 2 3 1 0 (Tons/home) (FY) Assembly plants Exterior wall plants New housing  construction sites 4.02 1.32 1.29 0.59 0.65 0.33 0.29 0.25 0.75 1.20 1.07 0.66 0.26 1.95 1.04 1.03 2010 2009 2008 2007 2000 2.30 2.18 2.20 1.99 Target: Reduction of 40%  or more vs. fiscal 2007 Target: 10% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 Production Facilities in Japan Manufacturing sites are focusing in particular on  reducing and reusing wastes. In fiscal 2010,  these sites achieved a 9% reduction in total  waste generated vs. fiscal 2007 through efforts  to reduce excess and scrap materials and im-  prove the efficiency of molding by expanding  the sizes of housing materials, though the waste  per unit of output did increase by 2%. New Housing Construction Sites While Sekisui Heim modular homes, for which  80% of the building process takes place in  factories, originally have generated low volumes  of waste at construction sites, our goal for fiscal  2013 is to reduce this amount further by 45% vs.  the fiscal 2000 level. In fiscal 2010, efforts such as  reducing excess material use through coopera- tion between sales and production sections  succeeded in reducing total waste generated by  32% vs. fiscal 2000 for Sekisui Heim homes and  by 51% over the same period for Two-U homes. Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to reduce water use through means  including cyclic use of cooling water. Water intake for the entire Group in fiscal 2010 fell by 3% in  comparison with the fiscal 2007 level. In Japan, Sekisui Chemical Group will strengthen its efforts aimed at achievement of a reduction of 40% or  more vs. fiscal 2007 in waste generation per unit production volume, a target for fiscal 2013. Overseas, in 2010 we established a reduction of 25% of waste per unit production volume vs. fiscal 2008  as a guideline for fiscal 2013 targets and are advancing related activities. In addition, in some countries and  territories waste is usually disposed of by landfill and there are no incineration facilities, and as such there is no  way to reuse the heat from incineration of wastes. For this reason, we also are considering flexible use of zero  waste emissions standards in accordance with the actual circumstances in each country and territory, for  example by evaluating increases achieved in recycling rates. Results For the Future Water Use Verifed Verifed Verifed Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 32  System for Control of Chemical Substances throughout the Product Life Cycle Product Assessment  System for Environmen- tal Impact  Check on prohibited  substances  Check on substances  prescribed by law Formulation and opera-  tion of the Chemicals  Management Regulations Development Green Procurement  System  Evaluation sheet for  procured products Procurement Prior Assessment System  of Capital Expenditure  Check on safety and  environment   Check on energy Implementation of various  preservation  activities Formulation and opera-  tion of the Chemicals  Management Regulations Production Information Disclosure  Issue of yellow cards   Legal description Transportation Information Disclosure  Issue of MSDS Sale/Use Sekisui Chemical Group complies with the regulatory values under  laws and ordinances for the various types of equipment it uses in  connection with exhaust gases and drain water. We also strive to  control discharge of pollutants through appropriate maintenance  and management including periodic inspections. Stored transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are  being disposed of steadily, beginning with sites for which  acceptance at PCB treatment facilities is available. Machines and equipment in storage that contain PCBs are  managed strictly and thoroughly, through means including  locked storage and periodic inspection. In fiscal 2010, we conducted surveys compliant with relevant  laws at six sites and completed two of these facilities. Results of  these surveys showed no values standards exceed for soil  pollution at Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant and excess  values on a part of the site of Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co.,  Ltd. Plans call for addressing the areas with excess values in  accordance with the law. Since fiscal 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has been working to  reduce discharge of pollutants into the environment. Since fiscal 2006, we have aimed for the target of a 60% reduc- tion in discharge of VOCs into the atmosphere in fiscal 2013  compared to fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2010 we achieved a 49% reduction  compared to fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2008 we ended all use of HCFCs. While chemical substances make peoples lives more convenient, they also could have  harmful effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that consid- eration of product safety, occupational safety and health, and environmental impact  through proper management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of a  chemicals manufacturer. Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment  System for Environmental Impact1 and the Green Procurement System2 as well as setting  our own targets for reducing discharge and transfer of chemicals and eliminating our use of  the most critical substances. We also review periodically chemical substances that are  candidates for control or regulation of use, in accordance with the establishment and  amendment of relevant laws. 1 Product Assessment System for  Environmental Impact A system for assessment of the envi-  ronmental impact of a product all the  way from raw material procurement  through manufacture, use, disposal,  transport, and all other stages (see the  Data supplement, p. 14). 2 Green Procurement System A system of giving priority to choosing  raw materials, parts, etc. with lower  levels of environmental impact when  procuring them. Policy Air & Water PCBs Soil Minimizing Environmental Impact  through Proper Control of Chemical Substances Air, Water, & Soil VOC & HCFCs Environment 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment Approach Environmentally conscious business Nature conservation  activities around the world Environmental  Management Policy  (revised April 2008) Guidelines for  Preservation of  Biodiversity  (established March 2011) Declaration of Biodiversity  and Action Policy  by Nippon Keidanren  (March 2009) A scene from KODOMO Biodiversity at Lake Biwa KODOMO Biodiversity is an environmental education activity for children wetlands  registered under the Ramsar Convention1. KODOMO Biodiversity has been held at 10 wetland locations in Japan and around  the world over the two-year period beginning in 2009, with about 400 children partici- pating. Sekisui Chemical has provided support for this activity from the planning stage  through implementation. In August 2010 it was held at Lake Biwa, with about 80  children taking part including children from nine foreign countries. Through observing  nature at Lake Biwa, the children learned about the abundant biodiversity still remaining  in the lake and experienced the traditional culture of the local community, among other  activities. In the end, they summarized what they had learned in the form of a declara- tion. A presentation on results from this activity was given at the Tenth Meeting of the  Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 10). In April 2008, Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated items on biodiversity to its Environmental  Management Policy. Since then it has strived to preserve biodiversity through both environmentally  conscious business and deploying nature conservation activities around the world. In March 2011, we established guidelines for efforts to preserve biodiversity. In addition, we are  expanding the scope of these efforts to the entire supply chain through steps including the addition of  biodiversity-related items to procurement policies. (See p. 14 of the Data supplement.) 1 Ramsar Convention A global convention on protection of wetland ecosystems, adopted in Ramsar, Iran in 1971 Policy KODOMO Biodiversity Striving to Preserve Biodiversity  through Both Business and Nature Conservation Biodiversity Environment Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 34  100 60 80 40 20 0 (Indicator) (FY) 2008 2004 2009 2010 External failure costs 4 3 2 1 0 (Incidents)  (FY) 2* 2 2008 2009 1 2010 Major quality issues 100 63 57 43 Note: CSR Report 2010 incorrectly indicated one  incident for fscal 2008. The actual number  was two incidents. We have identified two key performance indicators. One of these is  external failure costs3, which arise in connection with complaints and  claims concerning products. The other is the number of major quality  issues4 related to products and services.  In fiscal 2010, we were able to decrease external failure costs by 4.2  billion yen from fiscal 2004. Two major quality issues arose during the year. We will further cut external failure costs through revising group-wide  quality-assurance systems and purchased/outsourced products systems.  We also will establish standards for design review to prevent major quality  issues so they will not occur in the future. 3 External failure costs Costs arising from responding  to product-related complaints  and claims. 4 Major quality issues Problems related to product  and service quality that could  cause significant damage to  customers, society, or Sekisui  Chemical  Group  if  not  thoroughly resolved on an  urgent basis. CS & Quality KPIs Customers & Society Creating Attractive Qualities Enhancing Basic Qualities Use of  Customers Feedback Use of  Customers Feedback Resolving complaints and claims Construction, sales,  service Collecting  information Research and development Storage, shipping Production Procurement, outsourcing Product planning Product design Production- method design Mass production Quality always  specified by customers Maximizing the quality of  human resources, products,  and systems As a manufacturer, contributing to customers through the  quality of the products and services and letting them appre- ciate their value are of utmost importance. Sekisui Chemical  Group has employed CS management focused on customer  satisfaction (CS). CS comes first of all from the quality of  products and services, and our goal is to embody CS in  products and services themselves through the pursuit of  their quality. Based on this concept, in 2004 we began CS & Quality  Management focusing on products and services quality  innovations in all of our business. The aim is to progress and grow together with customers over the long  term, by constantly delivering values that surpass their expectations so that they will choose our products  and services repeatedly. For this purpose, based on the motto We consider customers feedback as the  beginning of our manufacturing, we are improving the Basic Qualities1 and Attractive Qualities2 through  improving the Quality of Products and Services and the Quality of People and the Quality of Systems  that support it, utilizing a variety of feedback and other information received from customers. Sekisui Chemi- cal Group is working together to pursue quality that will be always specified by customers. Our Philosophy Pursuing quality always specified by  customers, through maximizing  the quality of human resources,  products, and systems See Data P19, 21 The CS & Quality  Management Policy  and System Verifed Verifed 1 Basic Qualities Delivering products and services with  the quality promissed to customers. 2 Attractive Qualities Continuing to create new value in anticipation of  the needs of customers and the other stakeholders. 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment To achieve the goals for fiscal 2013 of eliminating major quality issues and cutting external failure  costs by 5 billion yen vs. fiscal 2004, in fiscal 2011 we will implement new training intended to train  leaders in production sites, as a means of improving the Basic Qualities, and continue holding  seminars on prevention of product quality-related problems. Furthermore, to strengthen quality- assurance abilities overseas we will begin with a survey of actual conditions in that area. Also, to help  create Attractive Qualities we will continue releasing  The Story of Attractive Qualities, on the  company intranet (see p. 38) and continue the Creation School public training sessions for employ- ees (see p. 41). Three Prominences Main Efforts Theme Future efforts  Responding to quality- related risks  Strengthening preventive  abilities  Improving quality  assurance overseas  HR development   Internal/external promotion  Improving Customer Information  & Consulting Services  Visiting all residents  Quality management system  Global deployment of QC efforts  S-QC activities  The Story of Attractive Qualities  Public training sessions Results of Main Efforts in Fiscal 2010 Midterm Plan Development/ procurement CS Quality Human  resources Basic  Qualities Attractive Qualities On January 13, 2011, a fire arose that appears to have started in  the power-supply circuit board of an MJS III telephone  exchange manufactured by Sekisui Chemical co, ltd. We apolo- gies to customers and the other stakeholders concerned. While the cause of the fire remains under investigation by  the National Institute of Technology and Evaluation (NITE), we  are replacing, free of charge, customers products using the  same power-supply circuit board (the MJS II and MJS III  exchange systems) installed in Sekisui Heim and Two-U Homes  residences. While replacement work continues, it is expected  that nearly all eligible products will be completely replaced for  customers by the end of June 2011. Putting customer safety first,  we try to complete replacement of all eligible products as  quickly as possible. It is our understanding that this incident was a major  problem involving insufficiently strict evaluation at the product  design stage and, furthermore, insufficient examination of  previous explosions of condensers used in the same product,  resulting in a conclusion that such explosions would not lead to  fires. These cases were responded to by replacing the compo- nents on the damaged power-supply circuit boards. Together with reflecting deeply on these circumstances,  we have taken new steps such as the following. Changes to Complaint/Claim Resolution Regulations and  Reporting/Disclosure Flows We have established criteria for noncritical product failures1 so  that in the event of a situation such as this a preliminary report  will be sent immediately to the quality assurance section of the  relevant division company. The division company then will  report the matter to the President and Corporate Headquarters,  consult with them on responses, and quickly report the matter  to NITE. Fiscal 2010 fire in an MJS telephone exchange system 1 Noncritical product failure Ignition, burning, smoking, or scorching not resulting in a fire, unusual odors,  unusual heating, deformation caused by heat, toppling, dropping, minor  injuries, minor burns, skin irritation, etc. 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  VOICE In addition to Customer Information & Consulting Services in the CSR Department within Sekisui Chemical co, ltd.,  Sekisui Chemical Group has established contact points for inquiries in each division company and in each sales  company. In this way, we are working to respond swiftly to inquiries, guidance, and wishes from customers. The Housing Company has established a Customer Center at each sales company across Japan and has  completed the following steps: (i) assignment of full-time personnel responsible for customer service, (ii) accept- ing feedback from customers 24 hours/day, 365 days/year, (iii) making a toll-free number available for telephone  inquiries, (iv) consolidating the contact points for after-sales service and Fami-S (renovation business), and (v)  consolidating area telephone numbers. Fields of Manufacturing Development Needs Customers Analysis Utilization Interviews Collection Categori- zation Receiving complaints Resolving dissatisfactions Investi- gation Response Refecting Refecting Senior executives and related sections Surveys Others Factor analysis Preventative Actions Customers feedback Customers feedback Opinions  and wishes Complaints Hayamimi Network Contact point Systems of putting Customers feedback to the felds of Development Planning Development and design Production and construction Telephone service training Customer Information & Consulting Services analyses the customer  feedback received day after day and puts it to use in improving  products and services. In fiscal 2010, based on results of analysis we  proposed a variety of improvements in areas including products, the  descriptions in catalogs and on websites, and the handling at contact  points for customers as well. In response to these proposals, division  companies made 73 improvements. Furthermore, to raise the level of service at contact points for  inquiries in each division company and sales company and put  customer feedback to even greater use, in fiscal 2008 we began  telephone service training taught by Customer Information &  Consulting Services staff. In fiscal 2010, this training was conducted in  17 sessions at 14 business sites, for a total of 187 trainees. Customer Information & Consulting Services Increasing the Attractiveness of  Products and Services Based on Customer Feedback Customer Satisfaction (CS) CS & Quality Since this training took place around the time  I had been accustomed to telephone service,  it reminded me the difficulty of identifying  customer needs in telephone conversation. The training focused mainly on getting  trust from customers. It was very meaningful  and led to future  improvements in my  skills as well. Yuki Kurokawa Tokyo Sekisui  Fami S Co., Ltd. 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment Strengths of Eslo Hyper 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 (km) (FY) 182 2007 2006 2005 2002 2003 2004 1998 213 1999 415 2000 734 2001 806 887 781 1,233 1,418 1,799 2008 2,024 2009 2,430 Adoption of Polyethylene Water Pipes Lightweight and easy to transport  and construct Pipes united using proprietary  fusion joining method Rust-free material means pipe inte-  riors are like new even nine years  after installation To increase motivation among product-planning and development personnel, in fiscal 2008 content  providing an introduction to relevant products, entitled The Story of Attractive Qualities, was  released on the company intranet. This content introduces, through dialogue between development  personnel and others, the cases of products with Attractive Qualities that have  provided customers with new value and contributed to our stakeholders. It has  been accessed by a very high number of users. In fiscal 2010, a piece on Eslo Hyper, a new line of high-performance  polyethylene pipes for waterworks use that is intended to open up a new stage  in the history of the water infrastructure, was added to the site, incorporating  interviews with customers and contractors as well as development personnel.  The site content on the social significance of long-selling products has had a  strong impact on young employees. The Story of Attractive Qualities The Story of Attractive Qualities (on the company intranet) Source: Polyethylene Pipe for Water Distribution, Inspection Results of Water  Supply Equipment from Suido Kyokai Zasshi, the Journal of the Japan Water  Works Association Note: Estimates assume each pipe is fve meters in length. Eslo Hyper high-performance polyethylene pipes  support lifeline Water is an essential resource to everyday living and industry. While  waterworks in Japan boast a high penetration rate of 97%, the nations  total of approximately 618,000 kilometers of water pipes about 43,000  kilometers have surpassed their usable lives of 40 years (as of April  2010). In addition, the metal pipes installed initially are weak in terms of  bending, so that in the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake water-supply  stoppage due to pipe damage inconvenienced large numbers  of people. Sekisui Chemical took on the challenge of developing polyethylene  water pipes utilizing the technological capabilities it has accumulated in  the gas-pipe business, with the goal of developing water pipes that  were not only superior in terms of durability and earthquake resistance  but also would make it easier to carry out pipe rehabilitation, which is  likely to see increased use in the future. In 1995 these pipes were  installed on a trial basis in the city of Hofu in Yamaguchi Prefecture, and  in 1996 Eslo Hyper high-performance polyethylene pipes were on sale. The Eslo Hyper line satisfies the quality level needed by water pipes,  which require higher pressure than gas pipes, through use of the raw  material of high-density polyethylene. It also realizes high levels of  durability and earthquake resistance through joining pipes using a  proprietary fusion joining method. Furthermore, it also gives  consideration to safety and ease of handling from the contractors  perspective, and since its introduction it has earned a high level of  support and grown to be the standard in water pipes. Superior earthquake and climate resistance enables  installation even in locations with severe conditions Case Studies of Attractive Qualities Electric fusion Electric fusion Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 38  VOICE Verifed Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing devel- opment that supports quality, since fiscal 2006 Sekisui  Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in  production. Based on its belief that quality defects lead  to costs, or losses and waste arising from handling  complaints and increased wastes, we are trying to  reduce costs by targeting the three zeros of com-  plaints, accidents, and wastes. Basic Qualities Field of Manufacturing Development Zero accidents Zero complaints Zero wastes Decreasing lossed costs, or losses and  wastes arising from quality defects Results of three zeros activities (vs. FY 2008) 32% reduction Claim handling costs (vs. FY 2008) 5% reduction Number of occupational injuries (vs. FY 2008) Decreased by  1.3 billion yen Costs analyzed by MFCA1  Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality-control systems covering every process from production  through product use by customers. Each section has developed a quality-assurance system, and in each  process we promote controls on a daily basis following the PDCA2 management cycle. In developing  products and making improvements to quality, we conduct screening from a variety of perspectives, such  as those of quality assurance and safety. In fiscal 2010, we will develop screening standards and check sheets. Our business sites also made  progress on becoming certified under the ISO 90013 standard, as the total number of Sekisui Chemical  Group business sites and departments certified under this standard rose to 87. The number of employees  at these ISO 9001-certified business sites and departments represents 58% of all Sekisui Chemical Group  employees. In fiscal 2011, we will focus on development of quality-assurance systems suited to the globalization  of business. Quality Management Pursuing the three zeros of  Complaints, Accidents, and Wastes S-QC site dialogues 2 PDCA Plan (planning), D = Do (im-  plementation, operation),      C = Check (checkup, correc-  tive action), A = Action (im-  provement, review) 3 ISO9001 An international standard on  quality assurance and quality  management systems 1 MFCA Material Flow Cost Accounting (see p. 31, 40) Since fiscal 2008 we have held the S-QC4 site dialogues on the  subject of everyday management at production sites. These are  events in which manufacturing, quality, and safety personnel from  the site-leader level visit production sites and then, following a site  tour, discuss the themes of safety and quality. Through observing  the sites, products, and equipment of other business facilities and  speaking with participants who work in other sites, attendees can  gain insights and knowledge on practical operations. In fiscal 2010,  eight sessions were held focusing on Naze Naze Analysis5, with 119  personnel from 48 sites taking part. 4 S-QC Safety Quality Control 5 Naze Naze Analysis  A method of thoroughly locating the cause of a problem and making use of it in  order to help prevent any recurrence , by identifying why problems occurred, and  why these causes were present in the occurrence of such a problem. In August 2010 I took part in a site dialogue on the theme of  quality. I believe discussing the theme of quality was an excellent  opportunity to review myself. Also, activities at other sites such  as issuing armbands to a variety of people and having them  patrol the site were very instructive, as they seemed likely to gen- erate positive results in both safety and  quality by keeping people on the site alert  to prevent safety and quality activities  from becoming mere formalities. I think  learning such things was something that  could be done only in this meeting. Masayoshi Abe Jobu Sekisui Co., Ltd. Quality CS & Quality 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment The gold-prize-winning team As a means of preventing the reoccurrence of the serious incident that occurred in January 2011 (see  p. 36), we have revised the internal complaint resolution regulations as well as reporting and disclo- sure flows in case of the occurrence of serious incidents. To achieve understanding of these countermeasures, an explanatory guide to the revised  regulations has been released on the company intranet. In the future, understanding will be  achieved through e-learning and other means. Also, each division company will take steps such as  holding meetings between related sections and personnel, and holding training sessions. As we seek to balance ecological and economic interests, in addition to utilizing material flow cost accounting  (see p. 31) we are advancing the ECO-JIT Program as well. The ECO-JIT Program is an initiative intended to cut energy costs through identifying energy loss within  production processes and carrying out production improvements (reforms). Formed from both a value- engineering approach that aims to reduce energy consumption in individual pieces of equipment and a just-in- time (JIT) approach seeking to improve energy efficiency in production processes, this program adapts both of  these approaches as appropriate through ascertaining information on and analyzing subject processes. To promote these ECO-JIT activities throughout the entire group, in July 2010 we prepared an  ECO-JIT Handbook. Group KAIZEN activities,1 which began more than 40 years ago, are an initiative in which employees in  each workplace form small groups to promote improvements in production and operational  efficiency and product quality improvements. These activities are underway in Japan and around the  world, centered on production companies. Once each year presentations are held in each region to  share information on results in each workplace. For fiscal 2010, in October, the 18th All-Sekisui Americas KAIZEN Activities Presentation  was held at Allen Extruders, LLC., and in November the second All-China KAIZEN Activities  Presentation was held at Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Furthermore, the 45th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation, a group- wide event in which teams announce exceptional results to each other, was held in January  2011. This event welcomed participants from 21 groups (19 from Japan and two from overseas)  chosen from regional blocks. Sekisui Chemicals Musashi Plant won the gold prize, while  among overseas sites Sekisui Medical Technology took the bronze prize. Providing Products Information MFCA and ECO-JIT Program KAIZEN Activities 1 Group KAIZEN activities Activities that began in 1966 as  Quality Control (QC) groups and  later evolved into small group  activities before taking the form  they have today. Problems with Internal Regulations Countermeasures  (content of revisions to internal regulations)  Changed titles of flows in complaint and claim  resolution rules and serious-incident reporting  and disclosure flows, and made noncritical  product failures subject to flows similar to those  for serious incidents  Clearly defined noncritical product failures  Added to serious-incident reporting and disclo- sure flows a clear flow for providing information  to NITE (See p. 36) and other parties concerning  noncritical product failures as well 1 2 Future Issues and Countermeasures Unclear judgment criteria for situations  that could develop into serious incidents  such as fires (recognizing 103 related  incidents as failures) Unclear flow for determining the need to  provide information to the National Insti-  tute of Technology and Evaluation (NITE) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 40  Creating attractive qualities the Creation School Collecting and communicating  positive CS case studies STAR 55 Reports Theme-Specifc Eforts Section-specifc eforts STAR 55  CS awareness program (Incorporated into training programs  for specifc employee ranks) CS communication skills After-sales service Dialogue with customers CAT Meetings Sekisui Chemical Group developed the CS awareness program called STAR 551 in fiscal 2002,  and since then it has been implementing the program as part of the training programs for  specific employee ranks, while expanding the program as well. In fiscal 2010, the scope of the  CS Communication Skills Program intended to improve interpersonal skills was expanded from  including just sales sections to include after-sales service sections as well. In fiscal 2008 Sekisui Chemical Group began holding Creation School public training sessions for  employees to develop human resources who can generate products and services with Attractive  Qualities. Focused on young and mid-level employees with development and planning responsibili- ties, this program has produced a cumulative total of 34 trainees who engage in developing the  products with Attractive Qualities. In fiscal 2010, the program welcomed as a lecturer on the theme of product planning capabili- ties Prof. Noriaki Kanda of the Department of Business Administration in the Faculty of Economics at  Seijo University, famous as an author of Seven Tools of Product Planning. He lectured trainees in the  program over an eight month period. Under his guidance, teams organized by division company  created concepts for Prominent Products and reported their results to management in December. Public Training Programs for Employees Since fiscal 2005, top management of the Housing Company and housing sales companies have  been holding the CAT2 Meetings in which they meet customers directly to receive feedback  directly. In fiscal 2010, these meetings were held 1,609 times, gathering feedback from a total of  4,955 customers (3,057 households). These feedbacks are used for purposes such as improvements to equipment and machinery,  improvements to the tools used in explaining products, and enhancement of periodic inspections. Dialogues with Customers To ensure a customer-oriented culture (CS culture) takes root throughout the entire group, Sekisui Chemical Group  has been rolling out its own CS awareness program called STAR 55 since fiscal 2002. Through efforts including  individual programs developed from STAR 55 and various training programs conducted for individual sections and  themes, the goal is that each individual can take an action for customers. STAR 55 Advancing development of an organization  in which each individual has a high level of  CS awareness A discussion in the Creation School 1 STAR 55 An effort intended to foster a  customer-oriented culture (CS  culture) by getting employees in  each workplace to think about CS  and work it into their individual  action goals. 2 CAT The term comes from the  first letter of the words  Customer And Top manage- ment. Education and Training CS & Quality 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment Sekisui Chemical Group purchases materials based on the fundamental  concepts of openness, fairness and equity, legal compliance, mutual trust,  and consideration for the environment. In addition to quality and delivery times, suppliers are requested to  give consideration to the environment, comply with laws, regulations, and  societal norms, and ensure suppliers own health and safety. To Sekisui Chemical Group, as a group that pursues to provide unique products and services, R&D is a  foundation for revenues and growth, and an important management strategy. Each division company,  Corporate Headquarters, and each key affiliate has an R&D section that handles a broad range of R&D from  basic research through products development and technologies for production and management. Together with increasing the speed of technological development in growth areas and creating  technologies, we also are advancing R&D concentrated on the three fields of advanced infrastructure  solutions, energy-solution chemicals, and life sciences, which are expected to contribute to solutions for  social issues as next-generation businesses. R&D The intellectual property is an important management resource to Sekisui  Chemical Group, whose policy on intellectual property is one of securing  business competitive strength through obtaining strong patents. To improve quality and raise awareness in development, employees  who have obtained a certain number of patents are awarded P Badges and  training is conducted on intellectual property. Future plans call for strength- ening global-oriented efforts in addition to measuring the degree of contri- bution of intellectual property to business. Intellectual Property Procurement R&D, Intellectual Property, Purchasing Increasing the Value of Products and Services  Through Various Aspects of Manufacturing Providing customers with products and services involves a variety of aspects, such as R&D, intellectual  property, and procurement. Sekisui Chemical Group strives to raise the value of products and services through these aspects. For structural lumber materials, which account for the bulk of lumber used in homes, we  use certified lumber (for example, lumber certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, or  FSC). Such certified lumber is procured lawfully from properly managed forests. Lumber Procurement  P Badge Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 42  Sekisui Chemical Group respects basic labor rights and strives to build positive labor-management  relations. Our working conditions comply with the legal and regulatory systems of each country,  and we strive to ensure compliance with relevant international labor standards as well. At the same time, together with assuring occupational health and safety in the workplace we  also provide appropriate training and educational programs to employees (see p. 54 – 56). With the recognition that it is its social responsibility to protect the human rights of each  employee, Sekisui Chemical Group respects the diversity, personality, and individuality of  each individual. In addition, in 2009 we formulated the Human Resources and Human  Rights Policy (see Data supplement, p. 20) and established under the Compliance  Manual a provision stipulating that there should be no intentional infringement of  human rights, whether directly or indirectly, and no participation in such infringement. Raise corporate value by stimulating diverse human resources Employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society Workplaces where diverse human resources can thrive Rewarding workplaces Prominence in Business and CSR Professional human resources Each with his or her own unique skills Self-realization Prominent  Human Resources  Business leaders Specialized human resources Global human resources Productivity at  manufacturing sites Development, designing,  production, construction,  sales, technical services,  after-sales service Corporate culture fostering  individual  learning and  growth Opportunities to take on  challenges on  ones own Growth and  Commitment See Data P20, 21 Raise corporate value by stimulating diverse human resources Human Resources Aiming to raise corporate  value through supporting  our employees growth Labor Practice Respect for Human Rights Based on our concept of enabling human re-  sources to perform and grow, Sekisui Chemical  Group strives to develop human resources. In  2005, human resources was incorporated as  one of the three prominences of CSR, based on  our belief that human resources are an  important motive force driving advancement  of CSR management. In addition, based on the idea that em-  ployees are precious assets bestowed on us by  society, Sekisui Chemical Group strives to create environments where employees can do their jobs with a  sense of safety and security, and that help them aim for self-fulfillment through developing their own skills  and growing as professionals utilizing their own individual characteristics. We believe that such efforts will  lead to the continual development of our organization and business, and for this purpose we provide our  employees with opportunities to take on challenges on their own and support individuals who can act on  their own, with their own ideas. Furthermore, as the globalization of its businesses accelerates, the employees who work at Sekisui  Chemical Group are growing more diverse as well. We are advancing efforts to increase opportunities for  more people to thrive on the global stage and to promote creation of various working styles and safe and  secure work environments, respecting the diversity, personalities, and individuality of our employees in  each region. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will aim to achieve growth for both the organization and its  employees, with a firm awareness of the individual learning and growth of our employees. Our Philosophy The Human Resources and Human  Rights Policy and System 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment At the same time it aims to achieve business growth, Sekisui Chemical Group also is developing  environments in which employees, who are important assets can thrive in business using their  own skills and creating various human-resources development systems and opportunities that  help employees learn and grow on their own. Efforts to develop human resources who can thrive on a global stage began with the  midterm plan established in fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2010, we implemented a variety of efforts on the key themes of global talents, career  development & evaluation, and decent work & diversity. Eforts Key theme Main measures in fsical 2010 Midterm Plan Decent work &  diversity Career development & evaluation Global talents Training of domestic employees for globalization International recruiting Training of local managers Internal job posting Work-life balance Womens empowerment Global employee surveys Results of Main Efforts in Fiscal 2010 Career training  Developed a global employee program  Increased Global Talents employees to 224 people  Enhanced welfare programs for employees sta-  tioned overseas  Held a management training program for core  personnel of Chinese subsidiaries  Deployed activities toward establishment of HR  function in North America  22 cases of using an Intra-group Job Posting  System for post-hiring transfers  Conducted normalization of working hours and  activities to raise awareness at affiliate companies  Held career planning seminars for sales women  119 women were hired as new graduates (25% of  the total)  Surveyed approximately 25,000 people  Recruited people at the Boston Career Forum  (one of America's largest job fairs for inter-  national students)  Held career advisor brainstorming sessions to lay  the groundwork for career training  Established the Sekisui Support Center (to pro-  vide career and mental-health support) 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Developing global talents to support and grow businesses overseas Overseas advancement of production facilities Overseas business development through mergers and acquisitions and other means Training of domestic employees for globalization International recruiting Training of local managers Globalization of business Since 2000, Sekisui Chemical Group has been expanding its businesses overseas, mainly opening facilities,  and through mergers and acquisitions. The midterm management plan includes the target of roughly  doubling the percentage of sales overseas to 30%. In fiscal 2011, the number of overseas employees in the group as a whole exceeded 5,000 - roughly  double the figure in fiscal 2005 and more than 20% of all employees. Sekisui Chemical Group needs to secure  and train Global Talents employees1 to ensure the groups sustained growth. Based on this concept, we are  advancing the following HR strategies for Global Talents employees:  Training of domestic employees for globalization  International recruiting  Training of local managers Training of domestic employees for globalization The subjects of the Global Employee System intended to train Global Talents  employees actively have been expanded to include all group employees in  Japan, and employees aiming to work overseas actively undergo training on  different cultures and specialized training in accordance with their own  proficiency levels. In addition, the Global Trainee Program, which enables participants to  build up real-world experience overseas, provides employees with experience  in doing business in different cultures, by sending applicants with sufficient  levels of experience from sales, accounting, and development positions to  positions at overseas affiliates. Through these activities, we aim to increase the number of Japanese  employees immediately ready to serve overseas to 300 by fiscal 2013 (from a  number of 224 in fiscal 2010). Training of local managers (China) Advancing Development of  Human Resources Who Can Thrive  on the Global Stage Global Talents Human Resources Necessity for Global Talents Activities 1 Global Talents employees This is defned as employees  capable of thriving on a global  stage with not only language  and communication skills and  specialization but also the  abilities to adapt to diferent  cultures and to support and  grow business overseas. 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  VOICE Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment Once a year, Sekisui Chemical Group holds policy briefings in which all presidents of overseas affiliate  companies meet together in one place as well as brainstorming sessions for them. These serve as  venues for sharing of vision and management policies as well as discussion toward solving the issues  faced in each area. Furthermore, in fiscal 2010 meetings of company presidents began in individual areas, such as  North America, Europe, China, and Asia. These are advancing the development of training and  educational programs along with the sharing of effective and efficient methods at each company, to  generate a sense of unity as group member companies. In the North American area, we plan to strengthen shared functions such as human resources,  legal, and IT in addition to the traditional coordination and financial functions at the area headquar- ters company. International recruiting An effort underway in addition to global training of Japanese employees is aggressive hiring of human resources  with experience living overseas, such as foreign exchange students and non-Japanese candidates. In particular, we  continue to hire candidates at the Boston Career Forum1, the largest Japanese-English bilingual job fair in the  United States, where we have had a booth since fiscal 2008 and where we speak directly with large numbers of  international students from Japan. In hiring of new university graduates in Japan as well, we are providing introduc- tions to the globalization of our businesses and clearly identifying Global Talents  employees as one of the ideal types of human resources we seek to hire. As a result, the percentage of new graduates joining the company in fiscal  2011 with the ability to play roles overseas was 27%, and we plan to increase this  percentage to 40% in the future. Training of local managers In fiscal 2010, a management training program to train management at production  sites was held in China. Nineteen individuals from eight companies took part in this  training held in Qingdao, which featured lively discussions. In the future, we will focus efforts on training of staff hired in each area around the world. Overseas workplaces activities In fiscal 2010, we conducted a survey of the living environments of employees stationed overseas in North  America, Europe, China, and elsewhere in Asia. We also revised welfare programs, including enhancement of health management and information provision  and support for employees in regions with tough conditions in terms of public safety, climate, or other factors  (hardship regions), referring to feedback collected overseas. Coordination with Each Area 1 Boston Career Forum The largest Japanese-English bilingual job fair, begun in 1987. More than 5,000 people take part in this  event each year. Sekisui Chemicals booth at the Boston Career Forum I was assigned under the Global Trainee Program to a sales company in the housing business in  Thailand, which had only recently been established. While my assignment only lasted for a short  period of five months, it was a valuable experience starting up a new business from a clean slate  together with Thai employees. I felt both nervous and proud to be treated as a representative of Sekisui Chemical or  Japan in whatever I did or said. This experience also taught me the importance of  persevering with dialogue on group principles, outlooks, and  products again. Nariko Shiroma Housing Company, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Developing training programs for individual job levels Building goal-oriented training systems Acquisition of skills and knowledge  Frontier-oriented human resources  Global Talents employees  Specialized talents  Business leaders Support for career development CSR training Midterm priority themes New employees Third year with the company Managers Core management Sekisui Chemical Group provides a variety of support options suited to the positions and skill  levels of employees, to make it easy for each employee to develop his or her own career. Based on the four themes of (i) acquisition of skills and knowledge, (ii) support for career  development, (iii) midterm priority themes (frontier-oriented human resources, business  leaders, Global Talents employees, and specialized talents), and (iv) CSR training, training is  provided in accordance with the level of each employees job level. At present, Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing a variety of efforts to provide each individual employee  with opportunities to think about his or her own medium- to long-term career plan. For example, the education and training program Age-wise Career Plan Training by age1 is provided  for employees at or near critical ages or turning points as a member of society (such as up to three years  after joining the company and the ages of 30, 40, and 50 years). In addition to thinking about their own  careers, this training also serves as a valuable opportunity for employees of similar ages to interact with each  other across the boundaries separating sections and workplaces. The program also is meaningful as an  opportunity for trainees to become aware of the diversity of ways of working and ways of viewing work. In addition, since 2010 we have been able to provide employees with more flexible support through  assignment of approximately 100 career advisors2 to support career planning at a variety of business sites  within Sekisui Chemical Group. In fiscal 2011 and later, we plan to deploy these career-support efforts as well as other efforts including  human skills training and training on the CSR mindset more broadly within the group. Our policy also calls  for strengthening of efforts targeting employees overseas in addition to those at affiliate companies  in Japan. Fostering a Culture in which  Employees Learn and Grow on Their Own,  through Support for Individual Career Plans Education and Training System Activities 1 Age-wise Career Plan Training Training in which employees think  about factors such as what they  would like to do and what capabili- ties they have that they can put to  use, to enable them to choose  careers acceptable to themselves. 2 Career advisors Key career-support personnel with-  in the Group. Internal training to  develop career advisors began in  fscal 2007. Career advisors come  mainly from the ranks of HR and  training personnel as well as  members  of  management  in  each organization. Career Development and Evaluation Human Resources 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  VOICE Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment 40 20 0 (FY) 2010 2009 2008 2007 Performance of the Intra-group Job Posting System 24 15 23 22 30 11 10 19 Transferred employees Postings Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing the building of a culture in which employees take on  challenges on their own and their superior supports their challenges, through developing an HR  system in which employees can apply on their own for postings at various stages of their careers  from when they join the company through training, transfer, promotion, and change of profession. For example, in fiscal 2010 nineteen individuals had the opportunity to thrive on new stages  through the Intra-group Job Posting System for post-hiring transfers. In the future as well, we will actively promote exchange of human resources  across company, division company, and business boundaries, providing numerous  employees with places where they can thrive. The performance-based evaluation concept Performance-based evaluation is not intended to create distinc- tions among employees. Rather, each employee works with a  sense of individual growth and job satisfaction and translates this  into concrete results. The company impartially evaluates these  results and treats employees appropriately with benefits and  remuneration. This system encourages the setting of higher, more  challenging targets, which in turn leads to further personal growth  and the growth of the company. These are the objectives of Sekisui  Chemical Groups performance-based evaluation. Performance evaluation based on the absolute evaluation  of each individual Sekisui Chemical Group evaluates the performance of individuals  based on absolute evaluation, to enable each individual to get a  true feel for job satisfaction and individual growth. A characteristic of this system is the way it incorporates  explicitly as bases for evaluation the process of working toward  goals and growth in job-performance capabilities realized through  that process, demonstrating the companys approach of support- ing and encouraging achievement of each individuals own  medium- to long-range career plan. In the future as well, this Sekisui Chemical Group  performance-based evaluation system will continue providing  support from the sidelines for strong growth on the part of  individual employees. Coordination with superiors, key persons in performance- based evaluation The performance-based evaluation system that Sekisui Chemical  Group aims to achieve cannot be realized without superiors  thinking about their subordinates. For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group provides support  suited to each workplace and position through coordination with  superiors, through teams centered on members such as HR  personnel and qualified career advisors in each facility. Specifically,  numerous sessions of workshop-based training are being  conducted in individual business sites, using the absolute evalua- tion system. As a result, the number of superiors with the goals of  seeing their subordinates grow in a particular way or providing  support in accordance with the stages of subordinates careers  is growing. Internal job posting Evaluation I had been working in housing sales, but I used the Job Posting System to  transfer to my current position in accounting for Sekisui Chemical Group  settlement of accounts. Accounting is a job in which I had been interested  before and that I wanted to experience someday. While I was a bit bewildered at  first after the transfer, as my surrounding environment had changed completely,  I also found it stimulating every day to work in a field completely different from  what I had done before. I really enjoy my work. When asked what I would like to do in the future, my  answer is that if given the chance I would like to work  overseas. I want to continue taking on challenges in a  variety of things in the future as well by building my own  career myself. Takayuki Yamamoto Corporate Finance and Accounting Department, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Verifed 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Realizing a sound work-life balance Self-realization Business growth Work life  Prominence in work  True feelings of growth  Teamwork  Self-development  Home life, health  Leisure time, etc.  Community activities  Voluntary activities  PTA activities, etc. Personal life Social life Creating new value Improving skills and  motivation Creating new value Improving skills and motivation Efciency Efciency Diverse values Individual Growth Growth Growth Motivation in  work and life Energy for tomorrow Diverse values As globalization and diversification of values continue, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a variety of  efforts aimed at building workplaces where diverse human resources can work. This is intended to  respond to changes in business environment and to achieve the further growth of the group itself. In addition, we have established respect for diversity as the clear motto of our Human Resources  and Human Rights Policy, aiming to build workplaces where everybody can do his or her job, regardless  of factors such as gender, nationality, age, or type of employment. Today we are striving proactively to  build such a culture by ensuring a understanding of these values among employees, through the intranet,  various seminars, and other activities. Sekisui Chemical Group believes that in addition to fulfilling work, self-improvement outside  working hours also leads to personal growth, and that employees who have grown in such  ways can utilize their new knowledge, experiences, and values inside the workplace to effect  the further growth and development of the company. Based on this concept, we promote a  sound work-life balance. In fiscal 2010, we spread this concept of work-life balance broadly through means such as  seminars and training for new members of management, as well as implementing a variety of  efforts such as reviewing ways of working and further encouraging employees to take paid  leave in order to make time for employees to improve themselves. Advancing a variety of initiatives to build workplaces where employees can thrive with vitality Respect for Diversity Work-Life Balance Decent Work and Diversity Human Resources 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment It is essential to recruit and develop talents regardless of gender, to respond to diversifying  market needs, and to support the smooth realization of both work and child-rearing goals.  As such, we are advancing opportunities for women to thrive throughout the group. Seeing the creation of workplaces where women can thrive to be important for the  purposes of corporate growth as well, we are carrying out proactive initiatives based on the  fundamental concepts of building workplaces where highly motivated women can thrive in  business and supporting ways of working that are adaptable to life events such as childbirth,  childrearing, and long-term care for family members. For womens empowerment, Sekisui Chemical Group currently is carrying out the following activities: (i)   Proactive hiring of women (ii)  Holding seminars to foster expectations that women will do well in the workplace (for superiors) (iii) Support for womens career development (holding seminars) (iv) Supports for balancing work and family life In fiscal 2010, we proactively placed women in sales sections and technical sections such as plants and research  laboratories, where the numbers of women employees have been low. As a result, the number of women in sales  and technical positions has grown by 7% in comparison with the number in 2006, before activities to encourage  women to thrive in the workplace began. In housing sales in particular, the number of women contributing to  the business is growing, with numerous women now holding branch manager positions or generating high  performance in sales positions. In addition, to broaden opportunities for women to thrive it is essential to increase the number of women  hired. Through efforts such as assignment of personnel responsible for hiring women and having women  employees conduct job interviews, women as a percentage of new university graduate hires reached 25% in  fiscal 2010. Furthermore, as means of supporting the career development of women in sales and technical positions,  we have held career design seminars for women in sales positions and satellite meetings to think about womens  ways of working for women in technical positions. Womens Empowerment Activities During the seminar In February 2011, career planning seminars for sales women was held at Sekisui  Chemicals Tokyo Headquarters for 20 women in sales positions at Tokyo Sekisui  Fami S Co., Ltd. and Sekisui Heim Real Estate Co., Ltd. The goal of this seminar was to learn about career planning adaptable to  life events such as childbirth, childrearing, and long-term care for family  members. On the day of the seminar, the women participating took part in  activities including reviewing their life stages and careers, development of career  visions, and workshops. Comments from participants included, through carefully developing a life  plan, I saw that it is possible to balance sales and childrearing and through this  seminar I was able to envision myself balancing both work and childrearing. Held career planning seminars for sales women Tokyo Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd., Sekisui Heim Real Estate Co., Ltd. 50 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  In fiscal 1993, Sekisui Chemical established and began use of a Re-employment System for employees  through age 65, and this system was expanded to group member companies as well beginning in  April 2006. In addition, to expand this system further to create an environment in which employees can continue  to work with vitality through age 65 by continually improving their own specialties, in fiscal 2007 Sekisui  Chemical established the Senior Partner System of continued employment beyond age 60 reflecting  specialization and achievements in compensation. As of April 2011, a cumulative total of 87 employees had  used this system. To support employees in balancing work and raising children more smoothly, Sekisui Chemical is backing the raising  next-generation children through both providing a wide range of support programs and building a culture in which it is  easy to employ these programs. Such programs include economic assistance for employees on childcare leave and support  for diverse ways of working after returning from leave, as well as family leave that is available for raising grandchildren. Employee health management is an important theme to any company for the purpose of ensuring employees can work with vitality and  peace of mind. Sekisui Chemical Group provides regular health checkups for employees. In fiscal 2010, the percentage of employees undergoing  these checkups was 99.6%. In addition, the groups health insurance society contributes to health management through providing free  dental checkups, consultation for employees who wish to quit smoking, and programs to counter lifestyle-related diseases. At the same time, mental-health measures are being deployed across the entire group to provide support for employees mental  health as well. For example, in addition to setting up a special site on the intranet where employees can apply for counseling services and  undergo simple stress diagnosis, in fiscal 2010 a survey was conducted of actual workplace conditions at business sites in Japan and  Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. formed a mental-health support team. Other efforts included establishment of relevant rules and  training by employee job level. In April 2011, a support center staffed by full-time personnel was established. Efforts will be made in the future to enhance mental  health throughout the entire group, through communication training conducted by means such as e-learning and introduction of new  stress diagnosis services. Healthcare of Employees Re-employment of Retirees Supporting Raising Next-Generation Children Main systems (Sekisui Chemical) Decent Work and Diversity Human Resources Childcare leave Until age three * Fathers can take this leave twice * The first five working days of leave  are paid Childcare allowance 30% of wage paid during childcare leave  until child reaches 18 months of age Shortened  working hours  for childcare Until child reaches fourth grade in school * May be used twice per child Changes in  working hours Working hours may be shifted forward or  backward until the child starts junior  high school * Maximum shift: 60 minutes Cafeteria Plan Until the child starts elementary school * 240,000 yen/year provided as day-care subsidy * 60,000 yen/year provided after the child starts  elementary school Family leave Three days/year of special paid leave provided until the  child or grandchild starts high school * May be used for childbirth-related events, school visits  or social gatherings, athletic festivals, PTA events, etc. Child healthcare leave Until the child starts elementary school * Five days/year provided for one child,  10 days/year for two or more children * Paid (accumulated annual leave may be used) 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment 4.0 3.5 3.0 (Points) (Item) 2008 2010 Future business  success Satisfaction with  superiors Satisfaction with workplace Adaptation to job Satisfaction with job Loyalty to  the organization Overall satisfaction Comparison of Employee Attitude Surveys In February 2011, Sekisui Chemical held a seminar with the Global Compact Japan Network  (GC-JN) on the subject of thinking about human rights from the perspective of employment of  mentally challenged people, as a subcommittee for signatory firms to the United Nations  Global Compact1. Approximately 40 people took part on the day of this seminar, including  employees from GC-JN member firms and from Sekisui Chemical Group. The seminar began with an introduction to efforts by Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. to employ  mild mentally challenged people on a full-time basis and accept students from a local school  for mild mentally challenged people on a work training program. This companys presentation  included the remarks that through accepting people with disabilities as equal members of the  workforce with the goal of creating a society in which it is considered commonsense that  anybody can work, a new concept arose of placing the right people in the right positions and  these efforts led to improvements in the workplace environment as a whole, for example  through speed improvements in the area of operational efficiency. Next, a specialist on human-rights issues, Osamu Shiraishi, former Human Rights Officer  of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, analyzed the efforts of Ryuseki  Jyubi Co., Ltd. from human-rights and international perspectives. This event served as an opportunity to think about human rights not only for participat- ing firms but for the entire Sekisui Chemical Group as well. In fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group developed Guidelines on Preventing Harassment as guidelines on  harassment2 behavior that will not be tolerated. It also is strengthening efforts to prevent harassment, such  as conducting regular e-learning programs to confirm employees understanding of these guidelines. Furthermore, Sekisui Chemical has established an in-house consultation desk and the S.C.A.N. (Sekisui  Compliance Assist Network) whistleblowing system (see p. 58) and is striving to build a culture free from  harassment through efforts including incorporating prevention of harassment into the themes of training  sessions for members of management as well as responding to individual requests for consultation. In addition, training sessions for employees on the subject of harassment are being held at overseas  affiliate companies as well. Seminar on Human-Rights Issues Harassments The seminar held jointly with the Global  Compact Japan Network Employee Survey Conducted,  Including Employees of Overseas Afliate Companies 1 United Nations Global Compact A voluntary program in which top frms around  the world pledge to comply with 10 principles on  subjects such as human rights, labor standards,  the environment, and anti-corruption eforts  within the scopes of infuence of their frms and  participate in building a global framework for  realizing sustainable growth. 2 Harassment The word originally refers to  annoying behavior or bullying. It  refers to making others feel  uncomfortable, harming their  dignity, or intimidating them  through words or behavior,  whether intentional or not. Sekisui Chemical Group began conducting employee surveys in 1984, and  in 2004 it expanded the scope of the organizations from Sekisui Chemical  alone to affiliate companies in Japan as well. The surveys were conducted  in this way every few years through 2008. In 2010, their scope was  broadened to include affiliate companies overseas too, and a survey was  conducted of approximately 25,000 subjects including part-time and  temporary employees, with a response rate of roughly 80%. Results of the survey shows that employees feel high levels of  satisfaction with their jobs and with their workplaces. These scores had  increased from the 2008 survey results. There was a particularly marked  increase in subjects views of their companies future business success, with  the score rising from 3.41 points in the previous survey to 3.62 points in this  one. Also, somewhat of an improvement was seen from the previous  survey in employees senses of the qualitative and quantitative burdens of  their work. Furthermore, subjects understanding of company measures  and the degree of penetration of such measures showed improved  understanding of policies related to topics such as compliance and  environmental management since the previous survey. On the other hand, since this survey was the first to include employ- ees of overseas affiliate companies among its subjects, there were some  differences apparent between overseas subjects and those in Japan  concerning how they looked at matters such as satisfaction with their  organization and penetration of company measures. This information will  be put to use in future measures. 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Japan In fiscal 2010, in addition to applying personal safety declaration  activities, in which employees describe their own safety-related  weak points and safety actions they will take in response to  them, to all business sites, self-auditing and assessment efforts  also were conducted, in which each site audited its own health  and safety activities. The goal of building a structure for zero work-related  accidents has been revised, setting the end of fiscal 2012 as the  new target. Plans call for aiming to achieve further improve- ments to resolve issues remained in this area. Overseas The number of occupational accidents on a per-employee basis is  higher at overseas sites (38 sites) than at domestic Japanese sites. In light of these circumstances, efforts were made to raise  awareness of safety among senior management and managers   through activities such as site tours (see p. 56) and brainstorming  sessions for personnel from the Asia region (see p. 56). Safety Audits At sites in Japan, second-party certification of OHSMS2 is being  conducted, with 41 sites having been certified as of the end of  March 2011. Also, together with conducting self-auditing at all business  sites the items awareness of the site manager and communica- tion have been added to the previous items subject to auditing.  Results of self-auditing showed that some sites had not reached the  base level. Efforts aimed at further improvements will be conducted  in fiscal 2011. At the same time, related efforts are underway at overseas  sites as well, with a safety audit having been conducted at YoungBo  Chemical Co., Ltd. (South Korea) and site patrols conducted in Asia,  the Americas, and Europe. 1 Five themes Intrinsic safety of equipment, management using OHSMS, safety education of  employees, risk prevention through KY activities and other initiatives, and auditing  of health, safety, and accident prevention. 2 OHSMS (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) Activities to manage occupational health and safety and reduce risks through  implementing risk assessment for the workplace as a whole and running through  the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) management cycle, based on occupational health  and safety policies. Management  OHSMS Equipment  Intrinsic safety of equipment Education and training  Education/training/ enlightening activities Risk prevention  Risk assessment  Risk detection (KY) activities  Prevention of  risky acts (HH) activities  5S activities Auditing Health, safety and accident-prevention auditing Aiming to build a culture of zero workplace  accidents both in Japan and overseas Midterm Plan Constructing a work environment in which em-  ployees can work with safety and security is one of  the most important subjects. Sekisui Chemical  Group is implementing total safety (i.e., zero  occupational injuries, zero equipment-related acci-  dents, zero commuting-related accidents, and  zero extended sick leave) activities based on  five themes1. Midterm Plan (FY 2009 – 2013) Midterm goal:  Building a structure of zero occupational accidents Five Pillars of Occupational Health, Safety,  and Accident-prevention Activities Safety Human Resources See Data P20 The Safety Policies  Sites in Japan: by the end of fiscal 2012  Overseas sites: by the end of fiscal 2013 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  VOICE Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment Activities - Japan Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. group KAIZEN activities on the  theme of safety In July 2010, the Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Conference was held at the Kyoto Research & Development  Laboratories. On the day of the conference, a total of 196 participants including the President and related Directors,  top management from all 59 production sites in Japan and members of top management and safety person- nel from 27 construction companies in Japan and business sites in East Asia (from Thailand, China, and South  Korea) gathered together in one place for activities including the annual safety awards and introductions to  examples of safety activities by sites with superior safety performance, resolving as a group to advance  development of a culture focused on safety. In November 2010, representatives  selected from each assembly plant in  the housing business took part in a  video risk-detection (KY) competition,  in which they competed to see who  could identify the most risks within  the allotted time period, and group  discussion through identification of  safety issues. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. has advanced group KAIZEN  (improvement) activities by all employees at its six  business sites on the theme of safety, created  time for individual employees to think about  safety, worked to improve safety awareness and  skills, and advanced initiatives such as efforts to  achieve intrinsic safety in equipment and review- ing work standards. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd.  Group KAIZEN activities  Safety Conference Housing Company Safety Skills Competition Site Leaders Training is provided for personnel in leadership positions on the  front lines of work sites, to discuss problems and concerns noticed by  trainees during their everyday duties and think about countermeasures for  them, through case studies on legal and regulatory matters as well as  training on key points of identifying risks during patrols and other matters. In  2010, Site Leaders Training was conducted at 17 sites, with 456 people  taking part. Site Leaders Training This training was a very positive experience in  that we were able to share everyday thoughts  and concerns on safety, through frank and honest  exchange of opinion across the boundaries  separating employees and partner companies. In the future as well we will make the  most of the results of this training through  group meetings. Kazumichi Yamanaka Sekisui Board Co., Ltd.  In the interior-wall assembly process in which I work, we are striving to  increase our sensitivity to safety quickly through activities such as  sharing of information on places where risky acts have taken place by  mapping instances observed by each individual and preparing a  video risk-detection (KY) system called Hiyoko Man for training new  employees to be able to detect risks better. In the future as well, we will strive to raise awareness of safety  further through continuing accident-free work and creating an  accident-free workplace, as well as risk-detection (KY) activities. Kazutaka Nishiyama Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. The winner of the Safety Skills Competition 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  VOICE System for the new Equipment Safety Design Standard Established April 2007 Standard C (Individual Equipment  Safety Standards) Established April 2006 Standard B (Common Safety Standards) Established July 2005 Standard A (Basic Safety Standards) Standards  establishing  the  most fundamental concepts,  approaches, etc. that should  apply to all equipment Standards establishing common  safety properties not highly de-  pendent on factors such as  process or equipment type Standards establishing individual  safety properties caused by or  related to factors such as process  or equipment type To prevent occupational injuries and equipment-related  accidents, it is essential to realize intrinsic safety of equipment  which incorporates safety requirements from the equipment  design stage. Based on this concept, since fiscal 2005 Sekisui  Chemical Group has developed a system of equipment safety  design standards. In fiscal 2010, new standards were established for  protection from electric shock on charging components on  control panels and other devices, based on matters pointed  out during safety auditing. 1 Site Leaders Training for Construction Sections Conducted to encourage construction-site leaders to rediscover their roles and  promote safety among employee The Safety Communication Program deployed at housing sales  companies and Sekisui Fami-S (which handles the renovation  business) to promote safety dialogue between supervisors and  craftspersons began in fiscal 2008. In May 2010, it made a new start  as Site Leaders Training for Construction Sections1. As of the end of March 2011, approximately 900 construction  supervisors and leaders from partner companies were undergoing  this program. System for the New  Equipment Safety Design Standard Housing Company Site Leaders Training  for Construction Sections Since there are numerous narrow lots in the Tokyo area, people  in the neighborhood tend to be very interested in construction  sites. This gives us a sense of the importance of maintaining the  site environment better. For this reason, in addition to taking the neighborhood  into consideration in activities including safety checks at the  start of construction and design of the panels on temporary  enclosures, we also carry out activities to enable us to be a  company beloved by all, while focusing on strengthening  construction quality and on communication with customers  and also taking into account the views of partner companies. We also set up risk-detection (KY) activity sheets on the  site, being certain to check the content of the days work during  patrols and providing instruction through our work on site in the  event that there are any deficiencies in countermeasures. We believe that deploying these  activities horizontally across the organiza- tion will enable the entire Tokyo branches  to achieve a level of zero occupational  injuries. Kazutaka Sawamura Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. A Sekisui Chemical employee has won the Eighth Quality  Management Award (sponsored by the Union of Japanese  Scientists and Engineers, or JUSE), for fostering an organiza- tional culture aiming at zero injuries through a thorough  consciousness of safety first and promoting unique activities  to prevent human error. Winning the Eighth Quality  Management Award I devised my own safety system through practicing  safety activities on my own at all times, for example by  taking part proactively in safety educational activities  outside the company based on the philosophy of  learning by mimicking what others do. In the future, I will deploy site sensitivity (the  ability to notice possible dan-  gers) at business sites overseas  as well as in Japan. Yoshinobu Iwata Safety Meister Shiga - Ritto Plant, Urban Infrastructure & Environmental  Products Company, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Safety Human Resources Winner of the Award 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  VOICE Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment Activities - Overseas The group discussion of workplace accidents 1 The 5S process A slogan used in maintenance  and improvement of the work-  place environment. The fve Ss  are organization (seiri), orderli-  ness (seiton), cleaning (seiso),  cleanliness  (seiketsu),  and  discipline (shitsuke)  With the growth of its businesses, the number of overseas business sites and employes will increase. For these  reasons, in fiscal 2009 the Monozukuri (manufacturing) Handbook was produced and put into use, summa- rizing the fundamental policies of production activities in Sekisui Chemical (for example, safety, the 5S  process1, and quality control). Furthermore, in 2010 the Global Safety Enhancement Program was established, and with its implemen- tation beginning in January 2011 the ability to prevent accidents is being strengthened on a global basis. Manufacturing Assemblies were held in the United States and China  in fiscal 2010. At the assembly held in the state of Michigan in  October, 70 people from 12 U.S. sites took part. Activities included  presentations on examples of safety, 5S programs, and other  activities. In addition, in November an assembly was held in Beijing  with 71 persons from seven Chinese sites in attendance, for  safety-related presentations on examples of activities and  group discussions. In fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group conducted site patrols of 19 sites (in China, South Korea,  Thailand, the United States, Mexico, Germany, the Netherlands, and Spain), supporting safety  activities through ascertaining the actual conditions at production sites and providing guidance. In fiscal 2011, plans call for conducting safety investigations of 36 sites. In July 2010, an Asia region safety personnel training session was held at Sekisui Chemicals  Shiga - Ritto Plant for safety personnel from 10 sites in China, Thailand, and South Korea.  On the day of the session, in addition to activities including sharing case studies of practi- cal safety activities, learning by experience with simulated dangers such as getting caught  in a roller, and group discussion of cases of actual workplace accidents, every participant  announced his or her own personal safety declaration describing the actions he or she  would take in his or her workplace in the future. Global Safety Enhancement Program U.S. and China Manufacturing Assemblies Site Patrols Asia Brainstorming Sessions The most important thing we should do to build a safe  workplace is to ensure that all employees at all levels have a  safety awareness. This is because we believe that safety is  something that everybody must pursue. In the future as well, we will strive to  carry out health and safety activities  aiming to make the workplace one in  which people can work with a  greater sense of security. Abraham Tamayo Sekisui S-lec  Mexico S. A. de C. V.  56 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  VOICE 100 40 60 80 20 0 (%) (FY) 2010 Session 2 2010 Session 1 2009 Session 6 2009 Session 5 2009 Session 4 Percentage of Employees Undergoing e-Learning Surpassed 80% Sekisui Chemical Group addresses compliance based on the  belief that we need to aim to be a company trusted by society,  with each employee following the motto of our Attitudes of  Sincerity. We ensure compliance with laws, regulations, social  norms, morals, and ethics, on a global basis. To ensure we employ fair business activities, Sekisui Chemical  Group explicitly calls for legal compliance, prevention of corrup- tion, fair competition, and appropriate transactions with  business partners in its domestic and international compliance  manuals. Furthermore, we strive to ensure understanding of  these requirements among employees through training and  other opportunities. Japan In fiscal 2010, we held seminars on the Antimonopoly Law,  which was amended in 2009, and individual training sessions  suited to the needs of affiliate companies and business sections,  in addition to periodic compliance training for new employees,  new managers, and other personnel. In addition, the e-learning program conducted each year  continued on the theme of preventing power harassment.  Efforts including extending the period during which such  content was available and sending email messages informing  employees of the program resulted in rates of more than 80% of  employees taking this training in both its first and second  session in 2010. Overseas In fiscal 2010, based on the U.S. Antitrust Law Compliance  Manual revised in fiscal 2009, we carried out interviews and  employee training for affiliate companies in the United States  regarding the compliance status of the U.S. Antitrust Law. We  also called for ascertaining the actual states of understanding of  and compliance with the law and continual strengthening of  related systems. Aiming to be a company trusted by society Compliance Bases of CSR Policy Fair business practices Activities Through training and question-and-answer sessions on U.S.  Antitrust Law, we have been able to learn the fundamentals  such as the impact these laws and regulations have on our  business and related points to note. We also were reminded  of how Sekisui Chemical Group places importance on  ethical behavior and compliance in the workplace. I think that efforts such as  these by Sekisui Chemical Group  are very positive. We too intend to  practice compliance in the future. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Laurel Burrill Compliance Management System See Data  P21 Verifed 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Results of Surveys (Sample Question) Q. Do you think you are acting based on a correct understanding  of laws and rules required in performing your duties? Training Trainees Training Trainees Training for new managers Compliance training Seminar on antirust law e-Learning training (four times/year) Training prior to overseas assignment Managers New employees, members of  management of affiliates Managers All employees Personnel planned for overseas  assignment U.S. antitrust law training Employees of overseas  affiliates Japan Overseas Main training implemented in fiscal 2010 Working conditions Sexual/power harassments Improper use of business expenses Other Total 5 8 4 2 19 Content of whistle-blowing reports and consultation 100 50 75 25 0 (%) (Year) No Not sure Yes 1.8 30.8 67.5 22.4 75.0 1.6 42.4 56.0 1.5 2010 2008 2004 In 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group developed S.C.A.N. (Sekisui  Compliance Assist Network), an intra-company whistle-blowing  system, available for use by all Sekisui Chemical Group employ- ees (including employees of subsidiaries of subsidiaries and  temporary staffs from placement agencies). In addition to  distributing Compliance Cards with information on whistle- blowing contact points, introductions to this system are  provided in the Groups in-house magazine, e-learning, and  compliance training, as continual efforts to ensure awareness of  the system among all personnel. In fiscal 2010, there were 19 cases of whistle-blowing  reports and consultation, and swift responses were implemented  giving consideration to the whistle-blowers and related sections. In February 2009 the Fair Trade Commission found Sekisui  Chemical to have colluded with other firms in determination of  sale prices of polyvinyl chloride pipes and fittings over the  period 2004–2006 and ordered it to take measures to eliminate  such collusion and to pay surcharges (hereinafter referred to as  the order). Since Sekisui Chemicals determination of facts of  this case differs from that on which the order was based, in April  2009 the company asked the Fair Trade Commission to cancel  the order. Appeal procedures are still underway. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical will continue its  efforts to raise awareness of compliance, always keeping in  mind the fact that compliance is an important foundation of  CSR management. Since fiscal 2008 no new cases of violations of laws or  regulations or similar incidents having significant impact on  society have been discovered. The S.C.A.N. Whistle-blowing Program Legal Violations, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group surveys compliance-related matters as  part of its employee surveys (see p. 52). As a result of efforts  such as compliance training, employee awareness is increasing  from year to year. One example of the overall increase in  compliance awareness is the fact that in 2010 75.0% of survey  respondents answered affirmatively to a question on whether  they were acting based on a correct understanding of laws  and rules. Employee Surveys Showed Improved Awareness of Compliance Verifed 58 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment  Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing development of a risk  management system to manage risk prevention and emer-  gency responses uniformly. At the same time, since risks comprise events that could  occur in the future it is impossible to ascertain the facts of such  occurrences accurately in advance, especially amid todays  increasingly complex business activities. For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group continues to run  through the plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle of risk manage- ment, considering increasing all employees sensitivity to risks  to be essential to preparing for appropriate risk prevention and  emergency responses. In fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group implemented risk assess- ments for business sections in division companies and for some  operating companies. Countermeasures were employed for  each risk, and the results were summarized in reports. Then,  these were reviewed to identify problem points. Future plans call for expansion of related activity organiza- tions groupwide, together with strengthening the plan-do- check-action (PDCA) cycle framework while rectifying the  problem points identified through this assessment. After preparing its Global Crisis Management Guidelines in fiscal  2009, Sekisui Chemical Group in fiscal 2010 advanced prepara- tion of individual crisis management manuals at overseas  affiliate companies, with more than 90% of such companies  having prepared these manuals. In the future, efforts will continue through enhancement  of the content of the crisis management manuals and making  environmental improvements toward developing appropriate  risk management systems, together with aiming to complete  individual crisis management manuals at all affiliates including  new members of the Group by the end of fiscal 2011. Aiming to manage risk prevention and  emergency responses uniformly and to  further increase sensitivity to risks Policy Risk Management Program Global Crisis Management Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. has been working since July 2010  to build its risk-management system. These activities have begun in 46 sections as  instructed by management. After identifying individual risks  in each section, particularly serious risks were identified and  efforts were completed through the stage of proposal  of countermeasures. In the future, Sekisui Heim Kinki will aim to carry out  effective activities in coordination with the risk-management  sections within its division company. Activities Aimed at Increasing Sensitivity  to Risks Begin Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Immediately following the Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011, Sekisui Chemical set up an emergency response headquarters  led by the President as its chief and began checking on employee safety and ascertaining the state of damage. In addition, based on the concept of delivering necessary goods as much as needed, we implemented swift and continuous  shipment of relief supplies focused on those needed for daily living, to emergency response centers in affected areas. For details, see Recovering from the Great East Japan Earthquake on p. 13. Crisis Management to the Great East Japan Earthquake Risk Management Bases of CSR 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  A Sekisui Heim advertising series A scene from Lets Talk with Top Management Since 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group has provided opportunities  for employees to communicate with management proactively,  based on its belief that direct communication between  management and employees to resolve problems faced by the  company as well as work-related issues is important to sustain- able growth. In fiscal 2010, the President of Sekisui Chemical visited six  business sites across Japan, including those of affiliate compa- nies, for a series of dialogues in which a total of 57 persons took  part, entitled Lets Talk with Top Management. These  Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes the importance of adequate  and proactive disclosure, and two-way communication based  on such disclosure, for promoting mutual understanding and  developing relationships built on trust with our stakeholders. Sekisui Chemical Group is working to advance communi- cation with all stakeholders and to reflect as appropriate in our  business the evaluations and comments we receive. Examples  of such efforts include the establishment in 2005 of clear  Disclosure Principles to make clear this disclosure philosophy  and activities to raise awareness among employees, as well as  CAT Meetings between members of management and custom- ers in the Housing Company and housing sales companies  (see p. 41) and the External Advisory Board on Environment-  Contributing Products (see p. 27). In Europe and North America, there is considerable interest in  socially responsible investment (SRI), in which companies  addressing CSR issues are chosen proactively as targets of  investment, and many researches have been conducted by  rating agencies. In light of this fact, in December 2010 Sekisui  Chemical visited SRI ratings agencies in Europe in order  proactively to communicate accurate information on its CSR  efforts and deepen their understanding of its efforts. Such  meetings  involved  dialogue  on  subjects  such  as  Environment-Contributing  Products  and  disclosure  of  CSR information. facilitated lively dialogue by having employees at the sites  where they were held take part in planning the themes of  discussion as well. Advancing CSR Management  through Dialogue with Stakeholders Communication between  management and employees Policy Dialogues with Overseas  Socially Responsible Investment (SRI)  Rating Agencies Environmental-Themed Advertising Series Wins Environmental  Advertisement Prize and Minister of the Environment Prize In the 59th Nikkei Advertising Awards, a series of Sekisui Chemical advertisements won  the Environmental Advertisement Prize and the Minister of the Environment Prize. These  advertisements were regarded highly for the way they depicted Sekisui Chemicals  approach of activities aimed at coexistence between people, society, and nature through  homes, based on environmental efforts already taken. Sekisui Chemical Group wins Merit Award in  the Toyo Keizai Sustainability Reporting Awards Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR Report 2010 won the Merit Award in the 14th Toyo Keizai  Sustainability Reporting Awards, following up on its performance last year in winning the  Award for Excellence in the same awards. This award reflected high evaluations of efforts  such as incorporating CSR smoothly into corporate strategy. Outside Evaluation Disclosure &  Communication Bases of CSR 60 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment  Environment Next Generation Local Communities Shinichi Ohkoshi Kenji Okamoto Dong Sheng Cai Takahiro Seki Takumi Konno Michito Yoshizawa Hirokazu Kawagishi Junichi Obokata University of Tokyo Graduate School Tottori University Graduate School University of Tsukuba Nagoya University Graduate School Osaka University Graduate School Tokyo Institute of Technology Shizuoka University Kyoto Prefectural University Researcher University Supported research theme Development of electromagnetic wave absorbers using substances related to iron rust In the natural state: Learning manufacturing from the spirit of Zen Creating organic and inorganic nano-hybrid materials demonstrating acute phototaxis Development of luminescent nanocapsule materials using self-assembly Efficient energy production from unutilized resources: Learning from mushrooms, the  decomposers of the forest Learning plant growth regulation mechanism from fungi: An experiment in increasing crop  yields using fungus-producing substances Learning construction principle of hybrid systems of animal and plant from photosynthes- ing sea slug Abnormal concentration of counter anions through self-grouping of chiral metal supermo- lecular cations A scene from the eighth Manufacturing Based on  Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum Sekisui Chemical Group advances social-contribution activities  mainly in the fields of the environment, the next generation, and  local communities. In addition to positioning such activities as initiatives made as  a corporate citizen living together with society, we also provide  support for activities to enable Group employees to play active  roles in society. For years, Sekisui Chemical Group has supported research on technologies that put the functions of nature and living creatures to use in  manufacturing. As part of these efforts, since fiscal 2002 it has held a forum each year intended to announce the results of new programs  receiving financial support and existing programs and to exchange technologies among researchers. In fiscal 2010, among the projects chosen from 334 applicants, we provided  financial support to the total of 16 research projects including the following eight  projects and eight other projects that received encouragement awards. In addition, in  October 2010 we held the eighth Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by  Nature Forum in Nagoya, in the city of Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture, which was host city to  the Tenth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological  Diversity (COP 10). This forum, which welcomed approximately 800 participants, featured  an opening message from Mr. Ahmed Djoghlaf, Executive Secretary of the Convention  on Biological Diversity, followed by a keynote lecture by Prof. Hideki Ishida of the  graduate school of Tohoku University on the subject of the forms of new types of  manufacturing and ways of living learned from nature and other activities including a  panel discussion of university professors. Note: University affiliations shown are current as of the time grant was provided. Natural Conservation and  Social Contribution Advancing Activities in the Key Fields of  the Environment, the Next Generation,  and Local Communities Policy Holding the Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum in Nagoya, the Host City of the COP 10 The Groups Social Contribution Policy See Data P20 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Sekisui Nature Study Course Business site activities Training leaders for nature conservation activities Kyoto Prefecture Sen Forest preservation activities Development of Sekisui Forest Family Nature Study Course Gunma Sekisui Four Seasons Forest preservation  activities Building birdhouses with children Observing water insects and surveying water quality  with elementary-school students Wakayama Prefecture Sekisui Chemical Forest  planting activities Planting seedlings in cooperation with the community Kurohama Marsh nature tours Lake Shinji cleanup Making tree species labels and measuring  carbon-dioxide absorption Activity Program Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant 51st Sekisui Nature Study Course to train leaders Joint activity by Kansai-area sites Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Headquarters Joint activity by Gunma-area sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Site Examples of Main Nature Conservation Activities Conducted in Fiscal 2010 Nature Conservation A scene from the 51st Sekisui Nature  Study Course Based on its belief that nature conservation activities  conducted as a member of the local community constitute an  important initiative, Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to raise  employee awareness and strengthen coordination with local  communities, with the goals of conducting nature conservation  activities at all business sites and getting a cumulative percent- age of 80% or more of employees to take part in nature conser- vation activities in fiscal 2013. Since they began in fiscal 1997, the Sekisui Nature Study  Course we carry out on a continual basis as opportunities to  train leaders in nature conservation activities and to implement  activities to contribute to the local community have been held  51 times, with a total of more than 800 people taking part. We also carry out activities in cooperation with stakehold- ers in each community, such as supporting the activities of  nonprofits and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and  holding community activities at each business site. To deploy nature conservation activities both in Japan and  worldwide, future plans call for advancing such activities at five  overseas sites as well, for example through planting mangrove  trees in Thailand in July 2011, together with strengthening  forestry conservation activities in seven blocs across Japan. Activities - Overseas Activities - Japan 62 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment  VOICE Social Contribution Activities A student presentation An employee giving advice in a class Activities Intended to Improve Public Safety  in the Community Crimes such as burglaries of homes whose residents are away,  fraudulent requests to the elderly for remittance of funds, and  crimes targeting children are becoming a major concern  in Japan. In addition to building homes that are highly crime  resistant, since fiscal 2009 the Sekisui Chemical Group has  utilized the nature of the housing business, with its sales  facilities located nationwide, to carry out social-contribution  activities through cooperation between its housing sales  companies and prefectural police departments. In fiscal 2010, we distributed leaflets on prevention of  crimes such as fraudulent remittance requests and informed  prospective home buyers of the need for crime prevention,  with such activities based on the four themes of activities to  prevent fraudulent remittance requests and other criminal acts,  activities to raise awareness of building homes that are highly  resistant to crime, activities to protect the elderly and children,  and traffic-safety activities. We also are developing crime- prevention homes under police-department supervision. The Houses and the Environment Learning Program Since fiscal 2007, the Housing Company has provided the  Houses and the Environment Learning Program to junior high  schools, as a program putting employees knowledge of  housing and the environment to use in the classroom. This program offers a new type of class, full of unique  contents in which Sekisui Chemical Group employees and  teachers lead the class together to help students learn about  the roles of homes and the environmental impact of living,  think about home plans through group discussions, and  experience building environmentally conscious homes using  model homes. In fiscal 2010, this program was conducted at a total of 15  junior and senior high schools in the Kanto, Kansai, and Kyushu  regions of Japan. As a hands-on program, students participat- ing in the program show high levels of motivation and partici- pating employees also have been inspired by the ideas of the  highly imaginative students. In light of its content that has proven to be meaningful to  the schools, students, and the company, plans call for continua- tion of this program in fiscal 2011, to further enhance contribu- tions to the local community. Natural Conservation and  Social Contribution Colaboration with Local Communities We have jointly planned security apartments intended to  provide residents with safety and security, through sharing  the expertise of the public and private sectors. The police  analyzed the psychology and methods of criminals to make  proposals such as those for exteriors that would not be  attractive to criminals and ways of ensuring the security of  residents. We are very grateful for this opportunity to free  young women from a daily sense of insecurity, thanks to this  encounter with Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. What Japan requires today is  the bonds that unite individual  wishes with those of the entire  community.  We  hope  this  initiative will spread throughout  all of society. Mr. Eiji Oba Community Safety  Administration Division, Fukuoka  Prefectural Police Headquarters 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Sekisui Chemical Group carries out a variety of activities at  individual business sites in Japan and around the world, to aid in  resolution of social issues in each community as a member of  local society. For example, experience in an actual workplace is a very  important opportunity for young people thinking about their  future careers to learn about industries and occupations and to  ready themselves for job-hunting activities. For this reason, in  fiscal 2010 Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd., Kinki Sekisui Heim  Industry Co., Ltd., and Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. accepted  interns. Furthermore, other business sites carried out activities  such as accepting trainees for work experience and practical  training in plants. In addition, YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. in South Korea  proactively takes part in solving issues in the community, as a  member of a local government committee. In the area in the  vicinity of its business site in particular, nearby development has  led to an increase in the percentage of residents in poverty, and  weakness of the financial infrastructure for school education  has become an issue of concern in society. In response,  YoungBo Chemical provides financial support for developing  the next generation through activities such as prizes for  exemplar graduates. Also, its employees pay regular visits to  elderly people who live alone and hold birthday parties  together with groups of volunteers, to address the isolation and  loneliness resulting from an increase in people living alone due  to urbanization. Activities in support of people considered the weakest in  society continue, including support for the materials needed  each month by facilities aiding people with disabilities. Activities to solve local social problems Since fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group has continued the Book  Magic program, in which participants sell unneeded books and  CDs and contribute the proceeds to a nonprofit organization to  assist programs supporting education in developing countries.  This activity helps support education in developing countries such  as Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the Sudan. In fiscal 2010, the activity was conducted 10 times at eight  business sites. It is expanding thanks to its nature as a social- contribution activity that is easy for facilities to implement, and  plans call for further expansion of the activity in the future as well. In addition, since fiscal 2009 Sekisui Chemical Group has  implemented Table for Two, a program in which 20 yen is added to  the cost an employee pays for a meal in an employee cafeteria and  then this amount is donated to support providing lunches to  children in developing countries. Implementation of this program  has spread to five facilities at present, and a total of more than 1  million yen has been donated through the program. Developing A Variety of Social Contribution Activities  Making It Easy for Individual Employees to Participate Yuko Hayakawa Sekisui Exterior Co., Ltd. I took part in the Book Magic program because I thought it sounded like a social-contribution activity in  which any individual employee could participate easily. While at first people inside the company thought that it would be a chore to bring books and  CDs to work, now there is an apparent movement toward people taking part in the program  proactively, and the activity is broadening a little at a time. In the future, I would like this activity to continue  periodically and to expand so that customers too can take  part together with us. An Opportunity to Take a Step Forward in Contributing to Society 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Bases of CSR Human Resources CS & Quality Environment  Step 1 Step 2 Step 6 Step 5 Step 4 Step 3 Formulation of  review plan Performance of review Review report Check of  final edition of  CSR Report Quality assurance procedures Submittal of  review report  Confrmation of re-  view scope, subject  items, information  collection methods,  etc.  Decision on review  procedures, review  schedule  (Head-  quarters, business  sites to be visited for  review), etc.  Review at Sekisui  Chemical Head-  quarters  Review at visited  business sites (perfor-  mance of procedures  including feld obser-  vation, analytical  procedures, docu-  mentary verifcation,  inspection of mate-  rials, and inquiries)  Reporting results of  completed review,  matters for com-  ment, etc.  Follow-up on items  such as matters  pointed out in Step 3  Check of appropri-  ateness of the review  by professionals  other than the review  team  Obtaining manage-  ment confrmation  letter  Submittal of Inde-  pendent Review  Report Summary of Independent Review Procedures Sites visited: Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters, Tokyo Headquarters, and Taga Plant Independent Review Report 65 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  We would like to take this opportunity once again to express our best  wishes to the people affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake and our  heartfelt prayers for a swift recovery. The earthquake struck right in the middle of the editorial process for  CSR Report 2011. As such, this report was edited under unprecedented  conditions, as for example CSR sections were active in collecting  donations to assist affected areas and took part in activities as part of  disaster response headquarters efforts, since a number of Sekisui  Chemical Group business sites were damaged by the quake as well.  However, this also provided the opportunity to think about CSR from the  extraordinary perspective of responding to a natural disaster. In addition,  the structure of this report and its content were revised numerous times  as earthquake-related information changed by the minute. As a result, and in light of the call in Sekisui Chemical Groups  Mission Statement to contribute to society through business activities, we  were reminded anew that Sekisui Chemical Groups approach of  continuing to conduct business activities unchanged and providing a  stable supply of products and services is its responsibility to society. We  also determined to produce this CSR Report leaving unchanged its  editorial policy of reporting honestly on the efforts of the previous year  without being affected by conditions in society, while also presenting  information on the conditions that resulted from facing the earthquake  and our corporate approach to the disaster. The opening pages of the Report adopt a content structure that  describes Sekisui Chemical Groups concepts and CSR philosophy for  ordinary readers. The Special Features describe typical businesses and  products of each division company from the perspective of how they  have progressed. The chapters on the Three Prominences and the Three  Attitudes of Sincerity in the latter half of the Report cover such matters in  a manner that gives consideration to making it easier to understand the  concepts behind such measures and the initiatives taken, without  decreasing the quantity and quality of information that have been so  highly regarded in previous reports. The separate Data volume includes detailed information on efforts  as well as performance data. In addition to disclosing as much information as possible on our  CSR efforts through this Report and accepting opinions from both inside  and outside the Group, efforts such as undergoing an independent  review to ensure the accuracy and objectivity of the information disclosed  are intended to advance CSR management efforts and improve the  content of this Report. We would very much appreciate hearing the frank  opinions of our readers (csr@sekisui.jp). Such opinions will serve as valuable  references for Sekisui Chemical Groups future CSR efforts and in the  preparation of future reports as well. 1947 Establishment of Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. Started first injection  molding business in Japan. 1948 Change of company name to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 1950 Began selling cellophane tape. 1952 Started full-scale production of PVC pipe (Eslon Pipe). 1953 Listed on Osaka Stock Exchange. 1956 Developed Japans first plastic rain gutter (Eslon Rain Gutters). 1959 Established Sekisui Sponge Industries Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui Plastics  Co., Ltd.) with co-financing from Shin-Nippon Chisso Hiryo Co., Ltd.,  Asahi Kasei Corporation and others, to commercialize plastic foam. 1960 Established Sekisui House Sangyo Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui House Co.,  Ltd.) and started the housing business. 1962 Launched Movement for Cleaner Towns featuring our plastic  garbage bins (Poly-pail), as a campaign to mark the companys 15th  Anniversary. Cleaning revolution subsequently spread nationwide. 1963 Started producing plastic bathtubs (first in Japan). Modular toilet  tank commercialized, paving the way for production of modular- style equipment. 1970 Exhibited modular house (Sekisui Heim) at the International Good  Living Show in Tokyo. 1971 Started producing and selling Japans first modular house, Heim M1. 1972 Established original Environmental Management Department.  Launched company-wide commitment to pollution control. 1979 Awarded Deming Prize for quality management in recognition of  results of aggressive TQC activities. 1981 Adopted twin-headquarters system (Osaka and Tokyo), and  established Tokyo Headquarters at Toranomon, Tokyo. Began  producing and selling timber-framed modular house, Two-U Home. 1991 Established Basic Policies on environmental issues. 1993 Introduced divisional system, shifting to the seven divisions Pipe &  Related Products, Building Materials, Chemicals, Techno-products,  Molded Products, Medical Products, and Housing. 1994 Began activities to earn ISO 9000-series quality-management  system certification. 1996 Paid-in capital surpassed 100 billion yen.    Adopted new headquarters logo.   Announced Top Management Policy for Environment and Safety.  Began activities to earn ISO 14001 environmental-management  system certification. 1997 50th Anniversary of company founding.   Launched Sekisui Chemical Group nature protection activities.   Created Womens Athletic Club. 1998 Instituted Corporate Activity Guidelines.   Initiated zero emission activities. 1999 Midterm Management Vision: GS21 takes effect.   Instituted Corporate Philosophy.   Concentrated business into three domains: Housing, Urban Infra-  structure & Environmental Products, and High Performance Plastics.   Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-21 takes effect.   Began publishing Environmental Reports. 2001 Launched the division company system, establishing the three  division  companies  the  Housing  Company,  the  Urban  Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, and the High  Performance Plastics Company.   Achieved zero emissions in all house production plants and all plants  of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 2003 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-Premium 600 takes effect.   Established the Environmental Management Promotion Depart-  ment (now CSR Department Environmental Management Group).   Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-2005 takes effect.   Achieved zero emissions at all house construction sites. 2004 Established the CS & Quality Management Department.   Developed the CS & Quality Management Midterm Plan.   Achieved  zero  emissions  in  all  construction  by  house  renovation companies. 2005 Established the CSR Committee.   Published the Environmental and Social Report. 2006 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-Go! Frontier takes effect.   Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan Part 1  takes effect. 2007 60th anniversary of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. founding. Global  Childrens Eco Summit and Manufacturing Based on Learning from  Nature—Junior Forum held.   Conducted reviews of the CSR Committee and Corporate  Headquarters organization.   Published the CSR Report. 2008 CSR policies established and revised. 2009 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-SHINKA! takes effect.   Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan  SHINKA! takes effect. 2010 Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum held  in Nagoya. History of Sekisui Chemical Group Editors Notes 66 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 The pages of this report are structured in line with  the Sekisui Chemical Groups concept of its Corpo- rate Social Responsibility (CSR) in terms of Three  Prominences — in the Environment, CS & Quality,  and Human Resources — along with Three  Attitudes of Sincerity: in Compliance, Risk Manage- ment, and Disclosure & Communication. We have decided on the information that should be  covered in this report through consideration of its  importance both to society and to Sekisui Chemical  Group, based on inputs including surveys  conducted within and outside the Group and  independent review. A separate Data section has been established to  ensure that the report is both comprehensive and  easy to read. Continuing efforts for which there was not enough  room in the report are covered on the Sekisui  Chemical Group website. Information about Sekisui Chemical Groups  business is disclosed publicly through this report  and the Annual Report, which reports financial  information concerning the Group. To ensure the reliability of this report, its environ- mental and social reporting have been subjected to  independent review. C O N T E N T S About Our Report Guidelines Complied with or Referenced This report complies with the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI)  Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver.3.1 (G3.1), at the B+  application level as defined in those guidelines. A GRI  Guidelines comparison table is available on the Sekisui Chemi- cal Group website. In preparing this report, we also have referred to the Ministry  of the Environments Environmental Reporting Guidelines  (2007 Edition). Scope of This Report Entities Encompassed by this Report: The basic function of  this report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical  Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key  roles in those activities. Timeframe Encompassed by this Report: April 2010 - March  2011 (including examples of activities through May 2011) Scope of Independent Review The environmental and social information in this report has  been subjected to an independent review for the appropriate- ness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of  calculation. The Verified logo is used to indicate that each item  of such subject information has been reviewed. Disclaimer Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this  report includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui  Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on  current plans and projections and management plans and manage- ment policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors  could cause the results of business activities in the future and other  circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in  the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted  through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may  not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data  for past fiscal years has been revised in connection with expansions in  scope, revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental  load coefficients. Top Message Our Company Our Strategies Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Our CSR Corporate Governance & CSR management CSR Activities Recovering from the Great  East Japan Earthquake 3 5 6 7 9 10 11 13 Compliance Risk Management Disclosure & Communication 57 59 60 61 Independent Review Report History  Editors notes 65 66 66 15 17 19 21 1 2 Bases of CSR Three Prominences Special Features 43 Our Philosophy / Global Talents / Career Development  and Evaluation / Decent Work and Diversity / Safety Human Resources 35 Our Philosophy / Customer Satisfaction / Quality /  Education and Training / R&D, Intellectual Property,  and Procurement CS & Quality 23 Our Philosophy / Environment-Contributing Products /  Climate Change / Resource Efficiency /  Air, Water & Soil / Biodiversity Environment Toward a Sustainable Society Housing Businesses Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Businesses High-Performance Plastics Businesses Global Presidents Meeting Nature Conservation & Social Contribution Verifed 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  Published in English: August 2011 Annual Publication. Previous Publication: August 2010. Next Publication: August 2012 This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the  environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certifed paper produced  from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no flm  that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the  plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC)  and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in  the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no  hazardous waste fuids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding  process. CSR Report 2011 (including the separate data  volume) has been reviewed by an independent  third party and as a result has been granted the  sustainability report review and registration logo.  This demonstrates that this report satisfes the  necessary criteria established by the Japanese  Association of Assurance Organizations for  Sustainability Information (J-SUS;  http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo,  intended to assure the reliability of sustainability  information. 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL: http://www.sekisuichemical.com For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.jp  Table of Contents Management Benchmarks (Consolidated)   Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data (in Japan) Material Balance (in Japan)  Midterm Environmental Plan Environmental Accounting Sekisui Eco Value Index Environment-Contributing Products Global Warming Prevention Resource Recycling and Saving Environmental Performance of Domestic Offices Atmospheric, Water, and Soil Related Emissions Environmental Incidents, Complaints,  and Emergency Responses Chemical Substances Environmental Management Overview of the Product Assessment System  for Environmental Impact Biodiversity CS & Quality Data Human Resources Data Safety Data  Social Contribution  CSR Management Policies CSR Management System CSR Report 2011 Data 1 2 2 3 5 7 7 8 9 10 11 11 12 13 14 14 15 16 17 18 19 21 Scope of Independent Review The environmental and social information in this report  has been subjected to an independent review for the  appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy  of the results of calculation. The Verifed logo is used to  indicate that each item of such subject information has  been reviewed. Verifed .................................................... .. ............................................................................................... ......................................................................................... .............................................................................................. ......................................................................................................... .................................................................... ............................................................................................ .................................................................................. ................................. ..................................... ................................................................. ............................................................................................................. .........................................................................................  ........................................... .......................................................................................................................................... ......................................................................................................................... ......................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................................................... ................................................................................................. ..................................................................................................  Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) Housing Company 10,000 6,000 8,000 4,000 2,000 0 (100 million yen) 2006 2008 2010 2,626 2,252 9,342 4,244 4,304 2,264 2,454 179 218 2,816 1,955 4,186 Others 196 2007 2,804 2,337 4,199 246 9,261 237 9,586 9,154 2009 2,477 1,946 8,585 3,982 Urban  Infrastructure &  Environmental  Products  Company High  Performance  Plastics  Company Sales (by Each Division Company) (100 million yen) (%) 2010 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 20 15 10 5 0 2006 2009 2007 2008 19.7 16.4 16.2 16.2 12.6 39 503 342 285 48 450 668 386 60 390 476 590 68 376 415 550 90 528 507 676 1,800 1,169 1,516 1,551 1,410 Others U.S. Europe Asia Overseas Sales and Sales Ratio 300 200 100 0 (100 million yen) 2006 2007 2008 2010 247 2009 240 245 254 257 R&D Expenditures (100 million yen) 2006 2007 2008 2010 2009 151 400 500 100 300 200 0 300 200 100 126 372 238 78 Free Cash Flows 10,000 6,000 8,000 4,000 2,000 0 (100 million yen) 2010 7,902 2009 7,873 2008 7,565 2007 7,829 2006 8,792 Total Assets 400 500 200 300 100 0 100 (100 million yen) 2006 2007 2008 2010 243 15 493 243 Housing Company 2009 157 16 335 171 143 112 206 451 244 61 430 141 10 16 192 360 194 9 24 3 9 Others High  Performance  Plastics  Company Urban  Infrastructure &  Environmental  Products  Company Operating Income (by Each Division Company) 20 0 5 10 15 (Yen) 2010 13 2009 10 2006 2008 10 2007 15 14 500 300 400 200 100 0 (100 million yen) 2006 2007 2008 2010 253 2009 440 363 313 345 Capital Expenditures Dividends Per Share 20,000 10,000 15,000 5,000 0 (persons) 2010 Headquarters 5,655 4,447 8,637 19,770 2009 5,620 4,634 8,478 19,761 2006 2008 5,408 4,765 8,520 19,742 2007 5,265 4,025 8,557 18,907 5,114 3,616 9,137 18,905 Housing Company Urban  Infrastructure &  Environmental  Products  Company High  Performance  Plastics  Company 1,031 1,029 1,049 1,060 1,038 400 300 200 100 0 (100 million yen) 2006 2007 2008 2010 345 2009 345 365 305 260 Depreciation and Amortization Number of Employees Interest-bearing  debt  1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 50 40 30 20 10 0 (100 million yen) 2010 1,245 36.6 2009 1,330 38.9 2006 2008 1,113 1,294 27.5 40.2 2007 921 25.7 Interest-bearing  debt as a  percentage of  equity capital Interest-bearing Debt and  Interest-bearing Debt as a Percentage  of Equity Capital 8 6 4 2 0  6.5 6.4 0.3 6.9 2006 2007 2008 2010 3.5 2009 ROE 1  Material Balance (in Japan) Input Main Raw Materials Metals  77,000 tons Wood, wooden  building materials  38,000 tons  Cement for  exterior walls   109,000 tons  Concrete for  foundations  235,000 tons PVC   138,000 tons Polyethylene   74,000 tons Polypropylene   29,000 tons Kraft paper   14,000 tons PRTR-designated  substances   118,000 tons Energy  5,956TJ Purchased electricity  363,713 MWh  Heavy oil A  4,830 kL  City gas   48,672 thousand m3 water   16,517 thousand tons Output To the atmosphere CO2  from energy   consumption  332 thousand tons-CO2  NOx   223 tons SOx   6 tons Soot particles   4 tons PRTR-designated  substances   810 tons To water Water  discharged   15,635 thousand tons  COD   69 tons PRTR-designated  substances   0.6 tons Wastes Total generated  waste   39 thousand tons Sekisui Chemical Group Housing Company R&D institutes Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Tsukuba R&D Site Production plants Sales and construction  companies, etc. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd., etc. Sekisui Heim Sales Companies Construction and Service Companies 1 company and  1 business site 11 companies and  10 business sites 28 companies and  95 business sites 40 companies and 106 business sites in total Total: 79 companies and 148 business sites Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data (in Japan) High Performance Plastics Company R&D institutes Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Minase Site Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., ADME & Tox. Research Institute Production plants Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Amagasaki Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Musashi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Taga Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd./Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., etc. 2 companies and  2 business sites 13 companies and  17 business sites 14 companies and 19 business sites in total Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company R&D institutes Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Kyoto Site Production plants Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd./Kyushu Sekisui  Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd./Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. 1 company and  1 business site 20 companies and  11 business sites 20 companies and 12 business sites in total Headquarters R&D institutes Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Development Center Production Plants and Headquarters Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters and  Tokyo Headquarters, etc. 1 company and  1 business site 8 companies and  10 business sites 8 companies and 11 business sites in total * The total number of companies and business sites do not match, since some companies have  two or more business sites, and some business sites are shared by two or more companies. Note: Certain main raw materials are undisclosed for business strategy reasons. 2 Verified  Midterm Environmental Plan Targets for FY2013 Action Items Environmental Midterm Plan "Environment Top Runner Plan SHINKA!" Progress Consideration for  biodiversity Enhancing the environmental  management infrastructure Reduction in emissions of  greenhouse gases Efcient utilization of resources Reducing other envi- ronmental impacts Further reducing the environmental impacts of business activity Increase sales of Environment-Contributing Products    Promoting development of Environment-Contributing Products Reducing  greenhouse-gas  (GHG)  emissions by  each activity Promoting energy  conservation Reducing wastes Expanding Zero Waste  Emission Activities to  improve  environment (conservation of  biodiversity) Enhancing  environmental  management systems Improvement of  education and  enlightenment Communication  with external organizations Expanding products'  contributions to  the environment Improving  Environment- Contributing  Products Improving overall environmental management efciency Achieving a Sekisui Eco Value Index at least three times the FY2007 value At least 40% sales ratio of Environment-Contributing Products of consolidated  net sales Setting targets in FY2009  *Revised target:Covering emissions from  production with contributions from products Setting targets in FY2009 *Revised target:Setting targers in FY2011 Setting target for usage ratio in FY2009 for reduction of greenhouse-gas  emissions *Revised target:Setting target in FY2011 Reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 20% vs FY1990 (at least 10% vs FY2007) Reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 20% vs FY2007 Reduction of CO2 emissions by at least 10% vs FY2007 Reduction of energy usage per production unit by at least 5% vs FY2008 Reduction of energy usage per person by at least 10% vs FY2008 Reduction of energy usage (converted to thermal units) per production unit  by at least 7% vs FY2007 Reduction of energy per production unit by at least 5% vs FY2007 Reduction of waste generated per production unit by at least 40% vs FY2007 Reduction of waste generated per production unit by at least 25% vs FY2008 Reduction of copier-paper use by at least 20% vs FY2007 Achievement ratio of target sites: 100% Achievement ratio of target sites: 100% Recycling at least 90% of construction waste Formulating guidelines in FY2009 Promoting nature conservation activities in at least fve locations overseas Certifcation ratio for target sites: 100% External EMS certifcation at consolidated construction companies All existing production sites: by FY2011 Achieving a green procurement rate of 98% or higher Completion of surveys of target 9 sites Reaching a total of at least 1,000 certifed Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) Achieving EMS development at 100% of suppliers of residential building  materials supplying 1 million yen/month or more Conducting environmental education for employees and management  overseas as well Continuing publication at ISO certifed production sites, laboratories, and  housing Fami S (remodeling) companies Holding the Sekisui Nature Study Courses at main sites (34 plants, 4 laboratories) Continued implementation at eight domestic production sites As Sekisui Chemical, providing aid to at least 10 NGO's per year related to  nature conservation activities Implementing nature conservation activities in partnership with local commu- nities at 50 sites or more *Revised target: at all business sites. At least 80% of  employees(cumulative) participation over the three-year period2011-2013 Reduction of VOC released into atmosphere at domestic production sites and  laboratories by at least 60% vs FY2000 (at least 25% vs FY2007) Reduction of water intake at domestic production sites by at least 10% vs  FY2007 Reduction of copier-paper use by at least 20% vs FY2008 (set target guidelines for individual sites) Reduction of loss costs derived from waste materials by at least 5 billion yen vs FY2008 (FY2009-2013 accumulation) Implementing zero-emissions (i.e., recycling at least 98% of wastes) eforts  in at least 50% of demolition projects vs FY2000: Sekisui Heim: -45%   Two-U Home: -62% Setting target for usage ratio in FY2009 for reduction of greenhouse-gas  emissions *Revised target:Covering emissions from production with  contributions from products Number of products certifed (anticipated annual sales of 1 billion yen) as  Environment-Contributing Products: 20 or more (FY2009-2013)  *Revised target:30 or more Contribution to reduction in CO2 emissions Contribution to waste reduction, reuse,  and recycling Overall Business Activities Raw Materials and procurement Domestic production sites Laboratories Domestic ofces (including sales vehicles) Overseas production sites Overseas ofces Domestic production sites Domestic shipments Domestic production sites Overseas production sites Domestic ofces Overseas ofces Housing construction sites Cost reduction derived from waste Domestic production sites/laboratories Efcient water usage Reduction in VOC emissions  (Legal and voluntary controlled substances) Overseas production sites Eforts to conserve biodiversity Support of nature conservation activities  by NGOs Nature conservation activities in  collaboration with local communities External EMS certifcation at domestic  production sites and laboratories External EMS certifcation at domestic  construction companies External EMS certifcation at overseas  production sites Acquiring at least a certain degree of  environmental knowledge Developing leaders for nature  conservation activities Expanding green procurement Expanding EMS development in  supply chains Soil and groundwater surveys Publishing site reports Communication with local communities to improve environment Recycling of waste materials produced  during dismantlement and expansion /  renovation of houses Recycling of wastes produced from  non-residential construction 3 P 2 4  Results of FY2010 Evalu- ation Page Targets for FY2010 Verified 24, Data7 25, Data7 -  -    -  -  - 29, Data8 29, Data8 29, Data8 - - Data8 Data8 32, Data9 - Data10 -  32, Data9 31, Data10 - - - - 32, Data10 33, Data12  - - - - - - - -  - 33, Data11 Data13 -    62 - - Evaluation Column Key: Outperformed target Performed close to target (achievement rate of about 90% to 110%) Failed to reach target Note: The midterm targets were revised in March 2011 based on fiscal 2010 performance. 2 times vs FY2007 Sales estimate: 248 billion yen, Sales ratio 27% 5 new products certified Setting target for 2013 Studying 2030 vision implement plan Setting target for 2013  Studying 2030 vision implement plan -14% vs FY1990 (-4% vs FY2007) -8% vs FY2007 -8.5% (vs FY2007) Energy usage vs FY2008: -2% Selection of target sites -3.5% vs FY2007 -2% vs FY2007 -20% per production unit vs FY2007 -10% per production unit vs FY2008 -10% vs FY2007 Selection of target sites 2 billion yen vs FY2008(accumulation) Achievement ratio: 90%  Achievement ratio: 40% Recycling rate of dismantled materials: 95% Beginning recycling activities at model sites -4% vs FY2007 -53% vs FY2000 (-11% vs FY2007) Formulating guidelines in  July 2010 Providing aid to seven organizations Attained at 90% of target sites Attained at 96% of target sites Attained at 75% of target sites 95% 95% or higher 6 sites surveyed At least 200 persons Implement CSR training Holding at 2 sites Issued at production sites and laboratories  (ISO14001 certified business sites) Implemented at one site more Nature conservation activities organized in 42 business sites  or more Implementing reforestation and conservation activities  in Suzhou, China Sekisui Heim: -31% vs FY2000  Sekisui Two-U Home: -53% vs FY2000 2.19 times vs FY2007 Sales estimate: 302.6 billion yen, Sales ratio 33% 14 new products certified, cumulative total:17 Target set as planed  ongoing Target set as planed  ongoing -21% vs FY1990  (-12% vs FY2007) -17% vs FY2007 -14.6% (vs FY2007) Energy usage vs FY2008: +11% Seleced target sites as planed +1.6% vs FY2007 No change vs FY2007 +2.1% per production unit vs FY2007 +41% per production unit vs FY2008 -5.9% vs FY2007 Seleced target sites as planed 1.3 billion yen in FY2010, 2.0 billion yen vs FY2008(accumulation) Achievement ratio: 89% Zero waste emissions achieved at Sekisui  Seikei Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant and Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Achievement ratio: 19% Recycling rate of dismantled materials: 94%  (99% for designated construction materials) Activities begun at Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Himeji Plant -2.8% vs FY2007 -49% vs FY2000 (-3% vs FY2007) Formulated guidelines in  March 2011 Aid provided as planed to seven organizations: Ramsar Center Japan, NPO  School of Killifish, Nature Film Network, Nanko Wetlands Conservation Group,  Research Association for Global Mangrove, Environmental NPO Shu, Fujisan Club Attained at 88% of target sites Attained at 96% of target sites Attained at 65% of target sites, including one site newly certified  in FY2010 90.1%(59.9% of external certified, 30.2% of independents EMS) 93.8% 6 sites surveyed as planed, 9sites(cumulative), 5sites completed  22 persons newly certified, for a cumulative total of 52 persons Holiding CSR training(for new employees and new managers) Books on diodiversity distributed to executives Holding at 2 sites (27 participants total) Holding at a cumulative total of 27 sites Issued at 38 production sites and laboratories Holding a meeting with nearby residents at Tokyo Sekisui Heim  Industry Co., Ltd. Implemented at 2 new sites in FY2010, for a cultimative total of  44sites. Japan:74% of production sites and 17% of sales companies Overseas:27% of production sites Implemented 2 times as planed Sekisui Heim: -32% vs FY2000  Sekisui Two-U Home: -51% vs FY2000 4  To promote efficient environmental management and achieve accountability,  Sekisui Chemical Group employs environmental accounting that makes it  possible to ascertain the costs and effects of environmental conservation  activities. Calculation is conducted by referring to the Environmental  Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese Ministry of the  Environment, with the addition of Sekisui Chemical Groups own concepts such  as external economic benefits. In fiscal 2010, although R&D expenditures decreased in connection with a  decrease in the number of environmental themes addressed, costs remained  largely unchanged from the previous year due to an increase in nature  restoration costs and other costs. On the other hand, investments decreased due to the lack of large-scale  environmental investments such as the adoption in fiscal 2008 of biomass  boilers. The amount of cost savings from energy- conservation activities,  which constitutes one of the economic results of environmental efforts,  decreased, while the amount of cost savings from waste-reduction activities  and similar activities increased. In addition, external economic benefits such  as those from photovoltaic power generation systems also increased steadily. Scope of environmental accounting (1) Summation period: April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2011 (2) Scope of summation: 38 target production sites (as listed on Data p. 2) + 4 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division  companies + 14 housing sales companies  Due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, data could not be collected from the following sites: Production sites: Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. and the Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Housing sales company: Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. (3) Principles of summation  Depreciation amounts are the same as those for financial accounting.  Investment amounts are based on budget approvals during the summation period.  Expenditures and investments that contain other than environmental conservation activities are distributed pro-rata in 10% increments. (4) Note  The scope of summation in fiscal 2009 consisted of 40 target production sites + 4 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division  companies + 15 housing sales companies Environmental Accounting Environmental Conservation Costs (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental Conservation Benefits (Sekisui Chemical Group) Economical Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures  (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) (million yen) 1 Excluding housing sales companies. 2 (Added value from business sites)  {(Business area costs + Administration costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 1 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 2 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients  used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data p. 8). 3 Applicable to Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. 4 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price +  Amount incinerated within own premises. 5 Simple incineration + Landfill. 6 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites.  7 A cumulative total number of sites reviewed for factors such as consolidation and return of certifications for housing sales companies. 8 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. 1 R&D expenditure is the total for all consolidated companies. Verified 5 Items FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Category Key activity and the outcome Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments 1) Business area costs Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,700 774 1,675 182 1,800 118 Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc 222 642 252 704 333 387 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 4,164 335 3,956 55 4,296 102 2) Upstream/downstream costs Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods  involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 379 0 493 0 376 0 3) Administration costs Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green  action organization, information disclosure, etc. 2,342 29 2,187 45 2,189 64 4) Research & Development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 1,982 60 2,561 14 1,506 16 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 65 0 70 8 77 0 6) Environmental remediation costs Nature restoration, etc. 89 207 23 354 391 1 Total 10,944 2,047 11,217 1,363 10,967 688 Environmental Conservation Benefits Environmental performance criteria: per unit of output; Total Self- evalu- ation Description of effects Item Unit FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Effect (10-09) See page Item Unit FY2009 FY2010 Effects  within busi- ness areas Effects on in- vested resources Amount of energy  usage1 (1) Electricity TJ 3,626 3,345 3,522 177 Data 8 (1) Energy usage  per unit of output  (electricity + fuel)1 GJ/ton 1.85 1.84  (2) Fuel TJ 2,461 2,312 2,434 122 Data 8 Effects on envi- ronmental impact  and wastes (3) CO2 emissions2 1,ooo tons 340.2 315.6 331.6 16.0 Data 8 - - - -  (4) Volume of environmental pol- lutants discharged3 Tons 729.8 659.3 810.8 151.6 Data 11 - - - -  (5) Wastes generated4 1,ooo tons 39.3 36.0 39.5 3.5 Data 9 (2) Waste generated  per unit of output kg/ton 40.5 42.7  (6) Outsourced disposal5 1,ooo tons 0.44 0.35 0.24 -0.12 Data 9 (3) Outsourced disposal  per unit of output kg/ton 0.40 0.26  Upstream/  downstream  effects Effects related to  products/services CO2 reduction by photovoltaic power  generation, etc. (cumulative) 1,ooo tons 143 162 196 34 - - - - -  Other benefits  to environmen- tal conservation Others6 ISO 14001  Certification New acquisitions Numbers 2 3 2 - - Number of business sites acquir- ing ISO 14001 Certification7 Total number  of business  sites 79 80  Renewals Numbers 14 14 16 - - Number of business sites achiev- ing zero emissions8 Numbers 2 1 2 - - Number of business sites  achieving zero emissions8 Total number  of business  sites 139 141  Description of effects FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Remarks Revenue (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 316 204 206 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste segregation and recycling Cost  savings (2) Savings from simplified packaging 20 32 44 (3) Cost savings through energy-saving activities 336 725 274 (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 1,041 387 696 Including resource-saving activities Sub-total (actual effects) 1,712 1,347 1,220 (5) Contribution to environmental conservation activities1 5,938 6,228 7,603 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added value at business sites2 (6) External Economic Effect 10,577 12,598 12,957 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation systems and No-Dig pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 16,515 18,827 20,560 Total 18,227 20,174 21,779 Items FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Category Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Total amount of R&D expenditures1 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 25,420 15,740 24,010 24,119 24,695 18,559 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 7.8 13.0 10.7 5.7 6.1 3.7  Description of effects Remarks Rev- enue Cost savings Subtotal (actual effects) (5) Contribution to environmental conservation  activities11 (6) External Economic Effect Sub-total (estimated effects) Total (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources (2) Savings from simplified packaging (3) Cost savings through energy-saving    activities (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction    activities, etc. Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of  waste segregation and recycling         Including resource-saving activities         Contribution of environmental conservation activities to  added value at business sites12 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic gene-  ration systems and No-Dig pipe rehabilitation method     13 0 11 19 43 1,716 9,279 10,994 11,037 12 23 12 170 216 2,211 3,678 5,888 6,105 160 21 241 482 905 3,392 - 3,392 4.297 206 44 274 696 1,220 7,603 12,957 20,560 21,779 Housing Company*1 Urban Infra- structure &  Environmental  Products Company High Performance  Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical  Group*2 11 Excluding housing sales companies. 12 (Added value from business sites) x {(Business area costs + Administration costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)}  Economic Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (by Each Division Company) Items Total amount of R&D expenditures3 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen)   Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) Items Housing Company1 Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical  Group2 1) Business area  costs 2) Upstream/down- stream costs 3) Administration costs 4) R&D costs 5) Social activities costs 6) Environmental  remediation costs Total  Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods  involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for  green action organization, information disclosure, etc. Research and development on environmental conservation Social contributions, etc. Nature restoration, etc. 999 99 3,432 304 527 111 30 0 5,502 1 91 35 0 1 0 0 0 127 63 107 390 35 240 323 6 368 1,531 7 35 49 0 9 16 0 0 116 661 102 440 7 280 907 11 23 2,432 97 185 1 0 48 0 0 1 332 1,800 333 4,296 376 2,189 1,506 77 391 10,967 118 387 102 0 64 16 0 1 688 3,985 2.8 9,802 1.3 5,502 5.9 2,504 4.6 5,017 6.6 24,695 6.1 11,211 8.1 18,559 3.7 Category Key activity and the outcome 1 Including 34 business sites of housing sales companies. 2 Total of three division companies and departments of Corporate Headquarters. 3 R&D expenditure is the total for all consolidated companies. Items 1. Prevention of global warming 2. Ozone layer protection 3. Conservation of air quality 4. Prevention of noise and vibration 5. Conservation of water environment,  soil environment, ground quality 6. Waste reduction and recycling 7. Reduction of chemical substances 8. Conservation of natural environment 9. Others Total Reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. Reduction of Chlorofluorocarbon emissions, etc. Prevention of air pollution by reducing pollutant  emissions Prevention of noise and vibration disturbance Preservation of water quality, prevention of  subsidence Reduction and treatment of waste, recycling, etc. Risk management of chemical substances, etc. Nature protection, etc. Others 95 4 267 5 196 3,777 482 56 621 5,502 91 0 1 0 0 35 0 1 0 127 143 0 35 3 385 430 2 44 490 1,531 34 0 1 2 0 49 4 0 26 116 101 4 306 9 324 450 55 25 1,158 2,432 183 0 48 4 37 1 3 0 57 332 Category Key activity and the outcome Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Housing Company1 Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical  Group2 Housing Company1 Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical  Group2 363 8 654 19 932 4,695 539 154 3,604 10,967 385 0 62 6 38 102 6 1 89 688 1 Including 34 business sites of housing sales companies. 2 Total of three division companies and departments of Corporate Headquarters. Environmental Conservation Cost (by Each Division Company) (million yen) Environmental Conservation Cost (by Environmental Conservation Measures) (Million yen) Data 8 Data 8  Data 8 Data 11 Data 9  Data 9 - - - - Environmental Conservation Benefits Description of effects Items Unit Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company High Performance  Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group Effects within  business areas Other benefits to  environmental  preservation Upstream/  downstrea m effects 177 122 16.0 151.6 3.5 0.12 34 - - - 3,522 2,434 331.6 810.8 39.5 0.24 196 2 16 2 3,345 2,312 315.6 659.3 36.0 0.35 162 3 14 1 79 117 10.3 155.4 3.0 0.15 - - - - 1,137 1,968 167.2 735.8 19.5 0.12 - 0 1 1 1,059 1,851 156.9 580.3 16.6 0.27 - 1 7 0 51 1 2.9 7.1 0.8 0.00 - - - - 1,332 112 82.8 67.4 6.4 0.00 - 2 4 0 1,280 112 79.9 74.5 7.1 0.00 - 2 1 1 19 6 0.5 3.0 1.1 0.00 34 - - - 435 118 32.0 4.0 11.3 0.00 196 0 6 0 416 124 31.4 1.0 10.1 0.00 162 0 5 0 TJ TJ 1,000 tons Tons 1,000 tons 1,000 tons 1,000 tons Num- bers Num- bers Num- bers Energy  consumption4 (3) CO2 emissions5  (4) Volume of environmental  pollutants discharged6  (5) Wastes generated7   (6) Outsourced disposal8  CO2 reduction by photovoltaic  power generation, etc. ISO 14001  Certification Number of business sites  achieving zero emissions10  (1) Electricity (2) Fuel New  acquisitions Renewals Effects on  invested  resources Effects on  environmen tal impact  and wastes Effects related  to products  /services Others9 See page 4 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 5 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients  used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data, p. 8). 6 Applicable to Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. 7 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price +  Amount incinerated within own premises. 8 Simple incineration + landfill. 9 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites. 10 A business site  affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. FY2009 FY2010 Effect  (10-09) FY2009 FY2010 Effect  (10-09) FY2009 FY2010 Effect  (10-09) FY2009 FY2010 Effect  (10-09) Environmental Conservation Benefits (by Each Division Company) (Million yen) 6  Input Output     Integration of environmental impacts  Eco Points (EIP) Products Wastes Landll and incineration Sekisui Chemical Group Energy and resources consumed, waste generated For purposes such as globalization of environmental management and making continual  improvements in the environmental impact of production overseas, since 2003 Sekisui  Chemical Group has been periodically monitoring actual conditions of environmental  activities at production companies overseas and their performance data. In fscal 2010,  overseas data in this report covered the 30 business sites below1. 1 Data collected from: KYDEX, LLC., Allen Extruders, LLC., Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd.,  Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd., Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd., Eslon B.V.,  Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd., Sekisui Voltek, LLC. (Lawrence Plant),  (Coldwater Plant), Sekisui Alveo B.V., Sekisui Alveo Ltd., Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd., Sekisui  Pilon Pty. Ltd., YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejon Plant, YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co.,  Ltd.3, Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. (Brea Plant, Tennessee Plant), Sekisui High Performance  Packaging (Langfang) Co ., Ltd., Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC., Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de  C.V., Sekisui S-Lec B.V. (Resin Plant, Film Plant), Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd., Sekisui  S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd, Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. (Pasadena Plant,  Calvert City Plant), Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L., Sekisui Medical Technology  (China) Ltd., American Diagnostica, Inc3, XenoTech, LLC. 2 CO2 emissions have been calculated using the emissions coefficients of the  greenhouse-gas protocol for electric power and the emissions coefficients of the  Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! for fuel. 3 Data was collected only for wastes and CO2 emissions. 4 Calculation period: January 1 - December 31, 2010 Coverage of Overseas Data Major raw materials Metals, lumbers, wood-based  building materials, cement,  polyvinyl chloride, polyethyl- ene, polypropylene, etc. Energy Electricity, heavy oil A, diesel  oil, heating oil, gasoline, city  gas, etc. Emissions to atmos-  phere and water area PRTR-designated  substances (Methylene  chloride, Xylene, Toluene,  etc.), COD The Sekisui Eco Value Index is an independent index utilized by Sekisui Chemical Group for measuring the efciency of our environmental  management activities. 0 2,000 1,000 3,000 2008 2009 (100 million yen) 1,623 59 46 1,728 52 74 1,912 1,786 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 (100 million yen) Energy Raw materials 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 15 5 35 25 2007 2008 2013 2009 2010 (100 million yen) (%) 45 1,466 663 758 50 1,623 731 841 56 677 1,053 Environment-Contributing Products Sales  and Sales-Ratio Trends 46 16 113 0.7176 99 21 0.6163 43 Environmental added value 2007 1,466 49 37 1,552 Overall environmental impact (Eco Points) 2007 49 118 1 16 184 Conventional Products Environment- Contributing  Products         Reducing  Environmental Impact Environmental Added Value (converted to monetary amount) Groups overall environmental impact (converted to coecient) 0 1 2 3 2008 2009 2010 2013 2007 1.0 1.2 (Target) 3.0 1.4 2.2 Sekisui Eco Value Index Trends Sekisui  Eco Value  Index     Environmental Added Value  (converted to monetary amount) (= sales revenue from Environment- Contributing Products + external economic benefts) Groups overall  environmental impact  (converted to coecien t) 17.4% 40.0% (Target) 20.8% Housing Company Sales Ratio Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters 3,026 719 221 7 2,078 33.1% 2010 Photovoltaic  generation 37 93 3,156 3,026 99 26 0.6 171 45 Environmental Added Value (numerator): Sekisui Chemical Group calculates Environmental  Added Value by totaling the sales of our Environment-Contributing Products and the external  economic benefts provided to society through our products and businesses. External economic  benefts are calculated by converting to monetary amounts the efects of reducing environmen- tal impacts when Sekisui Chemical Group products are used by customers or society. Groups overall environmental impact (denominator): The total sum of the Groups environ- mental impact is calculated by addition of converted values of raw materials and energy used as  well as related landfll and incineration of waste and emissions into the atmosphere and water,  which represent environmental impacts of difering units and efects on the environment, to the  Eco Point coefcient using the JEPIX integration method. 1,786 15.3% External Economic Benets = Reduction Amount  Cost of Reducing Environmental Impact Sales of  Environment- Contributing  Products Waste  reduction by  the SPR  Method Emissions to  atmosphere  and water Landfll and  incineration  m Sekisui Eco Value Index Environment-Contributing  Products P 2 4 P 2 5 Verified Verified 7  Global Warming Prevention Electricity usage 38% Fuel usage 62% 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 2008 2013 2009 consumption (TJ) per unit  output index performance per unit output index performance 815 540 2,909 1,392 5,657 100 100.3 102.2 101.6 93 849 613 3,083 1,542 6,087 (target) (target) 0 100 200 300 500 400 2008 2013 2009 1990 47 157 80 54 37 24 178 95 389 31 15 330 (Target) 346 41 203 108 37 44 433 49 36 167 88 24 365 Electricity 59% City gas 32% Heavy oil A 3% Others  6% Fiscal 2010 5,956 TJ Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company 48% High Performance Plastics Company 20% Headquarters 16% Housing Company 16% Fiscal 2010 40,000 tons -CO2 Fiscal 2010  414,000 tons Electricity 59% City gas 29% Other  gases 0% Fiscal 2010 341,000 tons -CO2 CO2 from other  energy consumption  6% Heavy oil A 4% CO2 from  non-energy- consumption  sources 2% 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 2008 2013 2009 Amount transported  (10,000 ton-km) index (fscal 2007: 100) index (FY 2007: 100) 5,555 6,746 5,071 10,731 28,103 7,107 8,032 100 100.8 102.6 5,889 12,024 33,051 Energy Consumption and per unit output  During Manufacturing Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing Breakdown of Energy Used CO2 Emissions in  the Transportation Stage CO2 Emissions (Overseas) Breakdown of Greenhouse- Gas (GHG) Emissions Amount Transported and per unit output CO2 Emissions Coefficient (Environmental Top Runner Plan: SHINKA!) See Data, p. 7 for scope of summation   0 5 10 20 15 2008 2013 2009 15.1 1.5 16.6 13.5 13.5 2.9 16.4 Other  greenhouse  gases CO2 from  energy  consumption Greenhouse-gas Emissions from Laboratories Under the New Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan  SHINKA!, progress is being made in reducing emissions of all green- house  gases. The conversion coefcients for CO2 emissions have been changed to  the default values (as of March 2009) under the greenhouse-gas emissions  calculation, reporting, and disclosure system established by Japanese law,  with uniform fgures used for each fscal year. Purchased electricity   0.555 tons CO2/MWh Heavy oil A    2.71 tons CO2/kL City gas    2.08 tons CO2/thousand m3N Heating oil    2.49 tons CO2/kL Diesel oil    2.62 tons CO2/kL Gasoline    2.32 tons CO2/kL LPG    3.00 tons CO2/ton Purchased steam  0.179 tons CO2/ton Source: Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (published in March  2009 by Japanese Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) 2010 Housing Company Housing Company Greenhouse gases  from non-energy- consumption sources Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company High Performance  Plastics Company High Performance  Plastics Company Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters 50 167 83 32 9 341 2010 854 553 3,105 1,444 5,956 2010 5,391 7,082 4,946 10,507 27,926 2010 13.1 1.0 14.0 2007 938 627 3,293 1,661 6,519 2007 8,075 8,027 6,761 13,273 36,136 100.2 2007 16.3 0.5 16.8 2007 (1,000 tons-CO2) Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company  Amount transported in fscal 2010: 280 million ton-  kilometers  Calculation method: Either the improved ton-kilometer  method, fuel consumption method, or fuel cost method,  depending on the product and transportation method (1,000 tons-CO2) (Target) Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company 95 P 2 9 Verified 8  Resource Recycling and Saving Fiscal 2010 Annual Production-Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions Change over the previous year is in ( ) and proportion of the total generation is in [ ]. Production sites See Data, p. 7 for scope of summation Laboratories New house  construction sites House remodeling sites Osaka and Tokyo  Headquarters buildings Achieved as of fscal 2005 Home demolition sites 0 30 20 10 60 50 40 0 60 120 100 80 40 20 2008 2013 2009 Waste generated (1,000 tons) index (fscal 2007: 100) target 2.1 16.6 7.1 10.1 36.0 1.9 18.4 8.6 10.4 39.3 96.7 102.1 60 94.7 100 Wastes Generated and  per Unit of Output at Production Facilities Plastics waste 49.2% Glass and ceramics scrap 20.2% Sludge 11.0% Wastepaper 4.7%   Wood chips 3.9%   Metal scrap 3.1% Plasterboard 0.5% Oil waste, acidic waste, alkaline waste 5.4% Others 1.7% Burnt residue 0.4% Fiscal 2010 39,000 tons Fiscal 2010 Approx. 21,000 tons Recycling 70% Landfll 12% Unknown 17 Incineration 1% Breakdown of Generated Wastes Wastes Treatment Methods (Overseas) 0 2 1 3 5 4 2000 2008 2007 2009 1.03 1.04 1.95 4.02 0.33 0.65 1.32 2.30 0.29 0.59 1.29 2.18 0.25 0.75 1.20 2.20 Total Wastes Generated  in New Housing Construction (tons/home) Reuse within the facilities 7,928 tons (increased by 1.5%) Total amount of  generated wastes  39,454 tons (increased by 9.7%) [100%] Amount of  discharged wastes  22,248 tons  (increased by 5.4%) [56.4%] Outsourcing of  recycling resources  22,012 tons  (increased by 5.9%)  [55.8%] Outsourced disposal 236 tons (decreased by 27.1%) [0.6%] Landfll 190 tons (increased by 18.2%) [0.5%] Valuable materials sold 17,206 tons (increased by 15.9%) [43.6%] Materials recycling  15,863 tons  (increased by 7.1%)  [40.2%] Total amount of  materials  recycling  33,069 tons  (increased by  11.5%) [83.8%] Use of incin- eration heat  6,149 tons (decreased by  3.0%) [15.6%] On-site incineration (reduction) 0 tons [0%] Simple incineration  46 tons (decreased by 71.8%) [0.1%] Zero Emissions Achievement Criteria and  Accreditation System of Sekisui Chemical Group (1) Not engaging in any outside incineration without thermal utilization  (thermal recycling), or landfll outside or inside of facilities (recycling ratio:  100%) (2) If the waste quantity is small and it is a type of waste that has never been  recycled before, recycling methods and relevant contractors must be  identifed and a service agreement must be executed. We also have established uniform evaluation criteria known as the Zero  Emissions Achievement Evaluation List. We have established a system  designed to conduct internal checks and issue approvals for the status of  observance of the evaluation criteria as well as legal compliance, rules and  signage for waste segregation and storage, management of related facilities,  and waste reduction planning and management. The list obliges us to  conduct inspection of outside contractors and to clarify treatment routes in  order to enhance the management system through these activities. Status of Zero Emissions Achievement 2007 2.1 9.6 20.8 11.2 43.6 2010 Assembly plants 0.26 0.66 1.07 1.99 House  erecting site Exterior wall plants 2010 Housing Company Urban Infra- structure &  Environmental  Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters 2.3 19.5 6.4 11.3 39.5 Achieved at 37 plants in Japan and three overseas plants,  including those of afliates. (Includes two plants in Japan  that achieved zero emissions in fscal 2010) As of end of fscal 2010, 99% recycling rate for Designated  Construction Materials (scrap concrete and wood) Achieved at four domestic laboratories as of fscal 2005 Achieved at all locations as of September 2003 Achieved at all locations as of fscal 2004 (tons) Per unit of output index P 3 1 Verified 9  0 10 20 30 40 50 0 20 40 60 80 100 2005 2008 2009 Waste generated (1,000 tons) index Per unit  of output index 33.1 36.3 100 45.2 94 87 88 0 20 40 60 80 120 100 2010 Index Waste  processing  costs System costs Energy costs Raw-material  costs 54 4 20 9 87 2009 57 3 20 11 92 Quantity of Wastes and  per Unit of Output Generated  at Business Sites Reviewed Water Intake for Use (Overseas) Water usage  Approx. 3,049,000 tons See Data, p. 7 for scope of summation Economic Loss  (Loss Costs) 0 5,000 10,000 20,000 15,000 2008 2013 2009 11,924 2,507 2,204 16,923 (Target) 15,287 287 2,663 11,632 1,962 16,541 285 Water Intake for Use at Production Site Subjects of Material Flow Cost Accounting  at Sekisui Chemical Group  Material-cost factors Cost factors: Primary raw materials, secondary raw materials, ancillary raw  materials, and all other material costs  System-cost factors Labor costs, equipment depreciation, other administrative costs  Energy costs Electricity, water, gas, heavy oil, and other fuel and energy costs  Waste-processing costs Actual costs of waste processing Data on the above costs is collected as positive and negative costs. 2008 61 23 4 12 100 2007 2,082 12,310 2,344 16,985 249 2010 2,403 11,984 1,842 16,517 288 Headquarters Urban Infrastructure & Environmental  Products Company Housing Company High Performance  Plastics Company 2010 Waste  amount 36.7 (1,000 tons) Fiscal 2010 Green Purchases Performance Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to green purchasing of office  supplies for all its departments and branches. Environmental Performance in Domestic Offices Verified 10 1) OA paper (photocopier pa- per), stationery, office sup- plies,  office  automation   equipment Any of those listed under (1)-(4) below: (1) Those satisfying Eco Mark certification standards (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning  the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly  Goods and Services by the State and Other  Entities (3) Those covered in the Green Purchasing  Networks database (4) Those covered in catalogs as environment- friendly products 2) Paper and paper products  other than OA paper and  toilet paper (forms, inkjet- printer paper, color-printer  paper, coated paper, note- books, vouchers, business  cards, paper used for pub- lications such as pamphlets  and catalogs, etc.) Any of those listed under (1)-(5) below: (1) Those satisfying Eco Mark certification standards (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning  the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly  Goods and Services by the State and Other  Entities (3) Those covered in the Green Purchasing Net- works database (4) Those covered in catalogs as environment- friendly products (5) Non-pulp paper or paper consisting of 70% or  more recycled paper, or paper with the highest  recycled content for the relevant type 3) Toilet paper 100% recycled toilet paper Green Purchase Guidelines (10,000 yen) Amount purchased Photocopying paper Other pamphlets, catalogs, office supplies, etc. Office automation equipment Total 9,609 12,453 20,231 42,293 0 3,000 6,000 2008 2013 2009 5,077 (Target) 4,273 4,866 Copier-paper Use at Oces    0 5 10 20 15 2008 2007 2007 2013 2009 (1,000 tons - CO2) (10,000 sheets) 17.9 5,341 19.0 (Target) 17.1 16.7 CO2 Emissions at Oces    2010 16.2 2010 5,025 The scope of data collection has been revised retroactively to fiscal 2007.  Atmospheric, Water, and Soil Related Emissions Environmental Incidents, Complaints, and Emergency Responses 11 Preventing Pollution Disposal and Storage of Machines and  Equipment that Contain PCBs Sekisui Chemical Group is working to meet the targets of legal and  regulatory restrictions and to reduce discharge of pollutants through  appropriate maintenance and control and periodic inspection of the wide  range of equipment it uses. Preventing Air Pollution The biomass boiler fueled by wood chips intended to replace the heavy-oil  boiler at the Gunma Plant of Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. (installed August 2009)  has begun full operation. As a result, discharge of NOx has increased from the  previous fiscal year. Preventing Water Pollution Each Sekisui Chemical Group site conducts periodic emergency drills in  preparation for the possibility of leaks of wastewater off the site and is  implementing a system of thorough preventive and responsive measures for  any accidents. Each site also implements integrated wastewater controls  such as enhancing wastewater processing capacity and carrying out  measures to eliminate piping problems. Stored transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being disposed of  steadily, beginning with sites for which acceptance at PCB treatment facilities  is available. In addition, at sites with machines and equipment that contain PCBs in  storage, such devices are managed strictly and thoroughly, through means  including locked storage and periodic inspection. 0 200 100 300 400 500 600 2007 2008 2009 2006 2005 2004 (tons) (tons) (tons) (tons) 176 189 7 6 460 483 13 11 470 489 11 7 374 398 11 12 174 198 12 12 156 175 9 9 0 40 20 60 80 2007 2008 2009 2006 2005 2004 6 44 10 61 1 9 1 8 49 67 11 1 7 70 51 1 39 18 66 8 10 7 1 64 62 46 7 1 45 9 0 5 15 10 20 25 2007 2008 2009 2006 2005 2004 5 10 3 2 11 20 6 4 9 16 5 3 5 5 13 3 5 13 4 3 6 11 3 3 0 15 10 5 20 25 2007 2008 2009 2006 2005 2004 1 1 0 2 10 13 2 1 13 15 1 1 1 19 23 3 5 10 1 3 1 4 1 2 NOx Emissions Volume    COD Discharge Volume    SOx Emissions Volume    Soot and Dust  Emission Volume    2010 Housing  Company Housing  Company Housing  Company Housing  Company Urban Infra- structure &  Environmental  Products  Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental  Products Company High Performance  Plastics Company High Performance  Plastics Company High Performance  Plastics Company High Performance  Plastics Company 173  223 7 43 2010 2 6 2 2 2010 1 1 2 4 2010 Headquarters 7 45 15 68 1 Note: The Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant data for fiscal 2010 is not included in the data below due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Verified Verified Verified Verified Verified Urban Infra- structure &  Environmental  Products  Company Urban Infra- structure &  Environmental  Products  Company Business Site Soil Surveys Business Site Surveyed Substance Excess of the standards Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd.  Iwate Plant Cyanide compounds, fluorine, boron,  1,2-dichloroethane, dioxins Soil: No Groundwater: No Soil: Yes (lead) Groundwater: No Lead, cadmium, PCBs, dioxins Sekisui Chemical  Hokkaido Co., Ltd. In fscal 2010, we conducted surveys compliant with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law at six business sites  and completed two of these. Results of these surveys show no values in excess of standards for soil pollution at the  Iwate Plant of Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., while there were values in excess of soil-pollution standards in part of the Sekisui  Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. site (see p. 33). Plans call for conducting countermeasures in accordance with the Law at  the site with values in excess of soil-pollution standards. Details of complaints Countermeasures Simulated emergency situation Drills performed Complaint about vibration noise  from dust collector    Change to part of the equipment to restrict  noise generation   Compliant about odor of raw  materials used in a plant  Inspecting source of emissions, strengthening  emissions management, and increasing exhaust  capacity   Complaint about plant odors  Inspecting source of emissions, strengthening emissions management, and improving odor- removal equipment   Complaint regarding concerns  that trees could fall over on land near the plant and damage  residents homes   Thinning of trees on land near the plant (approx. 20 trees felled) Complaint about brightness of nighttime lighting Turning off lights at night Leakage and outflow of oils Atmospheric discharge of solvents Fire Earthquake Emergency communication training Comprehensive disaster preparedness drills Responding to other equipment-related emergencies 51 4 52 3 2 27 5 Environmental Complaints Emergency Response and Reporting Drills Environmental Incidents, Complaints, etc. Emergency Response In order to prevent the occurrence and spread of environmental contamina- tion in the event of an emergency, at least once every year each of our  business sites carries out emergency response and reporting drills, assuming  a variety of hypothetical cases relevant to the nature of each business site. In fiscal 2010, there were no incidents with off-site consequences. We  received five complaints regarding environmental concerns and are steadily  implementing preventive measures in response. Noise Odors Others Verifed  Chemical Substances Verified P 3 3 12 Summation Results Based on the PRTR Law  (Calculations have been made for substances with handling volume of one ton or more at the individual business sites surveyed.) 0 200 400 600 800 2008 2009 (tons) (tons) 584 44 659 10 7 63 596 53 730 5 5 20 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 2007 2008 2013 2009 2000 4 6 1,457 119 1,585 4 46 1,336 153 1,539 4 27 1,380 149 (Target) 1,175 1,560 14 55 2,401 467 2,936 Emission and Transfer Volumes  by Substance (PRTR Law) Discharge of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)  into the Atmosphere 2007 12 8 34 574 49 677 2010 Styrene Xylene Dichloromethane n-Hexane Others Toluene 587 154 34 811 5 5 26 2010 Housing Company Urban Infra- structure &  Environmental  Products  Company High  Performance  Plastics  Company Headquarters 4 4 1,382 108 1,498 Note: n-Hexane has been added to subject substances beginning with 2010 fgures,  due to amendment of the PRTR Law. (tons) [4] [7] [9] [12] [13] [20] [31] [35] [53] [60] [76] [80] [Special94] [127] [134] [144]   [154] [186] [213] [232] [239] [240] [255] [270] [277] [300] [Special305] [Special309] [349] [355] [392] [399] [405] [407]   [Special411] [412] [420] [421] [448] 46.7 294.1 295.3 283.1 27.1 10.2 25.1 53.4 1.3 1.4 44.2 38.2 110,950.0 5.9 1.1 15.9     7.2 347.5 1.9 1.9 57.0 1,537.4 5.8 57.6 3.4 1,479.2 528.2 2.7 75.2 149.2 203.8 22.4 1.6 3.2   59.3 5.4 82.9 1.5 970.9   117,698.0 0 0.11 1.4 0.20 2.0 1.7 0 1.4 1.3 0 0 5.2 3.7 0.29 0.013 0   0.40 4.5 0 0.0001 0 34 0 0 0.28 587 0.0004 0 3.8 1.0 154 0 0   0 2.9 0 0.65 0 4.0   810 0 0 0 0 0.42 0 0 0 0 0 0.014 0 0.12 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.0036 0.021 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0   0.58 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.0040 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0   0.0040 0 0 0 0 0.35 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0.068 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.10 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0   0.52 4.7 0.36 0.009 0 23 0 2.5 0 0 0 0 0.42 0 1.7 0 0   0 0.54 0 0.0000 0.32 0.72 0.69 0 0 57 3.0 0.031 0 2.0 5.3 0 0   0 0 5.4 0.012 0 0.13   108 42 294 294 283 0.83 7.0 0 52 0 1.4 44 32 110,946 3.9 1.1 16   6.8 342 1.9 1.9 0 619 0 58 3.2 802 0 0.73 71 0 44 22 0   0 56 0 82 1.5 0   114,129 Acrylic acid and its water-soluble salts n-Butyl acrylate Acrylonitrile Acetaldehyde Acetonitrile 2-Aminoethanol Antimony and its compounds Isobutyraldehyde Ethylbenzene Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid -Caprolactam Xylene Vinyl chloride Chloroform Vinyl acetate Inorganic cyanide compounds (except  complex salts and cyanates) Cyclohexylamine Dichloromethane N,N-dimethylacetamide N,N-dimenthylformamide Organic tin compounds Styrene Decabromodiphenyl ether Terephthalic acid Triethylamine Toluene Lead compounds Nickel compounds Phenol Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate n-Hexane Benzaldehyde Boron compounds Poly (oxyethylene) alkyl ether (alkyl  C=12-15) Formaldehyde Manganese and its compounds Methyl methacrylate 4-Methylideneoxetan-2-one Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) =  diisocyanate Note: Due to the efects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, estimates were collected for some data for the Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant.  Substance Transaction volume Government  ordinance  noticatio  no. Detoxication Emission volume Transfer volume Atmospheric Public water  areas In house soil Sewage  system Transfer in  waste disposal Transfer  in waste  recycling  Environmental Management ISO14001 Certified Business Sites High Performance Plastics Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company Housing Company Headquarters Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Tsukuba R&D Site1 Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. [Hokkaido Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Gunma Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Ibaraki Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. [Ibaraki Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Tochigi Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd.  General Affairs Department Sekisui Heim Shinetsu Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Shinetsu Co., Ltd.] Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. [not including Yamanashi Sales Branch] Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd.  Yamanashi Sales Branch [Tokyo Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd. Yamanashi  Sales Branch] Sekisui Heim Chubu Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Sanyo Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Chushikoku Co., Ltd.] Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Kyushu Co., Ltd.] Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto Research &  Development Laboratories Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Roof System Co., Ltd. Manufacturing  Division] Shikoku Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. KYDEX, LLC. Allen Extruders, LLC. ESLON B.V. Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H.  Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant [Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant] Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Sekisui Techno Shoji Higashi Nihon Co., Ltd. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC.  Brea Plant Sekisui TA Industries, LLC.  Tennessee Plant Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Sekisui Alveo B.V. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui S-lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sekisui S-lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant Sekisui High Performance Packaging  (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Development Center1 Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tosu Plant Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Chiba Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant [ ]: Organizations in parentheses are included in the  scope of certification. Some sites not shown above  may include related sections that have attained ISO  14001 certification. 1 The Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site and De- velopment Center share a single certification. P 2 4 Verified 13 Number of Issues of Concern in  Environmental Auditing for Fiscal 2010 (for Production sites and Laboratories, as of End of March 2011) (Issues) Numbers of Persons with Qualifications Undergoing correction Correction completed Number  of cases Headquarters environmental auditing (16 business sites) Auditing by certification body Renewal (16 business sites) Surveillance (28 business sites) Internal auditing of  business sites (37 business sites;  39 audits) Issues of concern Issues to work on Proposals Total Nonconformity (major) Nonconformity (minor) Observations Total Nonconformity (major) Nonconformity (minor) Observations Total Nonconformity (major) Nonconformity (minor) Observations Total 52 159 2 213 0 9 37 46 0 10 61 71 3 46 149 198 29 63 0 92 0 5 23 28 0 5 47 52 1 68 187 256 81 222 2 305 0 14 60 74 0 15 108 123 4 114 336 454 * Categories of instructions for Headquarters environmental auditing: Issues of concern: Matters recommended for swift improvement Issues to work on: Matters recommended for planned improvement Proposals: Matters to be considered for improvement, advice Number of internal training course participants Number of external training course participants Total Number of internal training course participants Number of external training course participants Total Certified Environmental Measurers Energy managers Olfactory Measurement Operators Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) Registered  examiner of  the CEAR*3 Pollution  control  manager Lead Auditor Auditor Provisional Auditor Air Classes 1-4 Water Classes 1-4 Noise/Vibration Dioxins 652 187 839 472 181 653 1 1 2 45 86 46 3 2 48 1 52 66 8 74 13 1 14 0 0 0 6 2 0 0 0 2 0 22 Aggregate total Qualifications Qualifications Those who  acquired  qualifi cations  during fiscal  2010 *1 EMS: Environmental Management Systems *2 OHSMS: Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems *3 CEAR: Center of Environmental Auditor Registration Number of participants  in EMS*1 internal  auditor development/ training courses Number of participants  in  OHSMS*2 internal  auditor development/  training courses Number of persons  with major  qualifications (persons) Verified  Targets: products and processes Scope: all stages of the product lifecycle Overview of the Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact Biodiversity P 2 5 P 3 4 14  Laws and  regulations  Requirements of  industries etc. Self regulation  Laws and  regulations  Restricted  substances  Prohibited  substances Compliance Evaluation Chemical Substance Assessment Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact  Invested resources  Raw materials,  composition, and structure  Information disclosure  Environment-Contributing  Products standards  LCCO2 evaluation Environment-friendly design  Environmental impact  Means of transportation  Packaging materials  Green procurement (Suppliers, raw materials) Raw material procurement  Capital Investments  Invested resources, energy Secondary resources used  Environmental impact  Atmosphere, water, wastes,  chemical substances, etc. Manufacture  Environmental impact Means of transportation Load-efcient design  Information Disclosure Transportation  Invested resources, energy Secondary resources used  Environmental impact Atmosphere, water, wastes,  chemical substances, etc.  Construction and assembly  Invested resources, energy Secondary resources used  Environmental impact Atmosphere, water, wastes,  chemical substances, etc. Use  Composition and structure  Recyclability  Environmental impact Transportation, disposal,  soil/groundwater  contamination Disposal Initiatives Envisioned Under the Biodiversity Guidelines  Developing assessment methods and conducting assessment, reducting impacts  Promoting biodiversity-friendly procurement  Greening of business sites (promoting landscaping and biotope development)  Incorporating biodiversity assessment in the product development stage  Conducting nature-conservation activities at all business sites  Expanding the Sekisui Nature Study Course and nature-conservation activities  Supporting the Innovations Inspired by Nature, and holding periodic forums on the  subject  Supporting nonprofit and other organizations through the Keidanren (Japan Business  Federation)   Exhibiting at the Eco-Products exhibition and other events  Providing information in the CSR Report, Site Reports, and websites  Educating the next generation (Childrens Nature Study Course, giving classes at schools) 1. Assessment and reduction of the impact of  business activities on biodiversity 2. Development and promotion of  technologies and products 3. Employee awareness 4. Dialogue and cooperation with external stakeholders 5. Communication  Business sites acquiring ISO 9000-series Certification Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Housing Company  (integrated certification) Research & Development Department:  Product Development Housing Technology Institute CS Promotion & Quality Assurance Department Technology Department Technology Department: Production &  Purchasing Sekisui Global Trading Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Hoppou Jyubunka Institute Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Roof System Co., Ltd. Shikoku Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Mechanical Plant Division, Shizuoka Plant Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Ota Plant Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Eslon B.V. Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE KMG Pipe Technologies G.m.b.H. KMG LinerTec G.m.b.H. KMG Pipe Rehabilitation Emirates, LLC. Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. KYDEX, LLC. Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd.  (Xinjiang) Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. (integrated certification) Shiga Plant Hamamatsu Plant Osaka Office Tokyo Office Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Hiroseki Kako Co., Ltd. Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui S-lec Mexico S.A. de CV. Sekisui S-lec B.V. Sekisui S-lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-lec America, LLC. Sekisui-Alveo A.G. (six sites: G.m.b.H., A.G., S.a.r.L.,  SpA, S.A., [Benelux] B.V.) Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Sekisui Alveo B.V. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang)  Co., Ltd. CS & Quality Data Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. (integrated certification) Chiba Plant Kanto Plant Hyogo Plant Hyogo-Takino Plant Izumo Plant  Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Engineering Co., Ltd. Sekisui Insurance Service Co., Ltd. Changzhou Zhongji Precision Molding Plastic  Co., Ltd. 15   0 100 300 200 2007 2008 2009 (100 million yen) 213 87 124 Manufacturing Development Innovation Indicators  Performance(improvements vs. scal 2005 performance) Manufacturing Development Innovation Indicators: External failure costs Internal failure costs Production costs Safety loss costs Environmental costs         2010 276 External failure costs Internal failure costs Production costs Environmental costs Safety loss costs Verified : Costs of responding to product-related complaints and claims : Costs associated with disposal of defective products generated  during manufacturing processes : Costs necessary for manufacturing, such as raw-material and  labor costs (decreased through productivity improvements  such as saving of energy and other resources in manufacturing  processes) : Costs arising from equipment-related or labor accidents etc. : Costs for disposal of wastes generated at business sites, and  energy costs  Human Resources Data Verified P 4 8 P 5 0 P 4 7 P 5 1 Results of Intra-group Job Posting Number of New Graduates Hired and Their Separation Rate  in the First Three Years of Employment (Sekisui Chemical) Main Public and Selective Training Programs Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Group) Employees Years of Service (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) Note: Separation rate within the first 3 years: Calculated as the total of separation rates  for the first, second, and third years for employees hired in the relevant fiscal year, in ac- cordance with the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfares calculation methods (Years) (persons) (persons) Use of Main Systems Raising   Next-Generation Children (at Sekisui Chemical) Career Plan Training by Age Overview of 3-Year Training Program for Young Employees 16 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Cumulative   total since 2000 Recruitments  (cases) 15 23 22 194 Employees recruited  (persons) 29 43 44 422 Applicants  (persons) 92 102 58 954 Employees  transferred (persons) 11 10 19 212 Training Details Number of  participants  in fiscal 2010 Public Training The Saijuku  School This program combines intensive courses led  by visiting university professors with practical  themes so that participants can improve their  skills and knowledge to become globally  oriented leaders. This program is intended to  develop the next generation of leaders from  among younger employees. 30 Sending  Employees  to Business  Schools Outside  the Company Under this program, employees take courses  for training business professionals at business  schools outside of the company. The aim is to  work together with human resources outside  the company and to polish up business skills. 17 Selective  Training Open Seminars These intra-group seminars aim to improve  employees business skills. Employees can  select freely seminars on skills that meet their  needs, to acquire skills that can be applied  immediately to their daily work. 195  (gross total) Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Number of new graduates  hired (persons) 66 59 30 Separation rate within the  first 3 years (%) 10.6 3.4 0.0 Number of employees     19,770 By region Japan 15,476 North America 1,086 Central and South America 73 Europe 1,203 Asia/Pacific 691 China 1,241 Number of employees 2,164  Male 1,928  Female 236 Average years of service 18.5 Male 18.7 Female 16.7  System Main content Fiscal  2008 Fiscal  2009 Fiscal  2010 During  childcare leave Childcare  leave Leave which previously extended  only until the child was a year and  a half old now extends to the end  of the month of the childs third  birthday. 30 42 30 (including  11 males) After returning  to work Shortened  working  hours Payment period that previously  extended until the child was three  years old now extends until the  child starts fourth grade. 12 18 17 Other support Family leave Three days of special paid leave  per year granted until the child or  grandchild starts high school (this  leave can be taken for reasons  such as childbirth-related events,  parents day, athletic meets, and  PTA meetings) 132 130 96 Total number of persons using these systems 174 190 143 30s 40s 50s Total  Number of  Participants Themes by Age  Groups Self- establishment Market value Continuing to  work even after  retirement - Training Contents R e co g n i t i o n  of abilities and  interviews with  superiors on  career-related  matters Affirmation of  specialization,  values, and the  m e a n i n g  o f  work A i m i n g  t o   keep working  at age 65 and  thinking about  succession - Number of  Participants in  Fiscal 2010 (persons) 62 126 67 255 Total Number of  Participants as of  Fiscal 2010 (persons) 1,609 1,375 733 3,717 Programs available Summary Annual career  training Career planning and interviews with superiors on career- related matters, both held at the end of each fiscal year (third  year: interviews with HR career advisors) Business skills  training Learning from a choice of business English, administrative  technologies, accounting, logical thinking, communication,  etc. Training for  superiors Checking up on the basics of development of subordinates  and on career interview methods Percentage of Women Among New-graduate Hires 0 20 10 30 40 2008 (Entering FY 2009) 2009 (Entering FY 2010) % % 35 21 Percentage of Challenged Persons Employed (Sekisui Chemical) 0 1.2 0.6 1.8 2.4 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2009 2.10 2.06 1.97 2.17 2.17 2.40 2.18 61 Legally stipulated rate 2010 2.12 2010 (Entering FY 2011) 25 Percentage of Women Among New-graduate Hires 0 20 10 30 40 2008 (Entering FY 2009) 2009 (Entering FY 2010) % % 35 21 Percentage of Challenged Persons Employed (Sekisui Chemical) 0 1.2 0.6 1.8 2.4 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2009 2.10 2.06 1.97 2.17 2.17 2.40 2.18 61 Legally stipulated rate 2010 2.12 2010 (Entering FY 2011) 25  Verified P 5 3 Safety Data 17 Item Sekisui Chemical Group* Classication Details Expense amount Investment amount Note: Data above include 46 production sites/4 laboratories + all departments of Corporate Headquarters +back ofces of division companies. Health, Safety and Accident-prevention Costs    1) Costs within business-site areas   Health and safety measures, rescue and protective equipment, measurement of work  environment, health management, workers accident compensation insurance, etc. 842 1,204 2) Administrative costs Establishment and implementation of OHSMS, safety education, personnel costs, etc. 1,407 - 3) Other Safety awards etc. 3 - Total 2,252 1,204 0 5 10 15 25 20 0 2 4 6 10 8 2008 2007 2006 2005 2009 Investment and expense amounts (100 million yen) Rate (%) 9.8 6.9 18.8 11.9 7.0 19.8 9.8 5.7 20.7 9.2 6.0 20.8 9.8 4.1 22.0 Expenses and Investments    Loss Costs 0 100 200 400 300 2007 2008 2009 2006 201 250 371 274 (million yen) Loss costs:  Expenses, including man-hours, required to respond to occupational accidents, equipment  accidents, commuting accidents, and long-term illness absences   0 1 2 3 2007 2008 2009 2006 (Cases) (Cases) (Cases) 1 0 0 0 0 30 20 10 40 60 50 2007 2008 2009 2006 43 45 38 47 2010 61 0 60 40 20 80 100 2007 2008 2009 2006 87 92 75 95 Number of Equipment-related Accidents (Calendar Year) Number of Cases of  Extended Sick Leave (Calendar Year) Number of Commuting Accidents (Calendar Year)   (Million yen) 2010 12.0 6.5 22.5 Investment amount Expense amount Proportion of  health, safety  and accident- prevention  investments to  the total  investment amount 2010 326 2010 0 2010 86 Number of Cases: Total number of cases with damages incurred and inficted  (including self-injury and property damage) Equipment-related accidents:  Any accidents that meets one or more of the following  conditions (1) – (3) (Sekisui Chemical Group standards): (1) Personnel-related damage: business interruption with 30  lost working days or more (2) Property damage: 10 million yen or more (3) Loss of opportunity: 20 million yen or more Extended sick leave:  This refers to a new absence of 30 calendar days or longer  due to illness or injury. Reoccurrences within six months of  returning to work are not included in the above count.  Absences due to occupational injury are not considered  extended sick leave.  Social Contribution Verified 18   Note: The number of accidents represents the total for the following four  companies: Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd., Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd.,  Sekisui Aqua Tec Co., Ltd., and Kyushu Sekisui Kenzai Co., Ltd. 0 10 20 30 2006 2007 2008 2009 (Accidents) (Accidents) (Accidents) 5 15 20 2 12 14 8 8 16 10 13 23 12 9 21 8 11 19 5 8 13 8 22 30 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2008 2007 2006 2009 0.43 0.77 1.02 0.56 1.09 1.12 0.33 0.99 0 20 40 60 80 Europe U.S./Mexico Asia/Pacifc China 2009 2008 2007 2010 33 31 8 3 65 58 46 66 15 11 15 13 0 10 20 30 2006 2007 2008 2009 5 1 6 3 3 3 6 3 3 6 11 8 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 2008 2007 2006 2009 0.021 0.11 0.021 0.10 0.10 0.184 0.08 0.016 Safety Performance  at Housing Company Construction Sites (Calendar Year) Frequency Rate1 (Calendar Year) Status of Occupational Accidents at Overseas  Production Sites (Calendar Year) Safety Performance at Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company Construction Sites (Calendar Year) Severity Rate2 (Calendar Year)       Disaster relief 50% Local communities  and social welfare 10% Academia, research,  and education 28% Environment 7% International exchange and cooperation 3% Donations:  204 million yen Others 2% Breakdown of Donations 2010 0.48 0.98 Average of domestic  manufacturing industry*4 Average of domestic  manufacturing  industry4 Sekisui Chemical Group*3 Sekisui Chemical  Group3 2010 0.09 0.020 2010 Number of non-lost time accidents in the New Construction sector Number of non-lost time accidents in the Fami-S sector Number of lost time accidents in the New Construction sector Number of lost time accidents in the Fami-S sector 7 9 16 5 8 13 2010 non-lost time accidents lost time accidents 4 1 5 45 27 2 6 1 Frequency rate = (number of workdays lost/work-hours in the aggregate)  1,000,000 2 Severity rate = (number of deaths and injuries in occupational accidents/work-hours  in the aggregate)  1,000 3 Sekisui Chemical Group data: 46 production sites and four R&D laboratories 4 Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health,  Labour and Welfare Survey on Industrial Accidents  19 CSR Management Policies Sekisui Chemical Group Environmental Management Policy Mission Basic Policy We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, aim to be a Global Environmental Top Runner that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the  continuous growth and co-existence of ecology and the economy.  Each company in the Sekisui Chemical Group advances approaches that contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological  diversity and the construction of a sound material-cycle society in all countries and regions where they have operations, in order to leave this beautiful  earth for our children in the future. 1. We contribute to the environment through our products and services, with consideration given to the environment in all stages of the product life cycle  from research to procurement, production, sales, use, and disposal as waste. 2. We carry out environmentally conscious business activities in all our workplaces and ofces, and promote our approach to the environment through  cooperation with our customers and business partners. 3. We make eforts to reduce the environmental impact of greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous chemicals, etc., and to prevent pollution by promot- ing the efective use of limited resources and energy. 4. We observe the related laws, regulations, international rules, etc. 5. We make eforts to improve environmental consciousness through education, and advance continual improvements by setting our own objective and  targets. 6. We enhance confdence through close communications with society. 7. We aggressively work on social contribution activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. Sekisui Chemical Group CS & Quality Management Policy Mission Basic Policy We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, consider CS & Quality as our central concept of management and will consistently innovate to maintain the quality of  products throughout all our activities, continuously provide values (products and services) that meet customer expectations, strive for selection by our  customers on an ongoing basis, and develop and grow with the customer over the long time. We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, consider Customers Feedback as precious resources for management and strive to innovate about Quality of Products,  Quality of People and Quality of Systems based on the motto We consider customers feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing. Furthermore,  we contribute to the realization of a safe and afuent society by continuously providing our customers and their communities with new value. 1. Ensuring Basic Qualities To ensure the reliability and safety of our manufactured products, which form the basis of Product Quality, we efectively leverage customers  feedback and dedicate ourselves with a strong belief in forestalling any potential trouble and preventing any future recurrence throughout our entire  value chain. 2. Creating Attractive Qualities We aim to share the emotional values of our customers by thoroughly pursuing what the customers value and constantly creating attractive products  and services that should realize such customer values. 3. Upgrading Technological Capabilities For the sake of ensuring Basic Qualities and for creating Attractive Qualities, we are upgrading our technological capabilities in all felds in order to  achieve superb manufacturing development. 4. Enhancing Communications We value communication with our customers and the community and make sincere eforts when dealing with them as well as complying with the  relevant laws and regulations in each country and region. We place special emphasis on resolving customer complaints or claims at an early stage by  responding promptly and empathetically. 5. Providing Thorough Employee Education To gain and maintain the full trust and impression of our customers, we provide employees with continuous CS & Quality education as well as motivat- ing our employees to achieve self-realization through customer satisfaction.  20 Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Policy Mission Basic Policy We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, recognize that employee safety is essential to achieving sustainable growth. We aim to be a Safe and Secure enterprise  that establishes safe and secure work environments and has the full trust of its customers and the community as well as its employees.  Based on the concept of human dignity that everyone is invaluable, we prioritize safety over anything else as a basic rule in all of our business activities  from development, production, construction to servicing. We are committed to promoting comprehensive safety activities with the aim of achieving zero  industrial accidents, facility accidents, commuting accidents or long-term sick leave. 1. We strive to develop a safe and comfortable workplace where everyone is taken care of both mentally and physically, which should lead to good health  for each of our employees whom we highly value. 2. We thoroughly disseminate the legal requirements concerning health and safety/disaster prevention to our employees to ensure compliance. 3. We carry out risk assessment and promote risk reduction measures in a systematic way to eliminate hazardous factors that compromise health and  safety/disaster prevention. 4. We strive to raise awareness regarding health and safety/disaster prevention through employee education/training and promote continuous improve- ments by setting voluntary objectives/goals. 5. We proactively disclose any necessary information as well as gain a higher level of trust by having close communication with public administrations and  local communities. Sekisui Chemical Group Social Contribution Policy As a good corporate citizen, we, the Sekisui Chemical Group, engage in activities that focus on the Environment, the Next Generation, and Local  Communities, and contribute not only to business activities but also to society. All employees working for the Sekisui Chemical Group are proactively involved in the society and act so that they can serve as prominent human  resources in society as well. In addition, their activities are supported by each company of the Group in order to generate synergistic efects. Sekisui Chemical Group Human Resources and Human Rights Policy Mission Basic Policy on Human Resources Based on our belief that employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society, we, the Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an  environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also ofer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their  specialties and grow personally. With the recognition that it is our social responsibility to protect individual human rights, we respect the diversity, personality and individuality of each  person, and promote various working styles as well as creating safe and secure work environments in response to conditions in each country and region. 1. Creating opportunities to take on challenges We encourage employees to positively set their own goals and  aggressively to take on challenges. 2. Culture where employees learn and grow on their own We strive to enrich our education/training programs and develop a  culture where employees learn and grow on their own. 3. Enhancement of the performance-based remuneration system We emphasize our employees personal commitment and strive to  constantly improve the fairness and acceptance of our assessment  system regarding performance and processes. 4. Acceptance of various working styles We respect various values; develop workplaces where every employee  can work with enthusiasm; and help employees achieve a balance  between life and work. 5. Creating safe and secure work environments We promote employees health enhancement and mental health care. Basic Policy on Human Rights 1. Respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination Being aware of our position as a global corporate citizen, we respect  individual human rights and never become involved in any conduct  that might lead to discrimination. 1) We never discriminate on the grounds of race, color, gender, language,  religion, nationality or social origin, property, or other status or any similar  irrational basis. 2) We do not commit human rights abuses such as resorting to violence,  profane outbursts, slander, defamation, intimidation, bullying or similar  conduct. 2. Prohibition of harassment We never commit sexual harassment or other actions that stain  personal character. 1) We do not commit sexual harassment or any conduct that might be  misunderstood as sexual harassment. 2) We do not misuse the power of a superior position nor use any language  or conduct that could sexually annoy any person. In addition, we prevent  other employees from using such ofensive language or conduct. 3. Prohibition of forced labor and child labor We shall never accept forced labor or child labor in any country or region. 1) We comply with the laws for the minimum working age and other  relevant regulations in each country and region and do not use child labor. 2) We do not carry out any form of forced labor in any of our corporate  activities. 4. Respect for basic labor rights We respect basic labor rights, including the right of workers to  organize and to bargain, in accordance with the laws and customs of  each country or region, and do not infringe on these rights. Established/revised March 2009  21 CSR Management System Board of Directors President President President President Customer Information & Consulting Services Promotion of policies and  measures discussed in the  Subcommittee and other  matters CSR Committee/Subcommittee Structure CS & Quality Management System Environmental Management System HR System Compliance Management System Reporting/Discussion CSR Committee Environmental  Subcommittee CS & Quality Subcommittee Human Resources Subcommittee Compliance  Subcommittee Production sites Sales companies After-sales service sections Quality management sections Technology Department Customer Information &  Consulting Services Customer Information &  Consulting Services CS & Quality sections at each division company Division companies Headquarters CS & Quality Subcommittee         CS & Quality Group, CSR Department   Production sites Sales companies Environmental sections Environmental sections Environmental sections at each division company Division companies Headquarters CSR Committee Environmental Subcommittee         Environmental Management Group, CSR Department   HR sections at each division company Division Company/Headquarters Each  labor-management committee CSR Committee HR Subcommittee         Reporting Reporting Reporting CSR Committee Compliance Advisory Board Instruction and communication Compliance Subcommittee       Chairperson: President Members:  Division Company Presidents,  Headquarters Directors, and Employee Representatives  (three Employee Representatives:  the chairperson of the Labor Union,  a Representative of Female  Employees, and a representative of  employees of afliate companies) Environment ocers meeting Safety and environment managers meeting Environment  brainstorming sessions Energy management ocers meeting CSR Committee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department  Members: Directors in charge of CS & Quality at each division company; General  Managers of CS & Quality sections, Head of Productivity Innovation  Center Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Members: Directors in charge of environmental matters at each division company,  General Managers of environmental sections;  Head of R&D Center Chairperson: Head of CSR Department  Members: Directors in charge of HR at each division company;  Head of R&D Center Chairperson: Head of CSR Department  Members:  Directors in charge of compliance at each  division company, Headquarters Directors;  General Manager, Corporate Audit  Department HR sections at production sites,  laboratories, sales facilities,  aliates, etc. Discussion of Sekisui Chemical Groups basic policies on  compliance and formulation of measures to be  implemented in areas such as education and training Development of  countermeasures for individual  compliance issues,  consideration of measures to  prevent their reoccurrence, etc. Headquarters /Division companies  (to address  problems that have  actually occurred) Compliance Promotion Committee Compliance  Promotion Manager  (person responsible  for promotion) Promotion and  development  of measures  4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.jp This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the  environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certifed paper produced  from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no flm  that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the  plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC)  and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in  the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no  hazardous waste fuids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding  process. Published: June 29, 2011. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 29, 2010. Next edition planned for publication: June 2012