LVMH Document de reference and Global Compact COP    Commitment and process      Successful companies stand the test of time. LVMH knows this well.  Our companies excel in nurturing the value of their brands, continually heightening their  power to attract consumers with audacity and respect for a prestigious heritage.  Equally important for long-term success is our unyielding commitment to strong values in  terms of ethics, social responsibility and respect for the environment. As actors in economic  and social life, we are called to the highest standards of integrity, respect and engagement in  our behaviors, everyday, everywhere.  This conviction is not new for us. We adopted an Environmental Charter in 2001. In 2003 we  signed the United Nations Global Compact. And in 2008, we introduced a Suppliers Code of  Conduct to ensure that best practices are applied throughout the entire sourcing chain.  Today, we have taken another important step forward. The Code of Conduct we are officially  adopting provides a set of simple principles and behaviors that should guide the Group and  each of us in the everyday conduct of business.  LVMH has a global dimension and the world in which we do business is changing at a rapid  pace. In the context of this continually evolving business environment, this Code of Conduct  constitutes a common benchmark to guide individual initiatives and ensure greater  consistency in practices across the Groups companies and geographies.   My expectation is that all of our companies and people will embrace this Code of Conduct as  the best way to support our business and fulfill our sustainable development responsibilities.    Bernard Arnault, CEO      Criterion 1: The COP describes C-suite and Board level discussions of strategic  aspects of Global Compact implementation    Function   Responsibilities  Name of committee  Strategy_ _ _ _ _ _ _   Formal board responsibility _ _ _     Audit, accounting, risk  management_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  Formal board responsibility   All members are nonexecutives  Performance Audit committee    Corporate social responsibility,  corporate citizenship, sustainable  development  Formal board responsibility  Social development Director  Environment Director      Criterion 2: The COP describes effective decision-making processes and systems of  governance for corporate sustainability    Resources to support implementation  The functional departments of the Group, each in their respective area, will support the  brands in the implementation of the Code of Conduct with a view to a consistent and uniform  application of its principles.  LVMH encourages the sharing of experiences and best practices throughout the Group, this  being a source of progress for everyone.     Responsibility for implementation  The Board of Directors of LVMH, to which the Executive Management of the Group submits  each year a report on the implementation of the Codes principles, will be the body which  ensures its correct application.   In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity inherent to LVMH, the executive management  team of each operational and legal entity is responsible for compliance with the principles of  this Code. Any employee who notices a non-conformity to one of the principles stipulated  within the Code should inform his or her hierarchy.    Verification of implementation  Verification of compliance with the Code of Conduct is incorporated into the internal control  mechanism existing within LVMH and follows the procedures in force in the Group.    Criterion 3: The COP describes engagement with all important stakeholders    Pages 82 and 82 of the  document de rfrence   Page 61, 63, 68 and 69 of the Annual Report.  Pages 31 to 33 of the 2010 environment report.    Criterion 4: The COP describes actions taken in support of broader UN goals and  issues    International agreements supported by LVMH:  -  Universal Declaration of Human Rights  -  United Nations Global Compact  -  OECD Guidelines  -  International Labour Organization conventions  -  Caring for Climate   -  Millennium Development Objectives  -  CITES Conventions (on International Trade in Endangered Species)  -  Kimberley Process    Page 77 and 94 of the  document de rfrence   Pages 54 and 56 of the annual report    Human Rights Implementation     Criterion 5: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area  of human rights     A Group Code of Conduct was adopted at the Board meeting following the AGM on May 14th  2009. This Code of Conduct is inspired by the Group's values as well as the principles of the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines for  Multinational Enterprises. It provides the foundation on which our approach is based. More  specific areas are covered in the Environmental Charter and the Suppliers' Code of Conduct.  Finally, this Code of Conduct does not aim to replace pre-existing ethical documents at the  Brand or business group level, but sets out to serve as a common base and source of  inspiration. It unites the fundamental principles which represent our shared commitment and  serves as a guide for our professional conduct on a daily basis. It recalls the principles of  conduct that drive us. This code has been rolled out throughout the Group in year 2009.  LVMH is very careful to promote Human Rights and the respect of ILO's fundamental  principles. This strong commitment is written in the 2010 Reference Document (1.9  Compliance with international conventions page 84).    Criterion 6: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the human  rights principles     The LVMH Code of Conduct serves as a basis for the drawing-up of codes of conduct at  Brand and category business group levels, adapted to their context and their sector. Code of   Conduct is defined on the basis of six fundamental principles: valuing talents, winning the  trust of our customers, commitment to the preservation of the environment, implementing  and promoting a responsible approach, acting as a socially aware company and winning the  trust of shareholders. Thus the principles of this Code can, when appropriate, be developed  or specified in relation to local regulations and legislation, and, when they exist, locally  applied charters or codes. The functional departments of the Group, each in their respective  area, will support the Brands in the implementation of the Code of Conduct with a view to a  consistent and uniform application of its principles. The Board of Directors of LVMH, to which  the Executive Management of the Group submits each year a report on the implementation  of the Codes principles, is the body which ensures its correct application. In accordance with  the principle of subsidiarity inherent to LVMH, the executive management team of each  operational and legal entity is responsible for compliance with the principles of this Code.  Any employee that notices a non-conformity to one of the principles stipulated within the  Code should inform his or her hierarchy.    The LVMH Supplier's Code of conduct deployed in March 2008 has been implemented at all  Brands and subsidiaries by the end of 2008. This Code was not intended to replace existing  Suppliers Codes of Conduct within the Group Companies. In these cases, it could rather be  used as benchmark, with the objective of ensuring there are no contradictions, and that we  work towards making the Group and the Companies approaches fully compatible. As for  Companies where this subject was not addressed, the Group's Code was an excellent basis  to build on. The LVMH Suppliers' Code of conduct stipulates the principle and procedures for  the inspection and auditing with compliance with the rules as regards social responsibility,  environmental management and the fight against corruption. Regular coordination of the  purchasing managers enables the exchange of best practices for auditing suppliers to ensure  the correct application of the ethical principles defined in the Suppliers' Code of conduct.  LVMH also monitors its Brands' business practices with reporting systems and audits (both  social an environmental). Many of the Brands' suppliers are required to enforce the SA 8000  social standard and are thus submitted to external audits.    In 2009, an intranet website (LVMH Mind) was launched to better communicate internally  the Groups commitment to responsible corporate citizenship. On this website, specifically  devoted to social and environmental responsibility, employees can find the different Code of  Conduct implemented within the Group.    Criterion 7: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of  human rights integration     Verification of compliance with the Code of Conduct is incorporated into the internal control  mechanism existing within LVMH and follows the procedures in force in the Group.  Page 54 of the Annual Report.    Criterion 8: The COP contains standardized performance indicators (including GRI) on  human rights     In 2010, 262 social audits were carried out, nearly 95% of which by specialized external  service providers, at 217 of our suppliers. Nearly one-quarter of these audits showed results  in line with our standards and 46% identified minor non-compliance issues. Audits whose  conclusions indicated a need for significant improvement by suppliers or the existence of  major non-compliance issues accounted for 26% and 2% of audits performed, respectively.  In all, 109 corrective action plans were implemented at our suppliers where audits had  identified areas in need of improvement. Occasionally, Group brands are compelled to take  more extreme measures.   Louis Vuitton has put in place an ethical system of preliminary audits founded on compliance  with local regulations as well as the SA 8000 social accountability standard, which is based   on international workplace norms included in the ILO conventions: no child labor, no forced  labor, providing a safe and  healthy work environment, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, no  discrimination, disciplinary practices, compliance with working hour and wage regulations. To  ensure that they will be able to perform preliminary audits independently, Louis Vuittons  buyers receive theoretical training covering the approach and criteria as well as practical  training in the field in the company of an SA 8000 auditor.  Page 61 of the Annual Report.    Labour Principles Implementation     Criterion 9: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area  of labour     LVMH is very careful to promote Human Rights and the respect of ILO's fundamental  principles.   This strong commitment is written in the 2010 Reference Document (1.9 Compliance with  international conventions page 84).  1.9 Compliance with international conventions  Taking each individual, his or her freedom and dignity, personal growth and health into  consideration in each decision is the foundation of a doctrine of responsibility to which all  Group companies adhere.  Accordingly, all Group companies have policies for equal opportunity and treatment  irrespective of gender, race, religion and political opinion, etc. as defined in the standards of  the International Labor Organization. This culture and these practices also generate respect  for freedom of association, respect for the individual, and the prohibition of child and forced  labor.    LVMH aims to serve as a model corporate citizen in terms of its human resources practices,  especially with regard to the recruitment of future staff members. LVMHs recruitment  practices must reflect the Groups values and the highest standards of responsibility and  respect for all, on a daily basis everywhere in the world. To this end, the Groups human  resources teams use a code of conduct for recruitment. Intended to be applied by all  recruitment process participants, this code of conduct reflects the goals, standards and best  practices to be observed by each company in terms of the respect for applicants and the  effectiveness of methods, regardless of the type of position, the profession or the country  involved.  Pages 56 to 62 of the Annual Report.    Criterion 10: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the labour  principles     LVMH is very careful that its employees work in the best conditions.  1. Employees are sensitized during training about labor law and human rights. Besides, the  topics of moral and sexual harassment are specifically tackled during these prevention  trainings.  2. Whistleblowing is not allowed in France but several LVMH companies based abroad  implemented specific procedures such as whistleblowing policy.  3. Different subsidiaries have developed initiatives and tools contributing to grievance  resolution:   - Grievance Policy, Grievance Policy Exit Interviews, Grievance procedures: Glenmorangie  Company Ltd, Thomas Pink USA, Louis Vuitton Hong Kong...  - HR business partner position dedicated: Parfums Givenchy...  - Non Harassment Policy: Mot Hennessy USA...  - HR Survey: Christian Dior Inc...   - HR Support Best Practice: Louis Vuitton UAE...  - Suggestion and complaints box: Sephora Romania    Since 2008, all of the Groups brands have adopted and promulgated the Supplier Code of  Conduct which sets forth the Groups requirements in terms of labor principles (forced labor,  discrimination, harassment, child labor, compensation, hours of work, freedom of association  and collective bargaining, health and safety, etc...).  Relations with any partner necessitate  the latters commitment to comply with all ethical principles enunciated in this Code. This  Code of Conduct also sets forth the principle and procedures for the control and audit of  compliance with these guidelines. Among many initiatives by Group companies illustrating  this commitment, Mot & Chandon, for example, establishes a specifications document  presented for signature to its subcontractors that addresses respect for the environment and  fundamental labor law compliance, among other issues. Audits are also carried out on  suppliers. In its supplier specifications documents, Sephora includes clauses dealing with the  individual rights of employees, child labor prevention, equality of opportunity and treatment,  working time policy, and the protection of the environment. Louis Vuitton has put in place an  ethical system of preliminary audits founded on compliance with local regulations as well as  the SA 8000 social accountability standard, which is based on international workplace norms  included in the ILO  conventions: no child labor, no forced labor, providing a safe and healthy work environment,  freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, no discrimination, disciplinary  practices, compliance with working hour and wage regulations. To ensure that they will be  able to perform preliminary audits independently, Louis Vuittons buyers receive theoretical  training covering the approach and criteria as well as practical training in the field in the  company of an SA 8000 auditor. Donna Karan International has developed a Vendor Code of  Conduct designed to ensure respect for fundamental principles of industrial relations and  labor law and for the highest ethical standards. It has also developed a Vendor Profile  Questionnaire, a document signed by the subcontractor when the pre-approval request is  submitted. The company has also introduced a Vendor Compliance Agreement, which calls  for independent audits of suppliers to ensure that commitments have been observed.  Similarly, TAG Heuer requires that all new international suppliers submit a written pledge  indicating their compliance with the SA 8000 standard. The same is true for Parfums  Christian Dior, Parfums Givenchy, and Guerlain, who have introduced specifications  documents including compliance with the SA 8000 standard among their provisions.    In 2010, 262 social audits were carried out, nearly 95% of which by specialized external  service providers, at 217 of our suppliers. Nearly one-quarter of these audits showed results  in line with our standards and 46% identified minor non-compliance issues. Audits whose  conclusions indicated a need for significant improvement by suppliers or the existence of  major non-compliance issues accounted for 26% and 2% of audits performed, respectively.  In all, 109 corrective action plans were implemented at our suppliers where audits had  identified areas in need of improvement. Occasionally, Group brands are compelled to take  more extreme measures. For example, the Perfumes and Cosmetics business group has  declined to continue working with a specific site operated by one of its suppliers that did not  meet the standards of its code of conduct for workplace safety and overtime compensation.  Additionally, the Donna Karan brand has terminated its relationships with two of its suppliers.  Pages 56 to 62 of the Annual Report.    Criterion 11: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of  labor principles integration     Verification of compliance with the Code of Conduct is incorporated into the internal control  mechanism existing within LVMH and follows the procedures in force in the Group.  Workgroups comprising experts from various Group Houses presented, as they have each  year, a review of their accomplishments and progress made during an annual meeting that   provides an opportunity to exchange best practices, to implement shared tools and reference  guides, and to identify new areas meriting attention. In 2010, this work resulted in the  creation of a shared supplier database for the Perfumes and Cosmetics business group and  the establishment of a common reference guide for supplier assessment. This reference  guide will facilitate exchanges between the various Group companies and follow-ups on  social and environmental audits, their findings, and any action plans put in place.  In the interest of continued improvement in this area, all of the Groups Houses will continue  their supplier audit programs in 2011, together with follow-ups on action plans. Apart from  meetings at the Group level for the sharing of experiences, three workgroups (Europe,  Americas and Asia) have been created to facilitate and increase the frequency of exchanges  within each region.   Pages 56 to 62 of the Annual Report.    Criterion 12: The COP contains standardized performance indicators (including GRI)  on labor principles integration     Labor KPIs are available in the 2010 Document de reference (Human Resources section,  p.70 to 84).  Since the 2007 fiscal year, the Groups reporting of employee information has been audited  each year by the Environment and Sustainable Development department at Deloitte&  Associs, the Group's statutory auditors. The verification covered the 'total Group' value of  the following social indicators for 2010 : total employees, number of executives, voluntary  employee turnover, involuntary employee turnover, new hirings, percentage of women  executives, employees trained during the year, average number of training days per  employee, work related accidents with sick leave, commuting accidents, number of days lost,  frequency and severity rates. For fiscal year 2010, Deloitte & Associs issued a report on  those indicators (Reference Document p.85).     Environmental Stewardship Implementation     Criterion 13: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the  area of environmental stewardship     The Groups Environmental Department has been inspiring the Brands for the past nineteen  years with a shared vision for the protection of the environment. It reports directly to the  Group Managing Director and defines the outlines for action. It ensures the application of the  LVMH Environmental Charter and organizes internal environmental audits.   It also assists the Companies in their various different processes, particularly in terms of  training, management, eco-construction, reduction of greenhouse gases emissions, energy  savings, eco-design and preservation of biodiversity and water resources.     The LVMH Brands implement the environmental objectives they have defined annually. The  environmental managers meet four times a year within the LVMH Environmental Committee  in order to share best practices and conduct joint initiatives. All their practices contribute to  ongoing improvement and are consistent throughout the Group.    The environmental charter signed by Bernard Arnault in 2001 is a concrete expression of the  vision of the LVMH group of how to integrate protection of the environment in its businesses:  Aim for a High Level of Environmental Performance  In developing its businesses internationally, LVMH works to align its practices with those that  offer the best level of environmental protection around the world.  Foster a collective commitment   The environment is the responsibility of every individual and LVMH believes that awareness,  education and training of its employees are top priorities. To ensure a continued high level of   environmental performance, the Group believes it is vital for each company to set precise  environmental objectives and implement a management system dedicated to this process.  Control environmental risks  In addition to the most stringent compliance with environmental regulations, which is an  absolute duty, the Group intends to focus on risk prevention. As a result, it allocates human  and material resources to this goal.  Design luxury products by integrating environmental innovation and creativity  Guided by its overriding concern for high quality, LVMH is working to improve control and  better anticipate the environmental aspects related to the life cycle of its products. LVMH  encourages all processes that result in environmental innovations and accepts its duty to  exercise prudence and take precautions to ensure total safety for the consumer.  Make commitments outside the company   LVMH intends to contribute to the protection of the environment above and beyond just the  aspects directly related to its own businesses. Because it considers that promoting respect  for the environment is essential, LVMH is developing an active partnership with groups of  businesses, local communities and the associations which contribute to this objective.    For the use of exotic skins, all LVMH brands follow the CITES Convention on endangered  species    When they use plants coming from an emerging countries, the Perfumes and cosmetics  Brands act under the access and benefit sharing agreement on the Convention on  Biodiversity.    Every year, a public report regarding the environment policies and data and practices of the  year is published. The data are verified by external auditors.    Pages 7 to 9 of the 2010 Environment report    Criterion 14: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the  environmental principles      Environmental risk and impact assessments      Managing the environmental risks resulting from its operations in the safest possible way is  an absolute priority for LVMH, which is taking action in four areas: systematic identification of  risks, organization of prevention, protection of industrial assets and people, and deployment  of a crisis management procedure. This initiative is being conducted by the qualified  professionals in the various companies (safety, quality and environmental officers) who  collaborate closely with outside specialists. They pay particular attention to the risks  associated with the storage and shipment of raw materials.  - Reducing industrial risks includes a policy of prevention, which means compliance with the  highest safety standards. LVMH applies the HPR (highly protected risk) standards to  significantly reduce fire risks. A program of incentives for investments in prevention is  implemented. This approach is combined with a program to monitor the industrial and  environmental risks for which 30 sites were audited in 2010 (30 sites audited in 2010).  - Prevention of product-related risks is ensured by enhanced safety and traceability. The  HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point) method is used in the Wines & Spirits and  Perfumes & Cosmetics business groups. This method increases the ability to anticipate and  react in the event of a product recall. A legal watch has also been established to control any  change in liability risks, particularly those that could affect the Group's brands.   -The correct application of this policy is controlled through a large number of risk  assessments on site along with regular reporting. As a result, the relevance of the risk  management policy can be measured and evaluated. Since 2004, the Group has used a risk  mapping tool which systematically identifies its industrial, environmental and operational risks   on the basis of common standards. Ranking these risks clearly indicates the cases that must  be treated as a priority. This information and warning tool ensures early action to reduce the  probability that the dangers identified will occur. The entire Champagne-Cognac-Vodka  division is also certified ISO 22000 in food safety management. ISO 22000 in an international  norm on harmonizing food safety management practices in order to guarantee maximum  safety for the consumer.     Internal awareness-raising and training on environmental stewardship for management and  employees      Creating awareness and motivating employees in the various aspects involved in preserving  the environment begins with training. Over 12,577 hours of training were offered in 2010 for  this purpose.  The European Green Week was an opportunity to launch the Green Week Contest: every  employee, all over the world, was invited to suggest measures aimed at reducing the use of  fossil energy, with the winning measure ultimately being implemented.   Some examples:  -  Sustainable Development steering committee representing all departments, employees in  the various geographic regions to implement and relay this strategy more extensively.   -  Creation of an Environment day with seminars on all factories of the Brand.  -  Special Issue of the in-house newsletters  -  Use the major national and international environmental events to increase employee  awareness with games, quizzes, exhibitions, project calls or even group challenges     Grievance mechanisms, communication channels and other procedures for reporting  concerns or seeking advice regarding environmental impacts     There is a public mail address that anyone can use to report about environmental issue or  ask any question; environnementvmh.fr  Aware of the advances made through joint study and work in environmental issues, LVMH  makes a significant investment in partnerships with national and international NGOs, local  communities and educational institutions. For example, the Group is a member of the Ore  association (Entreprises, territories and environment) and Vice Chairman of the strategic  committee of the Foundation for Research in Biodiversity (FRB). Working with the Ore  association, LVMH is heavily involved in the Biodiversity & Economy working group.   LVMHs work on measuring the dependence of its activities on biodiversity was presented at  the conference of the parties to the Convention on Biological Biodiversity organized by the  United Nations in Nagoya in October 2010.      Inclusion of minimum environmental standards in contracts with suppliers and other  relevant business partners     In an effort to ensure consistency between its internal commitments and those of the  companies with which it does business, the LVMH Group developed its Supplier Code of  Conduct in 2008, with the aim of sharing with its suppliers its philosophy on social and  environmental responsibility along with its work, control and audit methods. At the same time,  the Group established a buyer task force which collectively deals with these issues.     Audits or other steps to monitor and improve the environmental performance of companies  in the supply chain     Supplier audits have been expanded. In the Wines and Spirits Brands, Hennessy, for  example, conducted a vast operation to improve awareness of all buyers last year. Hennessy  also offers technical advice on environmental concerns to its various grape suppliers.    At Polmos Zyrardow, the Belvedere distillery has launched a Green Program with Polish  farmers and its pure alcohol suppliers. It has a threefold objective: to improve the quality of  the grains and maintain the Polish Dankowsky varietal; to guarantee safe farming that  respects the environment and, finally, to ensure high quality in the distillation process used.  The  Champagne Brands also continued audits of the pressing centers during the harvest periods  and programs to increase awareness and assist grape suppliers continued.   Other Companies, including Louis Vuitton, Guerlain, Donna Karan, Loewe, Hennessy and  Mot & Chandon initiated environmental audits of their suppliers.  Along with these efforts, the Watches and Jewelry business group of LVMH is a member of  the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), an organization of more than 260 professionals  around the world committed to the promotion of ethics, human and social rights and  environmental practices throughout the gold and diamond product chain, from the mines to  the points of sale. The RJC has developed a certification system for members which requires  audits by independent accredited auditors. The scope of the current certification process  within the Watches and Jewelry business group includes TAG Heuer, Hublot, Zenith,  Chaumet and Fred, as well as the retail subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Japan and the  United States.      Other established or emerging best practices     In order to encourage employees to go all out and achieve results, environmental criteria  have been included in the calculation of profit-sharing since 2003 at Veuve Clicquot and  since 2007 at Mot & Chandon. At Veuve Clicquot, three criteria were taken into  consideration: water and energy consumption and the quality of selective sorting.   In 2008, Hennessy included an environmental indicator in the calculation of employee  incentive compensation.  Approved by its social partners, this new criterion is based on paper consumption. The goal  is to achieve a 3% reduction. This initiative is part of the environmental policy that sets,  among other objectives, a mean for employees to have a financial interest in the results  achieved from their environmental commitment.  Pages 64 to 70 of the Annual Report.  Pages 8 and 9 of the LVMH Environment report    Criterion 15: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for  environmental stewardship      System to track and measure performance based on standardized performance metrics     Eco-design of packaging is a major challenge for the Groups companies. The IPE  (Environmental Performance Index), created by the Perfumes and Cosmetics and Wines and  Spirits Brands to evaluate, compare and improve the environmental performance of their  packaging, takes into account in product development the separability of the materials, the  volume and weight, the use of refills and the use of materials that are better for the  environment. A grade is given to each package and may lead to a review of some decisions.     Leadership review of monitoring and improvement results   Pages 14 to 23 of the 2010 Environment Report. (Too important to be copied in this  document).  Pages 34 to 37 of the 2010 Environment Report. (Too important to be copied in this  document).     Process to deal with incidents   Pages 23 and 24 of the 2010 Environment Report. (Too important to be copied in this  document).      Other established or emerging best practices     An awareness of energy savings and climate change has long been part of the  environmental policy of LVMH, which was a true pioneer when it completed its first Carbon  Footprints in 2002 at Hennessy, Parfums Christian Dior, Mot & Chandon and Veuve  Clicquot.   Louis Vuitton, Parfums Givenchy, Guerlain, Sephora, DFS, Le Bon March and Make Up For  Ever then followed. As of this date, all the major Group brands have completed their footprint  and are working to implement priority measures in the production of packaging, product  shipment, and energy consumption at the production sites and stores.    Pages 88 to 98 of the Document de reference  Pages 64 to 70 of the Annual Report.  Pages 11 to 30 of the 2010 Environment Report.  Pages 34 to 37 of the of the 2010 Environment Report.    Criterion 16: The COP contains standardized performance indicators (including GRI)  on environmental stewardship     The LVMH Group has been consolidating environmental indicators since 1999, and they  have been published since 2001. They have been verified by one of the Auditors specialized  teams since 2002. These indicators are published in the Registration Document and in the  Groups environmental report.    All the consolidation and calculation rules are defined in the LVMH environmental reporting  protocol, which is updated annually, and is available for public consultation from the  Environmental Department. Any request to read the document may be made by writing to:  environnement@lvmh.fr    External verification of the environmental data and practices:  Since 2003, the LVMH Group has had its environmental reporting voluntarily and  independently audited by Ernst & Young, one of the Groups auditors, in accordance with  ISAE 3000 (the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 of the International  Federation of Accountants).     For fiscal 2010, the work focused on a selection of 9 indicators relating to the challenges the  LVMH Group believes are key (environmental audits, water and energy consumption, CO2  emissions, COD discharges, production and recycling of waste, and packaging marketed).  During our work, we directly verified the indicators for a sample of entities representing on  average 57% of the total value of the indicators published by LVMH. Every year, the  conclusions are presented in the reasonable assurance report (last pages of the LVMH  environmental annual report).     Pages 88 to 98 of the Document de reference  Page 98 and 99 of the Document de reference  Pages 14 to 23 of the 2010 Environment Report.  Pages 38 to 41 of the 2010 Environment Report.    Value Chain Implementation    Criterion 21: The COP describes implementation of the Global Compact principles in  the value chain    A. Production methods, supply sources and subcontracting       Champagne  The name Champagne covers a defined area classified A.O.C. (appellation dorigine  contrle), which covers the 34,000 hectares that can be legally used for production.     The Group owns 1,679 hectares of champagne under production, which provide a little more  than one-fourth of its annual needs. In addition, the Group companies purchase grapes and  wines from wine growers and cooperatives on the basis of multi-year agreements; the largest  supplier of grapes and wines represents less than 15% of total supplies for the Groups  brands. Following the signing of an initial four-year agreement in 1996, another industry  agreement had been signed in the spring of 2000 covering the four harvests from 2000 to  2003, which had confirmed the aim of limiting upward or downward fluctuations in grape  prices. A new industry agreement was then concluded in the spring of 2004 between the  Champagne producers and the regions grape suppliers covering the five harvests from 2004  to 2009. This agreement was renewed in 2009 before its expiry date, setting the framework  for negotiations relating to harvests from 2009 to 2013. Each individual agreement must now  include an indexation clause for grape prices. The recommended benchmark is the average  sales price of a bottle of Champagne, which ensures better value distribution for the market  participants and more control over grape price speculation.     For about ten years, wine growers and merchants have established a qualitative reserve that  will allow them to cope with variable harvests. The surplus inventories stockpiled this way  can be sold in years with a poor harvest. These wines stockpiled in the qualitative reserve  provide a certain security for future years with smaller harvests.  Grape prices fell by 4% in 2009 as a result of the economic crisis and excess inventories  being held by wine-merchants. The price paid for each kilogram of grapes in the 2010  harvest ranged between 4.85 euros and 5.65 euros depending on the vineyard, a 2%  increase compared to 2009.    Dry materials (bottles, corks, etc.) and all other elements representing containers or  packaging are purchased from non-Group suppliers.  The Champagne Houses used subcontractors primarily for bottle handling and storing  operations; these operations represented approximately 15 million euros.      Cognac   The Cognac region is located around the Charente basin. The vineyard, which currently  extends over about 75,000 hectares, consists almost exclusively of the white ugni varietal  which yields a wine that produces the best eaux-de-vie. Charentaise distillation is unique  because it takes place in two stages. The eaux-de-vie obtained are aged in oak barrels.   An eau-de-vie at full maturity is not necessarily a good cognac. Cognac results from the  gradual blending of eaux-de-vie selected on the basis of vintage, origin and age.    Hennessy owns 180 hectares. The Groups vineyard has remained virtually stable since  2000, after 60 hectares of vines were cleared in 1999 as part of the industry plan  implemented in 1998. The objective of the plan was to reduce the production area through  premiums offered for clearing and assistance given to wine growers to encourage them to  produce wines other than those used in the preparation of cognac.  Most of the wines and eaux-de-vie that Hennessy needs for its production are purchased  from a network of approximately 2,500 independent producers, a collaboration which enables  the company to ensure that exceptional quality is preserved. Purchase prices for wine and  eaux-de-vie are established between the company and each producer based on supply and  demand. In 2010, the price of wines from the harvest increased by 1% compared to the 2009  harvest.  With an optimal inventory of eaux-de-vie, the Group can manage the impact of price changes  by adjusting its purchases from year to year. Hennessy continued to control its purchase   commitments for the years harvest, and diversify its partnerships to prepare its future growth  in various qualities.   Like the Champagne and Wine businesses, Hennessy obtains its dry materials (bottles,  corks and other packaging) from non-Group suppliers. The barrels and casks used to age  the cognac are also obtained from non-Group suppliers. Hennessy makes only very limited  use of subcontractors for its core business.      Fashion and Leather Goods  In Fashion and Leather Goods, manufacturing capacities and the use of subcontracting vary  significantly, depending on the brand.   The fifteen leather goods manufacturing shops of Louis Vuitton Malletier, eleven in France,  three in Spain and one in the United States, provide most of the brands production. All  development and production processes for Louis Vuittons entire footwear line are handled at  its site in Fiesso dArtico, Italy. Louis Vuitton uses third parties only to supplement its  manufacturing and achieve production flexibility.  Fendi and Loewe also have leather workshops in their country of origin and in Italy for  Cline, which cover only a portion of their production needs. Generally, the subcontracting  used by the business group is diversified in terms of the number of subcontractors and is  located primarily in the country of origin of the brand: France, Italy and Spain.  Overall, the use of subcontractors for Fashion and Leather Goods operations represented  about 43% of the cost of sales in 2010. Louis Vuitton Malletier depends on outside suppliers  for most of the leather and raw materials used in manufacturing its products.   After a diversification program launched in 1998 to Norway and Spain, the portfolio of  suppliers was expanded to include Italy in 2000. In 2009, as part of a continued effort to  bolster this strategic supply source, Louis Vuitton formed a joint venture with Tannerie  Masure, which has been providing the company with premium-quality leathers for many  years. This partnership will result in the creation of Tanneries de la Comte, where hides will  be tanned exclusively for Louis Vuitton using vegetal extracts. For Louis Vuitton, the leading  supplier of hides and leathers represents about 38% of its total supplies of these products.  Fendi is in a similar situation, except for some exotic leathers for which suppliers are rare.  Finally, for the various Houses, the fabric suppliers are often Italian, but on a non-exclusive  basis. The designers and style departments of each House ensure that manufacturing does  not generally depend on patents or exclusive expertise owned by third parties.      Perfumes and Cosmetics  The five French production centers of Guerlain, Givenchy and Parfums Christian Dior provide  almost all the production for the four major French brands, including Kenzo, both in  fragrances, and in make-up and beauty products. Make Up For Ever also has sufficient  manufacturing capacities in France to cover its own needs. Only the newer American  companies, Loewe perfumes and Acqua di Parma subcontract most of the manufacturing of  their products.  In 2010, manufacturing subcontracting represented overall about 6% of the cost of sales for  this activity, plus approximately 10 million euros for logistical subcontracting.  Dry materials, such as bottles, stoppers and any other items that form the containers or  packaging, are acquired from suppliers outside the Group, as are the raw materials used in  the finished products. In certain cases, these materials are available only from a limited  number of French or foreign suppliers.   The product formulas are developed primarily in the Saint-Jean de Braye laboratories, but  the Group can also acquire or develop formulas from specialized companies, particularly for  perfume essences.      Watches and Jewelry   With its five Swiss workshops or manufactures, located in Le Locle, in La Chaux-de-Fonds  and in Nyon, the Group provides almost the entire assembly of the watches and  chronographs sold under the TAG Heuer, Hublot, Zenith, Christian Dior, Chaumet and Fred   brands. In its watchmaking shop, Zenith also designs and manufactures the mechanical  movements El Primero and Elite. In 2009, Hublot celebrated the opening of its new site in  Nyon while TAG Heuer inaugurated a new workshop for the manufacture of watch  movements in La Chaux-de-Fonds.  In this business, subcontracting represented overall only 5% of the cost of sales in 2010.  Because of the very high quality requirements, the components assembled are obtained from  a limited number of suppliers, primarily Swiss, with the exception of the leather for the watch  bands. In 2010, the industrial subsidiary Cortech in Switzerland manufactured a significant  portion of the cases meeting the production needs of TAG Heuer and Zenith.   Even though the Group can, in certain cases, use third parties to design its models, they are  most often designed in its own studios.    B. Supply chain policy, process and monitoring     LVMH places a priority on maintaining and promoting stable relations with responsible  partners (suppliers, distributors, subcontractors, etc.).    Since 2008, all of the Groups brands have adopted and promulgated the Supplier Code of  Conduct which sets forth the Groups requirements in terms of social responsibility (forced  labor, discrimination, harassment, child labor, compensation, hours of work, freedom of  association and collective bargaining, health and safety, etc.), the environment (impact  reduction, use of green technologies, waste reduction, compliance with regulations and  standards), and the fight against corruption. Relations with any partner necessitate the  latters commitment to comply with all ethical principles enunciated in this Code. This Code of  Conduct also sets forth the principle and procedures for the control and audit of compliance  with these guidelines.   Audits are also carried out on suppliers. In its supplier specifications documents, Sephora  includes clauses dealing with the individual rights of employees, child labor prevention,  equality of opportunity and treatment, working time policy, and the protection of the  environment. Louis Vuitton has put in place an ethical system of preliminary audits founded  on compliance with local regulations as well as the SA 8000 social accountability standard,  which is based on international workplace norms included in the ILO conventions: no child  labor, no forced labor, providing a safe and healthy work environment, freedom of  association and the right to collective bargaining, no discrimination, disciplinary practices,  compliance with working hour and wage regulations. To ensure that they will be able to  perform preliminary audits independently, Louis Vuittons buyers receive theoretical training  covering the approach and criteria as well as practical training in the field in the company of  an SA 8000 auditor. Donna Karan International has developed a Vendor Code of Conduct  designed to ensure respect for fundamental principles of industrial relations and labor law  and for the highest ethical standards. It has also developed a Vendor Profile Questionnaire, a  document signed by the subcontractor when the pre-approval request is submitted. The  company has also introduced a Vendor Compliance Agreement, which calls for independent  audits of suppliers to ensure that commitments have been observed. Similarly, TAG Heuer  requires that all new international suppliers submit a written pledge indicating their  compliance with the SA 8000 standard. The same is true for Parfums Christian Dior, Parfums  Givenchy, and Guerlain, who have introduced specifications documents including  compliance with the SA 8000 standard among their provisions.  Workgroups comprising experts from various Group Houses presented, as they have each  year, a review of their accomplishments and progress made during an annual meeting that  provides an opportunity to exchange best practices, to implement shared tools and reference  guides, and to identify new areas meriting attention.  In 2010, this work resulted in the creation of a shared supplier database for the Perfumes  and Cosmetics business group and the establishment of a common reference guide for  supplier assessment.   This reference guide will facilitate exchanges between the various Group companies and  follow-ups on social and environmental audits, their findings, and any action plans put in  place.  In 2010, 262 social audits were carried out, nearly 95% of which by specialized external  service providers, at 217 of our suppliers. Nearly one-quarter of these audits showed results  in line with our standards and 46% identified minor non-compliance issues. Audits whose  conclusions indicated a need for significant improvement by suppliers or the existence of  major non-compliance issues accounted for 26% and 2% of audits performed, respectively.  In all, 109 corrective action plans were implemented at our suppliers where audits had  identified areas in need of improvement. Occasionally, Group brands are compelled to take  more extreme measures. For example, the Perfumes and Cosmetics business group has  declined to continue working with a specific site operated by one of its suppliers that did not  meet the standards of its code of conduct for workplace safety and overtime compensation.  Additionally, the Donna Karan brand has terminated its relationships with two of its suppliers.      Reference documents  http://www.lvmh.com/investor-relations/documentation/governance-and-sri  Pages 14, 16, 19 and 20 of the document de rfrence  Page 61 of the Annual Report    Anti-Corruption Implementation     Criterion 17: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the  area of anti-corruption  Criterion 18: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the anti- corruption principle  Criterion 19: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for  the integration of anti-corruption    The specific policy regarding prevention of corruption is taken into account by:      "LVMH Code of Conduct" (See 4 "fighting against corruption"):   "LVMH prohibits any form of corruption. Any payment must reflect a service and legitimate  price as described in the contracts and agreements. LVMH only authorizes gifts and  invitations in the usual social and commercial situations. LVMH is committed to operating  independently in public life. LVMH prohibits the payment of money to political parties, trade  unions or cultural organizations in an attempt to promote a particular interest or obtain or  maintain an advantage."    The LVMH Code of Conduct -- which has been adopted at the Board meeting following the  AGM on May 14th 2009 (inspired by the Group's values as well as the principles of the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines for  Multinational Enterprises) and distributed since May 2009 to all Group employees --, serves  as a basis for the drawing-up of codes of conduct at Brand and category business group  levels, adapted to their context and their sector.       "LVMH Suppliers Code of Conduct":   (see page 3: "Anti-Corruption: Our suppliers shall agree to condemn and act against  corruption in all its forms, including extortion and kickbacks"): All the Groups brands have  adopted and implemented the Suppliers Code of Conduct (deployed in March 2008 and  implemented at all Brands and subsidiaries by the end of 2008) which lays down the Groups  guidelines for Social Responsibility and the fight against corruption. Any collaboration with a  partner requires their commitment to all the ethical principles in this code.       Tools and processes:    The functional departments of the Group, each in their respective area, will support the  Brands in the implementation of the Code of Conduct with a view to a consistent and uniform  application of its principles. The Board of Directors of LVMH, to which the Executive  Management of the Group submits each year a report on the implementation of the Codes  principles, is the body which ensures its correct application. In accordance with the principle  of subsidiary inherent to LVMH, the executive management team of each operational and  legal entity is responsible for compliance with the principles of this Code. Any employee that  notices a non-conformity to one of the principles stipulated within the Code should inform his   The correct application of this policy is controlled through a large number of risk  assessments at the sites along with regular reporting. As a result, the relevance of the risk  management policy can be measured and evaluated. Since 2004, the Group has used a risk  mapping tool which systematically identifies its risks on the basis of common standards.  Ranking these risks clearly indicates the cases that must be treated as a priority. This  information and warning tool ensures early action to reduce the probability that the dangers  identified will occur.    Verification    Criterion 22: The COP provides information on the company's profile and context of  operation    Pages 5 to 22 of the document de reference, (too important to be copied in this document).    Criterion 23: The COP incorporates high standards of transparency and disclosure    All financial, social and environmental data are in the document de reference (too important  to be copied in this document).    Criterion 24: The COP is independently verified by a credible third-party    They data are audited by Deloitte and associs and Ernst and Young. They deliver their  report which is in pages 255 to 260, (too important to be copied in this document).