Corporate Social Responsibility Landsbankinn 2011  Landsbankinn 2011 3 The most important role of  Landsbankinn in society is to  ensure the responsible operation  of the Bank for the benefit of its  owners and society as a whole.  Landsbankinn published its  policy on corporate social res- ponsibility (CSR) in the spring of  2011. The policy is based on the  principles of the United Nations  Global Compact and ISO 26000,  which are standard guidelines on  CSR. Landsbankinns CSR policy  is founded on the principle that  the Banks procedures must take  into account societys  emphasis  in economic, social and environ- mental matters at any time.  Landsbankinn considers CSR  to be a part of sound business  practices. As a financial in- stitution, Landsbankinn plays  an important role in society  which, among other things,  entails accepting deposits,  providing loans, and managing  payment clearing for individuals,  companies and public bodies. It is  therefore necessary, in the Banks  opinion, for the Bank to define its  objectives in a wider context and  as a part of the society in which it  operates.  The Bank aims to build and  secure long-lasting relationships  with customers, to ensure that its  operations are in harmony with  the environment, to be a force  for change in society, to ensure  sufficient profitability for share- holders and to secure growth and  stability for the long-term. With  this in mind, risk management  has been strengthened syste- matically as well as the Banks  operations, corporate governance  and employees knowledge and  awareness of social issues.   Landsbankinn aims to play an  important part role in building  prosperity in Icelandic society  for the future. The Banks policy  is scheduled to be implemented  in 2015. A part of implementing  CSR entails an analysis of the  environmental and social impact  of the Banks activities.  The main  objective is to make the policy a  part of the  Banks core activities.   Steinthr Plsson,   CEO of Landsbankinn CEOs Address  4 Landsbankinn 2011 Whilst preparing the report,  Landsbankinn followed the  principles of the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) and the Financial  Services Sector Supplement. The  aim is to communicate inform- ation about the operations of the  Bank annually, that relate to CSR  in a transparent way and with  comparable figures from year  to year. This is the Banks third  report on CSR, however, it is the  first report which is published  with regard to the GRI reporting  principles. The report will be  published  annually  hereafter.  Information in the report is gat- hered from the Banks databases,  from various departments  within the Bank or they have  been compiled especially for this  purpose. The report is prepared  with regard to GRI C level and  encompasses the Banks opera- tions, which are based entirely in  Iceland.   Landsbankinn is a member of the  UN Global Compact and submits  a yearly report, Communication  on Progress to the UN Global  Compact Office.  This report will  also serve the purpose of being  a Communication on Progress  report.  The report describes how Lands- bankinn adheres to the G3  principles (see GRI Index page 31)  and the following items will be  discussed:  A description of the Bank,  reporting, strategy and  corporate governance  Economic activities  Social activities  Human resources and work  related activities   Engagement in society  Human rights  Community support  Responsible products and  services  Principles for companies  providing financial services About the Report  Landsbankinn 2011 5 Landsbankinn hf. is the largest  financial institution in Iceland  and provides individuals, comp- anies and investors around the  country with universal financial  services based on long lasting  business relationships.  Lands- bankinn hf. was established on 9  October 2008 but its predecessors  date back to the year 1886. The  Bank is owned by the Icelandic  State, which holds a 81.3% share  and Landskil ehf., which holds  18.7%.  Landsbankinn, head- quartered in Reykjavk, operates  the most extensive branch  network in Iceland.  About Landsbankinn Figures at year end 2011  Retail customers  100.000 Corporate customers 8.000 Number of branches 45 Number of employees 1.280 Key figures 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Net operating income 30.743 50.849 Net profit 16.957 27.231 After-tax ROE 8.80% 15.90% After-tax ROE, excluding the contingent bond 19.60% 13.30% CAD ratio 21.40% 19.50% Interest margin on average total asset position 2.90% 2.30% Interest margin + value adjustments on average asset position 0.80% 2.40% Cost ratio 57.20% 61.10% Total assets 1.135.483 1.081.133 Ratio of customer deposits to lending 144.10% 159.60% Employees at year end 1.280 1.146  6 Landsbankinn 2011 Employees and fulltime equivalent positions Number Number of employees CEOs Office 9 8,75 Legal Advisory 13 11,6 Internal Audit 9 9 Compliance 7 7 Markets & Treasury 21 21 Retail Banking 141 123,23 Asset Management 25 24,8 Corporate Banking 37 36,08 Risk Management 47 46,24 Corporate Development  229 224,82 Financial Operations 188 180,95 Asset Restructuring 70 67,65 Vehicle and Equipment Financing 62 59,61 858 820,72 Branches 497 460,04  Other 25 Total 1380 1280,76  Landsbankinn 2011 7 Your Landsbankinn is the title  of Landsbankinns new strategy.  The strategy is progress-oriented  and based on a powerful vision of  Landsbankinn as an exemplary  workplace; a cornerstone in  society and a force for change in  the Icelandic economy. The Bank  aims to become one of the best  banks in the Nordic countries  within five years.  The watchwords of the strategy  are listen, learn and serve, which  reflects a significant change in  emphasis in the Banks operations.  A strong emphasis is placed on  listening to customers, learning  from experience and remembering  that Landsbankinn is first and  foremost a service company. The  strategy is based on four main  pillars; passion, professionalism,  prudence and profit-sharing. Landsbankinns  Strategy  8 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn has adopted  a policy in CSR. The policy  stipulates that the Bank intends  to play a leading role when it  comes to building prosperity in  Icelandic society for the future.   Landsbankinn wants to ensure  that shareholders and society  benefit from its operations by  integrating economic, social and  environmental issues into the  Banks procedures. The policy is  to be implemented no later than  2015. Five main areas have been  identified in relation to the imple- mentation of CSR in the Bank.   They are:  The Customer  Human resources  Relations with suppliers and  sales of assets  Community support  Environmental issues The responsibility for CSR lies  with the CEO of Landsbankinn  and the Banks expert in CSR.  The implementation of the policy  Corporate Social Responsibility Landsbankinn   is exemplary Economic   development Environ-  mental   protection Development   of society  Landsbankinn 2011 9 is also in the hands of steering  groups established in the beginn- ing of 2012.  They will define and  be accountable for the particular  areas, which have been identified  in relation to the implementation  of CSR within the Bank. The ste- ering groups task is to define the  Banks opportunities in relation  to CSR, prioritise projects within  each area and be accountable for  them with the aim of completing  its implementation in 2015.   A steering group for  customer issues and social  responsibility  A steering group for comm- unity support and social  responsibility  A steering group for  relations with suppliers and  social responsibility  A steering group for  environmental issues  A steering group for Global  Reporting Initiative  A steering group for res- ponsible investment    CSR milestones 2011   CSR expert appointed in  January 2011  The Bank adopts a Code  of Ethics and Conduct - all  employees have signed the  Code   A steering group and  support group established  around the formation and  implementation of a CSR  policy in the beginning of  the year  Landsbankinns CSR policy  introduced in April 2011   Seminars held for emplo- yees to increase their  knowledge of CSR  The Bank disclosed  publically information on  corporate governance   The Bank introduced a  policy regarding supplier  relations   A policy on the sale and  allocation of appropriated  assets published  Landsbankinn balanced the  gender ratio on the board  of directors of the Banks  subsidiaries  Employees offered to sign  a commuting agreement  whereby they  commit  themselves to  choosing  environmentally friendly  ways of commuting to and  from work   Landsbankinn signed the  United Nations Women  Empowerment Principles  and the United Nations  Global Compact  The Bank launched an effort  in job creation supporting  innovation and strengthe- ned its services in that area   The Bank encouraged its  employees to take part in  voluntary work during the  year  10 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn aims to build its  operations on a moral foundation  and show responsibility in action.  The Bank also aims to promote  transparent disclosure, engage  in constructive dialogue with its  owners, shareholders, customers,  stakeholders and society as a  whole. The Bank adheres to Gui- delines on Corporate Governance  issued by the Iceland Chamber of  Commerce, Nasdaq OMX Iceland  hf. and the Confederation of  Icelandic Employers in 2009.   The Board of Directors is res- ponsible for the supervision of  the Banks operations pursuant  to laws, regulations and its  Articles of Association. The  Board of Directors formulates  the Banks overall strategy and  shall ensure that the organisation  and activities of the Bank are in  order and effective at all times.  The Board of Directors shall also  supervise the Banks operations  in general and ensure that control  of accounting and financial  management is satisfactory. The  Board of Directors is elected at  the Annual General Meeting for  a term of one year. Five members  of the Board are elected and five  alternates.  The CEO of the Bank is res- ponsible for the day-to-day  operations of the Bank and is  empowered to make decisions in  all of the Banks affairs, which are  not entrusted to others by law,  the Banks Articles of Association  or the Board of Directors dec- isions. Day-to-day operations do  not include measures which are  unusual or extraordinary. Such  measures may only be taken  by the CEO pursuant to special  authorisation from the Board of  Directors unless it is impossible  to wait for the decisions of the  Board of Directors without serio- usly disadvantaging the Bank. The role of the Executive Board  is to manage the daily operations  of Landsbankinn on behalf of  its owners. For that purpose, the  Executive Board has approved  specific objectives, benchmarks  and parameters, which are inten- ded to ensure that the governance  of the Bank is effective. These  objectives are divided between  particular divisions and explained  in the Banks business plan that  describes the position of particular  divisions, strengths and weaknes- ses, main tasks and the road maps  which have been carved out.  The Banks corporate governance  statement can be found in the  Banks Annual Report on page  40. The Banks Annual Report is  accessible on the Banks website,  www.landsbankinn.is  GRI SO3- Percentage of em- ployees trained in organisa- tions anticorruption policies  and procedures Landsbankinn has established  rules on measures to prevent  money laundering and terrorist  financing, which are based on the  Icelandic Act No. 64/2006 and  international rules and guidel- ines. The purpose of the rules  is to prevent  the operations of  Landsbankinn or its subsidiaries  from being used to launder  money or finance terrorism.  According to guidelines issued  by the Financial Supervisory  Authority, the Bank is responsible  for providing specific training for  employees, both managers and  general employees, in measures  to prevent money laundering and  terrorist financing. All employees  have to take a test on the subject  in order for the Bank to comply  with the guidelines. Employees  must answer all questions  correctly to pass the test. New  employees receive training and  education in the area when they  start working for the Bank. Dur- ing the year, courses were also  held in Landsbankinns branches  on money laundering.  GRI SO4 - Actions taken in  response to incidents of cor- ruption The Banks main methods to  prevent corruption are entailed  in good governance, rules and  actions taken by the Bank to  promote transparency in the  Banks procedures and activities.  No employee of Landsbankinn  was found guilty of gross mis- conduct last year. Nevertheless,  Corporate Governance  Landsbankinn 2011 11 there were incidents of possible  misconduct among employees of  LBI hf. (old Landsbanki slands).  All incidents, where there is  suspicion of misconduct e.g. of  the Banks information, funds or  other assets, are reported to the  appropriate authorities. Lands- bankinn aims to prevent any kind  of misconduct whatsoever within  the Bank through preventive  measures such as education  on money laundering, capital  controls, security, transactions  with financial instruments and  so on. All front-line employees  in the Bank as well as anyone  else who, due his or her work,  needs information on these  subjects, receives education on  the aforementioned topics and  by doing so, the Bank promotes  compliance to law and principle  10 of the United Nation Global  Compact in preventing corruption  within the Bank.  Furthermore, Landsbankinn  has implemented an electronic  surveillance system with transac- tions within the Bank to detect  misconduct amongst customers.  Moreover, special surveillance is  kept on the Banks employees to  limit the risk of financial mis- conduct within the Bank; emplo- yees securities transactions are  supervised for instance.   As part of the Banks policy in  CSR, the Bank adheres to a policy  on the sale and allocation of  appropriated assets, which was  published in the summer of 2011.  The policy stipulates that the  Bank shall take into account CSR  when allocating appropriated  assets while also maximising  recovery. The Bank aims to sell  appropriated assets as soon as  possible through an open and  transparent sales process. The  main objective is to follow good  business practices.  Moreover, in June last year  Landsbankinn introduced its  policy on relations with suppliers.  The crux of the policy is that  Landsbankinn aims to demonst- rate fairness, equality and  observe the principle of propor- tionality in its relations with  suppliers and service providers  for the benefit of the Bank and  society in general. Landsbankinn  takes into account environmental  and social policies when doing  business with suppliers and  service providers.  Code of Ethics and Conduct Landsbankinn adopted a Code  of Ethics and Conduct in March  2011. The Code is in the form of  a convention, which all of the  1380 employees of the Bank  have signed.  Every year, the  employees renew the Code with  their confirmation in employee  interviews. The Code is the  cornerstone of Landsbankinns  new strategy and also a guideline  on how to respond to ethical  dilemmas.  The Code of Ethics  and Conduct can be found on  Landsbankinns website.  GRI S05 – Public policy posi- tions and participation in  public policy development  and lobbying  A part of Landsbankinns stra- tegy, is to be a force for change  and to play a leadership role in  building prosperity in Icelandic  society for the future. The Bank  has, for example, been comm- unicating with the authorities  in Reykjavk City with the aim  of promoting environmentally  friendly ways of commuting to  and from work by, among other  things, building locked parking  houses for bicycles in the city.   Landsbankinns environmentally  friendly effort in commuting  is consistent with the trans- portation strategy of Reykjavik  and the cycling programme The  Cycling City Reykjavik. Lands- bankinn offers its employees an  opportunity to sign a commuting  agreement which entails a direct  benefit to them; subsidised bus  cards for a year and a yearly  repayment of ISK 40.000 for paid  expenses in relation to cycling  to and from work. Employees can  use the bus on certain days, cycle  when it is convenient and use  their car when necessary.  The  rewards are great for the Bank  and the City; cycling improves  the health of the Banks emplo- yees, saves money and promotes a  better traffic culture.  12 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinns opinion  regarding the legislative bill  on the Fisheries Management  Act (complete Act) case No.  827. Landsbankinn submitted its  opinion regarding the legislative  bill on proposed changes to the  fisheries management system in  Iceland introduced by the govern- ment in late August 2011. Lands- bankinn was of the opinion that it  was necessary to  change the bill  as it would have a negative effect  on the fishing industry in Iceland.  If the bill would be passed into  law, it would also have a negative  effect on the Bank and thereby  the Icelandic State Treasury as its  owner.  Landsbankinn specified  the following consequences  in its opinion that was made  public: Increased operating risk,  increased uncertainty in relation  to the funding and financing cost  of the Bank, cash flow in foreign  currencies would decrease, ser- ious consequences for indebted  fishing companies, significant  impact on future lending to the  Icelandic fishing industry due to  limits on the transfer of quotas  and a ban on placing the quota as  collateral.    GRI SO6 – Payments or con- tributions to political parties  and politicians No contributions were made to  political parties, politicians or  related institutions by Lands- bankinn in 2011.  GRI SO 7 – Total number of  legal actions for anti-com- petitive behaviour, anti- trust, and monopoly prac- tises and their outcomes The Competition Authority  intervened in the Banks affairs  eight times during the year. In all  cases except one, this involved a  settlement between Landsbank- inn and its holding companies  in relation to the acquisition of  companies whose activities are  on a competitive market. The  Banks acquisition was in all in- stances a part of the debt settle- ment of the acquired companies.  The Competition Authority  has adopted the strategy of  issuing a decision regarding all  acquisitions made by financial  institutions which may affect  competition. Such decisions place  a number of onerous conditions  on the Banks ownership to limit  the risk of customers being  discriminated against or other  measures being taken which  might distort competition. The  Banks Compliance and Internal  Auditor monitored the compli- ance of the Banks units with the  decisions issued by the Com- petition Authority. Furthermore,  Compliance has explained the  decisions to the employees who  are affected by them.    To ensure that the Banks  management follows the dec- isions in their activities, they  are regularly required to sign  statements whereby they vow to  follow the provisions stipulated  therein. Monitoring in the Bank  of the conditions set by the  Competition Authority did not  reveal any serious breaches to the  Competition Act. The monitoring  performed by Compliance and  the Internal Auditor lead to a few  remarks being made in relation to  procedures and compliance with  the decisions  within the Bank,  all of these issues were explained  in a report to the Competition  Authority.  In addition to the aforementioned  issues, the Competition Authority  annulled Landsbankinns acquisi- tion of a share in Verds sold by  Arion Bank. Verds is a company  in the ownership of Arion Bank,  which provides custody services  for securities as well as back  office operations in relation to  securities transactions. The  Competition Authority was of the  opinion that the two banks were  unable to demonstrate, without a  doubt, that their joint ownership  of Verds would not distort com- petition. For that reason the ac- quisition was annulled. The case,  however, has not been closed and  the authorities opinion regarding  a different implementation of the  acquisition is now being awaited.    Landsbankinn 2011 13 Human resources, health and safety,   and human rights Landsbankinn employs talented  and highly competent employees  who are a valuable resource for  a knowledge company such as  Landsbankinn. The Bank wants  to provide a healthy and safe work  environment for its employees  and ensure that they are satisfied  at work, and that they are proud  to work for Landsbankinn. The  Bank emphasises the importance  of hiring and retaining excellent  employees and empowering them  in their work.  The GRI principles and the  principles of UN Global Compact  affect human rights, health and  safety in the workplace and  labour laws, which have been  implemented into Icelandic law.   Icelands Constitution stipulates  that all Icelanders shall be equal  before the law and enjoy human  rights irrespective of their  gender, religion, political opinion,  nationality, race, colour, assets,  origin or other circumstances.  Iceland is a member of the  European Economic Area, which  joins the member countries of  the EU and the three EFTA- countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein  and Norway) into one market  area. Iceland also adheres to the  principles and laws which follow  that membership. The EEA- agreement entails free trade in  services and products, and also  freedom to work and live anyw- here in the EEA-area. Iceland  is also a member of a number  of international organisations  such as the International Labour  Organisation, the World Trade  Organisation and OECD.   GRI LA-4 – Percentage of  employees covered by collec- tive bargaining agreements Icelandic labour law is based on  collective bargaining agreements  on wages and other benefits.  This system has a long history in  Iceland and provides the parties  to the labour market with a legal  framework, which addresses  particular parts of employees  total wage terms and benefits  in collective bargaining agree- ments. All of Landsbankinns employees,  1380 in total at year-end, have  collective bargaining agree- ments. Collective bargaining  agreements secure a minimum  wage for employees and the  Confederation of Icelandic Bank  and Finance Employees prepare  and implement the agreements.  The Confederation of Icelandic  Employers enters into a collective  bargaining agreement with the  state on behalf of banks, savings  banks, and the Confederation  of Icelandic Bank and Finance  Employees. The Board of Di- rectors of the Bank represents  employees in these agreements  and other decisions that relate  to them. A collective bargaining  agreement shall provide for the  amount of fixed salaries, the  number of wage categories, work- ing hours, paid overtime, holiday,  payments of travel allowance,  eating facilities, insurance, prin- ciples for categorising positions  into wage categories and other  benefits not provided for by law.   If agreements have not been  reached or disputes have been  submitted for arbitration in the  first six to ten days of the notice  period, the state mediator shall  handle the dispute. The mediator  shall appoint two men to work  along with him in a conciliation  committee to resolve the dispute  on wage terms. It is permissible  to call a work stoppage once the  notice period has passed with the  limits provided for in the afor- ementioned agreement.   14 Landsbankinn 2011 GRI LA 13 – Composition  of governance bodies and  breakdown of employees  per category according to  gender, age group, minor- ity group membership, and  other indicators of diversity Landsbankinns objective is to  ensure equality within the Bank  and to value each employee on  the basis of  his/her own merits.  Landsbankinn follows the prin- ciples of UN Global Compact on  human rights and labour rights  and Act No. 10/2008 on the Equal  Status and Equal Rights of Men  and Women. The purpose of the  Act is to ensure that no discrim- ination takes place in relations  and cooperation between emplo- yees, companies and customers.  In the initial provision of the Act,  it states that all individuals shall  have equal opportunity to benefit  from their own enterprise and to  develop their skills irrespective  of gender. This objective shall be  reached in the following way as  stipulated in Act No. 10/2008: a. observing gender equality  perspectives and working  towards gender main- streaming in policy-mak- ing and decision-taking in  all spheres of society,  b.  working to secure equal  influence of women and  men in society, c.  specifically improving the  position of women and  increasing their opport- unities in society,  d.  working against wage  discrimination and other  forms of gender-based  discrimination on the  employment market,  e.  enabling both women and  men to reconcile their  work and family life,  f.  increasing education and  awareness-raising on  gender equality,   Gender ratio and gender wage differential in managerial positions Managing Directors Womens – to – mens   earnings ratio Directors Department heads Branch Managers 100% 97% 97% 105% 63% 25%   30 % 70% 50% 50% 37% 75% M F Gender ratio – new employees 2011  Gender ratio – all employees 55% 66% 34% 45%  Landsbankinn 2011 15 Work place analysis at Landsbankinn, February 2012 Satisfaction: I am satisfied in my job at Landsbankinn. Recommendation: I can recommend Landsbankinn as a good place to work at. Pride: I am proud of working for Landsbankinn 4.5 4 3.5 3 May 2009 March 2010 March 2011 Sept. 2011 March 2012 g.  analysing statistics  according to gender,  h.  increasing research in  gender studies,  i.  working against gender- based violence and harass- ment, and j.  changing traditional  gender images and  working against negative  stereotypes regarding the  roles of women and men. Landsbankinn has worked  systematically towards promot- ing equality within the Bank in  the past year, and the Bank set  itself the same objectives as were  set in a cooperative agreement  between The Icelandic Associa- tion of Women Entrepreneurs,  The Confederation of Icelandic  Employers and the Icelandic  Chamber of Commerce, where  in it states that the share of each  gender in leadership roles in  Icelandic companies shall not be  lower than 40% at year-end 2013.  The management of the Bank is  of the opinion that this is the best  way to ensure gender equality in  the long run. Equality on the Banks Executive  Board and its subsidiaries has  already been reached. The Execu- tive Board is comprised of four  men and four women, and there is  no difference in their remunera- tion.  Amongst Branch Managers,  women have higher salaries than  men. The Board of Directors of  Landsbankinn is comprised of  two women and three men. In  June 2011, one woman left the  Board of Directors and the first  alternate, a man, took her place.  Landsbankinns equal rights  policy was introduced in the  beginning of 2012; it is an  inseparable part of the Banks  human resource policy. An equal  rights committee operates within  the Bank, which maintains an  overview of laws and rules that  relate to equality issues. Lands-  16 Landsbankinn 2011 bankinn has signed Womens  Empowerment Principles – Equa- lity means Business, an inter- national effort by UN Women  and UN Global Compact. With its  signature, Landbankinn commits  itself to promoting equality  within the Bank.  Compliance with Human  Resource Policy To maintain an effective human  resource policy, the Bank uses  various mechanisms to obtain  information on the Banks  position in those fields to which  the human resource policy  pertains. Analysis of severance  agreements, measurements  of employee turnover, service  surveys, regular workplace audits  and employee interviews bear  mentioning in this context. In- formation can thus be gathered  systematically on how the human  resource policy is complied with  and how effective it is.  GRI LA 7 – Rates of injury,  occupational diseases, lost  days, and absenteeism, and  total number of work-related  fatalities by region Rates of employee sickness is  ( 7,2 days per year). A record is  kept of the number of injuries  but most injuries happen during  employees free time. Occupatio- nal diseases are not known and  employees injuries are minor as  the employees primarily work in  an office environment.  Education for employees Landsbankinns policy is to   retain capable, ambitions and  satisfied employees. The Banks  educational programme places  emphasis on providing employees  with:  Systematic education and  training, which ensures that  they have the necessary  knowledge and competence  to succeed at work   Diverse education, which  furthers the empowerment  of the individual  Grants to seek courses/ education outside the Bank Diversity characterises the  supply of courses, as each year  there are a number of courses on  offer as well as lectures or talks  that can be useful in a personal  as well as in a career context.    GRI LA 10 – Average hours  of training per year per em- ployee by employee category During 2011, 348 educational  events were registered and each  Number Women Average age Ratio Men Average age Ratio CEO 1 1 52 Managing Directors 8 4 41 50% 4 43 50% Heads of Departments 47 14 43 30% 33 44 70% Department Directors 27 17 47 63% 10 45 37% Branch Managers 29 6 47 20% 23 50 80% Service Managers 16 16 50 100% GRI LA13 – Analysis of management and employees Employees sick pay rights are fro 3-12 months depending on their length of service  Landsbankinn 2011 17 employee took part in more than  4 events on average. Teachers in  the courses are either employees  of the Bank or specialists outside  the Bank.   Seminars on CSR Seminars were held for emplo- yees on the Banks CSR policy.  Ninety six employees took part  in the seminars for a total of 172  working hours. The seminars  were held for the steering group  and the Banks supportive group  and for employers on a general  beginners course. Employee voluntary work and  consultancy Landsbankinn is of the opinion  that voluntary work is invaluable  for society and that it provides an  important foundation for indivi- dual morality.  Landsbankinn aims to increase  direct participation of employees  in social projects by means of  consultancy and by permitting  voluntary work to be undertaken  during work hours. Last year,  employees volunteered at the  Christmas Donation of the  Mothers Support Committee in  Reykjavk and the National Fund  Raising event On everyones lips  to support Neistann, an Icelandic  charity. A couple of hundred  employees contributed to Lands- bankinns Christmas Fund  Raising for the Mothers Support  Committee, the Iceland Red Cross  and Icelandic Church Aid.  Employees took part in Ged- hjlps charity event and Christ- mas Song Competition, Crazy  Christmas (i. Gedveik jl). The  employees of the Bank composed  a song for the competition, Your  Christmas. All work relating to  the composing, arrangement  and performance of the song was  done by the Banks employees.  Employees from 15 companies  took part in the competition and  over ISK 3 million was raised to  support Gedhjlp. Landsbank- inns contribution came in third  place in the competition. Landsbankinns employees have  also offered consultancy services  in areas, which relate to finances  and innovation. Courses and fin- ancial lectures have been given  across the country. Employees  have been members of selection  committees, among those the  Golden Egg (Gulleggid),  an ent- repreneurial competition held by  Innovit and sponsored by Lands- bankinn. Finally, employees have  taken part in Employment and  Innovation weekends which have  been organised in cooperation  with Innovit across the country.  Employees have also assessed  business plans and provided  consultation services. Employee turnover Number Women Average age Ratio Male Average age Ratio Newly employed   during the year 125 69 55% 56 45% Future employees Headquarters 76 30 37 yrs 24% 46 35 yrs 37% Branches 49 39 33 yrs 31% 10 29 yrs 8% Employees who left   during the year 113 71 63% 42 37% Thereof: Headquarters 60 28 52 yrs 25% 32 43 yrs 28% Branches 40 33 44 yrs 29% 7 50 yrs 6% Spkef 13 10 59 yrs 9% 3 45 yrs 3% GRI LA 2 – Employee turnover  18 Landsbankinn 2011 Customer satisfaction is of prim- ary importance to Landsbankinn.  Great emphasis is therefore placed  on providing a good service and  responsible consultation services  to meet the needs of each and  every customer. The Banks  watchwords are; we listen, learn  and serve. With these watchwords  as the Banks point of reference,  employees are offered systematic  education and training, which  ensures that they have the necess- ary knowledge and competence  required for the job.   GRI FS 14 –Specific services  for customers Customers Ombudsman The Customers Ombudsman is  appointed by the Board of Direc- tors and CEO, and is accountable  to the CEO. The position of the  Customers Ombudsman was  strengthened considerably with  the appointment of a particular  Corporate Ombudsman in April  last year. The role of the Customers  Ombudsman is twofold and is  divided into service and supervi- sion. Customers can resort to the  Ombudsman if they consider that  the handling of their affairs at the  The Customer Branch No. Name of Branch Services for senior citizens and people with disabilities 153 Krksfjardarnes Reykhlar and Barmahld visited once a week. 152 Selfoss Senior citizens serviced apartments in Grnumrk visited once a week. 156 safjrdur Hlf, a home for the elderly visited once a week. 160 Skagastrnd Cash according to withdrawal requests taken from Sborg, a home for  the elderly on Skagastrnd. 162 Akureyri Service and social centre for the elderly at Bjarg by Lindasda and  Service and social centre for the elderly at Vdilundur. Visited once a  month except during the four summer months. 171 Fskrdsfjrdur The elderly at Stdvarfjrdur are visited once a week and cash sent to  residents of the nursing home for the elderly at Uppsalir, Fskrdsfjr- dur by request. 172 Hfn The home for the elderly at Hfn is visited once a week. 178 Vopnafjrdur Cash taken from the home for the elderly at Vopnafjrdur in accordance  with withdrawal requests. 182 Hvolsvllur The home for the elderly Kirkjuhvoll at Hvolsvllur visited once a week. 186 Akranes The home for the elderly at Hfdi visited once a week. Chief Cashier Hrafnista in Reykjavik is visited twice a week and the homes for the  elderly and disabled at Htn, Langahld, Hdargardur and Furugerdi  are visited once a month.  Landsbankinn 2011 19 Bank has been unreasonable and  that their matters have not been  resolved fairly. The Ombudsman  reviews the cases brought to him  impartially and tries to find fair  solutions, in good cooperation  with the Banks employees. The  work of the Customers Om- budsman is on page 60-61 in the  Banks Annual Report.  FS14 – Initiatives to improve  access to financial services  for disadvantaged people  Landsbankinns goal is to meet  the needs of its customers. Thro- ugh the provision of robust on- line services, a customer service  centre, cash machines across the  country, mobile phone services  and a strong branch network, the  Bank meets the needs of most of  its customers. Furthermore, the  Bank provides financial services  in facilities provided for senior  citizens across the country.  GRI PR5 – Practises related  to customer satisfaction,  including results of surveys  measuring customer satis- faction The Icelandic Satisfaction  Index The purpose of the Index is to  provide companies with coordina- ted measurements of customer  satisfaction; customers are asked  to answer questions about their  retail bank at the end of each  year. The Icelandic Satisfaction  Index is comprised of three ques- tions regarding customer satis- faction and their expectations,  as it has been demonstrated that  there is a link between satis- faction and customer loyalty.  Customer relations Surveys are performed regularly  on behalf of Landsbankinn  measuring its service and image  as well as its main competitors.  This has been done for several  years. Opinion polls are conduc- ted in which customers are asked  to answer questions that give  the Bank an indication of their  emotional bond with their main  retail bank, as such emotional  bonds are considered to control  the attitude and behaviour of  customers more than logical  thinking does. According to  the answers to those questions,  Landsbankinns score has been  rising in the past year.  The measurements are performed  by Capacent Gallup four times a  year. The Icelandic Satisfaction Index*   2009  2010  2011 slandsbanki  54,5  57,5  59,7 Landsbankinn  50,1  56,8  57,3 Arion Bank  49,6  54,4  52,9 The average score of the Banks**  55,5  58,3  56,4 Customer relations*   2009  2010  2011 Landsbankinn  3,28  3,23  3,33 All banks  3,51  3,40  3,46 Surveys are performed by Capacent Gallup. Surveys are performed by Capacent Gallup. *The table shows the average score for each year.   **Savings banks are included in the average for 2009 and 2010.  20 Landsbankinn 2011 GRI FS-16 – Initiatives to  enhance financial literacy by  type of beneficiary Landsbankinn stresses the  importance of improving fin- ancial literacy as it is one of the  Banks main responsibilities, as  a financial institution, to provide  professional advice and sound  information on finances both for  customers and society in general. Initiatives to improve financial  literacy have thus been applied  systematically both through  special projects, on the Banks  website and by publishing other  material.  Raunveruleikurinn (The  Reality Game) Raunveruleikurinn (The Reality  Game) is an interactive online  game intended to provide  financial and social education  in civics courses for students in  secondary school. Through The  Reality Game, students can gain  an insight into the decisions  members of society have to take  in their daily life and respond to  the opportunities they are faced  with.  The game received an  award from the Nordic Council  in 2005 as the best educational  material in consumer affairs. The  Reality Game is a good example  of a social project which is closely  linked to Landsbankinns princi- pal activities.  Brochure on financial compe- tence Landsbankinn publishes a broch- ure on financial competence.   The brochure aims to increase  financial literacy and is sent to  custodians of customers who are  about to become 18 years of age.  The brochure is also accessible  on the Banks website and in the  Banks branches. The information  contained in the brochure is in- tended for young people who are  taking their first steps towards  financial independence.   Finance seminars The Bank held twelve finance  seminars across the country in  2011. Seminars were held on  pensioners rights in cooperation  with the Social Insurance Admin- istration.  The main amendments  to pensioners rights and pay- ments were discussed, including  what affects the calculation of  the basic pension and income  supplements, and how  financial  income affects pensioners rights  at the Social Insurance Admin- istration. A few finance seminars  were held, which were dedicated   Landsbankinn 2011 21 to savings and how different  methods are best suited to saving  at different times of our lives.  Financial education for  students at college Landsbankinn has offered  financial education to colleges  across the country with the aim  of improving financial literacy of  students and to make them better  equipped to analyse financial  options and to make plans for the  future.  The education is available  for all colleges in the country  and is provided in cooperation  with their representatives. Young  people, who work part-time at  the Bank and who also attend  university, provide the education  on behalf of the Bank. The main  idea behind this arrangement is  to provide education by peers,  which is more likely to appeal to  students. Landsbankinn held 17  educational courses of this nature  in 2011.  Lunchtime meetings for  companies Fifteen lunchtime meetings  were held for small and medium  sized companies across the  country. The aim is to strengthen  relations and services, and offer  company representatives an  opportunity to listen to educatio- nal lectures held by specialists  and management in the Bank.  Around 2000 managers attended  the meetings.  Public discussions and   finances Landsbankinn aims to support  and play an active role in factual  discussions, education on the eco- nomy and the finances of comp- anies and individuals. Towards  the end of last year, a website  for debate on economic affairs  was opened www. umraedan. landsbankinn.is.  There, articles  written by the Banks specialists  as well as specialists outside  the Bank are published.  The  objective is to improve financial  literacy in general and create  a forum for those who want to  follow a professional debate on  economic affairs. www.umraedan.landsbankinn. is/fjarhagur is a page on the  Landsbankinns website which  is dedicated to education on  finances. Here the employees  of Landsbankinn communicate  their knowledge and experience  on matters relating to household  finances and economic affairs.  On this page a number of tools  which can assist in organising  the finances of the home can be  found.  22 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinn works systemati- cally towards ensuring that its  operations are in harmony with  the environment. The Bank ad- heres to the main principles of  UN Global Compact 7,8 and 9,  which aim to reduce the envi- ronmental impact of corporate  operations.  GRI – EC8 / EN18 – Measures  to reduce the emission of  green house gasses A commuting agreement between  the Bank and its employees was  introduced in May 2011.  The  main objective of the agreement  is to encourage employees to use  environmentally friendly ways to  commute to and from work.  Just  under 200 employees signed the  agreement in 2011. With their sig- nature, employees have committed  to commuting to and from work by  bus or bicycle, and when possible,  also when running errands on  behalf of the Bank.  In return, the  Bank pays expenses in relation  thereto, for up to ISK 40,000 per  year in addition to paying for taxis  in emergencies.  Furthermore,  permanent employees are offered  a refund amounting to ISK 20,000  per year for bus cards.  Currently,  there are approximately 1380  employees at the Bank, thereof  850 work in the Banks headquar- ters in Reykjavk city centre.    GRI EN16 – Total direct and  indirect greenhouse gas  emission by weight  Below is an overview of the  Banks carbon dioxide emiss- ions for the year 2011. On the  one hand, there is the emission  of CO2 in relation to the driving  of Landsbankinns vehicles, and  on the other, employees flying on  behalf of Landsbankinn to and  from Iceland.  Driving Landsbankinn had 14 cars in  total fuelled by diesel in use in  2011 and 13 with petrol. The total  fuel consumption was 20,749  dm3 of petrol and 33,638 dm3  of diesel oil. Considering the  emission of CO2 is 2.32 kg/dm3 of  petrol and 2.68 kg/dm2 of diesel,  the total emission was 138,232 kg  of CO2. According to Kolvidurs  website, the Iceland Carbon Fund,  the price for offsetting carbon  emissions is 2 kr/kg CO2. Lands- bankinns cost in relation to the  offsetting of carbon emissions  due to the driving of Landsbank- inns cars totalled ISK 276,464 for  the year 2011. Environmental issues  Landsbankinn 2011 23 Employees flights for Lands- bankinn to and from Iceland The employees of Landsbankinn  flew in total 227 flights to and  from Iceland in 2011. According  to Kolvidurs model for calcu- lating carbon emissions, the  emissions totalled 104,625 kg of  CO2. Considering that the price  for offsetting carbon emissions  is ISK 2/kg CO2, Landsbankinns  cost in relation to the offsetting  of carbon emissions amounted to  ISK 209,250 in 2011.  GRI EN26 – Initiatives to  mitigate environmental im- pacts of products and ser- vices, and extent of impact  mitigation.  Landsbankinn decided to stop  sending account statements  on paper to customers as of 1  January 2012. This is done to  reduce cost and the use of paper.  Statements for chequing acco- unts, savings accounts, holiday  accounts and foreign currency  accounts will, as of year-end  2011, only be accessible online,  while other notices relating to  customers accounts will continue  to be sent.  Paper-free transac- tions are secure, efficient and lead  to savings for customers.  All  account statements are acces- sible online. If customers wish  to be sent account statements by  mail, customers can apply for it  especially. Summary Offsetting carbon emissions in relation to the driving of cars for Landsbankinn  ISK 276,464 Offsetting carbon emissions in relation to employees flying to and from Iceland  ISK 209,250 Total  ISK 485,714  24 Landsbankinn 2011 The Banks financial position  will be discussed in its financial  statements.  Statistics and in- formation on the economic valua- bles generated by the Banks  operations which proceed to its  shareholders, stakeholders and  society are listed below.   EC1 – Direct economic value  generated and distributed,  including revenues, operating  costs, employee compensation,  donations and other comm- unity investments, retained  earnings, and payments to  capital providers and govern- ments.  GRI EC4 – Significant finan- cial assistance received from  government Landsbankinn is owned by the  Icelandic State Treasury,  which  holds an 81.333% share in the  Bank and Landskil ehf., a subsi- diary of Landsbankinn hf,. which  holds 18.667% of the issued  share capital.  Landsbankinn  does not receive any financial  contributions from the Icelandic  Government.   GRI EC1 (f) / EC – Donations  to the community One of Landsbankinns roles is to  support Icelandic society robustly  in different  ways.  Direct and  indirect financial contributions  to the community are a part  of Landsbankinns policy in  corporate social responsibility.  Direct financial contribution to  the community from the Bank  amounted to ISK 127 million in  2011. The Bank also contributes  to the community through the  provision of consulting services  by its employees and their  participation in voluntary work in  a number of cooperative projects.   With its support to the comm- unity, the Bank focuses on the  following main topics:  Humanitarian issues  Culture and the arts  Education, research and inn- ovation  Sports and youth program- mes  Environmental issues Landsbankinns Community  Fund Landsbankinns Community  Fund plays a key role in the  Banks support to the community.  During the year, grants from the  Fund in the amount of ISK 40.4  million were awarded.  Members  of the selection committees were  largely professionals.   Educational grants in the  amount of ISK 5.4 million  awarded.   Community grants in the  amount of ISK 15 million  awarded.   Innovation and budding  grants awarded for the  amount of ISK 15 million.   Environmental grants in  the amount of ISK 5 million  awarded.  Community grants Landsbankinns community  grants aim to support various  community issues e.g. hum- anitarian projects, projects in  the field of education, research  and science, projects in the field  of culture and the arts, youth  projects and specific publishing  projects.  The total amount of  grants was ISK 15 million in 2011  and over 500 applications were  received. Study grants The purpose of study grants  is to support the education of  exceptional students at different  educational levels.  The study  grants of Landsbankinn are  awarded annually and are an  important part of the Banks  community support.  The total  Economic issues  Landsbankinn 2011 25 amount of grants was ISK 5.4  million in 2011 and over 1000  applications were received. Innovation grants The purpose of Landsbankinns  innovation grants is to provide  innovators with an opportunity  to develop a new business con- cept, an older business concept  in a new market or a new product  or service.  Innovation grants are  also intended to support inn- ovators in purchasing material,  equipment or specialised services  in relation to innovation or to  attend courses to develop skills  in developing a business concept.   The total amount of grants for  2011 was ISK 15 million and 250  applications were received.  Environmental grants Environmental grants are inten- ded to support projects in the field  of the environment and nature  conservation.  Environmental  grants are based  on the Banks  policy in CSR and its obligations  in that regard.  Grants were  awarded for the amount of ISK 5  million and 130 applications were  received.  Special achievement grants Special achievement grants will  be awarded for the first time in  2012 to support high achievers  in individual sports and have  succeeded in their field.  Grants  will also be awarded to young  and promising athletes who have  the future ahead of them.  Grants  for special achievement will be  awarded for the amount of ISK 3  million. Direct economic value Comments  Landsbankinn 2011 Direct economic value generated: Net interest income + net commission income + net income from  trading securities + net income from other financial assets at fair  value + profits from the sale of fixed assets 51.585 Economic value - generated       Operating costs + investments 8.556 Salaries according to the accounts 11.169 Interest income from borrowing (paid) – from net interest income 7.198 Income tax and special taxes - payments to government -16 Donations to the community 127 Total contribution to the economy 27.034 Economic benefit distributed   24.551 Proportion of economic value generated to economic   value distributed     52%  26 Landsbankinn 2011 Landsbankinns support to the  community also involves direct  contributions.  During 2011,  the Bank sponsored community  projects for ISK 127 million.  The  grants are awarded to humanit- arian issues, culture and the  arts, education, research, science,  environmental issues, sports and  youth issues.     Support for the community  GRI EC9 - Understanding and  describing significant eco- nomic impacts, including the  extent of impacts Landsbankinn aims to be a force  for change in the community and  contribute to a stronger economy.  During 2011, the Bank participa- ted in a number of projects which  have indirect and direct economic  impact on the community. Lands- bankinn conducted a number of  meetings and seminars around  the country, open meetings with  the Banks management, inform- ative meetings for small and  medium-sized companies as well  as providing financial education  for the general public.  Approximately 3200 people  attended these meetings.  Meetings with municipalities  and industrial development  associations Last year, the Bank conducted  a series of meetings in 25  municipalities where the Banks  employees engaged in discus- sions with local government  Direct contributions to the community Total contribution to community issues (excluding branches) 2010 2011 ISK 127.000.000 ISK 100.000.000 Contributions – dvision between issues – figures from 2010 Humanitarian issues      59,7 Culture and the Arts      57,3 Education, research, innovation and environmental issues  52,9 Sport and youth programmes      56,4  Landsbankinn 2011 27 Largest grants in 2011: > 1.000.000 Community grants – 35 grants   ISK 15,000,000 Innovation grants – 27 grants  ISK 15,000,000 The Vigdis Finnbogadttir Institute of Foreign Languages   ISK 10,000,000 The Football Association of Iceland   ISK 8,000,000 A different expression of community support - 15 projects  ISK 7,500,000 Contributions in relation to Christmas  ISK 6,000000 Study grants - 14 individuals  ISK 5,400,000. Environmental grants  - 17 grants   ISK 5,000,000. Employment and innovation weekends conducted by Innovit and Landsbankinn   ISK 4,400,000 On everyones lips - a national fund raising event in support of Neistinn   ISK 3,000,000 National fund raising event to support rescue teams in the Faroe Islands   ISK 3,000,000 Frankfurt Book Fair  ISK 2,500,000 Reykjavik Cultural Night Fund   ISK 2,500,000 Sjnarhll    ISK 2,500,000 Akureyri Theatre Company   ISK 2,200,000 Innovit - The Golden Egg  ISK 1,850,000 Corporate Social Responsibility Knowledge Centre  ISK 1,700,000 Iceland Music Export    ISK 1,500,000 Fjlsmidjan at  Sudurnes (Spkef)  ISK 1,500,000 Ljsantt - Town Festival in Reykjanesb  ISK 1,250,000 National Fund raising Event of Lions  ISK 1,000,000 Reykjavik Arts Festival   ISK 1,000,000 SBS  ISK 1,000,000 officials, employees of industrial  development associations,  company representatives and  trade union representatives as  well as entrepreneurs regarding  opportunities for development in  the economy.  The purpose of the meetings is to  engage in a dialogue with people  in the local community, and  examine how the Bank can syste- matically work towards the deve- lopment of the local economy,  improve the Banks relations with  its customers and the community,  and familiarise themselves with  the ideas and plans, which are top  of the agenda in each region.  Around 300 people attended the  meetings.  Debt reduction for customers Landsbankinn has worked  systematically towards solving  the household debt problem. The  Banks solid financial position   has enabled it to change the so- called 110% solution (agreement  between financial institutions  and the Government for debt re- lief) and instead of using market  value, the valuation of properties  according to the Land Registry   28 Landsbankinn 2011 of Iceland is used to write down  other debt and repay a part of the  interest to customers who have  not been in arrears and have paid  their dues on time.  The main goal is to speed up the  resolution of household debt pro- blems and the end to that work is  in sight.  Measures for indebted comp- anies All viable companies that met  certain conditions received  financial restructuring proposals  in accordance with the govern- ments Beina brautin solution  around mid-year 2011. Beina brautin is an agreement  between the Ministry of Econo- mic affairs, the Confederation of  Icelandic Employers, the Ice- landic Financial Services Asso- ciation and the Iceland Chamber  of Commerce.  The agreement entails that the  resolution of the debt problems of  small and medium sized compan- ies is speeded up considerably.  Festa, knowledge centre for  corporate social responsibility Landsbankinn is one of the  founders of Festa, a knowledge  centre on corporate social res- ponsibility. The purpose of the knowledge  centre, which Alcan, Lands- virkjun, Sminn and slandsbanki  founded along with Landsbank- inn, is to increase knowledge  and to improve the capacity of  companies to operate in a socially  responsible way.   The centre is located at the  University of Reykjavk and  the purpose of the centre is  as follows:  To gather practical know- ledge of corporate social  responsibility.   To build a network of  companies that are interes- ted in implementing a  strategy in corporate social  responsibility.   To promote public discus- sions on the concept.   To encourage research in  the field.  Innovation service In order to boost job creation,  Landsbankinn established  universal services for innovative  and start-up companies. The  Bank offers consultancy services  relating  to the operating envi- ronment of innovative companies  in addition to linking together  those who work towards inn- ovation in society and provide  support for innovation.  The aim is to strengthen the  Banks relations with the market  and develop services with the  needs of entrepreneurs in mind.   The Banks cooperation with  Innovit and its support to the inn- ovation competition, the Golden  Egg, is a part of this endeavour.  Employment and innovation  weekends Landsbankinn and Innovit  introduced their collaboration   on Employment and Innovation  weekends, in the autumn of  2011, to promote innovation in  Iceland. The main purpose of the  weekends is to promote work in  the field of innovation, and the  development of new ideas and  concepts as well as to encourage  job creation in each region.   Landsbankinn 2011 29 Employment and innovation  weekends were conducted in   Sudurnes and at Hornafjrdur  last year. In total, 180 individuals  took part in these weekends and  worked towards the development  of 87 business ideas.  At least three more weekends  have been scheduled this winter  in collaboration with municipali- ties throughout Iceland. Development fund to support  tourism In November 2011, Lands- bankinn, in cooperation with the  Ministry of Industry, established  a development fund to support  tourism in Iceland in connection  with the marketing campaign  Country for all Seasons. The purpose of the fund is to ex- tend the tourist season in Iceland  by supporting the development of  products and experiences during   low-season in tourism, and thus  increase the profitability of  companies in the tourist industry.  In total, ISK 70 million were  contributed to the development  fund, ISK 40 million from Lands- bankinn and ISK 30 million from  the Ministry of Industry, which is  to be distributed in 2 parts.  On the one hand, projects un- dertaken by individual compan- ies which may contribute to  extending the tourist season in  particular areas, and on the other,  collaborative projects among  companies whose intention is to  develop experiences in collabora- tion, which also might extend the  tourist season. Svanni, a Loan Guarantee  Fund for women Landsbankinn entered into an  agreement with Svanni, a Loan  Guarantee Fund for women, last  year. Landsbankinn acts as a  lender to women in business, and  the Fund and the Bank jointly  guarantee the loans. The Fund is  in the ownership of the Ministry  of Welfare, the Ministry of  Industry and Reykjavk City. The  Fund granted loans at the end  of 2011 and five women received  loans for the total amount of ISK  14.5 million.  The Funds assets  amount to approximately ISK  70 million and it is possible to  advance loans for a total of ISK  140 million to women in business  operations.  Support a good cause The customers of Landsbankinn  can support a good cause in a  simple way through the Internet  Bank. Customers can choose  between roughly 80 good causes  and support their charity of  choice with monthly donations.  Reykjavk Cultural Night Landsbankinn has been an active  participant in the Reykjavk Cult- ure Night from its establishment  and has opened its doors to  guests on the Cultural Night and  has also sponsored the Cultural  Night from the very beginning.  It is important for the Bank that  its support goes directly to the  artists and art groups that organ- ise events on the Cultural Night.  In order to reach that objective  a special Cultural Night Pot was  established by Landsbankinn and  Visit Reykjavk. The purpose of the pot is to  further original and special ideas.  Many grants of a modest amount  are awarded so that as many  people as possible can enjoy their  benefit.  The largest part of the Banks  contribution in relation to the  Cultural night is extended  through the Cultural Night Pot.   30 Landsbankinn 2011 Frankfurt Book Fair Landsbankinn was one of the  main sponsors of the Frankfurt  Book Fair, and supported the  promotion of the project both  domestically and abroad.  Landsbankinn supported a  unique exhibition of the Icelandic  manuscripts in an exhibition  opened at the Schirn Museum  in Frankfurt in September 2011;  the exhibition was part of a  larger exhibition by the Icelandic  artist Gabrella Fridriksdttir. In  the exhibition, the old and the  new were mixed together in an  unconventional way.  Landsbankinn was a sponsor of  a special promotional project,  Icelandic Manuscripts in Moder- nity in Iceland.   GRI EC8 - Development and  impact of infrastructure  investments and services  provided primarily for public  benefit through commercial,  in-kind, or pro bono engage- ment   Co-operation with sports clubs Landsbankinn supports sports  clubs across the country. Agree- ments between the Bank and  sports clubs is a large part of the  Banks community support and  an important part of branches  marketing efforts. The main emphasis has been on  supporting children and youths  in sports, special achievement  is also supported in a number of  branches. Samflag  njan bning (A  different expression of comm- unity support)  The ideology behind the strategy  is novel. Landsbankinn waives its  rights to advertise on the jerseys  of sports clubs sponsored by the  Bank, instead the sports clubs  can select a charity to advertise  on their jerseys. At the same  time, a pledge fund is created  for the club. For each win in the  league, Landsbankinn credits a  specified amount to the fund. The  sports club can invite companies  and individuals to pledge their  support for the club and the  chosen charity. All pledges are  divided equally between the  sports club and the charity. The Banks new approach aims to  connect together sports clubs and  charitable organisations or asso- ciations and creates a platform for  sports clubs and their supporters  or sponsors to work with Lands- bankinn on charitable projects.  Landsbankinns sponsorship of  youth and adult participation in  sports does not diminish, on the  contrary, the overall contribution  to charity increases, both directly  and indirectly. Twenty two sports clubs have joi- ned Landsbankinn in this project,  each club choosing a charity in  collaboration with the Bank. To  mark the creation of pledge funds  for each charity, Landsbankinn  has credited ISK 500,000 to each  one of them. Publisher: Landsbankinn hf. bankastjorn@landsbankinn.is   Landsbankinn 2011 31 G3 Indicator Description Page Degree of  reporting Comment/ web references 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from CEO 5 Full 2. Organisational profile Full 2.1 Name of the organisation 5-6 Full 2.2  Primary brands, products and/or services 5-6 Full 2.3 Operational structure 5-6 Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/  2.4 Location of headquarters Full Reykjavk Iceland 2.5 Countries of operation 4 Full 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5-6 Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/  2.7 Market served 5-6 Full 2.8 Scale of reporting organisation 5-6 Full 2.9 Significant operational changes during the reporting period 5-6 Full 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Full  Landsbankinns web for mobile phones received the  Icelandic Web Award as the best web for mobile and  handheld devices on 4 February 2011. The awards  are presented by MARK, the Association of Icelandic  Marketing Professionals. See www.landsbankinn.is/ english   Landsbankinn received two nominations for the  Icelandic Advertising Awards in 2011, one in the  category of best web advertisements and the other in  the category of best events.  These awards were also  presented by the Association of Icelandic Marketing  Professionals, MARK.   The employees of Landsbankinn came second  in Lfshlaupid, an annual competition between  companies held by The National Olympic and Sports  Association of Iceland. The purpose of the competition  is to encourage the general public to increase the  amount of exercise they do in their daily life at home,  commuting to and from work as well as in their free  time.   3. Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period 5-6 Full 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 4 Full This is the first GRI sustainability report 3.3 Reporting cycle 4 Full Annually 3.4 Contact regarding the report Full pr@landsbankinn.is 3.5 Process for defining report content 4 Full 3.6 Boundary of the report 4 Full 3.7 Specific limitation of the scope or boundary 4 Full 3.8 Basis for the reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased  facilities, etc Full The report covers only the banks operations 3.10 Comparability with previous report Full No previous report 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the  scope, boundary, etc Full No previous report 3.12 Cross reference table Full Current document 3.13 External assurance Full The report has not been externally assured 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure 10 Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/ organisation/board-of-directors/  4.2 Role of the chairman of the Board Full Gunnar Helgi Hlfdanarson, chairman of the board of  Landsbankinn, is not an executive director. 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/ organisation/board-of-directors/  4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide  recommendation to the board Full http://corporate.landsbankinn.com/about-us/corporate- governance/articlesofassociation/   For employees the FSL (The Employee Association  of Landsbankinn) provides for a channel to reach the  highest governance body 4.14 List of stakeholders 8-9; 18;  26-30 Partly 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to  engage 8-9 Partly Performance Indicators EC Economic Indicators EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 24 Full EC 4 Financial assistance received from government 24 Full EC 5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to  local minimum wage 13 Partly EC 8 Infrastructure investment 22;30 Partly EC 9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent  of impacts 26 Partly GRI context index  32 Landsbankinn 2011 EN  Environmental indicators EN 16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emission 22 Partly EN 18 Initiative to reduce greenhouse gas emission 22 Partly EN 26 Initiative to mitigate environmental impacts of products  and services 22 Partly LA Labour indicators LA 1 Total workforce by employment type and region 13 Partly LA 2 Employee turnover 17 Full LA 3 Benefits provided to full-time employees 13 Part LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining  agreements 13 Full LA 5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 13 Full LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism 16 Full LA 10 Average hours of training per year and employee 13 Part LA 11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 13 Full LA 12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and  career development reviews Full All employees receive a performance and development  review once a year LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce 14 Full LA 14 Ratio of basic salary of men and women 14 Full SO Community indicators SO 3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 10 Full SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 10 Full SO 5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying 11 Full SO 6 Contributions to political parties, politicians and related  institutions 12 Full SO 7 Legal actions for anti-corruption behaviour 12 Full PR Product responsibility indicators PR 5 Customers satisfaction 19 Full FS Financial supplement FS 14 Access to financial service for disadvantage people 19 Full FS 16 Initiative to enhance financial literacy 20 Full Page numbers refers to pages in current document Indicators not mentioned are not reported or not applicable