LVMH — 2011 ENVIRONMENT REPORT  CONTENTS   03   INTRODUCTION   05   MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN  AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   06   MESSAGE FROM THE LVMH  GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR   07   FOCUS ON TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING   13   A GROUP-WIDE STRUCTURED  APPROACH   22   MANAGEMENT OF  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS   35   PROGRAMS EXTENDED  TO CIVIL SOCIETY   40  OBJECTIVES   44   METHODOLOGY FOR LVMH GROUPS ENVIRONMENTAL  REPORTING   47   AUDITORS REPORT ON SOME  OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL  INDICATORS  3 LVMH 2011 — Introduction — The environment has long been  a concern of the brands of the LVMH  group. In fact, LVMH is one of  the  rst corporations to create its own  environmental department, which  it introduced in 1992. This commitment  to the environment became entrenched  in the Groups strategy in 2001,  when Bernard Arnault signed the  Environmental Charter encouraging  each Maison to set up a system  of environmental management,  and each Chairman to become involved  in the various initiatives. Sustainable and responsible production,  coupled with environmental protection,  is at the heart of our business model.  Moreover, it is what our customers expect.  Regardless of their pro le or level  of involvement, customers expect our  brands to re ect their aspirations for  a better world and to safeguard resources as  much as possible. All of our operations  follow speci c guidelines. Designing luxury  products that draw on the Maisons  considerable heritage requires not just  innovation, creativity and  rst-class  execution but also consideration of  environmental performance. This environmental dimension is also  a vital concern for all our employees  and suppliers, who look to our initiatives  and good environmental practices for fresh  perspectives, motivation and expertise. Without question, the Groups  environmental policy strengthens and  re ects the quality of our performance  and investors con dence in our companys  strategy and future with regard to  the challenges facing climate, biodiversity  and natural resources in the medium  and long term. Protecting the environment is not just  a common ideal or legal obligation but  agroup-wide challenge that underpins how  we conduct our operations. It also builds  a set of values that we share with our  stakeholders. LVMHs broad range  of businesses and speci c issues are widely  recognized as one of the Groups de ning  characteristics. This is both an asset and  a challenge. We are constantly challenged  by the importance of regulatory changes and  the global nature of LVMH, which requires  us to anticipate changes in consumption  patterns throughout the world and  nd ways  to tailor our innovations to local conditions.  Working with pilot Maisons – at least  one Maison per business group – to imple- ment a strategy to identify key environmen- tal issues and thus better manage the issues  involved. Each issue is assigned a set of  indicators to monitor the performance of  each Maison. The entire process is managed  and overseen by the Maisons executive  committee and the LVMH executive com- mittee. The program will gradually be  extended to all Maisons.  Successful deployment to all Group  Maisons of the new Cascade environmental  reporting web tool.  ISO14001 certification of two Louis  Vuitton workshops, one production site,  corporate headquarters and the Guerlain  stores in Paris.  Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC)  certification for some of the Watches and  Jewelry Maisons, including Bulgari, TAG  Heuer (plus distribution subsidiaries in the  United Kingdom, Japan and the United  States), Hublot, Zenith, Chaumet and Fred.  Bulgari, TAG Heuer, Chaumet and Fred  were certified in 2011 and Zenith in  January2012. Hublot and the Louis Vuitton  jewelry business aim to be certi ed in the   rst half of 2012. Since 2002 environmental indicators  have been verif ed by the Groups statutory  auditors and since 2008 have been based  on a reasonable level of assurance.  Questions for the Group may be addressed  to: environnement@lvmh.fr.  Installation of 1,218 solar panels on the  roof of the Louis Vuitton San Dimas work- shop in California, for a total installed  capacity of 286.2kW, meeting 31% of the  sites electricity requirements. 2011 HIGHLIGHTS  5 LVMH 2011 — Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive Of  cer A LONG-TERM VISION The dreams and excitement associated with our brands  are aspirations that are universal and transcend time.  These aspirations rely on the quality of our products, a quality  guaranteed both by the expert way in which they are made  and the perpetuation of our skills, and on the talent of the men  and women in the Group. Combined with this is the protection  of the environment, something that has been taken on board  by all the Groups Companies. The quest for an article of exceptional  quality, and the desire for authenticity and sustainability are aspects  that are more valued than ever in todays world.  Our company never stops seeking to increase its value and  perpetuate its model of responsible development based on a long term  vision shared by every one of us in the Group.  Bernard Arnault Chairman and Chief Executive Of  cer  6 LVMH 2011 — Message from the LVMH group Managing Director AMBITIOUS ACTIONS AND POLICY Each of the Groups Companies has a unique culture which has  a stood the test of time, in some cases for over two centuries.  It is absolutely vital to preserve the uniqueness of these exceptional  brands while at the same time steering them in the direction of  new ideas and initiatives to accentuate their modern feel.  Entrepreneurial spirit, innovation, excellence and creativity are  therefore part and parcel of the long-term strategy of our  Companies and are present in everything we do, including our  environmental policy.  The Environmental Department, which will celebrate its twentieth  anniversary in 2012, de nes the environmental strategy and assists  the Companies in implementing initiatives relating to sustainable  development. The year 2011 saw many projects. A strategic  think-tank process aimed at identifying environmental issues that will strengthen management of  environmental issues was rolled out in collaboration with certain pilot Companies such as Hennessy,  the Champagne Maisons, Sephora and Guerlain. Louis Vuitton, for its part, completed the installation  of the Groups largest photovoltaic power production unit with the roll-out of 1,218 modules on  the roof of the San Dimas workshop in California. Bulgari, TAG Heuer, Zenith, Chaumet and Fred  were certi ed by the Responsible Jewellery Council which ensures the implementation of social  and environmental best practices in the gold and diamond industries. Other initiatives are described  in this 11th Environmental Report and the quality of these projects continues to be underscored by   nancial bodies which regularly rate LVMH as one of the top companies in terms of performance. Antonio Belloni  LVMH group Managing Director  LVMH 2011 — Environment 7 FOCUS 2011: TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING Climate change considerations are part of LVMH policy. Since  2002 the Group has assessed the Carbon Footprint of many of its  Maisons: Louis Vuitton, Mot & Chandon, Veuve Clicquot,  Hennessy, Parfums Christian Dior, Guerlain, Parfums Kenzo,  Parfums Givenchy, Givenchy Couture, Make Up For Ever, DFS,  Sephora and Le Bon March. To date, all of the Groups major  Maisons have completed their reports and are working to imple- ment priority initiatives when it comes to product transport. The Carbon Footprints take into account quantitative informa- tion relating to emissions that correspond to the following report- ing parameters: –  parameter 1: emissions directly produced by permanent and  mobile sources owned or controlled by the Maison (for  instance, emissions from fossil fuels used to heat buildings or  from a Maisons vehicle  eet); –  parameter 2: indirect emissions related to energy purchased  from outside producers, such as electricity or steam; –  parameter3: emissions related to other activities (shipment  of goods, employee travel, and so on). These Carbon Footprints provide information that can be used  to develop appropriate strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emis- sions. For example, Veuve Clicquots 2006 Carbon Footprint  showed that 17% of CO2 emissions were related to transport, par- ticularly champagne, 90% of which is exported. Most of the emis- sions were from packaging and dry solids purchased from  suppliers. By contrast, at Louis Vuitton, transporting goods to  some 450 stores worldwide represents one of the main sources of  greenhouse gas emissions along with store lighting. The Maisons  therefore developed transport solutions to address their speci c  challenges and local conditions. In 2011, Sephora North America  performed a comparative analysis to assess the carbon footprint of  freight. The resulting data base will help guide future decisions  and negotiations regarding the impact of transport solutions. In  partnership with its shipping contractor, Sephora North America  also launched a program to offset CO2 emissions related to the  transportation of its products. This program includes a variety of  solutions, such as reforestation, carbon capture and storage, waste  water treatment and methane recovery. Assessing the Carbon Footprint Electric and photovoltaic vehicle at Newton in California.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 8 FOCUS 2011: TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING Already a sponsor of the Summer Streets project, which closes  the route between Brooklyn Bridge and Central Park to vehicles  during certain periods and makes it available only to green modes  of transport, LVMH USA launched an operation in 2009, in coop- eration with the Department of Transportation of the City of New  York and the Fashion Institute of Technology, to showcase how  artistic design can be combined with environmental protection. As  part of this Bike in Style challenge, design students were asked to  create items that a cyclist would need – poncho, jacket, unisex bag  – focusing on style, practicality and af ordability. The students were  mentored by Donna Karan International, which helped develop the  prototypes selected. Chosen from a large number of candidates, the  three winners received their award at a ceremony attended by  Marion Cotillard, the ambassador for Lady Dior, known for her  commitment to the environment. The Group and each Maison organize a variety of awareness  campaigns targeted at employees. During European Mobility Week,  Louis Vuitton conducted a number of initiatives at all of its French  sites, featuring a poster of best practices at each site and circulating an  eco-mobility wheel –a Workshop version and a Headquarters  version– to make it easier to compare transport modes and identify  green options. The campaign was an opportunity to count how many  people used carpools, which was more than 60% at the Ducey work- shop, and to launch a bicycle challenge, with a prize for the internal  department with the lowest amount of CO2 emissions. During this same Mobility Week, Guerlain educated its employ- ees about initiatives and resources available to them to reduce CO2  emissions resulting from their own travel methods. Since 2010,  Hennessy has run eco-driving training programs for its drivers.  This training is also part of Frances right to individual training,  available to all employees. As a reminder, in 2005 LVMH signed the European Road Safety  Charter drawn up by the Transport Department of the European  Commission in Brussels to improve road safety. In ratifying this  Charter, the Group committed itself to educating staff in France  and at its subsidiaries, as well as the thousands of visitors each year  to the Mot & Chandon, Veuve Clicquot, Hennessy and other  Group Maison sites, about the importance of adopting a responsible  attitude. Bike in Style in New York Raising employee awareness  LVMH 2011 — Environment 9 FOCUS 2011: TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING For Louis Vuittons Green Supply Chain project, transport and  logistics providers are fully integrated in the plan to obtain  ISO14001 certi cation for the leather goods supply chain. In 2011,  the Maison once again called for bids for its international transport.  The  rst selection criterion was based on an analysis of the contrac- tors commitment to the environment and what progress they have  made in this regard. In addition, a logistics loop was established  between the various suppliers and the Louis Vuitton workshops to  signi cantly reduce transport  ows. In collaboration with a service  provider, Louis Vuitton is developing a tool to calculate CO2 emis- sions from transporting leather goods across the entire logistics  network. This tool will provide faster and more accurate informa- tion about CO2 emissions per  ow and mode of transport. Local supply solutions are sought whenever possible. Service  providers in multiple areas, from maintenance and cleaning to  logistics, boxes and waste disposal, are selected for their proximity  to the Louis Vuitton workshops or sites. For the Barbera workshops  in Spain, leather is purchased from  ve tanneries located no more  than 60km away. Domestic transport between workshops has thus  been reduced by 30%. Similarly, 10% to 15% of the workshops metal  hardware suppliers are concentrated within a 35km radius. International and European regulations have led to more strin- gent environmental requirements in the design and manufacture of  packaging, in particular, the volume and weight. Reducing the size  of packaging is therefore an underlying transport issue that can  lead to lower shipping costs and emission levels. Louis Vuitton, for example, has found innovative ways to  decrease the size of shipments by reducing not only empty space  but also outer packaging. All workshops have been sent a tool  to help them with packaging decisions. Louis Vuitton has also  continued its ef orts in this regard by eliminating tissue paper and  plastic protection in its cartons for shipments of shopping bags,  trunks, pouches, presentation boxes and shoe boxes. In 2010, the  leather goods manufacturer produced a report on the Carbon  Footprint of the Neverfull bag, comparing the old and new ship- ping packaging. The resulting initiatives led to a 60% reduction in  shipped volume, representing an annual saving of more than  950MtCO2e (2009 saving: 964MtCO2e). Reduced packaging also  cuts down on the number of shipping containers used. For several  years Louis Vuitton has been improving packaging so that products  can be shipped from workshops to stores around the world using  the same packaging. In 2006, for example, 100metric tons of card- board were saved by doing the final packaging of small leather  goods at the workshop and making sure the shipping cartons were  as full as possible. In addition, the soft paper pouches in which bags  used to be inserted prior to packaging have been eliminated. Since  the fall of 2010, forty stores in North America have followed the  lead of Paris and Tokyo by receiving leather goods and other acces- sories in reusable plastic containers, rather than in cardboard boxes  that can only be used once. Initial results indicate that this has  already saved almost 1,200MtCO2e. Veuve Clicquot also developed the Design Box, a new single- material box made of cardboard from sustainably managed forests  (FSC certification), optimized for weight and volume and com- pletely recyclable. Inks, glues and solvents account for less than 5%  of the total product weight. Delivered flat in reusable packaging  made in Reims, these boxes reduce levels of CO2 emissions due to  transport. The Champagne Maison also uses new, lighter shipping  crates, saving a total of 55metric tons of cardboard per year. Supply chain challenges Optimizing packaging  LVMH 2011 — Environment 10 For medium- or long-distance shipments, the Maisons make it a  priority to reduce the portion sent by air or road. At DFS, for exam- ple, the main avenue for improvement has long been the reduction  in air freight when shipping goods between suppliers and ware- houses. At the ChampagneMaisons, air freight has been limited to  emergencies only and accounts for less than 1% of shipments. The  Maisons thus opt for the most suitable alternative that will generate  the least amount of CO2. Acutely aware of these challenges, the  LVMH group, in partnership with the Ore association and a  network of 200participants, supported the publication in  September2006 of a guide entitled Environmental Performance  of Shipping and Logistics Practices, the goal being to analyze the  environmental impact of shipping and logistics, propose new meth- ods and illustrate good practices. The Maisons favor maritime transport. This is the case with  Louis Vuitton, which has substantially increased the percentage of  sea shipments over the last eight years. Similarly, since 2004 it  Shipping initiatives Sephora is the  rst selective retailer to use electric trucks to deliver its French stores. FOCUS 2011: TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING  LVMH 2011 — Environment 11 has been standard practice for Sephora to send shipments to the  United States by boat. Today, 90% of  nished goods are shipped  by this method of transport versus 10% in 2003. Hennessy, which  has always had an international market, ships almost 90% of its  products by sea. When infrastructure allows, inland waterways are  preferred, as in the case of Louis Vuitton and Mot & Chandon,  which ship goods for export from Gennevilliers to Le Havre. The  Maisons also encourage rail transportation. For its part, in 2003  Louis Vuitton stepped up its use of combined rail/road transport  between the Barbera workshop in Spain and the logistics center  in Cergy. This resulted in a reduction in CO2 emissions of  105,400metric tons in 2003 compared with road transport. Ef ective handling of expected change is of major importance  and a managerial challenge. Since 2008, Guerlain has been using  a tool to monitor on a monthly basis the overall percentage of sea  transportation for each geographic region and campaign. Results  are reviewed by the Maisons Executive Committee. A report of  costs and CO2 emissions compared with the years target is then  sent to all entities. Louis Vuitton, meanwhile, has set its logistics  teams a target of 60% for sea freight for Leather Goods flows,  while Parfums Christian Dior uses air/sea ratios so that its teams  can be extra vigilant and limit air transport to shipments with  particularly tight deadlines. This trend has required the Maisons to rethink their logistical  organization. Thus, the location of a new building or a logistics  supplier becomes a strategic decision for the Maisons as they try  to reduce shipping distances when forward planning. For several years, Louis Vuitton has been analyzing its transpor- tation challenges and has totally overhauled its logistical arrange- ments. Sales at each store are analyzed almost in real time to  better identify customer requirements and anticipate needs. This  improvement to the planning and the reorganization of the Cergy  logistics center have increased ef  ciency and of set the additional  time required for maritime transportation. Thus, since 2007, 50%  of leather goods destined for maritime transport are shipped by  inland waterway from Gennevilliers to Le Havre. For Champagne, a logistics platform shared by all the Maisons  optimizes the efficiency of the transport phase and facilitates  maximum use of maritime transport (over 90% in metric tons/ kilometers). In April2009, Hennessy moved its logistics platform  from Anvers to Le Havre. The bene ts were undeniable: increased  storage capacity, greater proximity to the Cognac site, improved  environmental performance, reduction in shipping costs and an  opportunity to use more rail transport. Road transport is an excellent alternative to air transport for  destinations close to the source warehouse. Louis Vuittons two  new warehouses on the East and West Coast of the United States  have cut down the need for air freight, which had previously been  unavoidable when the sole warehouse was in Memphis, some  1,500miles from most of the stores supplied. Since this new  organization was introduced in 2011, total emissions from air and  road shipments have halved (estimated reduction between 2010  and 2011: 46%). By the same token, road freight for Louis Vuitton  to Germany and Austria rose from 63% in 2010 to 91% in 2011.  This produced emissions savings in Germany and Austria of  844MtCO2e and 550MtCO2e respectively. For short-distance shipments, European cities try to limit  goods delivered to town centers and encourage clean forms of  transport. Louis Vuitton therefore opts for electric vehicles when appro- priate. An electric vehicle pilot scheme was developed in 2010 and  will eventually be extended to all Louis Vuitton sites. Its scope  includes delivery of Ready-To-Wear and Shoes to stores in Paris  and the supply of leather goods to Printemps Haussman from  Cergy. Similarly, Louis Vuittons corporate headquarters in Paris  and New York, and its of  ces in Switzerland, use a bicycle courier  service. In France, Sephora has been working with transportation com- pany Deret since December2009 to deliver 80% of its shipments  to its 250stores by electric vehicle. In 2010 and 2011, more than  1,200MtCO2e were saved per year. For short distances, such as the supply of its Paris stores,  Guerlain issued a call for tenders at the end of 2011 for night  transport and clean vehicles. At the end of 2011, 50% of courier  trips between Guerlains headquarters in Levallois-Perret and its  stores were made by bicycle rather than scooter. Cline has also increased electric truck deliveries within major  urban environments. Electric vehicles are used to supply its stores  in Paris in conjunction with GF Services, a company specializing  in the transportation of high added value goods and which also  collects packaging from stores, thus combining safety, traceability  and sustainability. In 2009, Hennessy and Domaine Chandon California acquired  small, solar electric vehicles to transport employees and visitors  around the wineries.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 12 12 FOCUS 2011: TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING Although it is difficult to include all business travel in the  Maisons Carbon Footprints, it is nevertheless essential to seek  alternative transport solutions and reduce business travel by  Holding company conference call meetings whenever possible. Guerlain has developed a variety of measures under its Business  Travel Plan. A carpooling scheme was set up at the Chartres site in  2009 and by the end of 2011, 44employees were sharing their daily  commute. The facility at Chartres has joined forces with two local  companies to develop software and a website to advertise carpool- ing of ers and requests for commuting and business travel. For the  car  eet owned or leased by the Maison, vehicles may emit no more  than 140gof CO2/km and should aim for 120g of CO2/km– a  much lower threshold than the European regulatory target of 130g  of CO2/km by 2015. Starting in 2012, the Maison will have to  include hybrid vehicles in its fleet. Employees who bike to work  have a designated bicycle parking area at the headquarters in  Levallois-Perret. Lastly, video conferencing and conference-call  facilities have been set up at the offices in Levallois-Perret,  Chartres, Orphin and Bville-le-Comte to reduce staf  travel. Parfums Christian Dior introduced a Business Travel Plan at its  Saint-Jean-de-Braye facility for the period from September2008 to  March2009. This led to agreements with the Urban Community of  Orlans to develop a route and scheduling for two bus lines so that  employees who work in teams could use public transport. In 2011,  the Maison launched an internal initiative to make some thirty  electric bicycles available to employees for commuting and trave- ling within the site. Louis Vuitton has embarked on an ambitious program at its  facilities around the world to optimize employee travel. In all coun- tries, employees are encouraged to use public transport and clean  transport. For example, at Cergy and some other sites, surveys have  been carried out to determine the habits and needs of employees in  terms of transport methods, travel time, travel distance, and so on.  Carpooling and shuttles are now widespread at most workshops. At  the Ducey and Sainte-Florence workshops, for example, 60% of  employees carpool. Bicycle  eets have been set up to encourage the  use of bicycles. In 2009 during Mobility Week, Louis Vuitton pub- lished the Guide to Green Transport in Paris(bicycles, boats,  electric vehicles) and in 2010 reimbursed subscriptions to Vlib  (self-service bike program) for employees at its Paris headquarters.  Some sites, such as the Drme Workshops, have terminals for  recharging electric cars. Finally, innovative solutions for remote  meetings, such as videoconferencing or, since 2011, telepresence  solutions (when a meeting room is recreated using videoconferenc- ing), have been set up so that virtual meetings can be held between  several individuals yet still of er the resources of an actual meeting  room. Hennessy has invested in green vehicles as part of its Carbon  Footprint internal transport action plan aimed at reducing its  greenhouse gas emissions. In 2011, it introduced four hybrid vehi- cles and four electric vehicles into its  eet. Practical solutions for employee travel Training to ecodriving at Parfums Christian Dior.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 13 A GROUP-WIDE STRUCTURED  APPROACH Set up in 1992, the Environmental  Department defines the Groups strategy  and as such reports both to Pierre God,  Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,  and Antonio Belloni, Group Managing  Director of the Executive Committee. The  strategy is based on a clear analysis of the  issues involved. It is implemented through- out the Group by means of various  commitments and focuses on processes,  programs and initiatives that support the  actions of each Maison. The Environmental  Charter signed by Bernard Arnault in 2001  embodies and updates the vision of the  LVMH group on integrating environmental  protection into its businesses. A CLEAR VISION OF THE ISSUES  INVOLVED ANALYSIS Like any human activity, the businesses of the  LVMH group have an impact on the environ- ment that varies in type and magnitude depend- ing on the sector. The challenges faced by  each business have been clearly identi ed. A clear vision of  the issues involved Appropriate organization  and commitment Tools and key  management processes An ef  cient  environmental  management A GROUP-WIDE STRUCTURED APPROACH  LVMH 2011 — Environment 14 Wines  & Spirits Fashion  & Leather Goods Perfumes  & Cosmetics Watches  & Jewelry Selective  Retailing Saving energy  resources  and combating climate change   Packaging production.  Distillation.   Transportation of product  shipments.   Store lighting and  air-conditioning.   Transportation  of product shipments.   Packaging production.   Transportation  of product shipments. –   Store lighting and  air-conditioning.   Transportation  of product shipments. Protection  and saving  of water  resources   Water consumption  (irrigation of vines in  Australia, New Zealand,  Argentina and California).   Production of ef  uents  containing organic  matter during wine- making and distillation. –   Protection and  saving of water  resources. – – Protection  of ecosystems  and natural  resources   Particularly plant  resources (vines)  required for production.   Particularly plant  resources (textile f bers)  required for production.  Leather.   Particularly plant  resources required  for production.  Packaging.   Stones and precious  metals. – Waste  recovery   Wine-making and  distillation processes. – –   WEEE (Waste from  Electrical and Electronic  Equipment, such as  batteries). – Reduction  of the impact of  production and  transformation  of raw materials,  particularly  through  eco-design  Packaging.  Packaging.   Cotton and  other textiles, leathers.  Packaging.   Constituents of  perfumes  and cosmetics. – – ANALYZING THE MAIN CHALLENGES OF  EACH BUSINESS GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT  AND COMPLIANCE Overall risk management measures:  analyzing and monitoring changes in the  issues involved are underpinned by an envi- ronmental risk management policy based  on four key areas of focus: the systematic  identi cation of risk using a mapping tool  and common standards; the prevention of  product-related risks (HACCP/Hazard  Analysis Critical Control Point method,  legal watch) and the reduction of industrial  risk; the protection of people and property;  and a system of crisis management. With  regard to the program to monitor industrial   LVMH 2011 — Environment 15 DEVELOPING THE KEY DRIVERS  OF ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION BEST PRACTICES  SUPPLIERS  Louis Vuitton: The successful upstream  integration of relationships with suppliers  is based on a two-pronged approach:  awareness and regulation. For Louis Vuitton,  suppliers in the broad sense of the word  (i.e., product manufacturers, shippers  and contractors), particularly those  associated with the leather goods chain, are  strongly encouraged to obtain ISO 14001  certif cation. This creates a dynamic that  encourages a growing number of suppliers  to commit to environmental initiatives.  Examples of this include the installation  of solar panels by one of our partner  tanneries, reclamation of production waste  (waste-to-energy recovery from residues  used for merchandising or for certain  products), waste water treatment, green  roofs at two suppliers in Asia, and  the implementation of clean technologies  to reduce water pollution during tanning  operations. In terms of methods and  organization, it is now standard for internal  control to include a questionnaire on  environmental practices. As part of local  regulatory monitoring, the legal department  provides support in multiple areas such  as waste, eco-taxes, transport, energy  (e.g. store lighting and light pollution),  noise, water, and more. Meanwhile,  a specif c product working group has been  tasked with drafting specif cations for  a substance monitoring tool.  Loewe has adopted an environmental  compliance program with the help  of a specialist f rm. The program primarily  provides information about regulations and  implements an improvement plan called  zero legal non-compliance, which serves  as a basis for the auditing of three Spanish  production sites. Planet and environmental risks, 30 sites were  audited in 2011 (the same number as in  2010). Some Maisons are bringing their  sites into regulatory compliance, particu- larly those classified for environmental  protection. For example, Guerlain, Loewe,  Louis Vuitton and MHCS have developed  tools that monitor and analyze potential  non-compliance with regulations in areas  such as water treatment and discharge,  waste storage, application of the WEEE  European Directive (waste electrical and  electronic equipment), storage of chemical  products,  re protection, and so on. Supplier relationships: with regard to its  supplier relationships, LVMH requires its  partners to subscribe to its Supplier Code of  Conduct by virtue of which it reserves the  right to conduct compliance audits at any  time and without notice. Thus, in 2011,  453social and/or environmental audits  were conducted at 346 suppliers of the  Groups Maisons. Of these, 80% were con- ducted by external auditors. For example, as  part of its approach to sustainable purchas- ing, Hennessy educates its suppliers and  outside contractors about environmental  matters, assists them with their environ- mental initiatives and assesses their pro- gress, particularly that of suppliers of dry  solids, who are assessed annually. For the  Perfumes & Cosmetics business group, the  entire jasmine sector is audited. This issue  is examined in more detail on page 11 of the  Annual Report. Consumer associations Multinational organizations Trade unions Governments and  local authorities Press Professional  federations NGOs Customers Employees Partners and suppliers Society Demonstrate  the Groups capacity  to manage its risks  and opportunities  in environmental  protection More ef ective  and innovative processes  and products that address  environmentaland  biodiversity challenges Meet information  expectations  and customer values  regarding  the environment,  health and safety Informed,  aware and motivated  by environmental  drivers Choose the best  suppliers and  share our approach  with our partners Listen to  communities and  promote a responsible  production  and consumption  model  LVMH 2011 — Environment 16 BEST PRACTICES SUPPLIERS  Guerlain actively manages its supplier  relationships on a number of levels.  All calls for tender include a paragraph  formally setting out what is expected  of contractors in terms of their commitment  to sustainable development. A questionnaire  has also been sent to more than 80%  of strategic suppliers to assess their  environmental and social practices.  Finally, a special audit was performed on one  of the Maisons strategic suppliers.  Hennessy organized the f rst Hennessy  Technical Forum at its winery for  its wine-growing partners. The event was  designed to meet wine-growers increasing  need for technical information on  sustainable development and provided  examples of ef ective solutions.  The program included topics such  as the carbon footprint of cognac  production, the use of weather stations in  managing phytosanitary treatments,  methane fermentation of distillation vinasse,  energy savings during the distillation  process (new-generation gas burners)  and phytosanitary ef  uent treatment.  Almost 500 partners attended the forum,  which featured talks, workshops and  individual networking sessions. SPECIFIC INTERNAL  ORGANIZATION  AND COMMITMENTS COMMITMENTS International charters and agreements  signed by LVMH provide the framework  for the initiatives led by the Group and its  Maisons. The Environmental Charter  signed by Bernard Arnault in 2011 de nes  the LVMH groups goals and dynamics. ORGANIZATION The main goal of the internal organiza- tion adopted by the Group is to harness the  commitment of all Group personnel and  train staf  by of ering them resources best  suited to their particular situation. The Groups Environmental Department  has been a driving force behind this shared  vision since 1992. Its tasks consist of support- ing the Maisons in their respective initia- tives, ensuring that the Environmental  Charter is observed, and running the  Environment Committee, which brings  together a network of some 50environmen- tal correspondents from the Maisons several  times a year. The Environmental  Department also runs a variety of specialist  in-Maison working groups which deal, for  example, with the European REACH regula- tion, eco-design and energy consumption in  stores. Although the Maisons are represented  within the Groups Environment Committee  agent network, they also have their own  steering committees. Each Maison has addi- tional means, depending on local conditions  and the size of its in-Maison projects. In 2011, for example, Louis Vuitton  increased the resources dedicated to  Make commitments  outside the company Foster a collective  commitment by staf  Aim for a  high level of  environmental  performance Control  environmental  risks Design luxury  products by  integrating  environmental  innovation and  creativity COMMITMENTS SIGNED  United Nations Global  Compact (2003)  Gordon Browns Millennium  Development Goals (2007)  Watches and Jewelry Maisons  members of the RJC (Responsible  Jewellery Council) CHARTERS AND INTERNAL CODES  Environment Charter  (2001)  Supplier Code of Conduct  (2008)  Code of Conduct (2008) The Guerlain Sustainable Development Committee.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 17 Aim for a high level  of environmental  performance  In developing its businesses  internationally, LVMH works  to align its own practices  with those that of er the  best level of environmental  protection around the  world. Foster a collective  commitment   The environment is the  responsibility of every  individual, and LVMH  believes that awareness,  education and training of its  employees are top priorities.  To ensure a high level of  environmental performance,  the Group believes it is  vital for each company to  set precise environmental  targets and implement  a management system  dedicated to this process.  Control  environmental risks  In addition to the most  stringent compliance with  environmental regulations,  which is an absolute duty,  the Group intends to focus  on risk prevention. As a  result, it allocates human  and material resources to  this goal. Design products by  integrating environmental  innovation and creativity Guided by its overriding concern  for high quality, LVMH is working  to improve control and better  anticipate the environmental  aspects related to the life  cycle of its products. LVMH  encourages all processes  that result in environmental  innovations and accepts its  duty to exercise prudence and  take precautions to ensure total  safety for the consumer. Make commitments  outside the company  LVMH intends to contribute  to the protection  of the environment  above and beyond the  aspects directly related  to its own businesses.  Because it considers that  promoting respect for the  environment is essential,  LVMH is developing an  active partnership with  groups of businesses,  local communities and  the associations which  contribute to this objective. THE ENVIRONMENTAL CHARTER SIGNED BY BERNARD ARNAULT IN 2001  EMBODIES THE VISION OF THE LVMH GROUP ON INTEGRATING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  INTO ITS BUSINESSES environmental issues. In North America,   fteen individuals and seven working groups  are tasked with supporting ongoing initia- tives. In the Asia-Pacific region, a steering  committee was set up to focus on four key  areas: recycling of of  ce waste, internal com- munications, energy consumption reduction  and eco-gestures in the office. A CSR  Ambassador is currently being appointed to  cover China and Japan, and various working  groups have been set up to focus on training,  communications, press, and so on. For its part, Guerlain has its own Sustain-  able Development Committee, with 15  members as at the end of 2011 drawn from  all company departments. Some Maisons publish their own sustain- able development or corporate responsibil- ity reports for internal or external use. In  2011, Loewes Executive Committee decided  to publish an internal report in 2012. The LVMH Mind website reports on the  Groups principles and initiatives in matters  of Environmental and Corporate Social  Responsibility including diversity, equality,  ethics, environmental protection and  responsible procurement. The site is avail- able to all Group employees and is both an  information resource and a collaborative  working tool for the environmental corre- spondents. It is also a means for employees  to receive newsletters and subscribe to  news ashes. AWARENESS AND TRAINING The Groups Maisons raise staff aware- ness of environmental issues and provide  training in this area. In 2011 more than  15,602training hours were devoted to this  purpose. The new initiatives being imple- mented are extremely diverse and range  from the creation of speci c training mod- ules at Hennessy, to site visits, study trips  to LaSamaritaine department store in  Paris, evaluation questionnaires and per- formance scoring in the Champagne  Maisons. During Europes Green Week,  informational flyers were given to all  Group employees to promote each  Maisons energy initiatives with regard to  lighting, shipping, renewable energy and  heating/air-conditioning. This event was  also an opportunity to seek suggestions  from staf  and assess their feasibility. GROUP ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT (1992) Group special committees   Examples: REACH Committee Purchasing working Group Group Environment  Committee   Network of 50  correspondents meeting  4 times/year Other  Departments  Finance  Risks  Purchasing  R&D  Communication  HR Group Managing Director Business Group   Examples: Perfume & Cosmetics  Ecodesign Committee  (2009) Maison   Steering Committees and  Specif c Committee Management and coordination Support and assistance Skills exchange  LVMH 2011 — Environment 18 INVOLVEMENT OF THE MAISONS  IN SUSTAINABLE  DEVELOPMENT EVENTS The European Sustainable Development  Week  (April 1 to 7, 2011) is an annual event  that raises awareness in France of sustainable  development issues and encourages people to  act more responsibly. The 2011 edition was an  opportunity for many of the Groups Maisons  to showcase their commitment and actions,  which included: –  circulation of a web-based brochure and  sustainable development quiz at Guerlain; –  initiatives on the theme, Lets Change  our Behavior and Help Reforest the  Earth at Le Bon March, La Grande  picerie and Franck & Fils; –  a presentation on changes in wine-grow- ing practices, on specific eco-design  examples, and on the challenges related  to corporate social responsibility in the  Champagne Maisons; –  the 6th Sustainable Development Week at  Louis Vuitton corporate headquarters; –  events based on the theme International  Year of Forests (Hennessy); –  circulation of a sustainable development  newsletter to all Kenzo Parfums employees. Some Maisons, such as Louis Vuitton,  were also involved in other international  environmental events: World Water Day  on March22, 2011 and World Environment  Day on June5, 2011. The Maison organ- ized Earth Hour on March26, 2011 for  the China region and a second edition of  the environmental challenge, Earth Day  Corporate Contest, at the North American  corporate headquarters on April22, 2011. During European Week for Waste  Reduction from November19 to 27, 2011,  two talks were held at the Paris Region  offices of LVMH Fragrance Brands on  Sorting and eco-design in our Perfumes  and Cosmetics industry. At the same time,  Guerlain set up new sorting facilities at its  headquarters in Levallois-Perret for coffee  capsules, plastic bottles, cans and other refuse,  end-of-life products, testers and perfume  and cosmetic packaging. These facilities  supplemented the existing facilities for  sorting paper and cardboard, batteries,  printer cartridges, and so on. To raise  awareness and assist employees, Guerlain  established a waste-sorting procedure and  produced a Sorting Guide, explaining how to  sort the various types of waste. Some Maisons organized events as part  of European Mobility Week, which took  place from September16 to 22, 2011 (see  Focus 2011: Transport and Shipping). KEY MANAGEMENT  AND EXTERNAL CERTIFICATION  PROCESSES  In 2011, LVMH collaborated with a num- ber of pilot Maisons – at least one per busi- ness group – to devise a strategy for  identifying key environmental topics to  strengthen its management of the environ- mental challenges involved. Each topic was  assigned a set of indicators so that the per- formance of each Maison could be moni- tored. This initiative is managed and  monitored by the executive committee of  each Maison and by the executive commit- tee of LVMH. It will gradually be intro- duced in all Maisons. To comply with Group strategy, the  Maisons may need to devise additional tools  that take account of their own speci c chal- lenges and activities. Loewe, for example,  has adopted a Vision 2020 road map that  covers multiple areas related to risk preven- tion and mitigation, cost savings, innova- tion, value creation, image protection and  image promotion. More than 150people  BEST PRACTICES  TRAINING AND INTERNAL SKILLS  EXCHANGE In 2011, Hennessy introduced new  environmental training modules for staf ,  particularly those involved  with maintenance, distillery operations  and cooperage. It also introduced overall  awareness training for new hires.  Bodegas Chandon launched an internal  communications campaign addressing  the challenges of food safety and  Health & Safety.  Belvedere organized a seminar  for employees and suppliers, in conjunction  with some scientif c bodies (a university  and the Institute of Soil and Plant  Cultivation), to promote best practices in  rye cultivation. The main purpose was to  analyze the comparative impact of various  grades of rye and to gain a better  understanding of eco-cultivation.  Make up For Ever set up Environment  Stops at its f ve sites and ran  awareness campaigns for Packaging  & Marketing Development staf   on the challenges of eco-design.  The Champagne Maisons introduced  a number of initiatives, including training  and awareness-raising, for all personnel  (permanent and seasonal)  on the environment and food safety.  It also issued assessment questionnaires  and established a system to monitor water  and energy consumption.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 19 were involved in working groups and vari- ous reviews that led to the definition of a  program to take account of all of the com- panys operations. It is based on seven key  business aspects: employee commitment,  product durability, sustainable leather,  responsible selling, stakeholder dialogue,  responsible and energy-ef  cient operations,  and a responsible supply chain. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT  SYSTEMS One of the major components of the  Environmental Charter adopted in 2011  requires each Maison to establish an environ- mental management system as part of a man- agement-driven policy. At the end of 2011,  46% of manufacturing, logistics or adminis- trative sites were ISO14001-certified, and  27% had been audited. In all, 49external and  95internal audits had been performed, with  some sites audited several times during the  year. The entire Champagne-Cognac-Vodka  division is also ISO22000-certified in food  safety management. The aim of this certi ca- tion is to standardize food safety management  practices and guarantee maximum safety for  the consumer. ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION  AND SMES Louis Vuitton is continues its ISO 14001  certi cation ef orts after obtaining certi - cation for its logistics sites in France, the  Paris headquarters at Pont-Neuf and the  workshop in Barbera. Certification plans  includes for all workshops, the downstream  supply chain and regional headquarters. The Champagne Maisons (Mot &  Chandon, Dom-Prignon, Mercier, Ruinart,  Veuve Clicquot and Krug), MHCS, obtained  the renewal of their ISO22000 certi cation  and are also ISO14001-certi ed. In addition  to introducing a tool to monitor regulations  and non-compliance, MHCS completed the  standardization of its Environmental  Management system. Speci cally, it created  and implemented a computerized manage- ment tool for improvement initiatives and  created and implemented a single document  management database (ISO22000,  ISO14001, HQE). It also standardized the  hazard analysis (HACCP) for all Champagne  Maisons. The Napa Green Certi ed Winery certi cation at Domaine Chandon California. BEST PRACTICES  TRAINING AND INTERNAL SKILLS  EXCHANGE  Louis Vuitton increased some of its training  and internal communications initiatives,  particularly those involving a correspondents  network. In 2011 it organized two seminars  on Carbon Footprints and ISO 14001,  featuring outside specialists and site visits.  The Maison has furthermore set up  a broad array of tools to meet the challenges  involved in ISO 14001 certif cation, specif cally: – regular employee awareness campaigns  at all Maison sites; as such, more than  700 training hours were conducted  at the Sainte-Florence workshop and  111 training hours at the Barbera workshop; –  the design of a fun training module  for immediate use by workshops as part  of the SIRIUS project to obtain ISO 14001  certif cation for the leather goods  workshops; –  training of internal auditors in ISO 14001.  Guerlain holds training sessions for  all employees. Members of the Sustainable  Development Steering Committee thus  received training so that they in turn could  pass on their knowledge to more than  800 employees. To supplement this training,  head of  ce employees and stores were given  an ISO 14001 passport. The International  Seminar, an annual event focusing on  marketing challenges, took place in April 2011  and included an environment track in its  plenary program. Other events, such as the  Auteuil Greenhouses Convention in June  2011 and the Chic & Green competition for  all Guerlain employees around the world,  promoted ecology and biodiversity initiatives.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 20 ISO 14001 certi cation was the main envi- ronmental goal in 2011 for Guerlains produc- tion sites, headquarters and six Paris stores.  Although steps toward certi cation began at all  sites in 2010, the certi cation audit did not take  place until the end of November 2011 for the  Chartres site and early December for the  Levallois-Perret site and the Paris stores. With  regard to the production center in Orphin, the  certi cation audit is expected to take place in  June 2012. More than 800 employees received  training during internal training sessions and  all Guerlain employees were given an  ISO14001 passport. As a result, all Guerlain  sites and operations will be certi ed as of 2012. BUILDING STANDARDS Most of the LVMH groups new construc- tion or renovation projects, whether indus- trial sites, warehouses, stores or  administrative offices, now incorporate  environmental criteria. For construction,  renovation and building operation, the  Maisons apply various standards and certi-  cations such as HQE, BBC, BREEAM and  LEED. In the last ten years, more than  28buildings have been built to these  standards. The design of the renovation project of  La Samaritaine in Paris includes 70,000m2  (753,474sq.ft) of amenities comprising a  hotel, shops, social housing, offices, car  parks and a 60-cotchildrens daycare  BEST PRACTICES  BUILDINGS  Sephora US has embarked ona LEED  (Leadership in Energy and Environmental  Design) certif cation program involving  sixteen of its stores. Although the goal is not  to obtain certif cation as a matter of course,  the Maison nevertheless draws broadly on  the methods and recommendations of LEED  certif cation when opening or renovating a  store.   In 2011, Chteau Cheval Blanc,a  Saint-Emilion Premier Grand Cru, of  cially  opened its new wine cellars, built according  to a design developed by Christiande  Portzamparc, the renowned architect and  winner of the Pritzker Prize in 1994. The  cellar has been awarded HQE certif cation  as a result of the materials  used and ef orts it is making in water, energy  and waste management, humidity control  and employee wellbeing. The environmental policy of Domaine  Chandon California and Newton is based on  Napa Green Certi ed Winery certi cation.  This certi cation, of ered by an independent  third party, represents the most comprehen- sive best practices in wine-industry produc- tion in the United States. The control scope  focuses on a commitment to conserving  water and energy, preventing pollution and  reducing waste. The sustainable development chater of Guerlain. Aerial view of the future Samaritaine.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 21 center. This extensive program was devel- oped in cooperation with the City of Paris  as part of its Climate Plan and reflects a  stringent approach to urban ecology that  calls for: –  environmental certification (Frances  Btiments tertiaires – Dmarches HQE  Bureau and HQE Commerces) and the  BBC label for the of  ces and shops; –  the Heritage, Habitat & Environment  standard, and the BREEAM and LEED  standards for of  ces, shops and the hotel; –  the low-consumption building label, BBC- Ef  nergie/Rnovation Logements. To meet energy reduction targets, a strict  ceiling has been set for both the renovated  portions (Very High Energy Efficiency  standard: 80kWhPE/m2/year) and the new  portions (BBC-Ef  nergie low-consumption  standard: 50kWhPE/m2/year). The plans  provide for lining the historical facade with  an interior facade, creating winter gardens  to improve the thermal and acoustic com- fort of the premises, and the inclusion of  solar thermal panels. The project must  meet rigorous low-nuisance standards that  respect local residents and are based on a  waste sort/recovery target of 75%. The project to build the Louis Vuitton  Foundation for Creation Museum was  launched in 2011. The museum was  designed by architect Frank Gehry and is  under construction in the heart of the Bois- de-Boulogne. It applies exemplary stand- ards and technologies taken from a  Museum high environmental quality pilot  program. It is a consummate project by vir- tue of its many architectural features (geo- thermal energy, materials bearing the NF  Environnement label and European  Ecolabel). In terms of waste management,  there are five sorting facilities for jobsite  waste with very high targets for recovery  and recycling. Water and electricity  consumed by jobsite trailers and the site  itself have been closely monitored since the  project began. A newsletter (Journal  HQE) has been circulated to workers and  staf  to raise awareness about environmen- tal quality, and information has been  posted covering various aspects of the  HQE approach. In an ef ort to control the  environmental characteristics of the  materials used at the site, more than  600licenses have been obtained for  the products concerned. Monitoring is  reinforced by monthly visits focusing on  environmental protection measures. Finally,  the Carbon Footprint of key speci c items  is updated as the work progresses. RESPONSIBLE JEWELRY  AND CERTIFICATION The Watches & Jewelry business group of  LVMH is a member of the Responsible  Jewellery Council (RJC), an organization of  more than 160 professionals around the  world committed to the promotion of eth- ics, human and social rights and environ- mental practices throughout the product  chain, from the mines to the points of sale.  The RJC has developed a certi cation sys- tem for members involved in gold and dia- mond work which requires audits by  accredited independent auditors. The certi- fication scope within the Watches &  Jewelry Maisons includes Bulgari, TAG  Heuer, Hublot, Zenith, Chaumet and Fred.  Bulgari, TAG Heuer, Chaumet and Fred are  RJC-certified. Zenith was certified in  January2012, while Hublot and Louis  Vuittons jewelry business aim to be certi-  ed in the  rst half of 2012. BEST PRACTICES  BUILDINGS  Ambitious targets have been set for  the extension of the Mot & Chandon  Montaigu site. They include implementing  the High Environmental Quality Buildings  pilot program, adopting the THPE high  energy performance label for the winery,  and meeting the BBC standard for of  ces  and administrative premises.  Some the best practices implemented by  Louis Vuitton are showcased in the new  leather goods workshop in Frances Drme  region. An audit showed the premises met  the criteria for high environmental quality  HQE. Perfectly integrated into the  environment so as to preserve the  conf guration of the original site, the  workshop has Frances largest industrial  green roof (5,000 m2). The green roof has a  system for capturing rainwater which is then  used to water f ower beds during spells of  very hot weather. The steepest part of the  land has been landscaped to incorporate a  self-suf  cient sanitation system. Waste  water is purif ed by f lter basins planted with  anti-pollution plants. Windows and skylights  allow natural light into the building, while  thermal insulation is provided by the green  roof and the use of heat pumps. The sites  heating is managed entirely by natural  processes without the need for conveying  gas and oil to the site. Solar thermal panels  also cover the workshops hot water needs.  Furthermore, materials have been carefully  chosen to create quiet areas in the  workshop. Lastly, the site features solar  panels for lighting in the parking areas and  recharging terminals for electric cars. These  combined ef orts help reduce overall energy  consumption at the site by 43% compared  with the most recently built workshops.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 22 MANAGEMENT OF  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Assessing environmental, health and  safety impacts requires a two-pronged  approach: first, site and production cycle  management, and second, product design  and product life-cycle management. Since  2011, the Group has carried out comprehen- sive measures to incorporate key environ- mental indicators in Maison and Group  strategy. RESOURCE-SAVING  INITIATIVES In 2011, the companies included in the  reporting scope consumed 554,354 MWh,  broken down by energy source as follows:  67% electricity, 19% natural gas, 6% heavy  fuel, 5% fuel oil, 1% butane-propane, 1%  steam and less than 1% renewable energy  sources. In descending order, this con- sumption was attributed to Selective  Retailing (36%), Wines & Spirits (30%),  Fashion & Leather Goods (19%) and  Perfumes & Cosmetics (11%). The remain- ing 4% was generated by Watches &  Jewelry and other Group activities. The  energy consumption of the sales areas  excluded from the reporting scope (60%  MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Site management and resource saving Product design and product life-cycle  management Emission and waste prevention  reduction Impact reduction  LVMH 2011 — Environment 23 BEST PRACTICES ENERGY  Louis Vuitton is developing a variety  of innovative solutions in Green IT.  Since early 2011, some of the servers have  been virtualized, reducing electricity  consumption by 66%. Some forty obsolete  servers have been replaced by eight  virtualization servers. The technology  allows for several operating systems  to run on just one physical machine instead  of several. Some sites automatically shut  down computer equipment at night and  weekends. In the United States, this  practice has led to energy savings of  48,118 kWh and won the in-Maison Earth  Day Corporate Contest.  The Champagne Maisons have embarked  on an energy ef  ciency program  that applies to their full reporting scope  but with particular focus on industrial  buildings. The goal is to distinguish  the main areas of energy consumption,  identify sources of energy savings,  and develop an energy policy and master  plan for short- and medium-term energy  investment. Among the most signif cant  initiatives are the recovery of energy from  the Cuverie Bernon [fermenting room]  industrial chillers for an annual gain  of 1 MWh, the installation of low- temperature, high-condensing boilers  at the Crayres and Mercier sites,  and the ongoing eco-lighting initiatives  atthe Mot & Chandon sites. of the total sales area) is estimated at  315,972MWh. ENERGY USE Energy savings: After completing Carbon  Footprint assessments (see page29) and  energy audits, the Maisons embarked on a  series of initiatives with regard to store  lighting and air conditioning, transporta- tion, energy ef  ciency and the promotion  of renewable energy sources. The Carbon  Footprint produced by Louis Vuitton for  its businesses and activities identi ed four  key areas for action: energy consumption  in stores, freight, raw materials used  (leather, canvas and other textiles) and the  employee travel policy. As part of the goal  to reduce overall energy consumption,  each workshop conducted an energy audit  which led to the development of energy- reduction measures such as the installation  of sub-meters (for water, gas and electric- ity) to identify excessive consumption  more easily. At the Parfums Christian Dior  production site in Saint-Jean-de-Braye,  new compression equipment was installed  to recover and re-use (for heating and  domestic hot water) more than 60% of the  heat emitted during operations. Renewable energy: Among the most sig- nificant projects was the installation by  Louis Vuitton of 1,218solar panels on the  roof of the San Dimas workshop in  California, for a total installed capacity of  286.2kW, meeting 31% of the sites elec- tricity requirements. For the new  European warehouse, which is  tted with a  photovoltaic membrane, electrical power  generated by renewable sources ended up  being higher than expected. By the end of  September2011, more than 100MWh had  been produced, i.e., the equivalent of 43%  of the power consumed by the new build- ing. Finally, solar panels have also been  fitted to the facade of the store on the  island of Guam. ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SECTOR AND BY SOURCE IN 2011  Selective  Retailing Perfumes  & Cosmetics Watches  & Jewelry Other  activities Fashion  & Leather Goods   Electricity (estimates for the sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting)              Electricity            Natural gas           Heavy fuel oil            Steam              Fuel oil             Butane propane          Renewable Energy  Wines  & Spirits 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000  LVMH 2011 — Environment 24 MARKET-BASED INSTRUMENTS Introduced in France on January1, 2006  as part of Law No.2005-781 (also known as  BEST PRACTICES ENERGY  Belvedere, in Poland, has begun  a program to save energy and reduce  the volume of CO2 emissions by 40%  over f ve years. The program is designed  to optimize steam production  processes during distillation  by re-using the heat produced by air  conditioning and heating, and by adapting  the boiler room to new sources of energy,  such as natural gas. This is expected  to reduce energy consumption and CO2  emissions by 5% and 20% respectively.  Following two energy audits  conducted in 2010 at Cape Mentelle,  a new refrigeration and heat recovery  system was introduced that resulted  in a 15% energy saving in 2011 compared  with 2010, despite a slight increase  in the tonnage of fruit treated.  For 2012, the goal is to save  an additional 10%. CHANGE IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY BUSINESS GROUP (in MWh)  0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 193,318 167,769 155,882 167,737 249,819* 259,085* 322,957* 347,034* 76,414* 69,485* 74,237* 64,500* 11,898* 12,495* 14,227* 34,508* Other  activities 5,735 12,435 19,805 14,068 179,775* 195,307* 257,230* 242,479* Selective  Retailing Perfumes  & Cosmetics Watches  & Jewelry Fashion  & Leather Goods Wines  & Spirits   2008 consumption     including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting    2010 consumption    including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting   2009 consumption    including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting   2011 consumption    including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting the POPE law) of July13, 2005 stipulating  Frances energy policy guidelines, the  energy savings certi cate scheme entered  its second phase on January1, 2011 for the  period 2011 to 2013, when the pace of the  program is expected to be stepped up and  higher targets achieved. As the LVMH group is no longer eligible  for the new system, it formed a partnership  in August2011 with a required stake- holder, Go PLC, which will be responsible  for facilitating the creation of energy sav- ings certificates from lifetime cumulative  savings (in kWh) achieved as a result of the  work undertaken by the Maisons in France.  Since this date, LVMH has been recording  operations likely to be eligible in respect of  2011 and will ensure that for the period 2011  to 2013 energy saving measures meet the  technical eligibility criteria for operations. CHANGE IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION (in MWh)  195307 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000 700,000 800,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 Estimated 716,576* 716,959* 844,338* 870,326* * Estimates of energy consumption for sales areas excluded from  the scope of reporting and audit (60% in 2011, 60% in 2010,  50% in 2009 and 62% in2008) are shown separately: 315,972 MWh  in 2011, 289,913 in 2010, 180,638 MWh in 2009 and 214,163 MWh  in 2008. The increase in 2011 is mainly related to the opening  of new stores. * Estimates of energy consumption for sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting and audit (60% in 2011, 60% in 2010, 50% in 2009 and 62% in2008) are shown separately  LVMH 2011 — Environment 25 WATER SAVINGS Water is a critical resource for the LVMH  groups operations, particularly in Wines &  Spirits and Perfumes & Cosmetics. There  are two very distinct water requirements:  one is for agricultural use and the other for  industrial use. This challenge has given rise  to a broad array of initiatives, including the  implementation of measurement protocols,  improved consumption management and  monitoring, storm water recovery and opti- mal irrigation methods for wine-growing  areas and green spaces. In 2011, the Groups  Maisons used 6,618,614m3 of water for agri- cultural purposes, primarily vine irrigation  (6,521,146m3 in 2010). In 2011, process  requirements accounted for 1,816,716m3  (versus 1,734,339m3 in 2010). It should be  noted that 74% of sales areas (Selective  Retailing, Fashion and Leather Goods,  Perfumes & Cosmetics and Watches &  Jewelry) are excluded from the reporting  scope, but their water consumption is esti- mated at 932,298m3. LVMH has partici- pated in the CDP Water Disclosure program  since its launch. The Wines & Spirits Maisons are particu- larly committed to water management  CHANGE IN WATER CONSUMPTION BY BUSINESS GROUP (in m3)  0 200,000 400,000 600,000 800,000 1,000,000 1,200,000 1,400,000 1,384,662 1,141,986 928,934 993,306 720,235* 720,067* 902,436* 820,712* 371,576* 291,006* 222,396* 210,719* 26,328 24,261* 27,451* 70,486* 17,865 19,787 25,964 27,278 516,654* 606,505* 680,627* 626,513* Other  activities Selective  Retailing Perfumes  & Cosmetics Watches  & Jewelry Fashion  & Leather Goods Wines  & Spirits   2008 consumption   including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting    2010 consumption    including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting    2009 consumption    including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting    2011 consumption    including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting  initiatives. Bodegas Chandon in Argentina  measures its water consumption and has an  overall reduction target of 10% for 2012. BEST PRACTICES ENERGY  At its production site at  La Chaux-de-Fonds, TAG Heuer f nished  installing what is one of the largest  photovoltaic installations in western  Switzerland. To reduce its carbon footprint,  the Swiss brand signed an agreement  for the installation of solar panels on  the roofs of its four buildings. It was after  a visit by Leonardo DiCaprio to the TAG  Heuer plant in March 2010 that Chairman  and CEO Jean-Christophe Babin decided  to launch a feasibility study.  With assistance from the French  environment and energy management  agency ADEME, Hennessy introduced a  unique prototype developed by Pyraine  that conserves energy in central heating  boilers via a heat recovery system. CHANGE IN WATER CONSUMPTION   (in cubic meters)  195307 0 500,000 1 000 000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 Estimated 2,749,014* 2,803,612* 3,037,320* 2,787,808* * Estimates of water consumption for the sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting and audit (74% in 2011, 83% in 2010, 72% in 2009 and 62% in 2008) are shown separately. * Estimates of water consumption for the sales areas excluded from  the scope of reporting and audit (74% in 2011, 83% in 2010, 72% in  2009 and 62% in 2008) are shown separately: 932,298 m3 in 2011,  1,053,469 m3 in 2010, 729,243 m3 in 2009 and 679,053 m3 in 2008.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 26 Like the Wines & Spirits business line,  other Group Maisons are also taking steps  to reduce water consumption and recover  rain water. Parfums Christian Dior, for  example, set itself a water consumption  reduction target that has resulted in a two- thirds reduction in consumed volume since  2005, while Louis Vuitton stepped up the  management and monthly monitoring of  consumption at the Ducey site. It has also  introduced various initiatives to diagnose  and measure leaks from its domestic water  facilities at Cergy 2 (50m3 of water saved  per month) and Cergy3.  PRODUCTS THAT INCORPORATE  CREATIVITY AND RESPONSIBILITY  SAFEGUARDING STRATEGIC  RAW MATERIALS The choice of components and raw  materials used in product manufacture is  also a principal force behind protecting  the environment and precious resources.  The LHMH Group: – has a speci c strategy for sourcing and  safeguarding raw materials; – applies the Convention on International  Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna  and Flora (CITES); – is also involved on an ongoing basis  with Business for Social Responsibility  (BSR) and the United Nations Conference  on Trade and Development (UNCTAD),  primarily as a member of working groups  within these organizations, aimed at estab- lishing best practices in the sourcing of  exotic leathers. In October2011, LVMH  acquired Heng Long, one of the worlds top  five crocodile skin tanneries, based in  Singapore. For many years the Perfumes &  Cosmetics Research and Development  Department has focused on ethnobotany.  The department identifies plant species  from around the world that could be used in  cosmetics, and helps protect these species  and develop local economies. Guerlain, for  instance, is a partner in the Tianzi natural  reserve in China as part of a 10-year sus- tainable development sponsorship agree- ment focusing on reforestation, orchid  planting, and a social program for local  populations. The Maison has also intro- duced an initiative for responsible cultiva- tion of vetiver on the Coimbatore high  plateaux in southern India. In the Fashion & Leather Goods business  group, Louis Vuitton always tries to select  woods with FSC or PEFC labels for store  construction, window dressings, customer  packaging and some of its exclusive prod- ucts. As a standard practice it carries out an  in-depth investigation of the source of  exotic wood to make sure the wood comes  from sustainably managed forests. Meanwhile, in the area of sustainable viti- culture supported by all relevant Maisons  (see page32 for more detail), Hennessys  wine-growing and wine-production subsidi- ary Sodepa, based in Cognac, has a 12-hec- tare vineyard that was selected in  January2011 to be part of the network of  farms identi ed by the French government  under the 2018 Ecophyto plan as being a  benchmark in environmental standards. BEST PRACTICES ECODESIGN  In addition to systematically taking  into account the EPI indicators  for each new development,  Guerlain has introduced ambitious  eco-design initiatives such as the trial  of Orchide Impriale ref lls at some of  its Paris stores. Thus, since the end  of September 2011, Guerlain has of ered  customers of this exceptional skin care  cream the possibility of ref lling  their Orchide Impriale jars at  the Svres and Passy stores.  Customer feedback has been extremely  positive and enthusiastic. The volume of the packaging has been  reduced by 15% and more recycled  materials are used for the box portion  and thermoformed inner trays.  A label on the back of the box is a further  way of informing customers about  Guerlains commitment to ecodesign. One of the products launched in 2011  was Terracotta Inca, featuring a case  made of FSC-certif ed European beech,  f nished with clear varnish  and produced by a European supplier  using semi-artisan techniques. In 2012, Guerlain will launch Noir G,  the f rst ref llable mascara. Lastly, quarterly in-Maison ecodesign  breakfasts have been introduced,  bringing together the Marketing,  Communications and Development  departments to assess the environmental  rating of Guerlain products andto review  new ideas for environmentally friendly  materials.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 27 BEST PRACTICES  ECODESIGN  Louis Vuitton strives to improve  its production methods by seeking  ways to reduce the environmental  impact of its products. Maison policy  includes a variety of technical projects  representative of the challenges faced. – The Maison continues its  comprehensive program to eliminate  solvent-based adhesives in its workshops.  In the Issoudun workshops in France,  for example, the use of solvent-based  adhesives was reduced on average by  two-thirds in 2011 compared with 2010. – Many initiatives have been undertaken  with regard to ecodesign and the optimal  use of resources. Transport packaging  continues to be optimized for many  stock-keeping units (for example,  Neverfull, Speedy and Eva) and has  resulted in a reduction of more than  100 metric tons of packaging material.  Supplies to stores in certain cities such  as Paris, New York and Tokyo are now  shipped in reusable plastic cases.  Managing the raw materials used  in product manufacture is also part of  the strategy. The Milo bag, for example,  now comes with three leather panels  instead of two, in order to cut down  onthe amount of wasted material.  Similarly, canvas used in the manufacture  of belts has been reduced by 60%.  Other Maisons are also active in  this area. As part of its packaging  management policy, Bodegas Chandon in  Argentina made signif cant strides in 2011  by reducing the amount of glass it uses  by 1,199 metric tons, a year-on-year drop  of 12%. LVMH Fragrance Brands sends  a newsletter on ecodesign (La lettre  de lco-conception) to all employees  involved in product development, while  La Grande picerie de Paris supplements  its collection of reusable bags with new,  fair-trade small organic cotton bags,  which can be folded into small pouches  and slipped into any bag. PRE-PLANNING TOOL Designed as an operational tool, the Eco- Material Handbook entitled Materials to  Consider is distributed internally and iden- tifies about forty materials that offer the  kind of environmental performance  required for the Groups products, with an  explanation of how each business can use  them. The materials are categorized by  application: wrapping, packaging, textiles  and leathers, communications and store   t-out. Minimizing materials: The Maisons have  customized tools and training programs  that allow them to incorporate environ- mental concerns into the design of their  products to the greatest extent possible.  151,621 Glass  29,626 Paper-cardboard  7,922 Plastic   2,164 Metal  294 Textile  3,547  Other packaging  material PACKAGING VOLUME BY TYPE  OF MATERIAL IN 2011 (in metric tons)  Eco-design includes reducing packaging  weight and volume, choosing specific  components and raw materials, employing  more energy-ef  cient production processes  and introducing initiatives to comply  with REACH regulations. The Perfumes &  Cosmetics Maisons created an Environmental  Performance Index (EPI) that applies to  packaging and is based on the following cri- teria: separability of material, volume,  weight, use of re lls, and environmentally  friendly material. Since 2011, the EPI has  been extended to other Group Maisons  such as Hennessy and the Champagne  Maisons. For its part, Mot & Chandon has  developed a new range of cases and sup- plied FSC-certi ed shipping crates to sup- pliers. As a result of this new working  method, Ruinart has developed a new eco- designed presentation box. Environmental labeling: LVMH and the  Groups Maisons actively follow the work  being done in France, the rest of Europe and  around the world on environmental labeling,  particularly in the Perfumes & Cosmetics,  Fashion & Leather Goods and Wines &  Spirits sectors. Sephora and Louis Vuitton,  for example, are currently participating in  trials in France. Environmental indicators  that comply with the official standard are  available on Sephoras website for bath and  shower gels and creams. For its part, Louis  Vuitton is monitoring the work being con- ducted on fashion products and partici- pated in quality testing carried out in 2011  to create a Shirt standard. (in metric tons) 2011 2010 2009 2008 Evolution  2011-2010 Wines & Spirits 163,186 148,145 115,950 147,728 10  Perfumes & Cosmetics 6,100 5,711 4,764 23,887 7 Fashion & Leather Goods 23,798 21,974 20,800 5,266 8 Watches & Jewelry 527 440 386 421 20(1) Selective Retailing 1,563  1,327 1,327 1,538 18(1) TOTAL 195,174 177,597 143,227 178,840 10  CHANGE IN PACKAGING PLACED ON THE MARKET BY BUSINESS GROUP  (1) Change associated with increase in business. 2012 Ecomaterial Handbook.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 28 PRODUCT SAFETY AND CUSTOMER  HEALTH To ensure a high level of protection of  human health and the environment from  the potential risk of chemicals, LVMH  anticipates and implements various regu- lations that apply both to the operation of  its sites and to the manufacture of its  products. REACH REGULATION The REACH regulation streamlines and  improves the former legislative framework  of the European Union governing chemical  products. The main aims of REACH are to  ensure a high level of protection of human  health and the environment from the risks  that can be posed by chemicals, to promote  alternative test methods, to ensure the free  movement of substances on the internal  market, and to enhance competitiveness  and innovation. All Maisons have incorporated REACH  regulatory requirements in their contrac- tual documents so as to involve all suppli- ers in this effort. They also carry out  laboratory tests to certify the absence of  potentially harmful substances in con- sumer goods placed on the market. Experts  from the various Maisons meet regularly as  part of a REACH working group to antic- ipate future phase-outs and to share best  practices. The LVMH group also holds  specific training courses on REACH  implementation. The Group and its Maisons actively fol- low and implement changes in similar  types of legislation in other countries, for  instance proposition65 in California. REGULATIONS ON COSMETIC  PRODUCTS The LVMH group has a clear policy on  the sensitive issue of using animals to test  the safety of  nished products: the goal is to  ensure the safety of our customers yet still  take into account animal welfare. For this  reason, since 1989 companies in the  Perfumes & Cosmetics segment have no  longer been conducting animal testing on  the products they place on the market. This  began well before the official ban in the  European Union in 2004. Developing alter- natives to animal testing is a genuine scien- tific challenge and the LVMH group  is  extremely active in this  eld. The EU regulatory framework for cos- metics products changed with the adoption  on November30, 2009 of European  Regulation on cosmetic products. This legis- lation, which will take full ef ect in July2013,  will replace directive 76/768/EEC. The  Commissions main goal with this new reg- ulation is to raise the already high level of  safety for cosmetics consumers by: –  increasing manufacturer responsibility:  minimum requirements for assessing  product safety must be clari ed; –  increasing the level of monitoring on the  market: serious adverse effects must be  noti ed to the competent authorities. The LVMH group has already been  working for several months on establishing  procedures so that it will be ready when the  new regulation takes effect. These initia- tives are all the more critical since cosmetic  regulations are spawning an increasing  amount of legislation around the world. Other European regulations have  entered into force, some recently, and have  been incorporated into LVMH procedures.  These include: –  the Globally Harmonized System  Regulation designed to standardize the  classi cation and labeling of chemicals; –  the REACH regulation. BEST PRACTICES FOR COMPLIANCE  In 2011, Louis Vuitton continued  its policy of implementing the REACH  regulation, under the direction  of its internal REACH Committee.  Specif cally, it produced a training  module aimed at buyers and developers,  performed regular screening of materials,  sent annual letters and monitored  suppliers. It also helped partners  replace non-compliant materials  where necessary. In monitoring  product compliance, Louis Vuitton  takes particular account of changes in  local product regulations – Korea  Certif cation (KC) Label,  Prop 65, regulations in Taiwan, South  Korea, and so on. Lastly, Louis Vuitton  isa member of the LVMH project  committee designed to develop  an information tool on international  standards that apply to products,  particularly their materials  and components.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 29 The LVMH group is particularly vigilant  in complying with regulations, opinions of  scienti c committees, and the recommen- dations of professional associations. It also  abides by strict internal rules for the devel- opment of new products – rules that are  also imposed on LVMH suppliers. The Group has held true to this commit- ment for several years and backs this policy  with an approach designed to anticipate  changes in international regulations. This  anticipation is possible thanks to the ef orts  of our experts who regularly participate in  the working groups of authorities in France  and the rest of Europe and are very active  in professional organizations. The work  done by our experts in monitoring all the  new regulations and changes in scientific  knowledge has led the LVMH group to ban  the use of certain substances and to work  toward reformulating certain products. This very stringent requirement guaran- tees the safety of our cosmetics, not just at  the time they are placed on the market, but  also while they are being marketed. A cus- tomer relations network has been set up so  that we can review all complaints from our  customers and carry out cosmetic vigilance  of our products. Any complaint, whether  an intolerance or a severe irritation, is  reviewed by a specialized team and  assessed by a professional, and may result  in the consumer being of ered a consulta- tion with a dermatologist. Lastly, by analyz- ing these complaints and exercising  cosmetic vigilance, we can explore new  avenues of research and improve the qual- ity of our products. EMISSION AND DISCHARGE  PREVENTION The reduction in emissions and dis- charges primarily comes from ef orts made  to limit the resources used during opera- tions at sites, workshops and stores, and in  care taken in the design and management  of the product life cycle. ATMOSPHERIC  EMISSIONS Greenhouse gas emissions: climate  change considerations have long been part  of LVMH policy. In fact, the Group led the  way in this regard when the following  Maisons completed their first Carbon  Footprints in 2002: Louis Vuitton, Mot &  Chandon, Veuve Clicquot, Hennessy,  Parfums Christian Dior, Guerlain, Parfums  Kenzo, Parfums Givenchy, Givenchy  Couture, Make Up For Ever, DFS, Sephora  and Le Bon March. Initiatives undertaken  by the Maisons after they completed their  Carbon Footprints and energy diagnostics  are described under Resource-saving ini- tiatives. Emissions generated by each site  are estimated in metric tons of CO2 (carbon  dioxide) equivalent (MtCO2e) and include  direct emissions (on-site energy produc- tion) and indirect emissions (from of -site  production of electricity used by the sites).  Greenhouse gas emissions represented a  volume of 155,362MtCO2e in 2011 versus  150,256MtCO2e in 2010. It should be noted  that 60% of sales areas (Selective Retailing,  Fashion & Leather Goods, Perfumes &  Cosmetics and Watches & Jewelry) are not  included in the consolidated financial  BEST PRACTICES FOR COMPLIANCE  In conjunction with its raw material  suppliers, Loewe is implementing a REACH  program as a basis for its environmental  strategy. – Initially, a program to test supplier  compliance was established to categorize  the chemical components most frequently  encountered in the composition of raw  materials. – A laboratory study was then launched,  taking account of suppliers and key  materials. As a result, 127 samples of the  main materials were tested (leather, exotic  leather, textiles, ready-to-wear textiles,  metal hardware, silk, packaging, and so on).   Test  number Suppliers  audited Leather 36 85% Exotic leather 13 100% Textiles 11 100% Ready-to-wear  textiles 20 100% Metal hardware 30 75% Silk 13 100% Packaging 4 100% TOTAL 127 In 2011, the Maison arranged for 278 tests  to be conducted by certif ed laboratories  on samples of supplier raw materials.  The results were shared with the suppliers  and when necessary led to plans  for corrective action. CHANGE IN GREENHOUSE  GAS EMISSIONS   (in metric tons of CO2 equivalent)  46,358 192,140* 48,723 204,667* 43,100 261,282* 40,890 272,546* 0 60,000 120,000 180,000 240,000 Metric tons of direct CO2 equivalent Metric tons of indirect CO2 equivalent Metric tons of indirect CO2 equivalent estimated for the sales  areas excluded from the scope of reporting 2008 2009 2010 2011 * Estimates of greenhouse gas emissions for sales areas excluded  from the scope of reporting and audit (60% in 2011, 60% in 2010,  50% in 2009 and 62% in 2008) are shown separately. 158,074  tons of CO2 equivalent in 2011, 154,124 tons of CO2 equivalent  in 2010, 97,119 tons of CO2 equivalent in 2009 and 112,378 tons  of CO2 equivalent in 2008. More detailed explanations are  provided in the graph on CO2 emissions by sector. The change in  2011 is due to the increase in business volumes and the  integration of new sites.   LVMH 2011 — Environment 30 CHANGE IN GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY BUSINESS GROUP    ( in metric tons of CO2 equivalent) 0 15,000 30,000 45,000 60,000 75,000 90,000 105,000 120,000 135,000 49,087 46,226 37,380 39,416 104,986* 115,932* 144,528* 146,407* 13,107* 12,611* 13,444* 11,797* 2,770* 3,205* 4,124* 12,143* 1,318 647 3,021 2,602 67,872* 74,098* 102,285* 101,071* Other  activities Selective  Retailing Perfumes  & Cosmetics Watches  & Jewelry Fashion  & Leather Goods Wines  & Spirits   2008 emissions     including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting   2010 emissions     including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting   2009 emissions     including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting   2011 emissions     including sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting statements; they generated greenhouse gas  emissions estimated at 158,074MtCO2e in  2011, versus an estimated 154,524MtCO2e  in 2010. The DFS and Sephora boutiques  contribute signi cantly to electricity con- sumption and even more to greenhouse gas  emissions. This is because higher emission  factors are applied in the host countries of  these stores (Australia, China, New Zealand  and the United States in particular).  With equal electricity consumption,  CO2 emissions are proportionately higher  than in France. Transportation is also a major source of  CO2 emissions. Although transportation is  not carried out directly by the Groups com- panies, it is nevertheless subject to speci c  measures, such as the preference for mar- itime transport. The Group has begun  detailed reporting on transportation: –  upstream transport: components from sup- pliers sites to the Groups manufacturing  sites. Initially only the principal compo- nents (bottles, leather, flasks, etc.) were  included; –  downstream transport: finished products  from manufacturing sites to distribution  platforms. Results are already available for the Groups  principal Maisons. The following Maisons  were included in the reporting scope this  year: Mot & Chandon, Veuve Clicquot,  Hennessy, Belvedere, Glenmorangie, Cloudy    2011 2010 2009 2008   Metric tons  direct CO2 eq    Metric tons  indirect CO2 eq Metric tons  direct CO2 eq    Metric tons  indirect CO2 eq Metric tons  direct CO2 eq    Metric tons  indirect CO2 eq Metric tons  direct CO2 eq  Metric tons  indirect CO2 eq Wines & Spirits 25,327 14,089 23,763 13,617 29,161 17,065 28,315 20,772 Perfumes & Cosmetics 4,011 97,060 5,566 96,719 6,953 5,658 7,052 6,055 Fashion & Leather Goods 4,662 7,135 6,338 7,106 4,935 69,163 4,315 63,557 Watches & Jewelry 791 11,352 582 3,542 736 2,469 757 2,013 Selective Retailing 5,224 141,183 5,752 138,776 6,838 109,094 99,165 Other activities 875 1,727 1,099 1,922 100 1,218 98 578 DETAILS OF DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS BY YEAR *Estimates of greenhouse gas emissions for sales areas excluded from the scope of reporting and audit (60% in 2011, 60% in 2010, 50% in 2009 and 62% in 2008) are shown separately.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 31 Bay, Cape Mentelle, Chandon Australia,  Bodegas Chandon, Louis Vuitton, Cline,  Parfums Christian Dior, Parfums Givenchy,  Parfums Kenzo, Guerlain, Make Up For Ever,  Cortech, Les Ateliers Horlogers and TAG  Heuer. This reporting system will continue to  be improved in coming years. Hennessy gives priority to sustainable  transport for its finished products.  Products are mainly shipped by boat (more  than 92% in metric tons/km) followed by  road and rail-road transport. The Maison is  strongly committed to the latter form of  transport and, accordingly, in 2011 almost  46% of its shipments from Cognac were  sent by rail. For Champagne, a logistics  platform shared by all the Maisons opti- mizes the ef  ciency of the transport phase  and makes maritime transport standard  practice as far as possible (more than 90%  in metric tons/km). Sephora continues to develop electric  transport to deliver goods to more than  80% of its 250 French stores. Louis Vuitton  also continues to favor inland waterway  transport to the port of Le Havre. VOC emissions: LVMH also actively  monitors VOC (volatile organic com- pound) emissions, which concern the  Spirits Maisons because of alcohol evapo- ration during the barrel-aging process  and, to a lesser extent, the Perfumes &  Cosmetics and Fashion & Leather Goods  Maisons, which may need to use volatile  substances (glues, solvents, and so on)  in their manufacturing processes. Louis  Vuitton is going on its planned elimination  of all solvent-based adhesives in its  workshops. Noise, electromagnetic waves and air  quality: Checks and regular measurements  are carried out in and around production  sites and logistics centers. For example,  Louis Vuitton launched a program to meas- ure the electromagnetic fields at the new  warehouse for the Europe region. A similar  operation was carried out at the Model and  Prototype workshop and Quality-Control  Laboratory at Paris headquarters to meas- ure air quality. DISCHARGES INTO SOIL  AND WATER The only signi cant relevant discharges  are those of organic substances released  into water and which contribute to  eutrophication (excessive algae and water  plant growth). These substances are meas- ured by chemical oxygen demand (COD),  calculated after the discharges have been  treated at plants owned or shared by  the Group. Treatment refers to clean-up  by local authorities, self-clean-up in aera- tion tanks, or land spreading operations.  COD is actively monitored at all sites of  the Wines & Spirits and Perfumes &  Cosmetics Maisons. The Maisons measure  UPSTREAM TRANSPORT 2011  CO2 eq emissions  in metric tons Total Wines  & Spirits Total Fashion  & Leather Goods Total Perfumes  & Cosmetics Total Watches  & Jewelry Road 6,777 2,031 1,417 – Rail 18 9 – – Plane 190 57,551 11,052 1,357 Boat 139 57 490 – TOTAL 7,124 59,648 12,959 1,357 DOWNSTREAM TRANSPORT 2011   CO2 eq emissions  in metric tons   Total Wines  & Spirits Total Fashion  & Leather Goods Total Perfumes  & Cosmetics Total Watches  & Jewelry Road 38,282 4,267 4,485 9 Rail 288 8 – – Plane 16,187 139,428 36,746 1,563 Boat 4,482 66 428 – TOTAL 59,239 143,769 41,659 1,572 COD on a regular basis, and sometimes  daily during periods of high-volume, con- centrated discharges, such as during the  grape harvest for the Wines & Spirits busi- ness group. Management of waste water and rain  water: Bodegas Chandon has made further  improvements to its system for treating  effluent, reducing the organic load of  discharged ef  uent by 70%. This has ena- bled the water to be re-used for irrigating  green areas. At Louis Vuitton, detergent- based fountains are now systematically  placed in closed systems at all sites to avoid  any discharge of adhesives or dyes. And  the ChampagneMaisons have finished  COD AFTER TREATMENT  (in metric tons/year) 2011 2010 2009 2008 Wines & Spirits 2,227.3(1) 2,107 3,291.2 1,395.9 Perfumes & Cosmetics 13.6(2) 18.3 14.2  16.1 TOTAL 2,240.9 2,125.3 3,305.4 1,412 (1) Change related to the decline in operations at some of the Glenmorangie sites. (2) Change related to the increase in operations and improved measurement of discharge at one Glenmorangie site.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 32 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 57,446 38,482 37,795 43,447 4,266 3,978 3,607 4,738 6,304 6,391 6,819 7,379 222 214 215 283 706 647 1323 1212 7,143 6,301 7,504 7,509 CHANGE IN WASTE PRODUCTION BY BUSINESS GROUP (in metric tons) Other  activities Selective  Retailing Perfumes  & Cosmetics Watches  & Jewelry Fashion  & Leather Goods Wines  & Spirits   2008 Waste production   2010 Waste production   2009 Waste production   2011 Waste production CHANGE IN WASTE PRODUCTION   (in metric tons)  195307 76,087 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 64,568 56,013 57,263 2008 2009 2010 2011 upgrading the tank used to treat pressing  effluent through aerated storage at the  Romont site near Reims. The challenge of sustainable viticulture:  All relevant Wines & Spirits Maisons sup- port sustainable viticulture, which drasti- cally reduces the need for phytosanitary  products that have a major impact on the  environment. Deeply committed to sustainable viticul- ture for historic and strategic reasons, the  Wines & Spirits Maisons are introducing a  variety of initiatives based on responsible  or organic farming. Hennessy has embarked on a sustain- able viticulture program aimed at reducing  the use of phytosanitary inputs. In 2011, its  wine-growing subsidiary, Sodepa, was cho- sen to join a network of gold standard  farms established by the French govern- ment under the 2018 Ecophyto Plan. A  series of initiatives were carried out at the  vineyard, including the installation of  weather stations to allow treatment dos- ages to be adjusted as appropriate. A more  intensive experiment was conducted on  certain portions of the land, using mating  disruption as a substitute for insecticides.  Hennessy also supports biodiversity pro- tection and therefore supplemented these  initiatives with the planting of hedgerows  in partnership with local non-pro t organ- ization Promhaies. As part of their ef orts to support biodi- versity and sustainable viticulture, the  Champagne Maisons are also conducting  a variety of initiatives, such as the planting  of hedgerows to enhance wine-growing  landscapes and promote biodiversity,  and the use of mating disruption methods  to protect the vines from grape worms,  which eliminates the need for insecticides  on 90% of the vines. For Veuve Clicquot  and Mot & Chandon, the battle against  fungal diseases is a major challenge that  is being addressed in numerous ways,  speci cally: –  viticulture trials using organically certi-  ed inputs; –  introduction of a program known as the  Third Way, which combines the use of  synthetic products applied during the  critical flowering period, with organic  products applied at the beginning and  end of the process when the vine is less  vulnerable to attack; –  customized dosages of phytosanitary  products based on the height of the   LVMH 2011 — Environment 33 vegetation, which reduces the amount of  phytosanitary products used to  ght mil- dew by 15% to 20%; –  testing of spray equipment fitted with  panels to recover phytosanitary products  not in contact with vegetation, reducing  the quantity of inputs used by 20%. With regard to soil maintenance, Mot &  Chandon uses optical camera technology  for carefully targeted weed control. With  the advent of the age of zero herbicides,  under-row mechanical weeding is being  extended to all vineyards. Numanthia, in Spain, is also involved in  responsible management of legacy vine- yards whose ecosystem needs to be pre- served through the use of organic products  and by reducing both the number of passes  through the vines and the use of phytosani- tary products. CHANGE IN HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCTION BY BUSINESS GROUP  (in metric tons) Hazardous waste 2011 Hazardous waste 2010 Hazardous waste 2009 Hazardous waste 2008 Wines & Spirits 178 196 146 192 Fashion & Leather Goods 121 73 61 64 Perfumes & Cosmetics (1) 896(1) 776 767 738 Watches & Jewelry 29 17 14 27 Selective Retailing 64 17 17 12 Other activities 79 111 - 1 TOTAL 1,367 1,190 1,005 1,034 (1) Certain products removed from the production circuit are classi ed as hazardous waste and are treated in the hazardous waste sector to prevent any violation. RECOVERY OF WASTE PRODUCED BY LVMH GROUP SITES IN 2011 Percentage of waste recovered Activities Reused Materials recycled Incinerated with energy % total recovered Wines & Spirits 5 81 4 90 Fashion & Leather Goods 3 47 18 68 Perfumes & Cosmetics  5 68 24 97 Watches & Jewelry - 64 30 94 Selective Retailing 6 42 37 85 Other activities - 97 2 99 TOTAL 5 73 11 89 Cloudy Bay in New Zealand has invested  in under-row weeding equipment to reduce  the use of herbicides. In the  rst year, the  volume of herbicides used dropped by  more than 75%. PERCENTAGE OF WASTE RECOVERED 70 75 80 85 90 95 74.2 82 85 86 93 94 88 92 92 89 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011  LVMH 2011 — Environment 34 WASTE REDUCTION  AND RECOVERY The Groups companies are continuing  their ef ort in waste sorting and recovery. On  average, 89% of waste was recovered in 2011  versus 92% in 2010. The percentage change  is primarily related to better tracking of  some of the Estates & Wines Maison waste.  At the same time, waste production in 2011  increased by 13%. In 2011, the breakdown  of metric tonnage by sector was as follows: Since 2010 Perfumes & Cosmetics,  Sephora and, currently, Louis Vuitton have  been using the CEDRE (Center for Docu- mentation, Research and Experimentation  on Accidental Water Pollution) platform  to sort, recycle and recover their waste.  This recycling platform accepts several  types of waste: obsolete packaging, obsolete  alcoholic products, promotional materials,  testers used in stores, and empty packaging  returned to stores by customers. In 2011, the  platform processed some 1,300metric tons  of waste, up 30% over 2010, when 1,000met- ric tons were processed. The platform was  also able to resell some of the materials, such  as glass, cardboard, wood, metal, plastic,  alcohol and cellophane, to a network of spe- cialist recyclers. Other avenues are cur- rently being explored so that other Group  Maisons could dispose of such items as  obsolete skincare products. In addition to  the CEDRE platform, Guerlain allows its  customers to return their empty products  to its Paris stores for sorting and recycling.  To facilitate this eco-initiative, the stores  have a designated counter and provide cus- tomers with information on the service. Spotlighting different initiatives allows  alternative solutions to be sought. Le Bon  March is introducing a methane conversion  project for food waste at La Grande picerie.  Sephora North America is continued its sup- port of the g2 Revolution program that  promotes the recycling of obsolete per- fumes, skincare products and makeup, as  well as makeup accessories and small elec- tronic devices. And the ChampagneMaisons  are heavily involved in energy recovery from  viticulture biomass, such as grubbed out  vines – more than 452 metric tons in 2011 –  which are now sent to the new biomass  boiler at the Goyard distillery. Louis Vuitton is continuing its partnership  with the non-pro t organization La Rserve  des arts, a platform for recovering and recy- cling commercial waste that can be passed  on to designers. Material from the Asnire  workshop and Louis Vuitton Cultural Space  are thus given a second life by costume  designers, architects, young artists,  choreographers and sculptors, adding value  and creativity to the cultural sector. Fabric,  leather and clothing have also been donated  to fashion and leather design schools, such  as Parsons School of Design in New York,  Saint Martins College in London, and the  Paris Fashion Institute. Louis Vuitton has  also started recycling metal hardware with a  new contractor who can recover gold, among  other metals. The pro ts are used to support  the workshops environmental initiatives.  Louis Vuitton has deployed a vast array of  initiatives to raise awareness about waste  and provide training in waste sorting and  recycling. For example, it has produced a  sorting guide, organized a sorting contest  and created a fun informational panel.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 35 PROGRAMS EXTENDED  TO CIVIL SOCIETY COMMUNICATING  OUR COMMITMENTS  AND VALUES  The LVMH group advocates a model of  responsible consumption and marketing,  particularly when it comes to its Wines &  Spirits operations. The brands convey mes- sages that incorporate the challenges and  requirements of sustainable development  and corporate responsibility by promoting  the intrinsic quality of people and products.  Thus the values reflected in the Maisons  activities and strategies are most particularly  excellence, exclusivity, know-how, innova- tion, skills transfer and sustainability. ENCOURAGING RESPONSIBLE  CONSUMPTION The Groups Wines & Spirits Maisons are  committed to responsible alcohol consump- tion. In 2003, Mot Hennessy adopted a  Marketing and Communications Code of  Conduct, which was updated in 2008. It  provides clear consumption principles and  complies with the Mot Hennessy Charter  PROGRAMS EXTENDED TO CIVIL SOCIETY A model of responsible  consumption The critical challenge  of preserving biodiversity Creating environmental value  for the benef t of society  LVMH 2011 — Environment 36 on responsible alcohol consumption. All  employees are familiar with this charter  and adhere to its principles.  For instance, when new employees join  Mot Hennessy, their welcome program  includes a presentation by the Human  Resources Department of the Maisons  responsible consumption policy. New  employees are introduced to the principal  awareness-raising tools – a Charter, a  Marketing Code and educational literature  – aimed at employees and visitors alike. In 2010, the Wines & Spirits Maisons  began placing a responsible consumption  message on bottle labels. As the labels are  renewed, so the message becomes more  widespread. Where possible, the message  includes a reference to a website in the lan- guage of the country in question, offering  clear and specific information about con- sumption thresholds, occasions to avoid  drinking alcohol, how to arrange rides for  party guests, and so on. A similar responsi- ble-consumption labeling program is also  being developed for Mot Hennessy brands  around the world. PUBLIC AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS  AND CUSTOMER INFORMATION The Groups Maisons form flagship  partnerships whose primary goal is to  support the environmental messages  carried by the brands. Louis Vuitton, for  example, has an ongoing involvement with  Climate Project, the non-pro t organiza- tion launched by Al Gore to educate the  general public about the ef ects of climate  change, and Green Cross International,  the Foundation created by former Russian  president Mikhal Gorbachev. TAG Heuer,  meanwhile,  continues the partnership it  formed in 2009 with Leonardo DiCaprio  to raise funds to benefit the Natural  Resources Defense Council and Green  Cross International. Drawing on their heritage and traditions,  the Groups Maisons are helping to promote  the know-how of their craftsmen and  employees both locally and nationally. On  October15 and 16, 2011, LVMH organized  les Journes Particulires (Special Days)  during which 25 exceptional sites in France  and other European countries were open to  the public. In-Maison les Portes Ouvertes  (Open Days) featuring a presentation on  environmental initiatives were also held at  many of the Louis Vuitton workshops and  were attended by 1,000 employees along  with their friends and families. The goal of  more targeted encounters is to improve  exchanges and dialogue between the  Maisons and their stakeholders. In France,  for example, staf  from Louis Vuitton pro- vided assistance to the Sustainable  Development Advisory Committee of the  Greater Cergy-Pontoise District Council on  eco business parks. For the renovation of  LaSamaritaine (see page21), various infor- mational meetings were held before and  during the clearing and asbestos removal  work, as well as during the projects devel- opment phase. A model Maison contain- ing all the appropriate presentation media  was opened to the public and provided  information about the sites history and spe- ci c features of the projects architecture.  Local residents and the town hall of the 1st  arrondissement were fully involved in the  information and consulting process, partic- ularly with regard to how the project would  impact the Rue Baillet, which is adjacent to  the La Samaritaine building. To improve consumer information and  awareness, LVMH and Sephora are partic- ipating in a project started in 2011 by the  French government to test environmental  information labeling. And last but not least,  many of the Groups Maisons, such as  Guerlain and Louis Vuitton, now have  pages on their websites dedicated to the  environment. CONTRIBUTING TO PROFESSIONAL  EXCHANGE The Group and its Maisons are involved  in a number of technical projects, according  to their sector and specific local, national  and international challenges. Aware of the advances that can be made  through holding discussions and collaborat- ing with others, particularly in environ- mental matters, LVMH makes a point of  forming key partnerships with national and  international non-pro t organizations, local  communities and educational institutions.  For example, the Group is a member of the  non-pro t organization Ore (which covers  businesses, regions and the environment)  and co-chairs the strategic committee of  SHOWCASING  UNIQUE  MATERIALS  Guerlain has introduced responsible  vetiver cultivation in the high plains above  the town of Coimbatore in southern India.  The vetiver sustainable development  project came about during a visit  by Guerlain perfume maker,  Thierry Wasser. Vetiver cultivation would  of er local people a new responsible  farming activity that would safeguard  the environment while giving Guerlaina  new and unique raw material for  its vetiver-based perfumes.  The entire vetiver plant can be used  in three ways: the grass makes excellent fodder for livestock, the base provides  new cuttings, and undistilled roots  can be made into mats and baskets.  The harvesting and use of vetiver  is therefore a perennial source  of additional revenue for local farmers.  Furthermore, vetiver requires very little  labor and maintenance and grows easily  with little water and no pesticides.  Its roots limit soil erosion and  improve the soils moisture content  and fertility: thanks to vetiver,  the crop of other plants can increase  by 30% to 50%. As part of the project,  solar panels will be installed to power  the irrigation pumps and a study is under  way to limit the use of wood during  distillation. Transporting vetiver  essence from India to Le Havre and  on to the Parfums Guerlain  workshops in Orphin, France,  will be by boat.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 37 the Foundation for Research in Biodiversity  (FRB). Other Maisons are also active in this  area, such as Bodegas Chandon, which is a  member of the Sustainable Development  Commission of Argentina Wineries, a  trade association whose main goal is to  de ne and set the parameters for the wine  industrys key sustainability indicators  when it comes to water and energy con- sumption. Bodegas Chandon is also part of  the clean production program, supported  by the Mendoza Environment Secretary  and the Inter-American Development Bank  (IADB). The programs aim is to foster syn- ergies between the government and wine- production businesses in order to train and  educate suppliers, provide information to  the general public and increase the per- centage of material that is recovered and  recycled. In addition to its work with the Responsible  Jewellery Council, the group continues its  involvement with Business for Social  Responsibility (BSR). In particular, it belongs  to a working group set up to establish best  practices in the sourcing of exotic leathers. Finally, LVMH makes frequent presenta- tions to major business schools (ESSEC,  HEC, etc.) and universities (Lonard-de- Vinci, Saint- Quentin- en-Yvelines  and others) about the environmental chal- lenges faced by its business groups and  operations.  THE CRUCIAL CHALLENGE  OF BIODIVERSITY Protecting biodiversity is the ultimate  goal of all environmental ef orts. The com- petitiveness and social acceptability of  LVMH activities depend directly on their  ability to protect and let  ourish the essen- tial resources that make up the living world.  In addition to the various initiatives already  undertaken to promote biological diversity  (site management and water conservation,  sourcing of materials, sustainable viticul- ture, ethnobotany, and reducing the impact  of CO2 emissions on biodiversity), LVMH is  raising the awareness of its employees and  the general public of the challenges of bio- diversity. Various Maisons introduced a  number of initiatives in 2011 as part of the  United Nations Organization (UNO)  International Year of the Forest. Hennessy,  for instance, organized a conference on  April6, 2011 on sustainable forest manage- ment and certified woods, followed by a  demonstration of cooperage skills. Forests  have exceptionally rich ecosystems and are  the planets lungs. They are home to 80% of  land-based biodiversity and a source of life  and employment for 1.8billion people. ENCOURAGING AWARENESS  OF OUR INTERDEPENDENCE  ON BIODIVERSITY The LVMH group subscribes to Frances  2011-2020 National Biodiversity Plan,  which was unveiled by the French govern- ment on the eve of World Biodiversity Day  on May22, 2011. The plan contains Frances  share of the international commitments  endorsed in Nagoya in 2010 to curb biodi- versity loss. When developing and managing their  sites, the Maisons pay close attention to  safeguarding green areas and making sure  the workshops are integrated into the  environment. For example, at the Sainte- Florence workshop in Vende, Louis  Vuitton is helping to enhance the landscape  by creating a meadow and footpath.  Similarly, the height of the Louis Vuitton  Foundation for Creation Museum has been  designed to blend in with the tree line of  the Jardin and Bois de Boulogne. The  Group is also deeply committed to sustain- able viticulture (see under Emission and  discharge prevention), ethnobotany and  sourcing of precious leathers (see under  Safeguarding strategic raw materials).  Lastly, in parallel with their activities and as  part of their commitment to the commu- nity, the Maisons support a number of  reforestation and plant species conserva- tion projects. RESTORING  THE ECOSYSTEM The Belvedere distillery in Zyrardw,  Poland was founded in 1910. It uses water  purif ed by a special process that yields  a unique-tasting vodka. Belvedere  established the Foundation for the  Protection of the Environment in  partnership with the town of Zyrardw  and local farmers. The Foundation carries  out a variety of projects, such as cleaning  the River Pisia and maintaining irrigation  of the canals and surface waters.  In 2011, 13.5 metric tons of waste were  collected. The Foundation also supports  the Zyrardw – Garden City project,  an interschool waste-sorting challenge,  which in 2011 resulted in the collection  of 33.4 metric tons of waste,  and a photographic and art competition  on environmental issues.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 38 Through Orchidarium, its orchid  research platform, Guerlain has partnered  with the Tianzi natural reserve in China  under a 10-year sponsorship agreement  which has four areas of focus: restitution of  the original tropical forest, the introduction  and cultivation of local orchid species, pro- tection of all local biodiversity and particu- larly the regions threatened flora and  fauna, and lastly, a social component con- sisting of support of economic and social  development for the local population.  Speci cally, Bulang workers receive train- ing in orchid cultivation and environmental  protection, are paid salaries that are higher  than the national average and are given  permanent employment contracts. In addi- tion to sponsoring Chinas Tianzi natural  reserve, the Guerlain Orchidarium also sup- ports two other ventures: the Experimental  Garden in Switzerland and the Basic  Research Laboratory in Strasbourg. As part of the Louis Vuitton Forest pro- ject, Louis Vuitton has financed the pur- chase of a forest located in Japans Nagano  region. In 2011, the projects third year,  felled wood was given to the architect  Shigeru Ban to be used to make shelters  and furniture for Japans disaster victims.  The project was also supported by profits  donated from the design and sale of 150 edi- tions of the Louis Vuitton Forest Box. Following the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan on March11, 2011, and independently  of donations made to the Japanese Red  Cross to help disaster victims, Louis Vuitton  is supporting the Forests Are Lovers of the  Sea project, devised by an oyster farmer  from the Miyagi Prefecture, Shigeatsu  Hatakeyama, to help rebuild the oyster   elds destroyed by the tsunami. Since 1989,  Shigeatsu Hatakeyama and his non-profit  organization have been helping to improve  river water and treat the sea water used for  oyster farming by planting deciduous trees. THE CRITICAL CHALLENGE  OF PROTECTING BEES For many years the Maisons have been  supporting initiatives to protect bees, which  are the sentinels of a healthy ecosystem.  Bee mortality continues to increase as a  result of a number of factors, including pes- ticides, GMOs and a rise in the number of  hornets. Two Maisons which have a historical  association with bees are Chaumet, which  has supported the Terre dAbeilles (Land  of Bees) association since 2002, and  Guerlain, which has entered into an envi- ronmental sponsorship agreement with the  Ouessant Black Bee Conservatory. Like  Guerlain, Louis Vuitton has set up hives at  some of its sites (its corporate headquarters  at Pont Neuf in Paris, the Cergy Pointoise  logistics sites, and its Hong Kong warehouse)  and in 2011 signed a three-year study and  research partnership agreement with the  French National Center for Scientific  Research, the CNRS. To help preserve the  black bee, the CNRS Honeybee Evolution  and Behavior Team (EVOLBEE) has  devised a project entitled Comparative  Activity of Bees in the Black Bee Conser- vatory in the Urban and Agricultural Zones  of le-de-France. The goal is to analyze and  compare the dif erences observed between  urban colonies of black bees and colonies at  the Ile-de-France Black Bee Conservatory  (CANIF), located in the Haute Valle de  Chevreuse natural regional park, by cross- referencing data collected within and out- side the park (temperature, rainfall, lighting  times, and so on). During Sustainable Development Week  from April1 to 7, 2011, Louis Vuittons cor- porate headquarters organized an event  on the theme of the honeybee. It included  an exhibition of photography by ric  Tourneret entitled Bees and Men on bee- keeping around the world, and a work by  artist Paule Kingleur called Luxury Hotel  for Endangered Bees, produced from  leather cut-offs from the Asnires work- shop collected under the Rserve des Arts  recycling program. Employees were also  offered eight beekeeping workshops and  the chance to take part in a Bee Quiz. The  event was organized to coincide with the  2011 As Sweet as Honey spring window  displays.  CREATING  ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE Today, addressing the challenge of safe- guarding the environment and, more  broadly, ful lling corporate responsibility  are unquestionably factors that strengthen  the brands value and reputation vis--vis  society and stakeholders. These factors are  specifically taken into account by extra- financial ratings agencies, which review  how LVMH manages and anticipates risks  and opportunities from the perspective of  CO2 emissions, how it addresses biodiver- sity, conservation of raw materials and the  supply of strategic resources, and how it  incorporates customer health and safety  considerations into product design and use. Hives at the Louis Vuitton logistic Center.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 39 SUSTAINED ENVIRONMENTAL  INVESTMENT  The seriousness with which the LVMH  group takes account of its environmental  challenges is reflected in the investments  made by the Maisons. In 2011, expenditure  directly related to environmental protec- tion totaled 15.6million: 7.7million for  operating expenses (versus 6.9million in  2010) and 7.9million for investment (ver- sus 6million in 2010). Provisions for envi- ronmental risk at December31, 2011 stood  at 12.9million. This total amount of environmental  expenditure does not include all the other  expenses that underpin the Groups com- mitment to the environment, such as addi- tional costs related to high environmental  quality standards for buildings, in-Maison  technical training and support, environ- mental sponsorship initiatives, and external  partnerships. The environmental expense items were  recognized in accordance with the recom- mendations made by the French National  Accounting Board (CNC). Operating  expenses and investments were carried for- ward for each of the following items: –  protection of the ambient air and  climate; – waste water management; – waste management; –  protection and clean-up of the soil, under- ground water and surface water; –  protection against noise and vibrations; –  protection of biodiversity and the land- scape; – protection against radiation; – research and development; –  other environmental protection activities. CREATING  TANGIBLE VALUE  All of the Groups environmental ini- tiatives generate savings in the short,  medium and long term. The sum of the  savings generated, costs avoided and gains  made, which are not monetized today as  positive externalities for the 60 or so  Group brands are not subject to internal  consolidation. The Environmental  Department nevertheless tracks and pro- motes the many internal best practices  which represent value created from site  operations and product design and manu- facturing processes. Locally, the Maisons are involved in a vari- ety of initiatives and their commitment is  well recognized by stakeholders. For exam- ple, in September2011 Parfums Christian  Dior and its site at Saint-Jean-de-Braye in  France were awarded two peony awards for  their environmentally friendly initiatives in  energy, water, waste management, transport/ mobility, introduction of standards, responsi- ble purchasing, community relations and  organizational management. This award is  part of the Eco-Responsible Cosmetic  Valley charter, introduced in October2009  by the Cosmetic Valley competitiveness  VALUE RECOGNIZED BY EXTRA-FINANCIAL  RATINGS AGENCIES AND STAKEHOLDERS In 2011, the LVMH group was recognized by the following key indices on the basis of  responsible investment criteria: DJSI  (Europe and World) FTSE4Good  Global 100 ASPI  Eurozone ESI (Ethibel Sustainability  Index): Ethibel Excellence  and Ethibel Pioneer LVMH was also recognized in the  Clothing, Accessories & Footwear  category in 2012 SAM Sustainability  Yearbook, as a member of the  SAM Bronze Class.   Other assessments and classi cations include: A score of 64/100  in the Carbon Disclosure  Project 2011 (November 2011) A rating of 64.7/100 for 2010 awarded  by the French Center for Company  Information (CFIE) as part of the  2011 Annual Study on Social  and Environmental Information in Corporate  Annual Reports (November 2011). LVMH has also  participated  in the CDP Water  Disclosure  and Forest Footprint  Disclosure programs  since their inception.  LVMH is also  member of  the Global  Compact. cluster, the  rst global center of perfume and  cosmetic resources. Under the charter,  awards are given in the form of up to four  peonies, depending on the importance of the  eco-responsible initiatives undertaken by  the clusters 45members.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 40 OBJECTIVES AIM FOR A HIGH LEVEL OF ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Strictly comply  with environmental  regulations  Holding company Systematically verify environmental compliance during internal f nancial  site audits Ongoing  Holding company Maintain the French and international environmental regulatory watch Ongoing Reduce environmental  impact at industrial  and administrative sites  and shipping hubs: water,  energy, waste, transport, etc.  Wines & Spirits  Develop rail transport for a target of 25% of products shipped Achieved  Wines & Spirits Obtain carbon neutrality for one Maison Ongoing  Wines & Spirits Begin construction of a new High Environmental Quality building  at a Champagne Maison Achieved  Wines & Spirits Implement an energy recovery system for a cooling unit to save 1000 kWh Achieved  Selective Retailing Reduce the energy consumption of one Maison by 20% Ongoing  Perfumes & Cosmetics Continue to reduce water consumption at one production site  (by at least 50%) Achieved  Watches & Jewelry Finalize the installation of 750 m2 of photovoltaic panels Achieved  Wines & Spirits Reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of one Champagne Maison by 20%  within 10 years Ongoing FOSTER A COLLECTIVE PURPOSE Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Involve  all employeess  Holding company Develop a new environmental reporting tool Achieved  Holding company and Maisons Educate all Group employees during Sustainable Development Week Achieved  Wines & Spirits Include an environment module in the training given to all grape-harvest  seasonal workers (presses) Ongoing Distribute the results to  all levels of management  Holding company Make the 2010 environmental results available to all employees  on the LVMH environmental intranet Achieved The tables below indicate the objectives assigned to a given Group Maison. ACHIEVEMENTS COMPARED WITH 2011 OBJECTIVES  LVMH 2011 — Environment 41 CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Have an ef ective management  system, audited at least once every  three years  Wines & Spirits Obtain renewal of the ISO 22000 certif cation Achieved  Perfumes & Cosmetics Obtain ISO 14001 certif cation for 3 industrial sites Achieved  Fashion & Leather Goods Obtain ISO 14001 certif cation for all workshops of one Maison Ongoing (2012) Detect, prevent and  reduce all environmental risks  All Train a second ISO 14001 internal audit team Achieved  Wines & Spirits Conduct an environmental audit with 220 grape suppliers Ongoing DESIGN PRODUCTS BY INTEGRATING ENVIRONMENTAL INNOVATION AND CREATIVITY Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Include environmental  considerations in the design  of Group products, internally  and when dealing with suppliers  and subcontractors   Holding company  and Maisons Distribute to marketing, purchasing and development managers  a seventh version of the Materials to Consider: Eco-material Handbook  and maintain the watch on environmentally friendly materials,  processes and products Achieved  Perfumes & Cosmetics Make the use of the CEDRE internal recycling platform standard practice Achieved  Wines & Spirits Implement reusable crates for the delivery of certain packaging components Continue the launch of the lighter bottle Achieved   Holding company and  Selective Retailing Participate in the French trial of including environmental information  on product labeling Achieved  (LVMH and  Sephora) MAKE COMMITMENTS OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Be involved with  stakeholderss  Holding company Continue the work with ORE, the BSR, the Responsible Jewellery  Council, the Federation for Research on Biodiversity and 11 other partner  organizations and associations. Ongoing  Wines & Spirits Open sites to the public during Heritage Days Ongoing  Fashion & Leather Goods  Watches & Jewelry  Perfumes & Cosmetics Develop partnerships with environmental NGOs such as Green Cross,  The Climate Project and Terre dAbeilles Achieved  Holding company Continue sharing best practices with small and medium-sized companies  in the Paris region in conjunction with the le-de-France Sustainable  Development Club Achieved  LVMH 2011 — Environment 42 AIM FOR A HIGH LEVEL OF ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Strictly comply with  environmental regulations  Holding company Systematically verify environmental compliance during internal f nancial  audits of sites Ongoing  Holding company Maintain the French and international environmental regulatory watch Ongoing Reduce environmental  impact at industrial  and administrative sites  and shipping hubs: water,  energy, waste, transport, etc.   Holding company  and Maisons Def ne best practices for store lighting and air conditioning 2012   Holding company  and Maisons Introduce systems that measure energy consumption by item  into pilot stores 2013  Wines & Spirits Obtain carbon neutrality for one Maison Ongoing  Wines & Spirits Continue construction of a new High Environmental Quality building  at one Champagne Maison 2012  Selective Retailing Reduce the energy consumption of one Maison by 20% Ongoing  Wines & Spirits Discontinue the use of fuel oil for natural gas and reduce CO2 emissions  by 20% 2013  Wines & Spirits Increase herbicide-free farming areas 2012 and  beyond FOSTER A COLLECTIVE PURPOSE Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Involve all employees   Holding company  and Maisons Enhance the new web-based environmental reporting tool with new  indicators for products, biodiversity and CO2 emissions (Scope 3) 2012   Holding company  and Maisons Raise awareness of all Group employees during Sustainable Development  Week and European Green Week 2012  Wines & Spirits Include the environment in the training for all grape-harvest (presses)  seasonal workers Ongoing Distribute the results  to all levels of management   Holding company  and Maisons Deploy the Groups environmental KPIs at eight pilot Maisons 2012 OBJECTIVES FOR 2012 AND BEYOND (NOT EXHAUSTIVE)  LVMH 2011 — Environment 43 CONTROL ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Have an ef ective management  system, audited at least once  every three years  Perfumes & Cosmetics Obtain environmental certif cation at one production site 2012  Fashion & Leather Goods Obtain ISO 14001 certif cation for the supply chain of one Maison 2013  Fashion & Leather Goods Obtain ISO 14001 certif cation for all workshops of one Maison Ongoing (2012) Detect, prevent and reduce  all environmental risks   Holding company  and Maisons Develop a tool for international regulatory watch for products 2013   Holding company  and Maisons Develop a tool to assist with the environmental audit of suppliers 2012 DESIGN PRODUCTS BY INTEGRATING ENVIRONMENTAL INNOVATION AND CREATIVITY Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Include environmental  considerations in the design  of Group products, internally  and when dealing with suppliers  and subcontractors   Holding company  and Maisons Distribute to marketing, purchasing and development managers an eighth  version of the Materials to Consider: Eco-material Handbook and maintain  the watch on environmentally friendly materials, processes and products 2012   Perfumes & Cosmetics,  Wines & Spirits Deploy a web tool to calculate the Environmental Performance Index (EPI)  of packaging 2012  Fashion & Leather Goods Establish a working group on product reparability 2012   Holding company  and Maisons Continue to take part in trials in France of providing environmental  information on product labels and participate in the development  of new labeling standards 2012 MAKE COMMITMENTS OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Strategy Business group Objective assigned to the Company in 2011 Deadline Be involved with stakeholders  Holding company Continue the work with ORE, the BSR, the Responsible Jewellery  Council, the Federation for Research on Biodiversity and 11 other partner  organizations and associations Ongoing  Wines & Spirits  Perfumes & Cosmetics Open sites to the public during Heritage Days Ongoing  Fashion & Leather Goods   Watches & Jewelry   Perfumes & Cosmetics Continue partnerships with environmental NGOs such as Green Cross,  The Climate Project and Terre dAbeilles 2012  Fashion & Leather Goods Build on the partnership with the non-prof t recycling platform La Rserve  des Arts, which recovers corporate waste for the cultural sector 2012  Holding company Continue sharing best practices with small and medium-sized companies  in the Paris region in conjunction with the le-de-France Sustainable  Development Club 2012  LVMH 2011 — Environment 44 METHODOLOGY FOR THE LVMH GROUPS  ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING The LVMH group has been consolidating  environmental indicators since 1999,  which have been published since 2001.  They have been veri ed by one of the  Auditors specialized teams since 2002.  These indicators are published in  the Groups Registration Document and  Environmental Report. PROTOCOL All the consolidation and calculation  rules are de ned in the LVMH environ- mental reporting protocol, which is  updated annually and available for public  consultation from the Environmental  Department. Any request to read the  document may be made by writing to:  environnement@lvmh.fr. SCOPE OF REPORTING The reporting on environmental indicators  in 2011 covered the following: Production sites, warehouses and  administrative sites: 181 of the 208sites  owned and/or operated by the companies  controlled by the Group were covered. The  29sites not covered were primarily the  Wen Jun Distillery production site, four  recently opened Louis Vuitton workshops,  and the administrative sites of Benefit,  Berluti, Donna Karan, Pucci, Fresh, Marc  Jacobs and Thomas Pink. The change in  the reporting scope over 2010 is due to the  incorporation of Hublot. For Rossimoda,  Chandon Do Brasil and some of the holding  company sites, 2010 data were carried over.  The production sites of Bulgari and the  Heng Long tannery, acquired in 2011, are  not included in the 2011 environment  reporting scope. They will, however, be  included in 2012. Stores: reporting covers the French  stores of Cline and Guerlain, the French  stores and some international stores of  Louis Vuitton (28% of Louis Vuitton sales  area, versus 14% in 2010), Le Bon March  in Paris, the DFS stores around the world,  three Fendi stores in Italy, the Spanish  stores of Loewe, and Sephoras French  stores plus some of its US and Canadian  stores. The reporting scope does not  include the franchise stores operated by the  Fashion & Leather Goods, Perfumes &  Cosmetics and Watches & Jewelry business  groups. Lastly, depending on the environ- mental indicators, the scope of reporting  can vary signi cantly: –  energy consumption and greenhouse  gases: 63% of the sales areas of Sephoras  US and Canadian stores are covered; –  water consumption: 27% of the sales areas  of Sephoras French stores and 59% of its  US stores are covered; –  waste production: reporting does not  cover the Cline and Fendi stores, the  Loewe stores in Spain, the French stores  of Sephora and Louis Vuitton stores (with  the exception of some Japanese stores). No other environmental indicators are  used for stores. In 2011, the store reporting scope cov- ered 40% of the sales areas for energy con- sumption and 26% for water consumption.  The environmental indicators for stores  that are not covered are deducted by  extrapolation, using actual average ratios  per unit of sales area. The integration  of Bulgari and the Ile de Beaut stores  in Russia account for the main changes in reporting scope affected by this  extrapolation. REPORTING TOOL AND  METHODOLOGY The system used for environmental  reporting is an in-Maison tool consisting of  two types of questionnaire: –  one questionnaire for compiling corpo- rate data: training, packaging, etc; –  one (or more) questionnaires(s) for  compiling data speci c to industrial sites:  water and energy consumption, waste  production (quantity and type of waste),  waste treatment, etc. In all, some  fty types of information are  collected from each Maison. The data is  then checked and automatically consol- idated in a central  le, which has numerous  control and alert mechanisms (for abnor- mal data, unit problems, etc.). INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL  ASSESSMENTS Consistency controls are conducted by  the sites (data is compared against the pre- vious year) and again when the data is  being consolidated by the LVMH Environ- mental Department (abnormalities, previ- ous year comparison, etc.). Some environmental indicators are also  verified externally by one of the Groups  Auditors whose conclusions are presented  in their reasonable assurance report on cer- tain environmental indicators. CHOICE AND RELEVANCE OF  THE INDICATORS The purpose of the published environ- mental indicators is to report to stakehold- ers on the Groups annual environmental  results. Pursuant to decree 2002-221 of  February20, 2002, known as the NRE  decree (New Economic Regulations  decree), only the nature and magnitude of  impacts deemed relevant and significant  with regard to operations are reported.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 45 WATER CONSUMPTION Water consumption is expressed in cubic  meters. This indicator assesses the quanti- ties of water consumed, based on the fol- lowing two needs: –  agricultural need: measurement of quanti- ties of water used for irrigation (banned in  France) and sprinkling the vines (to fight  frost, etc.). The water volumes used are  either measured directly or, more com- monly, estimated; –  process need: measurement of all non-agri- cultural needs (industrial and sanitary proc- esses, cleaning, spraying green areas, etc.).  This water consumption is almost always  measured. WATER POLLUTION Water pollution is expressed in metric  tons of COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand).  This indicator re ects the total annual  ow  discharged by the sites into the natural  environment, after treatment at or down- stream of the site. The only sectors concerned with this  parameter are Wines & Spirits and Perfumes  & Cosmetics, for which discharges of  organic matter and other pollution from  ef  uents are signi cant and directly related  to operations. WASTE PRODUCTION All waste produced is assessed in metric  tons. The waste taken into account is haz- ardous and non-hazardous waste produced  by sites during the reporting period. The  method for treating each type of waste is  also identi ed in order to evaluate the recy- cling rate. The various methods used to recycle  waste are: –  Reuse: using the waste for the same pur- pose as the one for which the product was  initially intended (e.g. in the Wines &  Spirits business group, bottles are sold on  to a third party); –  Material recovery which includes:  recycling: waste is reintroduced into the  production cycle from which it came to  partially or completely replace a virgin  raw material, such as paperboard and cer- tain plastics,  organic recovery: composting, con- trolled spreading of organic waste to  fertilize soil, etc. –  energy recovery: incineration with energy  from combustion recovered in the form  of electricity or heat. ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy consumed is expressed in MWh  and represents all types of energy used by  the sites (electricity, natural gas, fuel oil,  heavy oil, steam and butane/propane) and  company vehicles. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS This indicator is expressed in metric tons  of CO2 equivalent and corresponds to green- house gas emissions related to the energy  consumed at the sites. It covers direct and  indirect greenhouse gas emissions. UPSTREAM AND DOWNSTREAM  TRANSPORT This indicator is expressed in metric  tons/kilometer and metric tons of CO2  equivalent. A distinction is made between  upstream transport and downstream  transport: Upstream transport: this is the number  of kilometers traveled by the raw materials  and components from the last site of a sup- plier to the  rst receiving site. The evalua- tion is made at the very least on the main  components and main products: The information set out in this document  also ref ects all the guidelines  in version 3.0 of the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI). The information and  environmental indicators of the GRI  presented in this report are as follows: Strategy  1.1  p. 5 and 6  1.2  p. 14 Prof le of the organization   This information is available in the LVMH  2011 Annual Report. Reporting parameters   3.1  3.12 p. 44  46 Governance and commitments  4.12  p. 15 and 17  4.13  p. 36 and 37 Management and Indicators   EN1  p. 27  EN3  p. 23 and 24  EN4  p. 23 and 24  EN8  p. 25  EN16  p. 29, 30 and 31  EN21  p. 31  EN22  p. 32 and 33  EN26  p. 26 and 27  LVMH 2011 — Environment 46 –  Wines & Spirits: bottles, boxes, corks, etc; –  Perfumes & Cosmetics: bottles, boxes, etc; –  Fashion & Leather Goods: leathers, metal  parts, packaging, ready-to-wear, etc; – Watches & Jewelry: boxes, cases, etc; –  Selective Retailing: store bags, envelopes,  boxes, etc. Downstream transport: this is the num- ber of kilometers traveled by all finished  products from the manufacturing site to the  wholesale customers first platform or to  stores (for selective retailing business  groups and brands that have stores). PACKAGING PLACED  ON THE MARKET This indicator is expressed in metric tons  of material. It includes primary and second- ary packaging placed on the market by all  Group Maisons. The packaging used for  shipments during transportation is  excluded from this indicator. TRAINING AND AWARENESS  SESSIONS This indicator is expressed in hours. It  includes all training and awareness sessions  completely or partly dedicated to the envi- ronment, speci cally: –  the training of employees to reduce their  impact on the environment (energy con- sumption, handling of hazardous products,  training in environmental regulations,  training for health, safety and environment  of  cers, training in environmental audits,  water management, waste management,  sustainable viticulture, etc.); –  general education/training in environ- mental issues (key areas: greenhouse  gases, biodiversity, education of harvest  workers, etc.) or environmental manage- ment systems (ISO 14001, etc.); –  training given by the holding company  (orientation seminar for new managers,  presence on the Environmental Commit tee,  involvement of the LVMH Environ men tal  Department in executive committees or  other meetings, etc.); –  hours devoted by in-Maison environmen- tal trainers (Sustainable Development  Week, World Water Day, health, safety  and environment officer who conducts  training/awareness sessions, etc.). PERCENTAGE OF SITES  THAT HAVE UNDERGONE  AN ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT This indicator represents the number of  sites that have been subject to an environ- mental audit (internal or external) during  the year, out of the total number of sites. The audits included in this indicator  must cover: –  environmental performance (waste;  atmospheric, water and soil discharges;  energy and water consumption; noise,  etc.); – an assessment of environmental risk ( od,   re, etc.); – the businesss regulatory compliance; –  an evaluation of the environmental man- agement system (inspection audit, inter- nal audit, certi cation audit, etc.) and/or  the performance of the environmental  management system. These audits are validated by a written  audit report which sets out recommendations. The sites included in the scope of this indi- cator are the production sites, warehouses  and administrative sites held and/or oper- ated by companies controlled by the Group.  These audits do not cover stores. EXPENSES INCURRED  TO PREVENT AN ACTIVITY  FROM IMPACTING  THE ENVIRONMENT This indicator is expressed in thousands  of euros. It includes the following expend- itures and investments made to prevent an  activity from impacting the environment: – expenses to protect air and climate; – expenses to manage waste water; – expenses to manage waste; –  expenses to fight noise and vibrations  (excluding the protection of the  workplace); – expenses to protect biodiversity and the  landscape; – expenses for research and development; – expenses for other environmental protec- tion activities.  LVMH 2011 — Environment 47 REPORT OF ONE OF THE AUDITORS  ON SELECTED ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS To the Shareholders, As requested, and in our capacity as Auditor  of LVMH Mot Hennessy – Louis Vuitton,  we conducted controls to allow us to  express reasonable assurance that certain  environmental indicators(1) for the fiscal  year 2011 (the Indicators) were estab- lished, in all material aspects, in accordance  with the LVMH environmental reporting  protocol, version No. 8 dated October4,  2011 (the Standards). The Indicators are presented in the  Registration Document, paragraph1,  LVMH and the environment section,  Board of Directors Management Report. It is the responsibility of the LVMH  Environmental Department to establish the  Indicators and the Standards and to ensure  they are made available. It is our responsibility, on the basis of our  controls, to express an opinion on these  Indicators. Our audits were conducted in  accordance with ISAE 3000 (International  Standard on Assurance Engagements) of  the IFAC (International Federation of  Accountants) of December2003, in compli- ance with the rules of independence  defined by laws and regulations and the  professional code of ethics. The opinion expressed below concerns only  these Indicators and not all the environ- mental indicators contained in the  Registration Document, paragraph1,  LVMH and the environment section,  Board of Directors Management Report.  This opinion does not cover the data from  retail sales operations that have not been  directly integrated into the scope of envi- ronmental indicator reporting; these are  estimated by extrapolation. NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE  CONTROLS To allow us to express an opinion, we con- ducted the following controls: We assessed the Standards accuracy, clarity,  objectivity, completeness and relevance  with regard to the Groups activities and the  sectors reporting practices. At Group level, we: –  conducted interviews with those respon- sible for reporting the Indicators; –  conducted an analysis of the risks of  anomalies and material relevance; –  assessed the application of the Standards,  implemented analytical procedures and  consistency tests, and verified on a test  basis the consolidation of the Indicators. We selected a sampling of Maisons that  were representative of the businesses and  geographic locations, based on their contri- bution to the Indicators and the risks of  anomaly previously identi ed: –  the entities selected represent on average  65% of the total value of the Indicators  published by LVMH(2); –  at this level, we veri ed the understand- ing and application of the Standards and  conducted detailed checks on a test basis,  which consisted of verifying the calcula- tion formulas and reconciling the data  with the supporting documents. We reviewed the presentation of the  Indicators in the Registration Document,  paragraph1, LVMH and the environment  section, Board of Directors Management  Report. To assist us in carrying out this work, we  called upon our teams specializing in sus- tainable development, which report to ric  Duvaud. Based on the controls performed over the  last nine years on the Groups significant  entities and the actions conducted by  LVMH to improve the understanding and  application of the Standards by the sites, we  believe that our controls provide a reasona- ble basis for the opinion expressed below. INFORMATION ON THE STANDARDS We have the following comments to make on  the Standards: For the retail sales businesses, LVMH distin- guishes between the data coming directly  from the Indicator feed-in process and the  data estimated by extrapolation. The propor- tion of estimated data decreased this year but  remains signi cant. Deployment of the internal controls on the  Indicator feed-in process, which has been  conducted for several years, is generally satis- factory, but presents significant differences  among the Maisons: it must be systematized  and strengthened, in particular for the  Maisons where variances have been found  that contribute significantly to the Groups  Indicators. Concerning the Percentage of waste recov- ery indicator, LVMH made signi cant pro- gress with regard to an explanation of waste  treatment methods. Efforts undertaken  should be continued but increased, particu- larly by the Maisons which do not systemati- cally explain these methods. OPINION In our opinion, the Indicators have been  established, in all material respects, in accord- ance with the Standards developed by LVMH. Paris-La Dfense, February16, 2012 One of the Auditors Ernst & Young and others   Olivier Breillot             Gilles Cohen (1) Percentage of sites subject to environmental audits (%); total water consumption for process needs (m3); total COD after treatment (metric tons/year); total waste produced (metric tons); total hazardous waste produced (metric tons);  percentage of waste recovery (%); total energy consumption (MWh); total CO2 emissions (metric tons CO2 equivalent); total packaging placed in market (metric tons). (2) The contributions by indicator are as follows: percentage of sites subject to environmental audits: 49%; total water consumption for process needs: 62%; total COD after treatment: 96%; total waste produced: 69%; total hazardous waste  produced: 59%: percentage of waste recovered: 71%; total energy consumption: 53%; total CO2 emissions: 46%; total packaging placed on the market: 80%.  48 PHOTOGRAPHS — The new HQE certi ed Louis Vuitton workshop les ateliers de la Drme in southern of France. Jean-Franois Campos, Louis Vuitton / Bruno Aveillan, Karl Lagerfeld, LVMH / Mazen Saggar,  Louis Vuitton / ric Tourneret, Louis Vuitton / Picture libraries of LVMH and Groups Maisons.  LVMH – 22, avenue Montaigne – 75008 Paris – France Tel.: 33 (0)1 44 13 22 22 – Fax: 33 (0)1 44 13 22 23 – www.lvmh.com Design and production: