Letter from   the President With great pleasure we present our 2011 Annual Sustainability  Report, which also serves as our Communication of Progress  (CoP) for the Global Compact, to share our responsible practices  in support of the communities where we operate and that look  to promote The Ten Principles of the Global Compact of the  United Nations. During 2011, ADEMI Bank continued offering financial tools for  micro, small and medium enterprises convinced that through  empowerment of the most vulnerable, a way is enabled for   the growth of the individual, the family, the community and  the country. Confirming our commitment to the Global Compact, we  performed initiatives in support of human rights, protection of  the environment, respect of labor practices, fight against  corruption, as well as the search of gender equality, poverty  eradication and the creation of decent working and living  conditions for Dominicans. Wed like to give special thanks to Ms. Margarita De Ferrari de  Lluberes, President of the Ademi Foundation, because without  her hard-work, commitment and dedication, all this effort  would not have been possible. As our bank grows, we hope to keep contributing to the  development of Dominican society for the general welfare. Best regards, Guillermo Rondn J.  Chief Executive Officer 5  Mission We are a financial institution committed to the economic and social  development of the country, offering high quality products and  services, with special attention to the micro, small, and medium  enterprises, for which we have proven technology and an excellent  team of co-workers. Vision To expand our leadership in the domestic financial system as a  microfinance institution, with sustained growth in turnover, number  of customers, and a diversified range of products and services. Institutional values Social Responsibility Our institution works actively to promote social and economic  welfare of the communities it serves. Excellence in Service We promote the satisfaction and loyalty of our customers by  offering high-quality products and services in a timely manner. Team working We encourage the participation and commitment of all our partners  in the development of the institution. Integrity We conduct our operations under the highest ethical and moral  standards. Profitability We strive for the expected return to shareholders by offering  products and services of high quality with operational efficiency. 7  United Nations  Global Compact ADEMI Bank has been a signatory since the year 2005 of the United Nations Global Compact,  a voluntary initiative that seeks to align the strategies and operations of enterprises with ten  universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment  and anti-corruption. The bank is committed to align its business practices with The Ten Principles, contributing   to build a more stable, equitable and inclusive global market to promote more prosperous  societies. During 2011, ADEMI Bank published its first Communication on Progress (CoP), sharing its  practices in alignment with the principles. We also actively participated in initiatives organized  by the Global Compact Local Network, attending the 2nd CoP Seminar, serving as one of the  companies visited by members of the Global Compact who visited the Dominican Republic.  The bank participated in the Global Compact Business Forum in Latin America and the Carib- bean held in Mexico, where it was recognized for being the only Dominican bank to attend. Here we define the ten Global Compact principles next to the page where information can  be found related to the bank and each principle. To read more about the Global Compact, visit www.unglobalcompact.org 9  Microfinance The bank has a strong commitment with the micro, small and medium entrepreneur, offering  microfinance services which contribute to the generation and strengthening of new jobs and to the  growth of family income. This commitment aligns with a five-year vision of consolidating the  institutions leadership among savings and credit banks in the Dominican Republic. Through microfinance, the bank seeks to empower lower-income groups who have a desire for  growth and improvement through work, enabling them to contribute to their own welfare, that of  their loved ones and of their communities. During the year, 43% of loans distributed were for commerce and service sectors, and 26% for the  manufacturing and agricultural sectors, helping micro entrepreneurs with financial tools to start or  strengthen their small businesses, especially small producers of vegetables, rice, beans, bananas and  cocoa. For clients who needed to make consumptions, many of which were home improvement or  meeting mortgage needs, 31% of the loans were awarded. The average loan amount reflects how we meet the low-income market. Almost three quarters of all  loans (72%) were less than RD$ 50,000, and only 2% of all loans exceeded RD$ 300,000. Loans are afforded without prejudice to gender or location constraints. For the first time, women  entrepreneurs were the largest recipients of loans, receiving 51% of all loans granted. The banks 45  branches, located throughout the country, allowed reaching customers in the Northern, Southern  and Eastern regions. 43%  31%  26%       Loans by sectors Services and commerce Consumption and mortage Mannufacture and agriculture Average loan 15  Financial Expansion to Rural Zones  Project: Financial Education Implemented by our Ademi Foundation and developed   by Centro de Accin de Colombia, the Inter-American  Development Bank and ADEMI Bank, the Financial  Expansion to Rural Zones Project aims to promote national  financial literacy as part of the values of the rural person,  to improve their economic and social welfare by forming  good habits in managing and making decisions about  money and financial products and services. Initiating in January 2011 and with an end goal of March  2013, the project consists of five components; the fourth of  these is Financial Education. Its purpose is to impact  14,000 customers nationwide with emphasis on rural  areas, including the participation of the banks 29 rural  branches. This project counts with a team of consultants specializing  in Education, who rely on different methodologies such as  classroom workshops, training and use of financial  agendas, self-taught educational flyers in the areas of  credit, savings and budget, visual communication in our  branches also utilizing educational videos in our branches. Microfinance 9,000 clients have taken  part on the project 17  Anti-corruption Committed to help eliminate corrupt practices that greatly affect the Dominican Republic, ADEMI  Bank has developed tools, codes and alliances that allow combating this evil, seeking to position itself  as a exemplary bank in the country. It follows the values of transparency, honesty, integrity and  partnership, working closely with Dominican banking regulators such as the Superintendence of  Banks and the Monetary Board, adhering and complying with laws, policies and recommendations. It complies with the Financial Monetary Law No. 183-02, following Superintendence of Banks rules  on operating risks, which aim to reduce vulnerability of the institution and solidify its economic and  financial power. It has developed the Internal Control Manual for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism  Financing, accounting Law No.72-02 on Money Laundering Proceeds of Drug and Controlled  Substances and identifying with the governments fight against organized crime. Employees have an  instruction manual for the implementation of Know Your Customer procedures of the Superintendence  of Banks, mitigating the risk of money laundering. Employees are subject to doping controls annually,  all instances of 2011 being negative. Internally, it also has rules to promote moral and ethical values  of employees such as the Code of  Ethics, which is read and signed by all employees at their induction to the entity. Employees have  regular training on compliance and internal electronic means to voice any concerns or irregularities  that may arise. In case of disciplinary issues there is a disciplinary committee to evaluate them. For its personnel the bank has regulations for the granting of loans to officers and employees, as  required by Law 183-02 and Article 28 of the Rules of Operation, which establishes a plan for  personal loans, vehicle procurement and acquisition, and improvement or expansion of housing for  employees in line with local regulations. 19  Promoting democracy Through  partnering,  Ademi  Foundation  has  developed  a  two-part  program  to  promote   awareness of rights and duties of citizens, promoting  the basis of democracy and development. The first part, Democracy Foundation Program,  developed  alongside  the  Pontificia  Universidad  Catolica Madre y Maestra, Consorcio de Educacin  Cvica, and Centro Educativo Lux Mundi, recognizes  the role of teachers as active members of society,  passing on to their students the fundamentals of  democracy such as equality, fairness, freedom and  citizenship. Developed in seven schools, 250 teachers  participated in this project, which had financial  contributions from the Consorcio de Educacin Cvica  and Ademi Foundation. The second part, Citizen Project, Building Leaders   for our Society sponsored by Ademi Foundation,   the Pontificia Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra  and Centro Educativo Lux Mundi, lasting four months,  where 2,800 students in schools: Las Auyamas,   and El Puentecito in Polo Barahona, Liceo Eliseo   De Morizi and Julia Julin School in Samana, and  Divina Providencia School in Santo Domingo were  trained on issues of equality, fairness, freedom and  citizenship. Funding came from constributions made  by Consorcio de Educacin Cvica and Ademi  Foundation. Educational centers7 2,800 Students 250 Teachers Anti-corruption 21  ADEMI employees are the most important component of the bank, and as such, the organization  strives to provide the best possible workplace. Both the Code of Ethics and the Policy Manual for  Human Resources, define the rules that ensure the employees integrity and respect for human rights,  focusing on equality, dignity and human integration. All entrant employees are subject to an induction where the reading of the Code of Ethics is  mandatory. The bank then offers various mechanisms to enable report of any irregularity or violation  of employee rights, including an open door policy, various communication channels that ensure  confidentiality, a disciplinary committee in charge of sanctioning violations of rights, a Security unit  dedicated to research possible violations, and the existence of mechanisms for documenting records  in case of any such occurrence. By the end of 2011, the Bank has never had occurrences of incidents  of violation of human rights to its employees. The Code of Ethics defines employees rights, promoting respect and equality among all, regardless  of race, creed, gender, marital status or political sympathy. Similarly, it penalizes any kind of verbal,  psychological, visual, physical or sexual abuse. The bank accepts all guidelines of the countrys Labor  Code, respecting the freedom of association and speech, fostering a workplace without forced labor  and refusing to employ individuals under the legal age of 18. To complement the opportunity to work in a bank where human rights and employees integrity is  respected, the institution offers a range of benefits, growth opportunities and recognition for its  workforce. The bank not only meets all legally mandated employee benefits, but also offers additional  benefits such as supplemental insurance to employees and their dependents, 50% reimbursement of  medical expenses for hospitalization not covered by insurance, life insurance, school vouchers, and  membership in social clubs, among others benefits.  Through the Don Camilo Lluberes Award, the bank recognizes each year, the top three employees in  the Business and Administration areas who distinguish in the following categories: Integrity,  Leadership, Achievement, Effective Communication and Service Orientation.  Our people 23  ADEMI Bank, aware of social and community needs of the country and true to the values  and ideals  upon which it was founded, is committed to contributing to the development of local communities,  carrying out projects and activities through Ademi Foundation, the social branch of the institution. Ademi Foundation The Ademi Foundation is a private non-profit, non-political and non-religious institution, dedicated to  sponsoring social-interest activities for the benefit of poor families. Projects are identified and  implemented with the participation of community organizations in neighborhoods and rural  communities. The foundation is ADEMI Banks largest shareholder, using its independent investments  for the execution of such projects. As part of its mission, the Ademi Foundation integrates, evaluates, and promotes programs that  support sustainable community development in the areas of Education and Culture, Health,  Environment, and Gender Equality to improve the quality of life in the Dominican Republic. The  foundation brings 29 years of experience and addresses the selection of projects with clearly stated  criteria that reflect the commitment of the institution, refusing to participate in initiatives that do not  afford a clear and sustainable benefit to the community. Social Responsibility Education and Culture Health Environment Gender Equality 25  Education and Culture In order to contribute to the growth of the economy, and to strengthen human rights and civic   responsibilities, in 2011 Ademi Foundation sponsored various projects in Education and Culture.  Among the various projects in which the Foundation associated with are:  Supporting the Financial Education programs   of Junior Achievement Dominicana, to develop  entrepreneurship spirit among 1,200 youths in   three schools in the National District.   Fostering Democracy Foundation Program and the  Citizen Project, Building Leaders for our Society   in association with Pontificia Universidad Catlica  Madre y Maestra, Centro Educativo Lux Mundi and  Consorcio de Educacin Cvica, benefiting 250 teachers  and 2,800 students in Santo Domingo, Saman and  Barahona. Read more in the Microfinance section.  Helping 130 teens and parents of Monte Plata earn a  living and improve their quality of life by making  handmade jewelry, through the program Aprender a  Emprender mi Empresa with the Belgian nonprofit  organization Aydanos a Caminar.  Discouraging  school drop-out of 50 children in   Cotu with special educational support along with   Fundacin Ayuda a Crecer.  Building, remodeling and enabling community and  educational facilities among which are the Hermanas  Mirabal Basic School in Bahoruco, the Diocese of San  Juan de la Maguana and San Antonio de Padua Parish  of Bohecho in San Juan de la Maguana, the Santiago  Monumental Rotary Club and a training center for   the Archdiocesan Catechetical Commission of Santiago  in Santiago de los Caballeros.   Promoting sports and the physical and mental health  of our youth and adults through contributions to the  Latin American Congress of Little League Baseball Inc.,  Liga La Tribu of Dajabn Tribe, Los Billeteros Sports  League of the National District and Victor Quezada  Sports League of Puerto Plata.   Supporting various summer camps such as the  JOCOPAGUA summer camps, Canillitas con Don Bosco  and Centro Domingo Savio Fe y Alegra located in  some of the poorest neighborhoods of the National  District.  Social Responsibility 27  In 2011 ADEMI sponsored several projects with the Peace  Corps like the refurbishing of bathrooms in a school, the  construction of latrines, and the development of a gravity  water supply. These projects are not only relevant due to the  construction of facilities which allow creating basic conditions  for decent living to those in the community but also train  and educate people in its correct use. Members of the Peace Corps educate these communities to  care for their environment, the proper use of water and to  prevent disease through workshops. Fifty six latrines were constructed benefiting 345 people, two  bathroom facilities for 124 people and an aqueduct by  gravity for 90 members of the community, benefiting the  provinces of Hato Mayor, Saman, San Juan de la Maguana,  San Jos de Ocoa, Santiago Rodriguez and Puerto Plata. Health During 2011 Ademi contributed to programs to promote the health of community members, such as:  Sponsoring a fundraising activity, next to the Rama  Femenina of the Liga Contra el Cancer, Inc., for the  treatment of poor patients sick with cancer in Santiago  de los Caballeros.  Collaborating with the treatment of children   with cancer in the country alongside the St. Jude  Foundation.   Contributing with Fundacin Dominicana del Dolor  in activities that help relieve pain in terminally ill  patients in need in Santiago de los Caballeros.   Performing four one-day Medical / Dental iniciatives  alongside the Rotary Club Santiago Monumental  benefiting 3.000 in the most deprived areas of Santiago  de los Caballeros.  Building, together with Fundacin Puntacana, the  Pediatric Unit of the Verns Public Clinic, the only unit  of its type in the areas of Vern, Juanillo, Bavaro and  Punta Cana, which receives 5,000 children per week.   Activities with the Asociacin Dominicana de  Rehabilitacin in San Cristobal for the purchase of  equipment for handicapped people therapies.  Ademi and   the Peace Corps Social Responsibility 29  Environment ADEMI Bank and Ademi Foundation promote projects that protect the environment, taking a precau- tionary approach to impacts towards the environment and encouraging efforts to improve the envi- ronment. During 2011, it collaborated with the City Council of San Jose de las Matas Basura 0 Project (Zero  Waste Project), in order to educate residents on how to manage their waste. The project was   to teach more than 21,000 residents of San Jose de las Matas to separate waste into organic and   inorganic solids, then converting the organic and inorganic fertilizer and making use of plastics,   iron and glass. The project was supported by the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GIZ), Plan Sierra, the  Association for Development of San Jose de Las Matas and the Ministry of Education. This project originated from the problem evidenced by the Dominican  society in the management of solid waste and the experiences gained  through the dissemination of the culture of the three Rs (Reduce,  Reuse, Recycle) which aims to reduce the impact caused by waste  management by promoting responsible consumption. The main objective of the project was to raise awareness, sensitize,  encourage and train residents of the Colonial City in the selective  separation of solid waste, especifically paper and potentially plastic, as  well as to prepare logistics of collection and removal of these materials  for recycling in the industry. The program started with 45 mini-markets of the Colonial Zone working  for 13 weeks during which they received guidance and training through  lectures. The project had the support of the National District City  Council, Palacio Consistorial, Center for Agricultural and Forestry  Development, Red 3RS, Moldeados Dominicanos (MOLDOSA) and  Fundacin de Saneamiento Ambiental.  Pilot Program on Selective Separation   of Recyclable Waste in The Colonial City Social Responsibility 31  Gender Equality Ademi Foundation supports the implementation of programs that promote gender equality,   especially the training and development of Dominican women facing great obstacles to growth  in the country. For the second consecutive year, it collaborated with the initiatives of the Escuela Tcnico   Hotelera Serranta, institution located in Jarabacoa and dedicated to prepare disadvantaged  youth in the field of hospitality by promoting in them respect for human integrity, loyalty,   honesty and love of work. ADEMI covered studies of two young girls, giving them the opportu- nity of entering the hospitality labor market and creating a space for the promotion of Dominican  women and their social and family environment. With the main objective of contributing to reduce teenage  pregnancy in middle school, in 2010 a two-year partnership  with the Committee for Unity and Rights of Women (CUDEM)  was established to develop the Embarazo en Adolescentes:  Comunidad y Gobierno Local en la Prevencin project   (Teen Pregnancy: Prevention from the Community and Local  Government Side) at the Carmen Balaguer School in the  National District. Ninety six training workshops for students and two for  parents were organized, as well as two meetings with school  teachers and two meetings with local health authorities,  along with two meetings with the neighborhood prosecution  authorities, educating all on issues concerning values, family,  and prevention of teen pregnancy. Helped by contributions  made by Ademi Foundation and the community, 150  people  benefited from the program. Teen pregnancy prevention Social Responsibility 33