SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008-2009 FACING THE CSR CHALLENGE  TABLE OF CONTENTS       LETTER FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER I.       ABOUT  PRODAC  II.       CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 2.1      Strategies 2.2      CSR Principles  2.3      Code of Conduct 2.4      CSR Objectives  2.5      Greater Efficiency Approach  III.      GROUPS OF INTEREST 3.1     Peru 2021 Diagnosis Report     3.2      Shareholders: transparency, ethics, and good corporate culture 3.3      Collaborators: commitment, effort, and responsibility 3.4     Clients: the companys engine 3.5     Community: committed to its development and welfare 3.6      Environment: Betting for a safer and healthier planet 3.7     Suppliers: creating alliances 3.8      State: establishing proactive ties IV.       CONCLUSIONS Motto Barbed wire 4 5  LETTER FROM THE  GENERAL MANAGER Nave of Gabions Column 6 7  Ten years ago, if someone had brought up the need to draw up a Company social balance sheet, he  would have most likely been seen as someone involved in anthropological studies of a community  from away from Peru.  How have times changed!  And, in this case, I have no doubt that for good.  The globalized world has eased the flow of capital, making it possible to invest anywhere on the  planet.  Consequently, there may be dissimilarities on how to manage a specific company in light  of very diverse realities.  The developed world has come face-to-face with underdevelopment: social  pressures by the most disadvantaged increases, while, the conscience of the most favored is shaken.  In this context, solving the different dimensions of social inequality becomes an ethical urgency of any  organization in order to generate a positive impact on its surrounding community.  Hence, a concern  for social responsibility timidly surfaced. At PRODAC, the response to this new challenge was quick and forceful.  Aware of our role in our  society, our company shareholders implemented a social responsibility program taking into account  the particularities of our reality.  The task was not easy.  At PRODAC, we had no experience in this field.  The companies in the mechanical, metal industries involved in steel-related activities can generally be  characterized for having low profit margins and the need to trade high volumes.  Our raison dtre was  to produce, sell, charge, and pay our taxes.  However, we did not fear not knowing how to do things,  but rather not doing them.  Our Human Resource Department embarked on a project to find the proper  counseling to redirect the efforts we had already been making randomly and to present them in a more  structured way.  This led us to contact ProFuturo AFP (Pension Fund Administrator), a company with  fairly extensive experience on these topics.  The contribution of this organization in our initial take-off  was crucial and we will always be grateful to them.  In 2008, we took our first steps in the Programa Voluntades de Acero (Strong-willed Program),  counting with the participation of more than 150 PRODAC collaborators volunteering in different  activities with shanty towns.  A year before, we had consolidated the first phase of the Tu Casa  housing pilot program thanks to which 32 Company workers were given houses at preferential mortgage  conditions with direct loans granted by the Company.  Subsequently, in 2008 and in 2009, we offered  a Vacaciones tiles (summer school for children) in Sarita Colonia shanty town.  This program was  conducted with the support of the local Police and was aimed at developing skills among the people in  the zone of influence of the local Police Station.  Also, we responded promptly to requests for support  from community organizations.  In 2008, all these efforts and commitment to CSR have been further  strengthened with PRODAC joining the United Nations Global Compact.  Also, during 2008, Peru  2021 performed a CSR assessment and, hence, identified a number of actions that the Company had  been developing spontaneously and which directly contribute to good CSR practices.   Manuel Gallofr Cassad General Manager The challenges for 2010 shall be not less forthcoming.  Social demands are increasing in many areas of our society and the  steadfast progress and growth achieved by our country must be supported by a full commitment of all productive instances, so that  the less favored can observe the commitment of all actors in the economy of Peru.  This is why our vision of a better, fairer, and  more egalitarian Peru will not let us surrender to limitations, but rather will encourage us to engage in more projects in the coming  years.  Finally, I wish to express that it has been a very rewarding experience to have counted with the unconditional support of our  collaborators, partner institutions, and suppliers, without whom we could not have accomplished the CSR projects this year. Moreover, I wish to share with you PRODAC shareholders deepest recognition and compliment to our fervent commitment to remain  onboard this valuable project for society, which will ultimately be recognizant of us. Thank you. () In this context, solving the different dimensions of social inequality  becomes an ethical urgency of any organization () LETTER FROM THE  GENERAL MANAGER 8 9  I.  ABOUT PRODAC Electro welded foundation 10 11  PRODUCTOS DE ACERO CASSAD S.A. (PRODAC) is a supplier of steel products and related  product.  It was founded in 1994 following the merger of the two largest wire manufacturers in Peru:  INDUSTRIAS CASSAD S.A. and PROLANSA.   Aware of globalization, world trade, and Perus openness in the 1990s, Peruvian capitals consisting of  INDUSTRIAS CASSAD S.A. shareholders joined efforts and resources with the Belgian consortium NV  BEKAERT - the largest manufacturer of wire products and related products in the world-, represented  by its affiliated companies, IDEAL ALAMBREC in Ecuador and INCHALAM in Chile, to establish  PRODAC.  This is how the most ambitious project of wire production ever began in Peru.  PRODAC is currently the largest wire products manufacturer in Peru with more than 500 collaborators  and works with the markets of South America, Central America, the Caribbean, North America, and  Europe. PRODAC business philosophy is based on offering total quality in all its products and services,  constantly investing in cutting-edge technology and in training its collaborators.  PRODAC is currently an active member of the International Association for the Control of Erosion (ACE Inhibitors),  USA, the largest and oldest of its kind, engaged in helping its members to solve problems caused by erosion and its  by-product: sediment.   Our company has the highest national and international quality standards, for which we have been recognized with  various certifications.  In 2004 our Quality Management System was certified ISO 9001: 2000, and earlier, in 2003,  the Bolivian Institute of Standards and Quality granted the Use Certificate for the IBNORCA seal to our product steel  networks with hexagonal mesh double twist for the manufacture of gabions (mesh 8 x 10).  At PRODAC, we have a cross-sectional action line of being socially responsible in all our activities.  Every year,  we work on implementing new programs and initiatives to benefit our stakeholders.  This is why in 2008 we were  granted the Global Compact award in the Human Rights category for the Tu casa Program, which consisted in  giving collaborators access to decent housing facilities. Canada U.S.A Mexico Guatemala Belize El Salvador Honduras Nicaragua Costa Rica Panama Jamaica Puerto Rico Dominican Republic Haiti Martinique Aruba Ireland United Kingdom Poland France Spain Portugal Italy Cape Verde Ethiopia Singapore Australia New Zealand Venezuela Colombia Ecuador Peru Bolivia Argentina About 12 13  III. CORPORATE SOCIAL   RESPONSIBILITY Nail 14 15  PRODAC follows an ethical management approach and carries out its activities based on a CSR-efficiency  approach.  Its commitment is based on the firm belief that the success of any company lies largely on the  implementation of effective policies, ensuring the prosperity of its shareholders, healthy and productive interaction  with collaborators and suppliers, and support to the communities in which it operates. The organization is also  aware of the importance of caring for and preserving the environment, using resources in a responsible way,  thinking of the next generations, and the legacy that they will receive.  PRODAC mantiene una posicin tica de gestin y desarrolla sus actividades basndose en un eficiente enfoque  de RSE. Su compromiso se fundamenta en la firme creencia de que el xito de toda empresa radica, en gran  medida, en la implementacin de polticas efectivas, que garanticen la prosperidad de sus accionistas, una  interaccin sana y productiva con sus colaboradores y proveedores, y el apoyo a las comunidades en las que  opera. La organizacin tambin es consciente de la importancia de cuidar y preservar el medio ambiente,  utilizando los recursos de manera responsable, pensando en las generaciones venideras y en el legado que  recibirn. The CSR strategy has been designed by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, composed by the General  Manager, the Mining Unit Manager, the Operations Manager, the Environmental Solutions Unit Deputy Manager,  the Marketing Deputy Manager, and the Human Resources Deputy Manager.  Its main objective is to ensure  compliance with good business practices and the CSR principles in the territories where PRODAC operates. In 2008, the Committee adopted a strategy reflecting the importance of CSR for achieving greater competitiveness  in the Company and for generating greater value for stakeholders.  One of the assumptions of this initiative is  performing periodic surveys to measure the benefits and negative impacts of the Companys activities to the  community, taking into account stakeholders expectations. Also, to strengthen our business within a modern social responsibility approach, we joined the United Nations  Global Compact (The Global Compact) in 2008.  This commitment means that every area must abide by the 10  principles set out in the Global Compact and submit progress reports. Businesses shall support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed  human rights; make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of  the right to collective bargaining; uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; uphold the effective abolition of child labor; uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment  and occupation; support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental  responsibility; encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally  friendly technologies; work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2.1 Strategies CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 2.2. CSR Principles a) Investment in human capital PRODAC recognizes that its human capital is a fundamental piece and a source of progress.  Therefore, its  actions are driven to increase the quality of life and potential of collaborators. Commitment to human rights: PRODAC activity is driven by a philosophy of fervent respect for fundamental  human rights; this commitment has been further evidenced by PRODAC joining the United Nations Global  Compact. Capacity building: PRODAC offers its employees development opportunities by encouraging them to  develop their potentials, promoting educational growth and refining their skills to function properly in the  workplace. Integrated health and safety: PRODAC is constantly concerned about its workers overall health.  PRODAC  strives to create a safe and healthy working environment, and takes appropriate measures to prevent work- related injuries and accidents.  Quality of life at work: PRODAC recognizes and complies with the legal provisions governing labor relations:  it does not employ or promote child labor, forced labor, or take disciplinary action violating the integrity  of collaborators.  PRODAC respects the regular work time of 48 hours a week, the right to a day off at  least once per week.  Overtime is compensated with an hourly rate that is higher than is usual, overtime is  voluntary, and under no circumstances exceeds 12 hours a week per worker.  Family welfare: PRODAC is permanently watchful of its workers well-being.  There is an open dialogue  policy for collaborators and their families.  The Human Resources Department promotes and carries out  activities involving the active participation of family members of collaborators.  Freedoms: At PRODAC, we respect the right of our employees to bargain collectively and to associate freely  forming organizations, like the Trade Union.  We value diversity as a positive element in PRODAC: what  makes us different is what makes us unique.  For this reason, in our rapports and in the Companys multiple  actions (recruitment, compensation, training, promotion, dismissal, or retirement), we do not tolerate or  warrant any kind of discrimination whether based on race, caste, place of origin, religion, disability, gender,  sexual orientation, participation in trade unions or other organizations, political affiliation, or age. 16 17  b) Social development agent in the community c) Awareness and environmental action d) CSR Multiplier effect e) Transparency policy ethics PRODAC has undertaken the commitment to become an agent of social development in the  community in which it operates.  PRODAC is not indifferent to the shortages and problems of  the area in which we live.  We are part of their dreams and goals of growth, development, and  quality of life.  For this reason, we have a number of development projects that contribute to the  communitys welfare. In recent years, under a context of global emergency, PRODAC has decided to take up the challenge  of protecting and conserving the environment, educating and demonstrating environmental  awareness at all levels; through its staff, activities, and rapports with other actors in the production  chain. PRODAC undertakes social responsibility as an ethical matrix of its actions.  As such, CSR  principles are embedded, promoted, shared, and encouraged through its rapports with all, in all  its activities throughout its supply chain, among shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers,  business partners, and in the communities where it works.  Hence, PRODAC has a CSR multiplier  effect encouraging the application of CSR legal standards, values, and principles, and placing  emphasis on the community and the environment. This is one of the cornerstones of our business philosophy, as well as the driving principle of our  managers.  Hence, we are committed to apply good corporate governance principles; we convey to  shareholders and the market truthful and complete information; and we guarantee our users strict  confidentiality and privacy in handling their information. PRODACs Code of Conduct sets the basic rules of behavior for persons who are part of PRODAC,  including those of other entities and organizations associated with the Company: 2.3. Code of Conduct Code of Conduct We undertake our commitment under the following driving principles: To be recognized as a supplier of  world class products and services  in the wire industry at large. We are a Company that satisfies  needs in the wire business at large,  in accordance with our Code of  Conduct.  CUSTOMER-DRIVEN. Because customers are our raison dtre, we seek to establish and  build solid and lasting relationships with each customer.  RESPECT FOR THE COMMUNITY. We respect ethnic diversity. We promise to initiate,  forge, and build relationships with the communities in PRODACs area of inuence.  RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT. We perform our activities responsibly, with special  care on environmental conservation.  HONESTY AND INTEGRITY. We promise to operate with honesty and integrity always. COMMITMENT TO CHANGE. We are committed to face the change with effort,  creativity, continual improvement and innovation.   CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 18 19  For 2008, PRODAC set itself two CSR objectives: to accrue 1,260 man/hours of corporate volunteering and to  perform three infrastructure projects for the community.  Both goals were successfully achieved.  We carried out our projects in Sarita Colonia Shanty Town, Sarita Colonia Elementary & High School, and Sarita  Colonia Police Station.  Also, we worked in the Daniel Alcides Carrin Shanty Town, specifically in the Fernando  Belaunde Terry School -all in Callao. In addition, this year, as part of our Programa Voluntades de Acero (Strong-willed Program), we carried out  four corporate volunteer programs, which accounted for a total of 1,403 man/hours of work.  Both the first and  second volunteer work focused on infrastructure projects, as well as medical and information campaigns aimed  at students and parents of the Fernando Belaunde Terry School.  In the third volunteer program we organized a  Christmas Party for 130 children at this school.  The fourth program was another Christmas Party for the children  of members of the Emergency Police Squad. For 2009, we set ourselves two CSR objectives: to accrue 240 man/hours of training in corporate social  responsibility for customers and suppliers, and to offer dental care to 160 collaborators.  The first goal was  achieved successfully; however, the second was not. 50 representatives of 32 companies supplying raw materials, supplies, services, among others attended the  3 workshops on Corporate Social Responsibility.  Additionally, we offered customers a workshop on the same  subject -20 representatives from 3 different companies attended.  In 2010, we will continue with this activity  as part of our commitment to disseminate corporate social responsibility. In 2009, we also offered dental care.  Although we did not reach the goal, we did manage to provide dental  care to 60 children (employees children) in El Dorado clinics.  A total of S/. 6,180.00 were invested in this  activity. These activities have enabled us to bring joy to many children and to spread corporate social responsibility further.  We also included, for the first time, our suppliers in various campaigns, thereby tightening and strengthening  bonds with the links in our supply chain. 1,260 man/hours of volunteer work. 3 infrastructure enhancement projects for  the community. 2008 Objectives Level of  compliance 2009 240 man/hours of training in Corporate Social  Responsibility to customers and suppliers.  160 dental checkups for collaborators  children. Mid-term: 198 man/hours of training to suppliers. 57 man/hours of training to customers. 60 dental checkups for collaborators  children. 2.4 CSR Objectives 2008 2009 Total: 1,403 man/hours of volunteer work. Project: Build and implement canteen in Sarita Colonia Police Station. Build toilettes in Sarita Colonia School. Improvement of Fernando Belaunde Terry School facilities. 1 2 3 (1 y 2) Sarita Colonia Shanty Town, (3) Daniel Alcides Carrin Shanty Town CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 20 21  We have worked hard to develop a new CSR approach bringing together our stakeholders: shareholders, customers,  collaborators, community, environment, State, and suppliers.  Our actions and efforts are aimed at strengthening  our relationships and at addressing the interests of our stakeholders.  We count with the support of several  specialized institutions, such as Asociacin Civil Trabajo Voluntario and ProFuturo AFP, which have provided us  advice, knowledge, and information.   In 2008, we also decided to contribute to Patronato de Peru 2021, a non-profit institution engaged in changing  the vision of Peru based on a CSR approach.  In 2009, this was not possible due to the world financial crisis;  however, it should be noted that we did have CSR initiatives and we remained true to our guiding principles. For  2010, we have considered contributing to Patronato again. 2.5 Greater Efficiency Approach PRODAC AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS PRODAC, a socially responsible company. Collaborators Suppliers Society State The Environment Community Shareholders Customers CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 22 23  III. STAKEHOLDERS Spring Wire 24 25  In order to count with an instrument to assess better the articulation of the Companys CSR strategies, policies,  and processes, PRODAC decided to apply Peru 2021 CSR indicators throughout 2008.  Such indicators have  been developed based on the most relevant CSR international standards and instruments. The outcome of such indicators in 2008 has been crucial in giving us an insight on where we stand and has  enabled us to design programs and actions for 2009 so as to optimize our relations with different stakeholders.  Below is a chart with the scorecard.  PRODAC obtained a score of 3.77/6 which ranks us at an upper intermediate level in our CSR management.  This score represents the opportunity to achieve improvements to face the future proactively with correctly  defined goals and strategies. 3.1 Diagnosis Results Peru 2010 DEGREE OF PROGRESS SCORE 1.00-1.84 1.85 - 2.69 2.70 - 3.54 4.39 - 5.23 3.55 - 4.38 5.24 - 6.00 Lower bottom Upper bottom Lower Intermediate Lower high Upper Intermediate Upper high Voluntades de Acero Volunteers at Fernando Belaunde Terry School 6 1 Shareholders 2 Collaborators 3 Customers 4 Suppliers 7 State and Society 6 The Environment 5 Community 4 2 0 SCORE STAKEHOLDERS 26 27  STAKEHOLDERS Our shareholders endorsement and business ethics have unquestionably contributed to create a robust and  efficient Company.  For more than 15 years of operations, we have worked on protecting and making profitable  investments, achieving simultaneously good management of economic, social, and environmental issues, under  strict CSR principles. We give our shareholders and the market in general truthful and complete information which faithfully depicts  the development of our Company, its business activities, and business strategies.  We also guarantee users that  their information will be held strictly confidential and privileged, thanks to the discretion and professionalism of  our collaborators who have access to such information. Transparency, ethics, and good corporate culture 3.2 Shareholders 2008 2009 Awareness lectures to the  Management Committee,  Deputy Managers, and  Department Heads. Inclusion of CSR in the Integrated  Management Policy. Inclusion of the respect for  the Code of Conduct in the  Company mission.  Since it is essential for those who run the company to understand the importance of managing the Company  following social responsibility principles, in 2008, we gave a talk on CSR in PRODAC to the Management  Committee and another one to Deputy Managers and Department Heads. This talk described what CSR is,  what and who PRODAC stakeholders are, and what actions we have already been doing as a Company on social  responsibility. Another initiative related to this stakeholder is the declaration of respect for the Code of Conduct included in  the Companys mission statement.  In this way, we explicitly avow that any action undertaken by any member  of PRODAC must be consistent with the respect to the community and the environment, as well as ethical and  customer-driven. Based on the suggestions by Peru 2021, our 2009 plan has accommodated PRODACs desire to become a  socially responsible company in its Integrated Management System Policy. Thus, PRODAC further strengthened  its parameters for action as a Company. 2008 2009 28 29  Peru 2021 Diagnosis Report– Shareholders Concerning shareholders, we got a score of 3.84 / 6, which ranks us in an upper intermediate level.  It is  worth highlighting the high score obtained in the development of ethical principles and organizational culture  indicators; this proves that the PRODAC team is committed to and aligned with the Company policies and  principles. SECTION AVERAGE Average 3.84 Development of ethical principles 5.13 Organizational culture 4.78 Corporate governance 3.91 Dialogue with stakeholders 2.94 Relationship with the competition 3.63 Social Balance or Sustainability report 1.41 At PRODAC, we recognize the capacity and the constant contribution of our collaborators, who are an essential  part of our social responsibility policies. Taking into account the nature of our activities, we place special  emphasis on providing high standards of safety at work, as well as a proper work environment where collaborators  can develop not only as professionals but as human beings.  We are convinced that a persons well-being means  the comfort of the collaborators whole family. In addition, our corporate culture is based on open and honest communication among collaborators, as well  as a merit-based recruitment policy.  We choose competent and highly motivated people who share our Code  of Conduct; moreover, we categorically prohibit any discriminatory practice.  We have an interesting training  program aligned with the Companys objectives and taking into account the interests of each person. Our promotion system is transparent and we constantly strive to create new mechanisms to ensure transparency.  In 2008-2009, 23 collaborators were promoted due to their good performance.  In addition, there were horizontal  movements in different positions and levels of the organization. Commitment, effort, and responsibility 3.3 Collaborators STAKEHOLDERS Collaborators in the Goods Warehouse 30 31  PERIOD 2008 PERIOD 2009 18 5 Promotions 50 collaborators 14 collaborators Free Office Basic  courses Donated a 1,250 m2 plot for Trade Union meetings. Relations with the Trade Union 8022 man/hours S/. 218,815.10 invested 1800 man/hours S/. 85,801.69 invested Training Internal communication Bugle galvanized D  A-0 Magazine Electronic panels Luncheons sponsored by Area Heads Bugle galvanized D  A-0 Magazine Electronic panels Luncheons sponsored by Area Heads. Benefits Bonus and school package  school loan (optional) Death compensation Emergency loan loans upon returning from Holidays social assistance Transportation Service Graduate from high school Allocation and school package (optional)  school loan comp death  loan for emergency  loans by Holiday return  social assistance  service transport  high complete for all Health and  Safety Vaccination against Hepatitis B Vaccination against influenza Cancer examinations for collaborators and  families Cancer insurance  Self-care campaign Safe Hands campaign  Safety Month  Health care 24 hours a day  Occupational medical examination Vaccination against Hepatitis B Vaccination against influenza Cancer examinations for collaborators and  families Cancer insurance Implementation of the STOP method Incidents Investigation High risk work authorization Housekeeping- 5S Audits  Safety Month  Health care 24 hours a day Occupational medical examination Management  of family  and personal  welfare Useful holidays for children of employees Family walk to the Navy Club  Prodac Olympics Christmas party Talent Night Useful holidays for children of employees Cinema afternoon Talks on responsible parenthood and family  violence Prodac Olympics Christmas party Bowling tournament Family walk to the Navy Club Striving for constant and comprehensive  progress of our collaborators, we formulate  an annual training plan based on the  needs, job profile, business goals, and each  collaborators skills.  In 2008, we invested  a total of S/. 218,815.10 on training  (i.e. 8,022 hours) and 150 collaborators  participated in various workshops and  training programs.  In 2009 the investment  was S/. 85,801.69 with more than 1,800  hours of training mainly for supervisors and  operators. Finally, as has been a practice for several  years, we set aside an area in the Companys  facilities and scheduled after work shifts for  collaborators to attend the free Office Basic  and intermediate Excel courses; benefiting  50 collaborators in 2008 and 14 in 2009. Training Programs STAKEHOLDERS 32 33  Internal communication Bulletin Board D Acero Magazine Electronic panels Luncheons sponsored  by the Area Managers  We have bulletin boards in various strategic  places of the main office in Lima and in the  branch offices in order to inform everyone about  significant Company events.  Clarn Galvanized  bulletin boards are bi-weekly publications and  report on activities, campaigns, and events  sponsored by the different areas of the Company.  The editorial is written by the General Manager  once a month informing collaborators about the  Companys current situation and the context in  which we find ourselves.   Collaborators who wish to publish information  can do so by simply sending an e-mail. It is a monthly publication distributed to the  collaborators with the objective of providing  alternative entertainment for them and their  families.  It includes sections on culture and,  in some cases, reports on the Company events  aimed at personal welfare of collaborators, among  others.  Any collaborator can submit comments, concerns  or amenities to be published in the magazine. Electronic panels are placed in areas visible to all  collaborators.  The 9 electronic panels are used to  share, with our collaborators, information quickly  and timely about various business achievements,  sales, etc., as well as events, birthday greetings,  and organizational culture messages. Managers call collaborators from different  departments to build relations beyond the daily  work.  It also serves to absolve common doubts,  share plans, objectives and goals, among other  things. STAKEHOLDERS 34 35  Health and safety Prevention of deadly  diseases Health care, safety, and working conditions Safety Month  Program includes annual vaccination campaigns  against  hepatitis  and  influenza,  cancer  annual examinations, including the families  of collaborators.  In addition, we offer each  collaborator  cancer  insurance  Oncomedic  National for free. Several policies, procedures, and campaigns to  prevent occupational diseases and occupational  accidents are in place. PRODAC, through  its Integrated Management System Policy,  portrays its strong commitment to the safety  of its workers by establishing procedures and  campaigns aimed at preventing industrial  accidents and occupational diseases. The Safety Month was held in 2008 from  September 25 to October 25, and, in 2009,  from September 24 to October 24, 2009.  Different activities were carried out, such as  acknowledging the area with zero accidents with  loss time, rewarding workers with the safest  behavior, participation of workers children in  the safety drawing event, drafting of letters  on work security, security crossword puzzles,  contests among collaborators, safety workshops  for mothers, among others. In 2008, we carried out several safety campaigns: take care  of yourself with the slogan, stop, observe, think, and act  and Safe Hands campaign, after reviewing the statistics  and concluding that the majority of accidents affect hands. In 2009, we began to develop the Quality, Safety, and  Environment Integrated Management System, comprising key  procedures such as incident investigations and the high risk  working permits, which are vital management elements to  support proactive security. All accident and incident investigations aim at identifying the  root causes of events and taking corrective and preventive  measures in each case to prevent them from happening  again. Also in 2009, we began the Security Preventive Monitoring  Program with the STOP method, based on the principle of  security by observing unsafe conditions and immediately  correcting it.  This campaign encouraged collaborators  to become active agents identifying any type of situation  that could cause an accident.  In addition, we conducted  housekeeping assessments using the 5  S approach, a  Japanese organizational method to maintain order and  tidiness, which leads to preventing accidents. 2008 2009 STAKEHOLDERS 36 37  Health Room Permanent development and  dissemination of Safety Procedures Occupational medical  examinations Health Rooms are located inside our sites  and are opened 24 hours a day, 7 days a  week.  They have a doctor on Monday,  Wednesday and Friday, from 7: 30 am to 3:  30 pm and Tuesday and Thursday from 7: 30  am to 5: 30 pm.  During the remaining time,  the health rooms are covered by medical  emergencies and disasters technicians. In 2009, PRODACs safety regulations were  prepared;  these  regulations  set  standard  operational controls that must be followed by  all collaborators.  In addition, group meetings  between the Security Department and all other  work areas serve as means to disseminate  internal communication on safety procedures,  in which security procedures and operational  control mechanisms for risky areas are also  disseminated. These are annually offered to all our collaborators.  Occupational tests include mapping of work risks  to identify areas for evaluation.  Year after year,  we add new tests, and three years ago we began  running cancer evaluations sensitive to age and  gender. STAKEHOLDERS LUGAR : GESTION HUMANA HORARIOS: EXMENES MEDICOS   El personal a pasar los exmenes medicos ocupacionales se   guian de una hoja de ruta de exmenes la cual indica los   exmenes medicos a seguir, una vez concluido el examen   esta hoja ser firmada.   La participacin del personal en estos exmenes es de    carcter obligatorio. Esto constituye un requisito legal que    debe cumplir la empresa.     Es IMPORTANTE venir y permanecer   en ayunas para el correcto resultado   de los exmenes. 38 39  All collaborators are entitled to enjoy special benefits that the Company has provided after evaluating the main  needs of its collaborators in order to contribute to their personal and family stability. SCHOOL PACKAGE AND BONUS: financial bonus and school supplies are given to all collaborators who  have children in school age, and who have been with the Company a minimum of three months.  It is given  annually. SCHOOL LOAN: benefit granted to all collaborators who have children in school age.  Such loan is granted  upon request of collaborator and the maximum amount is S/.600.00.  It is granted after evaluating  workers creditworthiness record. PRODAC benefits DEATH BONUS:  an economic bonus granted to all collaborators whose  wife (or husband), children, or parents die.  This bonus includes the 3  day mourning paid leave in Lima and 5 days in provinces. EMERGENCY LOAN collaborators who have been with the Company for  at least three months can be eligible for this benefit.  It is requested  by those facing emergency situations of different nature.  Each case is  assessed and served according to the needs. LOAN AFTER HOLIDAYS: It is awarded to collaborators who request it  after returning from their vacation period.  SOCIAL AID These are granted to collaborators facing health emergencies  and whose economic situation does not allow them to address the  problem.  It is provided after evaluation on a case by case basis.  TRANSPORTATION SERVICE, all collaborators enjoy free transportation  in comfortable buses.  We offer four daily routes in the areas where the  majority of collaborators live.  This service is offered both to go to and  return from work. COMPLETE HIGH SCHOOL for everyone, program intended for  collaborators who did not have a chance to graduate from high school.  They are provided economic support and time to complete their  education. STAKEHOLDERS 40 41  2008 2009 PRODAC Idol Talent Night: 80 collaborators  participated in different areas. This activity helped  participants to become closer. Talks on responsible parenthood and family violence: held in 2008 and conducted by  INPPARES staff and addressed to the 60 mothers  who participated in the Knitting and Bijouterie  workshops.  Bowling  tournament:  Aimed  at  integrating  collaborators, about 50 participated. Summer School for collaborators children: We  offered dance, karate, theatre (clauns), mini- soccer, and volleyball workshops. More than 100  children participated. Summer School for collaborators children: We  offered contemporary dance, painting, and singing  workshops.  More than 100 children participated. Family field trip to the Navy Club: Approximately  100 children, who participated in the summer  school, and their parents, enjoyed a fun morning  at this club. Family field trip to the Navy Club: Approximately  100 children, who participated in the summer  school, and their parents, enjoyed a fun morning  at this club. PRODAC cinema afternoon at Cineplanet: special  show organized for collaborators children. With the participation of approximately 80  children. PRODAC cinema afternoon at Cineplanet: special  show organized for collaborators children. With the  participation of approximately 80 children. Crafts workshop for the wives of the collaborators:  Workshops on knitting and bijouterie were held in  2008. 30 mothers participated in each workshop. PRODAC  Olympics:  Included  10  discipline  competitions:  soccer,  mini-soccer,  volleyball,  Marathon,  sapo,  chess,  handball,  table  tennis, bowling, and swimming. More than 200  collaborators and their families participated. PRODAC  Olympics:  Included  10  discipline  competitions:  soccer,  mini-soccer,  volleyball,  Marathon, sapo, chess, handball, table tennis,  and pool. More than 200 collaborators  and their families participated. Christmas Party: A Circus of Colors. 500 children  of collaborators participated. Christmas Party: PRODAC Childrens Christmas.  500 children of collaborators participated. STAKEHOLDERS 1 2 3 4 (1) PRODAC Idol – PRODAC Talent Night, (2) Cinema for children attending summer school, (3) Christmas Celebration for the PRODAC family, (4) Program Tu Casa - delivering houses. 42 43  Peru 2021 Diagnosis Report- Collaborators The score obtained in this item was 3.72/6, which ranks PRODAC in an upper intermediate level. Our greatest  strength lies in the promotion of family and professional development of our collaborators, as well as in relations  with trade unions and workers.  In the area of retirement and resignations, the results show that we must  continue to work to achieve significant improvements. SECTION AVERAGE Average 3.72 Appreciation and respect for diversity 3.38 Participatory management 3.81 Relationship with groups of organized workers and trade unions 4.00 Compensation, benefits and career policy 3.37 Health care, safety, and working Conditions 3.87 Professional development and employability 4.43 Personal and family development 4.50 Retirement and resignations 2.91 Subcontracted staff 4.26 Our customers are those who motivate the Companys actions, encouraging us continually to refine and improve  the quality of our products and services with standardized practices, and responding to their specific needs. One of our main strengths in this field is the implementation of a customer satisfaction assessment system.  We  have with them, in addition, smooth, constant, and direct dialogue channels to introduce them to our marketing  and communication policies, as well as transparent and truthful information.  We offer advice on products and  services, and we have a fairly complete and friendly web page which provides diverse information about the  Company. Another important goal is to transmit PRODAC business values to our customers and to promote among them  social and community values.  Thus, we seek to involve them in social support programs designed by PRODAC,  engaging more and more people in such initiatives. The Companys Engine 3.4 Clients STAKEHOLDERS Sodimac employees in their visit to PRODAC Plant 44 45  We re-structured our companys organizational flowchart by implementing business units, which are strategic  units responding to the specific needs of different business sectors to which we provide services.  These units  have been designed to respond more effectively to the requirements of our customers, allowing us to better  understand them and giving solution to their specific needs.  2008 As part of PRODACs effort to maintain satisfied customers, in 2009, we designed the Consumers Voice  Project.  This project was prepared to address a need we identified in our customers.  Many of them, although  they knew our products, had limited knowledge on the range of applications they could have.  Therefore, we  designed the Consumers Voice Project, an initiative to train our customers on the benefits, uses of our  products and their suitability for specific applications.  Also the Consumers Voice Project, scheduled for  2010, is a space to answer customers doubts and to get feedback which helps us to continuously improve. 2009 Peru 2021 Diagnosis Results- Customers In the evaluation of this stakeholder, PRODAC obtained an upper intermediate level with a score of 4.09/6.  The  Company has taken into account the specific recommendations made by Peru 2021, especially the preparation  of this CSR report to be made available to the public through our website. SECTION AVERAGE Average 4.09 Product development and management  4.07 Marketing and communication policies 4.11 Ethical sales 4.05 Respect for consumers privacy  4.35 Excellence in customer service 3.98 2008 2009 Business Units Costumers Voice Project STAKEHOLDERS 46 47  PRODAC is a successful company, committed to the development of the communities where it operates;  especially with more vulnerable and less-favored sectors of the population.  The company has scheduled various  plans to mitigate any negative impact that its activities could generate, as well as development projects to  benefit children, young people, and adults, and the community in general. PRODACs social program bases its actions on a thorough knowledge of the social problems of the places where  it operates.  It has a Social support Committee in charge of promoting and informing about the opportunities  available, facilitating further logistical and financial aspects for the implementation of social programs. Committed to their development and welfare 3.5 Community 2008 2009 Training and Development Centre. Fumigation ofn Sarita Colonia Police Station. Christmas baskets and toys for  the children of the Police. Summer School for children in the community. Workshops for mothers in the area. Corporate volunteer work. Construction of the canteen in Sarita Colonias Police Station. Construction of toilettes for Sarita Colonia School. Summer School for children in the community. Fellowship luncheon. Workshops for mothers in the area. Responsible parenthood talk. STAKEHOLDERS Our corporate volunteer program, Voluntades de Acero, brings together members from different areas and  hierarchical levels of the Company.  We also invited relatives and friends to participate of our various projects.  The program aims at promoting and supporting volunteer work, so that collaborators gain ownership and join the  Companys commitment to contribute to the development of societys less favored sectors. In 2008, our volunteers organized and deployed a number of projects at the Fernando Belaunde Terry School  located in Daniel Alcides Carrin Shanty Town in Callao.  We performed civil works to improve the facilities  and carried out activities geared to children and parents, benefiting 140 children - around 280 volunteers  participated.  The main works were the following: laid school floor and built a library, repaired the electrical system in bathrooms  and classrooms, install roof in master bathroom, built area for toilettes and put up a wooden fence and childrens  games for kindergarten students, among others. Our volunteer collaborators organized other campaigns: planting  trees, dental campaigns, artistic activities with children, grooming habits and nutrition workshops for mothers,  recycling workshops, and donated materials. Corporate volunteer program Voluntades de Acero 2008 Summer School offered to Sarita Colonia Children 48 49  Daniel Alcides Carrin Shanty Town STAKEHOLDERS 50 51  During 2008, PRODAC focused its social responsibility efforts in the Sarita Colonia Shanty Town, located within  area of influence.  The investment made exceeds S/141, 000, providing the necessary material resources and  hiring personnel for the implementation of infrastructure and other projects specified below: Social Support Activities STAKEHOLDERS SARITA COLONIA SHANTY TOWN POLICE STATION: In 2008, we built a canteen with a built-in kitchen, fans, and a TV set  in Sarita Colonias Police  Station. Other civil works were done in the vicinity of the dining room such as sidewalks, planting  of grass in indoor and outdoor gardens, shelter for bicycles, and different areas were painted.  On the second floor of the Police Station, a bedroom with bathroom was implemented so that  policewomen could complete their shifts under better conditions. All this work benefited approximately 30 police officers. VARIOUS ACTIVITIES IN SARITACOLONIA COMMUNITY: The toilets for girls and first graders were rebuilt, ostensibly improving their quality. This work was  carried out in 2008 and benefited approximately 70 school children. SARITA COLONIA SCHOOL: A way to help people improve their quality of life is to keep them informed about various topics, which is why we organized the following activities: Police Station Canteen First Day of Summer School Summer school for children between 3 and 15 years old (100 children benefited). Fellowship luncheons. (100 children participated in this event held on February 14,2008) Workshops for mothers in the area. (Approximately 30 mothers benefit per year). Responsible parenthood and domestic violence talks. (Held  in 2008 and addressed to  mothers; lectures were given by INPARES staff and 30 mothers participated) 1 2 3 52 53  STAKEHOLDERS The South of Peru was hit by a strong earthquake on August 15, 2007, occurred; there were large human and  material losses, mainly caused by the collapse of building poorly built or unsuitable for the zone.  In response  to this situation, and after identifying that Peru informal structures are the leading cause of deaths during  earthquakes; PRODAC, along with Cementos Lima and Unicom, has implemented the Training and Distribution  Centre (CCD) aimed at disseminating good practices in construction, forming, free of charge, professionals in  the implementation of techniques for the production of reinforced concrete housing.  The homes are earthquake  resistant with limited ductility ideal for seismic areas. As part of this initiative, on December 19, 2009, 7  modules were donated to families in the South of the country affected by the earthquake of 2007. Due to the economic crisis this year we did not carry out as many social support activities; however, we continued  to work with the community of Sarita Colonia in our efforts to contribute to their welfare.  This year, we invested  S/.17, 800. Training and Distribution Center Social Support Activities 2009 SARITA COLONIA POLICE STATION: The police was supported with the fumigation of the facilities due to the proliferation of insects.  We  also  gave 20 Christmas baskets and 33 gifts for children of Police personnel. SUMMER SCHOOL:  We gave the children of Sarita Colonia the opportunity to have a productive and entertaining summer  building their skills.  This activity benefited about 100 children. WORKSHOP FOR THE AREA MOTHERS:  We offered Bijouterie, manicure and childrens parties decoration workshops to mothers in the area with the  aim of providing the necessary skills so that they can generate additional revenue.  This activity benefited  30 mothers in Sarita Colonia community. Peru 2021 Diagnosis Report- Community PRODACs score is 3.73, hence ranking in the upper intermediate level. We obtained the best result in  participation in social action programs.  Therefore, we have set a new challenge for the future: to structure a  program reaching the entire community to articulate all Company social activities with a common objective by  optimizing the scope and the sustainability of our projects. SECTION AVERAGE Average 3.73 Companys impact on the community 3.52 Relations with community organizations 3.63 Support to projects and social programs 3.38 Companys participation in social action 4.24 54 55  At PRODAC, we worry about the conservation of the environment.  Therefore our mission, vision, Code of Conduct  and our Integrated Management System policy reflect the concern and commitment we have on the subject.  Currently, we are developing the implementation of ISO 14001 in the Integrated Management System.  Among the most important environmental program of PRODAC stand out hazardous and non-hazardous solid  waste management, water conservation and the continuous monitoring of our effluents and emissions, among  other environmental parameters. Operational controls adopted for the conservation of the environment not only contribute to its care but also  reduce costs, while increasing the efficiency of all processes and giving legitimacy to the Company in the  community. Betting for a safer and healthier planet 3.6 The Environment STAKEHOLDERS Since 2005, PRODAC has been implementing an environmental adaptation program, with an initial investment  of $ 527,000 and that, to date, it accounts for more than US $ 1  285, 000.  For 2010, PRODAC has budgeted US $ 169, 000 for investments in environmental topics, within the framework  of ISO 14001.  Investment in environmental topics PROJECT Real Investment (NUEVOS SOLES) OBSERVATIONS Allows to reduce water consumption in the  production processes. Independent and specialized companies on the  subject perform environmental monitoring every  six months. Natural gas is an energy which reduces the generation  of polluting emissions for the Environment. Activities falling within this program include  segregation, classification and disposal of waste  properly; training activities are also included. This program aims at educating personnel regarding  the protection of the environment, notably  influencing the conservation of water and waste management. Opening of a new water well Opening of a new water well Change from fuel to natural gas Solid waste management program Training program 119,800 2 20,340 6 584,398 3 46,156 4 5,028 5 Allows to treat the water used in processes by  reducing to a minimum level contaminants. Physico-chemical industrial effluent treatment  plants. 394,400 1 Water Treatment Plant 56 57  STAKEHOLDERS PRODAC has developed a project for the conservation of water that has allowed to reduce its consumption of 4  m3/TN in 2002 to 1.27 m3/TN in 2009. To achieve this important objective, PRODAC installed and started up a plant for treatment of industrial effluents,  which implied an investment of approximately $ 400,000. This plant, which is in operation since 2007, has allowed to obtain the following results: Lead is a highly harmful element; it is reduced on average from 60 to 200 ppm below 0.02 ppm before it is  discharged to the outside, i.e. a reduction of more than 99.9% of pollution is achieved.  Similarly zinc reduces  at an average of 100 ppm below 0.03 ppm.  Two main processes take place in the processing plant: neutralization and precipitation of heavy metal; thereby  outputting clarified water and industrial sludge , which is subsequently delivered to a company specialized in  the treatment of industrial waste. Fuente: high light report Water Conservation Parameter Input to Treatment  plant  Value obtained after  treatment Legal requirement pH Lead(ppm) SST (ppm) Zinc (ppm) 1 60 a 200 50 a 90 50 a 150 8 0,08 a 0,15 20 0,1 a 0,5 6 - 9 0,1 50 2 Solid waste are elements, substances, compounds or  mixtures of the above mentioned, which at the end of  their useful life, become wastes and that, regardless  of their physical state, are hazardous to the health or  the environment due to its characteristics, corrosive,  reactive, explosive, toxic, flammable or biologically  infectious.  In 2005, PRODAC started the Solid Wates  Management Program , which is currently ongoing and  which has achieved a sustainable reduction in the  generation of waste, whether hazardous or not, in all  production units.  The program consists of the following: Solid Waste Management Personnel training on solid waste management issues. Selection of quantity and characteristics of the containers to be used. Location of temporary storage of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Adequacy of final storage of solid waste. Transportation and disposal of domestic, industrial, and hazardous solid waste. Suitability of use and minimization techniques. Internal audits on the Solid Waste Management Plan. 4,5 4,00 2,03 2,34 1,70 1,30 1,20 0,90 m3/TN 4 3,5 3 2,5 2 1,5 1 0,5 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 1,27 Water Consumption (m3/TN) Water Consumption  (m3/TN) 58 59  Monitoring of Environmental Parameters Peru 2021 Diagnosis Reports- Environment The score obtained in this item was 3.17/6, and although we rank in a lower intermediate level, we are aware  that we still have a long way to go in this crucial point.  We hope to show in the near future figures that underpin  our real interest in contributing to the creation of a healthier environment for all. STAKEHOLDERS PRODAC keeps their atmospheric emissions within the permissible maximum limits; this is evidenced in the  monitoring performed on a semi-annual basis. As a result, CO, NOx, SO2, particles greenhouse emissions are  under the permissible limit, in all seasons. SECTION AVERAGE Average 3.17 Impact on the environment 3.50 Environmental responsibility in the  productive cycle 3.63 Care in incorporation of supplies and  waste treatments 2.78 Environmental education and Companys  commitment 3.06 As a socially responsible company, PRODAC has undertaken a comprehensive task to transfer its values to  organizations that are related to the Company, such as suppliers and contractors.  We have internal criteria for  working with suppliers based on factors such as the quality of products and services offered, and the ethical  principles embedded in their philosophies.  Therefore, we especially deal with companies who share our CSR  principles and include as a requirement to work with suppliers that they comply with our Code of Supplier  Conduct.  Thus, we are looking for a commitment to society based on responsibility. Creating alliances 3.7 Suppliers 60 61  STAKEHOLDERS Peru 2021 Diagnosis Report- Suppliers The score achieved in this stakeholder was 3.08/6, ranking PRODAC in a lower intermediate level.  It is true that  the indicator evaluation and selection of suppliers obtained the highest score; however, we have to improve our  relationship with this group and optimize the work we have been doing together.  Our commitment is to strengthen our CSR criteria regarding the selection and evaluation of suppliers, which  pose greater demands for them and will result in benefits for PRODAC and their customers in terms of improving  the quality of products and services.  We will also offer job opportunities for SMEs upon closing attractive  partnerships for this sector. SECTION AVERAGE Average 3.08 Evaluation and selection of suppliers 3.45 Values in the market chain 2.56 Support in the development of suppliers 3.15 Our commitment to suppliers also involves supporting their development.  Hence, in 2009, we set ourselves the  objective to achieve 240 man/hours of training customers and suppliers.  We not only achieved this goal, but  also surpassed it, reaching only considering training to suppliers 198 man/hours. In addition, and considering that the first steps to set up a company can be complicated, this year we formalized  our Inclusive Business program.  This program seeks to promote the incorporation of small businesses  providing seed capital and legal advice: examples of which are:  Transportes Aldair, Las Orquideas, and Transporte  Zaavedra. 2009 CSR training Las Orquideas Gardening company – Inclusive Business 1 2 62 63  Peru 2021 Diagnosis Report- State The outcome of the evaluation in relation to this stakeholder was 3.32/6, which ranks us at a lower intermediate  level.  It should be noted; however, that the score obtained in strict compliance with laws was 5.30.  While it is  true that we will work hard to raise initiatives and participate in various government projects linked to the welfare  of society, we will focus our efforts on partnerships with community organizations, supporting public policies,  and creating opportunities to open up other channels of dialogue with this group. SECTION AVERAGE Average 3.32 Legality and transparency 5.30 Political transparency 3.17 Participation in government projects 2.00 Leadership and influence in society 2.25 STAKEHOLDERS A PRODAC initiative in connection with this stakeholder is the talks held with other companies in view of  establishing the Asociacin de Empresas de Nstor Gambeta, whose purpose is to work for a better environment  in the area, healthier, safer, with more trees, more human.  In 2010, we expect to complete these talks and take  the first steps to make this dream a reality. 2009 PRODAC recognizes that the State and public institutions are potential partners in the implementation of social  development projects, and emphasizes on maintaining the best relations on the basis of respect and compliance  with all relevant legal aspects.  We also comply with national and international conventions regulating the  industry in Peru, and we consider the other companies, not as enemies, but as partners.  This perspective helps  us to unite efforts to defend Peru; which we aspire as entrepreneurs and socially active and responsible business  people. Establishing Proactive Ties 3.8 State 64 65  IV.  CONCLUSIONS Galvanize Steel Wires 66 67  General Results – Peru 2021 Indicators According to the qualitative assessment of Peru 2021, PRODAC obtained a score of 3.77, showing upper  intermediate performance in its CSR management during 2008.  Customer Management had the highest  score (4), which means that the companys policy of giving customers a quality service and first-level care was  successful.  Supplier Management obtained the lowest score (3.08), a clear indicator that points out the need to  develop a strategy that allows us to improve various aspects of our relationship with this important stakeholder. With these results we determined the activities to be perform in 2009, with particular emphasis on those  stakeholders where we scored the lowest but without neglecting the others.  The results from the Peru 2021  indicators serve as grounds on which we can move forward in our CSR management with determination and  firmness. SECTION AVERAGE Average 3.77 Shareholders 3.84 1 Collaborators 3.72 2 Community 3.73 5 Customers 4.09 3 Environment 3.17 6 Suppliers 3.08 4 State 3.32 7 CONCLUSIONS We are a creative and dynamic Company that seeks to excel in all its capabilities, offering growth and welfare  opportunities for all our stakeholders.  We are aware that we have big challenges ahead and that the best way  to face the future is through a comprehensive CSR, allowing all our actions to follow one direction to achieve  the goals.  We are confident that PRODAC has the ability to streamline its processes and achieve significant  improvements in its results, which reflect the efficiency and proactivity of PRODAC collaborators , as well as the  comprehensive development of an increasingly prosperous Company. Overall Conclusion Main Station 68 69  Mesh woven for fences (Olympic mesh) 70 71