Environmentally Conscious Paper A-(2)-060002 Environmentally Conscious Printing Design Consideration Paper Certified by the FSC as Being  from Mixed Sources The paper used in this report has been certied  by the Forest Stewardship Council as deriving  from well-managed forests and other controlled  sources. Paper that Contributes to Forest  Thinning Printed on paper made with wood from forest  thinning. Morino Chonai-Kai (Forest  Neighborhood Association)—Supporting sound  forest management. Domestic Materials In support of the Kizukai  (Japanese Wood Usage)  Campaign promoted by the  Forestry Agency of Japan to  build healthy Japanese  forests that contribute to the  absorption of CO2, the  paper used in this report is  made from wood sourced  from Japanese forests. Non-VOC Ink This report was printed using 100%  vegetable-based ink containing zero volatile  organic compounds (VOCs).  Waterless Printing This report was printed  using a waterless printing  process to prevent the  emission of hazardous  liquids during printing. For a design using colors easy to see for people  regardless of individual differences, we obtained  certication from NPO Color Universal Design  Organization (CUDO).  Fuji Electric Group CSR Report 2010 This mark symbolizes  the commitment of  the Fuji Electric Group to  environmental protection. Gate City Ohsaki, East Tower,  11-2, Osaki 1-chome, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0032, Japan Contacts  Regarding this report: Investor Relations and Public Relations or Fuji Electric Group Social Responsibility Dept. TEL: +81-3-5435-7206  FAX: +81-3-5435-7486 Regarding environmental reporting: Environmental Management Team MONOTSUKURI Strategy Division TEL: +81-3-5435-7193  FAX: +81-3-5435-7480 C o r p o r a t e  S o c i a l  R e s p o n s i b i l i t y 2010 Fuji Electric Group CSR Report Environmentally Conscious Paper A-(2)-060002 Environmentally Conscious Printing Design Consideration Paper Certified by the FSC as Being  from Mixed Sources The paper used in this report has been certied  by the Forest Stewardship Council as deriving  from well-managed forests and other controlled  sources. Paper that Contributes to Forest  Thinning Printed on paper made with wood from forest  thinning. Morino Chonai-Kai (Forest  Neighborhood Association)—Supporting sound  forest management. Domestic Materials In support of the Kizukai  (Japanese Wood Usage)  Campaign promoted by the  Forestry Agency of Japan to  build healthy Japanese  forests that contribute to the  absorption of CO2, the  paper used in this report is  made from wood sourced  from Japanese forests. Non-VOC Ink This report was printed using 100%  vegetable-based ink containing zero volatile  organic compounds (VOCs).  Waterless Printing This report was printed  using a waterless printing  process to prevent the  emission of hazardous  liquids during printing. For a design using colors easy to see for people  regardless of individual differences, we obtained  certication from NPO Color Universal Design  Organization (CUDO).  Fuji Electric Group CSR Report 2010 This mark symbolizes  the commitment of  the Fuji Electric Group to  environmental protection. Gate City Ohsaki, East Tower,  11-2, Osaki 1-chome, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0032, Japan Contacts  Regarding this report: Investor Relations and Public Relations or Fuji Electric Group Social Responsibility Dept. TEL: +81-3-5435-7206  FAX: +81-3-5435-7486 Regarding environmental reporting: Environmental Management Team MONOTSUKURI Strategy Division TEL: +81-3-5435-7193  FAX: +81-3-5435-7480 C o r p o r a t e  S o c i a l  R e s p o n s i b i l i t y 2010 Fuji Electric Group CSR Report  The Fuji Electric Group in Society A Message from the President Environmental  Report Major Theme Reducing Environmental Impact  Through Fuji Electric Products Environmental Management Environmental Management Targets and Results Interplay Between Business Activities and Environmental Impact Preventing Global Warming Recycling of Resources Management of Chemical Substances Environmental Risk Management Management Framework Major Theme Strengthening Compliance Corporate Governance Compliance Risk Management Contents 3 5 7 11 21 23 25 27 29 30 43 55 13 15 17 18 19 31 33 34 35 39 45 47 49 50 52 53 54 56 57 58 59 60 An Independent Perspective Fuji Electric Group Outline Social Report CSR Activity Report 2009 Together with Customers Together with Suppliers Together with Shareholders and Investors Together with Employees Together with Local Communities Major Theme 1. Ensuring Customer Safety and Security 2. Developing Human Resources at      Overseas Operational Sites 3. Social Contributions in Deprived Areas CSR Activities Targets and Results Michihiro Kitazawa and Professor Motoyuki Suzuki CSR in a Phase of Innovation Conversation with a  Stakeholder Advancing Toward the Leading- Edge in the Field of  "Energy and the Environment" Steps Toward Achieving Environmental Vision 2020 Expansion of Geothermal Power Generation Increased Photovoltaic Power Generation Energy Conservation at Data Centers Support for Energy-Saving Initiatives in Factories  and Buildings Research and Development for the Future 1. Stop Global Warming Preservation of Biodiversity 3. Meet our Corporate Social Responsibilities Reducing the Environmental Load at Our Own Factories 2. Create a Recycling-Oriented Society Special Feature An introduction to compliance training for  Group executives and employees Michihiro Kitazawa, President and  Representative Director, converses with  Professor Motoyuki Suzuki on the theme of  CSR in a phase of innovation. An introduction to measures to expand  geothermal power generation, which is gaining  attention as a renewable energy source An introduction to activities to reduce the  environmental impact at the Matsumoto  factory, which primarily manufactures  semiconductors An introduction to social contribution activities  in economically deprived regions An introduction to our efforts to create  products that contribute to the reduction of  environmental load  P.55  P.7  P.13  P.21  P.30  P.43 About the Cover Note to Readers The Fuji Electric Group takes part in social action programs in Japan  and overseas that meet pressing societal and community needs.  The cover shows a photograph of New Forestry Conservation  Activities in Azumino, Nagano, featuring children carrying logs into  which they will insert fungi that will grow into shiitake mushrooms.  Please refer to page 39 for an introduction of these New Forestry  Conservation Activities. The Fuji Electric Group reports each year on its diverse  efforts to achieve a sustainable society. This report addresses a variety of concerns voiced by  stakeholders in response to questionnaire distributed by Fuji  Electric. It also includes coverage of one important theme  for the Fuji Electric Group in a special feature, Steps toward  Achieving Environmental Vision 2020, and contains  sections under the titles of Social Report, Environmental  Report and Management Framework, dealing with other  crucial aspects of our operations.  Furthermore, the Fuji Electric Group formally pledged its  conformance with the objectives of the United Nations  Global Compacts ten principles in February 2010. For the  Fuji Electric Group, amid its global promotion of businesses  in the eld of energy and the environment, these ten  principles are in accordance with its policy on major  activities. Accordingly, the report includes as much coverage  as is possible on measures relating to these ten principles.  CSR Activities Targets and Results (see page 25) is  cross-referenced through a Contrast with GC10 Principle  column, clarifying the relationship between reported items  and the UN Global Compacts ten principles.  Scope of the Report This report, in principle, covers the entire Fuji Electric Group  (54 consolidated subsidiaries, of which 19 are overseas).  However, certain sections refer to a specic range within the  Group and not to the Group in its entirety.  Period of the Report This report covers scal 2009 (April 1, 2009, to March 31,  2010). Although the report focuses on the results of scal  2008 business activities, descriptions of some earlier and  some more recent initiatives are also included from the  standpoint of continuity of activities. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains information pertaining to future forecasts based on management directions and plans of the Fuji Electric Group. These  statements are based on information available at the time of publication. Please be advised that actual results may vary from forecasts, due to  changes in the management environment. This Reports Characteristics Editorial Process Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the  protection of internationally proclaimed human  rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human  rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of  association and the effective recognition of the  right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and  compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of  employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary  approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater  environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of  environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all  its forms, including extortion and bribery. UN Global Compacts Ten Principles Reference Guidelines  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Sustainability Reporting  Guidelines, Third Edition (G3)  Ministry of the Environment of Japan: Environmental  Reporting Guidelines (2007 edition) Publication Date This report: September 2010 (Previous report: August 2009) Next publication: August 2011 (scheduled) Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010  Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010   Thermal power generation Photovoltaic power generation Geothermal power generation Photovoltaic power generation Wind power generation Railroads Factories Homes Supermarkets and convenience stores Data centers Cars Offices Optimizing Energy Use In the home: In cars: At factories: Controlling  Energy At various  facilities: In offices: On the railroads: At supermarkets and  convenience stores: At data centers: Power generation turbines Thermal power generation facilities Geothermal power generation facilities Lithium ion capacitors Solar cells Phosphoric acid fuel cells Creating Energy At power plants: At various  facilities: Energy management systems (EMSs) Elevator-control inverters Local air-conditioning systems Uninterruptible power supply systems  (UPSs) Refrigerated and freezer display cases Terminals for electronic money settlement Power supply semiconductors for LCD TVs Watt-hour meters Drive motors Main converters IGBT modules Intelligent power switches Power distribution equipment Power semiconductors for  industrial robots Power monitors Power monitoring systems Power stabilization systems Motors, inverters The Fuji Electric Group in Society Supporting Various Industries and  Peoples Lifestyles Through Technology  to Unlock the Potential of Electricity  Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010  Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010   Corporate Philosophy Fuji Electric Group Code of Conduct The Fuji Electric Group and its employees, from a global perspective  always strives to meet our corporate mission of We, The Fuji Electric  Group, pledge as responsible corporate citizens in a global society  to strengthen our trust with communities, customers and partners,  1. Respect and value our customers 2. Respect and value all people 3. Respect and value the global environment 4. Respect and value our shareholders and investors 5. Respect and value interaction with society 6. Respect, value and conform with all applicable laws and regulations Corporate Mission We, The Fuji Electric Group, pledge as responsible corporate citizens in a global  society to strengthen our trust with communities, customers and partners. Our mission is to: Contribute to prosperity, Encourage creativity  and Seek harmony with the environment. Group Slogan To be enthusiastic, ambitious and sensitive. Management Policies 1. Expand our business on a global scale and promote self-contained  operational management based on a global perspective. 2. Expand business development with a focus on energy and the environment. 3. Respect employee ambitions and deploy a strong team of diverse human  resources. The Fuji Electric Groups corporate philosophy is  underpinned by the idea: we, Fuji Electric Group, pledge as  responsible corporate citizens in a global society to  strengthen our trust with communities, customers and  partners, and while valuing our founding traditions of  quality manufacturing and honest, open and hardworking  attitude, to diligently fulll our Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR).  There is currently growing concern over issues facing the  planet, such as global warming and climate change, and to  help solve these problems and to meet our greater  responsibility to society, the Fuji Electric Group is  developing its business in the elds of energy and the  environment globally, at the same time as strengthening  CSR management (management that emphasizes rms  social responsibility). Worldwide environmental problems, led by global warming  and climate change, are vital issues in determining the  future of mankind. For the Fuji Electric Group, committed  to an existence that is friendly to people and the  environment, resolving these issues is a paramount social  responsibility. Since the nancial and economic crisis that  commenced in the autumn of 2008 we are seeing  continued sluggishness in the world economy, but  expectations are rising for energy and environmental  businesses to emerge as new growth industries, and the  reality is that in China and the United States, as well as in  emerging nations, we are seeing demand expanding all  over the world.  In such times as these, the Fuji Electric Group is  leveraging its core technologies in such elds as power  electronics, control systems and semiconductors, making  full use of technology to unlock the potential of electricity,  to focus its business on energy and the environment.  Specically, we are focused on providing customers with  products and technology that offer solutions to global  environmental problems, including such  clean-energy-related products as geothermal power  generation systems, photovoltaic power generation  systems and fuel cells; inverters, which help in realizing  energy savings for various types of machinery and  electrical equipment; power semiconductors and so on. Also, for the expansion of our overseas business, we are  promoting thorough localization in our main markets of  China, Asia, Europe and the United States through setting up  local afliates with autonomous head-ofce functions to attain  local development, procurement, production and sales. Furthermore, at the same time as dispatching talent from  Japan, we are also focusing on aggressive recruitment and  human resource development in the locality. We seek to  contribute to the local society by building a working  environment where ambitious and capable staff can actively  participate, regardless of nationality, race, age or gender. In  other words, we wish to promote a diverse and inclusive  local workplace in the countries where we do business. Companies need to inaugurate environmental-impact  alleviation measures across all aspects of their business to  fulll their responsibilities with regard to the environment.  Accordingly, in order that each and every employee of the  Fuji Electric Group can begin to take tangible action toward  environmental preservation, we have formulated  Environmental Vision 2020 as a directive for our activities. Based on this vision, we are promoting the reduction of  environmental impact at our production and other corporate  facilities (green factories and green ofces) and the  manufacture of products with low environmental impact  (green products).  Furthermore, in recent years there is growing concern  over the impact on biological ecosystems of various human  activities. Fuji Electric Group aims to contribute to the  conservation of biodiversity with its Biodiversity Action  Guidelines, offering products and services that have a  reduced impact on ecosystems, and through collaboration  with local communities. As a company developing its global business, in February  2010 the Fuji Electric Group signed the UN-sponsored  Global Compact (GC).  Under the GC, companies are responsible for making  voluntary efforts with the aim of building a sustainable  society to demonstrate creative leadership while acting as a  good member of society. Companies that sign the GC  endorse 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of  human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and  agree to continue working toward  their realization. Upon signing the GC, as a global  company we are looking to  strengthen our CSR management  and carry out our contribution to a  sustainable society. In September 2010 we progressively revised what we called  our Charter of Corporate Behavior from a CSR  perspective and established the Fuji Electric Group Code  of Conduct. At the heart of this code of conduct is the  sharing of values between employees and the Company  and working together toward the realization of the Fuji  Electric Group corporate philosophy. In promoting CSR management, to begin with it is  essential for Fuji Electric Group to grow dynamically and to  raise corporate value to a global level, and to that end, we  believe it is of key importance to provide maximum  satisfaction to our customers around the world in the elds  of energy and the environment. Further, from here on we believe that to accomplish our  CSR goals we must value people, the environment,  shareholders and investors, and interaction with society. At  the same time, we place the highest priority on compliance,  which underlies all of our activities. Communication is instrumental in a CSR management  framework. The Fuji Electric Group is active in nurturing  communications with regional communities, employees,  customers, partners and other stakeholders. We bolster our  communications with regional communities through  participation in community events and environmental  conservation, activities that serve to deepen our relationships  of trust with communities in the regions where we operate. Through this shared awareness of CSR, all members of  the Group will work together to enhance corporate value,  earn the trust of society and become a respected corporate  group. A Message from the President Accomplishing this Mission with Sincerity as a  Good Corporate Citizen in Global Society Rallying Groupwide Power to Reduce  Environmental Impact and Conserve Biodiversity Shifting our Business Focus to Energy and the Environment, Aiming to Contribute to Local  Society as a Global Company Committed to Responsible Management as a  Global Citizen, Participating in United Nations  Global Compact To Enact the Fuji Electric Group Code of Conduct the Company and Its Employees Working Are Together  Toward the Realization of the Corporate Philosophy Aiming to be a global player in the elds of energy  and the environment, we are strongly promoting CSR  management to contribute to the realization of a  sustainable society. Michihiro Kitazawa President and Representative Director Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd. Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010  Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010   Kitazawa: In response to changes in social conditions,  led by the global recession that began in 2008, rising  environmental awareness and greater infrastructure demand  in developing countries, the Fuji Electric Group has been  striving to effect a business restructuring transformation,  adopting the field of energy and the environment as its  corporate growth engine. In April 2010, we shifted to a  new organization of segments in this field, comprising  two solution areas (energy solutions and environmental  solutions) and four product groups (semiconductors, electric  distribution & control components, vending machines  and magnetic disks). Based on this new framework, we  are planning a course of global business development  responsive to the global issues of energy production  through less environmentally demanding means and CO2  reductions through promotion of energy conservation. We  aim to achieve this by leveraging our solutions business in  the field of energy and the environment, which equates to  utilizing power electronics and other core technologies that  we have accumulated over the long haul. Suzuki: United Nations estimates indicate that the global  population of approximately 2. billion in 190 will rise to  9.2 billion by 200. Consumption of energy and natural  resources will grow in step with the population. Accordingly,  if we continue along the path we are currently following,  aggravated problems of global warming and climate change  are unavoidable. For mankind to overcome the dangerous  conditions it faces, truly radical measures, worthy of being  called an environmental revolution, are indispensable,  such as drastic cuts in CO2 emissions in both developed  and developing nations. This being the nature of the age,  the Fuji Electric Group is displaying prudent judgment  ahead of the times by taking the hugely significant step of  getting to grips with reinforcing its solutions in the field of  energy and the environment.  Kitazawa: This year marks 87 years since the  establishment of the Fuji Electric Group. There are  indications that the societal role of certain parts of our  infrastructure and other operations that have been an  important part of this history could be drawing to a close.  However, the Green New Deal initiative for economic and  environmental transformation, which originated in the  United States with influence that has spread worldwide,  implies that changes in social conditions, such as the  spread of social infrastructure in developing countries and  the progress of industrial growth, have brought about  an age where the Fuji Electric Groups accumulation  of unique technologies can once again be effectively  utilized. For example, the Groups solar cells, geothermal  power generation systems and other products provide  solutions to the creation and efficient supply of renewable  energy. Furthermore, utilizing power semiconductors,  inverters, control systems and so forth promotes energy  savings in offices, plants and commercial facilities and for  transportation equipment and other aspects of industry and  infrastructure, which in turn facilitates provision of solutions  that contribute to CO2 emissions reductions. To wit, the  requirements of the age for an environmental revolution  represent enormous possibilities for the Fuji Electric Group. Suzuki: Global business development is another important  point. Currently, the explosive population growth is focused  in developing regions and emerging nations. Sustainable  development in these areas requires finely tuned solutions  involving us joining with these countries and regions in  the construction of energy infrastructure that incurs a  lower environmental burden and is attuned to their actual  conditions.  Kitazawa: Geothermal power generation systems are one  example of energy infrastructure that contributes to the  creation of such sustainable societies. Recently, the worlds  largest geothermal power generation plant went on line  in New Zealand. The Fuji Electric Group was engaged for  the entire project, other than the basic construction of the  plant. Geothermal power generation, in comparison to other  forms of renewable energy, has the merit of stable energy  supply, irrespective of weather and time. In Japan, many  such suitable heat sources are located in national parks,  rendering development problematic. However, considering  only those geothermal resources that can be physically  developed, there is the potential to supply all Japans power  needs. Globally speaking, we can anticipate vast demand  from Iceland, New Zealand, Indonesia, the Philippines, the  United States and other countries. Michihiro Kitazawa President and Representative Director,  Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd. The deepening problems of global  warming and climate change can  be referred to as the environmental  revolution. This reflects the extent of  the bold measures required to deal with  these issues. (Suzuki) Professor Motoyuki Suzuki Chairman, Central Environmental Council; Professor, The  Open University of Japan; Professor Emeritus, University of  Tokyo; Former Vice Rector, United Nations University; Outside  Director, Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd. The worlds largest single-unit geothermal power generation facility  (1140MW) in New Zealand, delivered by the Fuji Electric Group Ongoing Personal Transformations with  the Aim of Bolstering the Companys  Contributions to Global Society Society is facing a number of acute universal issues, such as the problems of climate change  and population growth. The Fuji Electric Group, in its drive to promote its solutions business in the field of energy and  the environment, is adopting a progressively greater social role in solving these issues.  Accordingly, Professor Motoyuki Suzuki, appointed an outside director of Fuji Electric  Holdings in June 2010, discussed the Companys stance on CSR management with Michihiro  Kitazawa, President and Representative Director of Fuji Electric Holdings. CSR in a Phase of Innovation Conversation with a Stakeholder Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 8 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 7  issues. The Fuji Electric Group positions these as priority  issues, and in March 2010, we formulated an action plan  for the preservation of biodiversity. Suzuki: At present, Japan is home to roughly the same  number of plant species as Madagascar. Compared to  a European country of the same size, this represents  the conservation of a wealth of biodiversity. As a result,  there are fewer endangered species than in Europe.  However, the reality is that this more a factor of woodland  preservation than maintenance of biodiversity. I think Fuji  Electric should be highly commended for formulating a  voluntary action plan to heighten the level of consideration  for biodiversity. I want each employee to internalize the  Fuji Electric Group CSR idea that the Company is obliged  to foster an existence that is friendly to people and the  environment that underpins these activities. As a result, by  cultivating employees equipped with a high awareness and  behavior regarding environmental and social contributions,  and conducting these activities in Japan and overseas,  harmony with local communities will advance smoothly. Kitazawa: To develop CSR management globally, I think  the first area for the Group to focus on is the cultivation  of its human resources. However, I do not mean simple  inculcation, but instead the personal transformation of  every employee. For example, instead of the job I do, I  should target the job I want to do, or a job in the Group I  consider to be appealing. Striving to attain these positions  will enable me to grow. In fiscal 2010, the Fuji Electric  Group introduced a self-declaration system based on  this independently focused way of thinking. All Group  employees declare what job they prefer and wherever  possible, we will assign employees to their preferred  position. Even if only a few motivated employees come  forward with their requests, and activities in various Group  workplaces were to begin, this would be enough to  stimulate other employees. Suzuki: Sounds like an interesting experiment. Recently  the values of working people are diversifying, with an  increase in the number of people who prefer satisfaction  over success in the workplace. The new self-declaration  system is a good opportunity for employees to take a fresh  look at their jobs and work styles. Kitazawa: Moreover, in addition to the self-declaration  system, we will also start an internal recruiting system.  For example, we plan on sending about 80 Japanese  employees to the new headquarters in China, and we are  thinking about selecting the employees via this internal  recruiting system. We feel confident that people who want  to make the most of this chance and move up the ladder  have the potential to advance the Fuji Electric Groups  global business in the future. Suzuki: I think it is extremely important to send motivated  employees overseas to learn. Recently, the number of  young university and institutional researchers who go  overseas has dwindled. There are also indications that  they assume that they have an accurate understanding  of the world just because of the Internet and exchanging  information via email. However, unless they actually go  overseas and interact with people who think differently  and have a different cultural background, they cannot fully  understand their foreign counterparts, and will likely be  unable to improve their awareness. Kitazawa: I think you are right. Even if they do not go  abroad, the challenge of pursuing ones own goals is  critical, and connected to self-improvement. For the Fuji  Electric Group to achieve an even bigger contribution to  society, I think we first must change ourselves. Suzuki: I look forward to seeing the changes that come  about as a result of the Fuji Electric Groups new initiatives. Kitazawa: To drive our efforts for expanding the Fuji  Electric Groups operations into the rest of the world,  in April 2010 we introduced an overseas headquarters  system. The holding company in Japan handles overall  control of overseas operations, and the area headquarters  we have established for China, Asia, Europe and the  Americas have self-contained headquarters functions.  This four-pronged global structure promotes thorough  localization of aspects of operations ranging from  marketing to design and development, procurement,  manufacturing and services. In each of these areas, we  will focus on developing the solutions business, meeting  market needs through reduced energy consumption, new  energy development and the water environment. Through  business activities that are closely attuned to regional  communities, we are working to establish firm roots of the  Fuji Electric Groups corporate DNA overseas. Suzuki: In the past, the mainstream overseas strategy  for Japanese manufacturers was centered on exports.  In recent years, it has become more commonplace for  companies to develop manufacturing and sales overseas,  engaging in extremely innovative initiatives for the thorough  localization of self-contained headquarters functions.  However, for a local company to establish deep roots and  function effectively, it is essential that business and cultural  differences among local and Japanese employees be  systematically resolved. Kitazawa: I agree wholeheartedly. Both sides must  communicate closely and openly, and it is vital that the  Japanese employees act in the background and support  local employees. It is important the local employees  understand that company activities are not intended  to benefit Japan or headquarters, but are intended to  enhance the lifestyles of people in the local community. To  this end, we will assign motivated Japanese employees  to the overseas headquarters, while conducting ongoing  recruitment activities locally, and plan to focus efforts on  employee training. Suzuki: In this way, creating an environment of  collaboration among employees of different races and  nationalities with diverse cultural backgrounds will inject a  tremendous amount of vitality into our organization. Kitazawa: Thats right. Respect for diversity is something  we are also focusing efforts on here in Japan. The Fuji  Electric Group started out as a heavy electric industry  manufacturer, and at present, we still have very few women  in the organization. To rectify this situation, the Promoting  Womens Job Opportunities Department was organized  to create measures that will expand opportunities for  women in the workplace. We will continue to make use  of motivated and skilled employees regardless of gender,  nationality, age and number of years employed. Suzuki: In February of this year, Fuji Electric signed the UN  Global Compact. Why did you decide to participate in this  initiative? Kitazawa: To promote CSR management going forward,  we felt it was important to participate in the Global  Compact international initiative, which is involved with  a wide variety of CSR topics including human rights,  labor, the environment and the prevention of corruption  and to create opportunities for dialogue with external  stakeholders. Suzuki: Even at the United Nations University, where  I serve as vice rector, a zero emissions forum was  conducted where the idea of a recycling-based zero  emission society brought into existence through the  cooperation of industry, government, and academia was  discussed. Similarly, collaboration between the United  Nations and private corporations is one critical aspect of  Global Compact activities, and rather than stopping at  abstract psychological discussions, we hope to develop  effective activities. Kitazawa: Also, in recent years, there has been much  debate regarding global environmental and biodiversity  We are working to establish firm roots  of the Fuji Electric Groups corporate  DNA by thoroughly localizing operations,  hingeing on the establishment of overseas  headquarters in each region. (Kitazawa) It is important that the Fuji Electric  Groups thoughts on CSR are internalized  by every employee. (Suzuki) Challenging your own intentions helps  to create a growth-oriented corporate  culture. (Kitazawa) CSR in a Phase of Innovation Conversation with a Stakeholder Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 9 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 10   Reduce CO2 emissions during  production 20%    (compared with scal 2006 levels).  Raise the energy efciency of  products, reducing CO2 emissions by 2.4 million tons  through energy-conserving and  energy-creating products. Stop Global Warming  Strive to enhance environmental  awareness through  environmental citizen  movements, activities to protect  the natural environment and  environmental education. Meet our Corporate  Social Responsibilities  Increase our number of eco-products  by promoting the 3Rs (reuse, reduce,  recycle) in our products.  Achieve zero emissions at  operational sites by reducing  waste and the use of energy and  chemical substances. Create a Recycling- Oriented Society Steps Toward Achieving Environmental Vision 2020 Advancing Toward the Leading- Edge in the Field of  "Energy and the Environment" Environmental  Vision 2020 3 1 2 Creating Electricity for the World from the  Heat of the Earth P.13 Create a Recycling-Oriented Society 2 Stop Global Warming 1 Meet our Corporate Social Responsibilities 3 P.15 P.17 P.18 P.21 P.23 Special Feature Geothermal power generation is gaining attention worldwide as a renewable, clean energy  source with low environmental impact. Fuji Electric, a top manufacturer in this eld, is striving  to boost geothermal power usage.  P.19 Expansion of Geothermal Power Generation Generating Electricity at Any Location from  the Light of the Sun Photovoltaic power generation is being promoted as a renewable energy source that takes  us a step toward prevention of global warming. We are contributing to the realization of a  low-carbon society through the development of technologies that extend the scope of solar  energy use.  Increased Photovoltaic Power Generation Promoting Energy Conservation and  Water Recycling at Semiconductor Plants Fuji Electrics Matsumoto factory uses large quantities of energy and water in its  semiconductor fabrication processes. We are aggressively promoting energy- and  resource-saving strategies at this facility. Reducing the Environmental Load at Our Own Factories Paying Consideration to Nature in the  Environs of Operating Sites Based on a newly formulated action plan that recognizes the benets of biodiversity and the  impact of our business activities, we are endeavoring to preserve biodiversity. Preservation of Biodiversity Developing Next-Generation Technologies  That Propel Us Toward the Realization of a  Low-Carbon Society Fuji Electric is striving to develop new technologies that hasten the realization of  next-generation energy infrastructure and the resolution of global environmental issues.  Research and Development for the Future Aiding Conservation of Energy in Factories  and Buildings Through the Visualization of  Energy We are contributing to the realization of highly efcient, zero-waste energy consumption by  developing systems to analyze and manage a diversity of data relating to energy use. Support for Energy-Saving Initiatives in Factories and Buildings Promoting Greener Performance at Data  Centers, Which Support Information and  Communications Technology Fuji Electric is contributing to cutting electricity consumption by society as a whole, which is  growing in step with the advent of information and communications technology, through  eco-friendly data centers that utilize an array of energy-saving technologies. Energy Conservation at Data Centers Reducing the load on the global environment is a priority social  responsibility for the Fuji Electric Group, as a corporation  endeavoring to make businesses in the eld of "energy and  the environment" its driving force.  Accordingly, we formulated the Fuji Electric Group  Environmental Vision 2020 in April 2009 to serve as a  directive for our medium- to long-term environmental  activities. In addition to our endeavors to reduce the  environmental burden, we aim to be a  corporation on the leading-edge of  business in the eld of "energy  and the environment" by helping  to lessen the environmental  impact of society as a whole  through our products.   The Fuji Electric Group aims  to help realize prosperous  and bountiful society in the  eld of "energy and the  environment" Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 11 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 12  Japan Units delivered: 5 Annual power generation:   5.74 MW Indonesia Units delivered: 11 Annual power generation:   641.5 MW Philippines Units delivered: 13 Annual power generation:    477.37 MW China Iceland Units delivered: 6 Annual power generation:  219.3 MW Units delivered: 1 Annual power generation:   3.18 MW New Zealand Units delivered: 3 Annual power generation:    275 MW El Salvador Units delivered: 3 Annual power generation:    91.24 MW Nicaragua Units delivered: 2 Annual power generation: 77 MW United States Units delivered: 19 Annual power generation:   666.22 MW Fuji Electric Geothermal Power Generation Facilities in Operation Worldwide As of March 31, 2010; From Fuji Electrics delivery records Cooling tower Magma Mechanism of Geothermal  Power Generation Steam well Generator Electricity to households Substation Condenser Turbines Exhaust gasses Heat Steam Contributing to a Global Energy Output of 2,456 MW Report by an Onsite Manager Expansion of Geothermal Power Generation in New Zealand the field of geothermal power generation. In May 2010, we  delivered the worlds largest single unit geothermal power  generation facility, with a capacity of 140MW, to the Nga  Awa Purua Geothermal Power Station in New Zealand. The Fuji Electric Group is developing technologies that will  open up new applications and encourage more widespread  adoption of geothermal power generation. In May 2010, we commenced sales of Binary Power   Generation System that facilitates power generation from  previously unusable low-temperature geothermal sources.  Further, we are pursuing generation methods utilizing other  untapped energy sources, such as hot dry rock geothermal  generation, which involves introducing water to a high- temperature rock environment, devoid of ambient water, to  generate steam.  In the future, Fuji Electric will focus on broader ranges of  generation capacities and heat source temperatures and  on hybrid generation techniques in its drive to expand the  utilization range for geothermal power generation.  Geothermal power is generated using steam taken from the  depths of the earth to drive turbines.  There is no need for the incineration of such fossil fuels  as oil and gas because it facilitates the use of this naturally  abundant resource. Moreover, CO2 emissions per unit of  generated electricity are only one-twentieth those of thermal  power generation. Accordingly, against a background of  aggravated global warming, we are witnessing renewed  recognition of the importance of geothermal power generation  as a clean energy. In contrast to oil and other exhaustible resources,  geothermal power contributes to solving global energy  problems as it derives from natural energy that is usable on a  semipermanent basis. Moreover, it also differs from such other  renewable energy sources as wind and solar power in that  utilization is stable and independent of weather and climate.  Geothermal Power Generation—Gaining  Attention Worldwide as a Renewable,  Clean Energy Source In 1960, the Fuji Electric Group delivered practical  geothermal power generation equipment in Japan. We have  been supplying equipment to Indonesia, the Philippines,  New Zealand, the United States, Iceland and other countries  around the world since the 1970s. Currently, we number  among the top manufacturers of geothermal power  generation equipment. As of 2010, the global capacity of  geothermal power stations stood at 10,715MW, of which  geothermal turbines delivered by Fuji Electric accounted for  2,456MW, or approximately 23%.  Leveraging this extensive experience, Fuji Electric is now  engaged in comprehensive plant construction, extending  beyond delivery of geothermal turbine generators to  power generation  system design to  civil engineering  and construction,  installation work and  field tests, establishing  the Company as a  total coordinator in  One of the Worlds Top Manufacturers in the  Field of Geothermal Power Generation Meeting Globally Evolving Geothermal Power Generation Needs Through Total Solutions,  Spanning Design Through Construction In recent years, there have been great expectations over the potential of geothermal energy use  in countries blessed with the requisite resources.  Specifically, New Zealand has an ambitious national strategy aimed at bolstering the ratio of  renewable energy used to 90% by 2025 from its 2007 figure of 65%. In step with the countrys  energy needs, Fuji Electric signed a package contract for an order that incorporates design  through procurement and construction, spread over three years, for two geothermal power  plants: Kawerau, with a capacity of 100MW and Nga Awa Purua with 140MW. We completed  both projects on schedule, contributing to the promotion of geothermal power in New Zealand. In the future, we will continue to provide total solutions and services to countries with  geothermal resources, led by New Zealand and Indonesia. This also boosts the Companys  contributions to the prevention of global warming. Promoting Technological Development  That Helps Expand the Utilization Range for  Geothermal Power Nga Awa Purua Geothermal Power Station (New Zealand) Geothermal turbines Tadao Horie Energy Solutions Headquarters Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd. Creating Electricity for the World  from the Heat of the Earth Geothermal power generation is gaining attention worldwide as a renewable, clean energy source  with low environmental impact. Fuji Electric, a top manufacturer in this field, is striving to boost  geothermal power usage.  Expansion of Geothermal Power Generation Special Feature Steps Toward Achieving  Environmental Vision 2020 1Stop Global Warming Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 13 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 14  Mechanism of Photovoltaic Power Generation Comments from a Fuji Electric Business Partner High Expectations of Fuji Electrics Photovoltaic Power Generation Systems Hoping for Further Collaboration Incorporating Yodogawa Steel Works Construction Expertise and  Fuji Electrics Solar Cell Technologies Accommodating a large internal space is one structural feature of the Saitama Super Arena, so  light weight was an essential prerequisite of the solar cells to be installed. Molding the Fuji Electric  solar cells on steel plate into an integrated laminate ensured lightness and strength. In addition,  the module itself bends, creating a sense of cohesion with the roof. On actually performing the installation, we realized an array of merits: The work was relatively  easy because of the lightness of the unit; the reflected sunlight was slight, so its aesthetic impact  on the surroundings was minor; and, in contrast to glass structures, it was not susceptible to  breakage by typhoons and other strong winds. This project can truly be said to represent a fusion of Yodogawa Steel Works construction  expertise and Fuji Electrics solar cell technologies. Amid rising environmental awareness, there  has recently been a surge in requests for installations of solar cells on the roofs of existing  buildings. Accordingly, I anticipate scope for greater collaboration between the two companies in  the future.  Case Study 1 Experimental Studies Leading to Expansion  in the Scope of Solar Cell Usage Fuji Electric Systems, Kumamoto Techno Industrial Foundation  and Kumamoto University carried out experimental studies into  mounting methods utilizing the lightweight properties of film-type  solar cells and new installation configurations. This project serves  as a model for the realization of a low-carbon society through  expanded applications for film-type solar cells. For example, at Kumamoto Prefectural College of Technology  we mounted a lightweight solar cell module using wires to the  glass faade of a monument, which was designed in the image  of the somma that encloses the caldera on Japans largest  active volcano, Mt. Aso. Other cases include a rooftop arch-type  installation and another attached using wires to the outer wall  of an existing building. We are investigating other leading-edge  construction forms that remain untried to date.  Further, this enterprise was adopted by Japans Ministry of  Economy, Trade and Industry as the fiscal 2009 demonstration  model of technological innovation and social systems that  promote the realization of a low-carbon society.  Kumamoto Prefectural College of Technology Photovoltaic power generation attracts great attention as  a high-potential renewable energy source. Improvements  to power generation performance and stability, in addition  to technological developments relating to installation and  construction methods that provide flexibility for universal  installation, are vital to foster its broader use. Film-type solar cells are thin, lightweight, flexible and  resistant to cracking. Utilizing these merits, Fuji Electric is  promoting their commercialization with emphasis on ease of  installation and working to realize wall-mounting and other  new configuration methods.  In addition, we are progressing with development of  integrated photovoltaic power generation systems in  cooperation with construction materials manufacturers that  combine waterproof sheets and roofing, wall and other  materials with the Companys flexible modules. Through such initiatives, we are  opening up the possibilities of  locations as yet not effectively utilized  as spaces for photovoltaic  power generation, such  as public facilities and  buildings and waste  land.  Promoting Technological Developments  That Extend the Installation Possibilities for  Photovoltaic Power Generation Solar cells Drawing on its engineering capabilities gleaned in the field  of power control, Fuji Electric supplies photovoltaic power  generation system solutions that incorporate high-efficiency  power conditioners and secondary batteries.  In addition to our specialty area of electric power system  and grid connection technologies, in the future we intend to  develop systems that control the unstable balance of supply  and demand in solar and wind power generation and control  systems that visualize power supply and demand in real time  to realize such dispersed power network systems as micro  grids and smart grids.  Providing Photovoltaic Power Generation  System Solutions Case Study 2 Delivery of One of Japans Largest Amorphous  Solar Cells for Building Installation In April 2010, Fuji Electric Systems provided an amorphous silicon  solar cell to Japans showcase Saitama Super Arena, which  serves as a hub for music, sports and cultural exchange. With  a capacity of 214.2kW, this is the largest such unit for building  installation in Japan.  The installation took into account the weight burden on  the existing building and design of the roof, utilizing specialist  technologies to mold the film-type cell on steel plate into an  integrated laminate. With help from the advanced installation  technologies of Yodogawa Steel Works, Ltd., which undertook  the construction, we accomplished the mounting of a module  with excellent safety and durability characteristics.  Saitama Super Arena Installation at Kumamoto Prefectural College of Technology (Case Study 1) Installation at Saitama Super Arena (Case Study 2) Solar cell module Junction box Data acquisition  device Electrical equipment Distribution board Display device High-voltage power receiving and  distribution substation equipment Power  conditioner Junction box Data acquisition  device Electrical equipment Distribution board Display device High-voltage power receiving and  distribution substation equipment Power  conditioner Yoshiyuki Murabayashi Assistant Manager Sales Division Yodogawa Steel Works, Ltd.  Generating Electricity at Any  Location from the Light of the Sun Photovoltaic power generation is being promoted as a renewable energy source that takes us a  step toward the prevention of global warming. We are contributing to the realization of a low-carbon  society through the development of technologies that extend the scope of solar energy use.  Increased Photovoltaic Power Generation Special Feature Steps Toward Achieving  Environmental Vision 2020 1Stop Global Warming Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 16 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 15  Customer  Comments Energy Savings at Data Centers Bringing  Glowing Acclaim for Fuji Electric Pursuing Eco-Friendly Data Centers with Client  Understanding of Energy Conservation While pursuing safety and stability, Fujitsu is also aiming to  construct data centers that gain the understanding of its customers  in terms of energy savings. Fujitsus New Annex of Tatebayashi  System Center incorporates an energy-saving operation  management system that  was jointly developed with  Fuji Electric and a spot  air conditioning systems  that deploys Fuji Electrics  cooling control expertise  as a mechanism for  efficient dissipation of heat  accumulated by the server.  Through the application  of these technologies,  we have gained highly  favorable assessments of the  environmental consideration  of our data centers.  Customer Comments High Expectations for Fuji Electrics Energy Management Systems BEMS—A Flexible System That is a Useful Tool in Promoting Energy-Saving Activities At the Nissan Advanced Technology Center, which opened in May 2007, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., has  introduced various facilities to reduce the environmental burden from the construction stage onward.  This has gained the company a CASBEE* top-grade S rating.  We introduced Fuji Electrics BEMS at these facilities as a management tool to ensure efficient use  of energy during operation. This enabled us to investigate, analyze and verify all data relating to energy  use, from the overall building to individual facilities and thus to uncover hitherto unperceived optimal  operating methods. At regular meetings using BEMS, we have steadily benefited from applying the  PDCA cycle to energy-saving activities. Another advantage of Fuji Electrics BEMS is that it can be used in Excel, with which staff are well  acquainted, so employees can promptly make operational improvements themselves. We hope to  see further functional upgrades to this system, which has proved indispensable to our energy-saving  activities. System Center, which opened in November 2009, deployed  these technologies, aiming to achieve a 40% reduction in  electrical power consumption by facilities compared with  conventional data centers.  Currently, information and communications technology  (ICT) services are indispensable for our lives and for our  businesses. Helping ensure the stability of these services are  data centers—specialized facilities where servers and other  ICT equipment is located and managed. In the operation of servers, large-scale air-conditioning  installations are necessary to prevent overheating, in  addition to power sources and network circuits. Some  individual corporations opt to concentrate their operations  in data centers instead of installing servers. This facilitates  a reduction in power consumption arising from ICT use  for society as a whole. However, the advent of cloud  computing* and other moves toward the advancement  of ICT services in recent years has led to a rise in server  installation and concentration, which has in turn caused  a surge in electrical power consumption by data centers.  The majority of this is accounted for by power supply, air- conditioning and other facilities. This trend renders energy  savings extremely important for these prime consumers.  Fuji Electric provides technologies jointly developed with  Fujitsu Limited to realize energy savings at data centers,  such as energy-saving operation management systems,  spot air conditioning systems and photovoltaic power  generation systems. Fujitsus New Annex of Tatebayashi  Supporting the Construction of Eco- Friendly Data Centers Using Energy-Saving  Technologies through transportation, air-conditioning, lighting and  power points, and is equipped with energy consumption  analysis, system operation verification, performance  verification for facilities and systems, and other assay  evaluation templates. This facilitates simple construction  of systems attuned to the characteristics of the buildings  in which they are installed. Moreover, addition to contents  and maintenance following installation can be performed  simply by the customer, which enables support for ongoing  energy-saving activities.  With ongoing aggravation of environmental problems,  Energy Management Systems (EMSs) are gaining much  attention as a means to promote efficient, waste-free energy  use through the visualization of energy use conditions.  Fuji Electric has applied its software package  technologies, accumulated in the production management  field, to the development of a unique EMS that aids the  analysis and verification of energy-use data. This is now  being supplied to companies, led by the manufacturing  industry. The new system organically combines energy  measurement data with information on the operation of utility  and production facilities and production performance. This  facilitates more practical, effective energy analytical control. In addition, we have developed and begun to provide a  Building and Energy Management System (BEMS) as an  EMS for offices and other buildings. Fuji Electrics BEMS  targets EMSs that manage energy-use data and provide  powerful support for customers energy-saving activities. It  encompasses a broad range of facilities, from heat sources  Providing Energy Management Systems  That Offer Powerful Support for Customers  Energy-Saving Activities Satoru Yagi General Manager Green Data Center Project Office Business Process Innovation Div. Outsourcing Business Unit FUJITSU LIMITED The Nissan Advanced Technology Center, which is equipped with Fuji Electrics BEMS The server room at the new annex Fujitsus New Annex of Tatebayashi System Center * Cloud computing involves storage of data and access to software through  a network, rather than by companies managing their own servers. * CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency) is an assessment system  for environmental performance by buildings developed by the Institute for Building Environment and Energy  Conservation in 2001 under an initiative by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism.  Yoshihiro Makuta Facilities Planning and Maintenance Section R&D Administration Department R&D Engineering Management Division NISSAN MOTOR CO., LTD. Promoting Greener Performance at Data  Centers, Which Support Information and  Communications Technology Fuji Electric is contributing to cutting electricity consumption by society as a whole, which is growing  in step with the advent of information and communications technology, through eco-friendly data  centers that utilize an array of energy-saving technologies. Energy Conservation at Data Centers Aiding Conservation of Energy in  Factories and Buildings Through  the Visualization of Energy We are contributing to the realization of highly efficient, zero-waste energy consumption by  developing systems to analyze and manage a diversity of data relating to energy use.  Support for Energy-Saving Initiatives in Factories and Buildings Special Feature Steps Toward Achieving  Environmental Vision 2020 1Stop Global Warming Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 17 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 18  Comments from the Director of the Zhejiang University-Fuji Electric Innovation Center R&D Themes and Future Ambitions Comments from a National Institute of Advanced  Industrial Science and Technology Researcher The Possibilities of SiC Devices and the Role of Fuji Electric in  Realizing This Potential Creating Products and Business Operations That Contribute to the Resolution of Environmental Problems  Through Cooperation with Industry and Academia Promoting Technological Cooperation as a Step Toward the Practical Realization of SiC Power  Semiconductors That Contribute to Energy Savings for Society as a Whole Japan holds a long-term vision of cutting 60% to 80% from current greenhouse gas emissions by 2050  in its drive to realize a low-carbon society. Curtailing electrical power consumption throughout society is  vital to achieving this goal; power electronics technologies will be instrumental in effecting this reduction. Adopting power semiconductors using SiC (silicon carbide) instead of the currently deployed Si  (silicon) devices will lead to a drop in electrical power loss. Accordingly, mass-production and practical  application of SiC power semiconductors have become pressing issues. Technical issues regarding  long-term reliability and other functions first need to be resolved, and we are presently engaged in  various verification processes that should lead to commercial viability. The associated research is being  conducted in cooperation with private companies. This includes our joint efforts with Fuji Electric over  pre-mass-production trials and performance verification for SiC power semiconductors. To maintain the pole position of Japanese electronics technologies in the global market, I think it is of  prime importance that we step up the pace of R&D, combining the national technological capabilities  of industry, academia and government. Therefore, I hope to draw further on cooperation over the  promotion of development in the future. The Zhejiang University-Fuji Electric Innovation Center is a cooperative body established on the  basis of the Zhejiang University-Fuji Electric Systems R&D Centers management achievements.  The innovation center promotes joint R&D and technological innovation utilizing the  collaborative strengths of industry and academia in such areas of common focus for the Fuji  Electric Group and Zhejiang University as energy, traffic  systems and the environment. We aim to translate the results  of this R&D to new products and business operations in the  future. Our planned R&D agenda for fiscal 2010 spans smart  grids, the water environment, electric cars and other themes. From here on, we expect the Zhejiang University-Fuji  Electric Innovation Center will also fulfill a major role in terms  of education and human resource development at Zhejiang  University.  In May 2009, the Company, in collaboration with the  National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and  Technology, established the National Institute of Advanced  Industrial Science and Technology Industrial Innovation  Research Initiative to promote the development of SiC  device mass-production and application systems. The  rate of development has been considerably accelerated  by combining Fuji Electrics device mass-production  technologies and the institutes SiC device expertise.  Furthermore, we participated in the August 2009 foundation  of the Next-Generation Power Electronics Research and  Development Agency along with affiliated corporations, led  by other companies in the same industry. This body has  commenced R&D as part of the Next-Generation Power  Electronics Technology Development (Green IT Project)  commissioned by the New Energy and  Industrial Technology Development  Organization (NEDO).  Through such initiatives, Fuji Electric  is speeding up R&D toward the  practical utilization of next-generation  power devices and contributing to the  realization of smart grids.  Smart grids are the next-generation energy infrastructure  that will help to realize a low-carbon society. They ensure an  electrical power supply attuned to energy use conditions by  applying information and communications technology to the  electrical power network (grid), which boosts the efficiency of  energy use for society as a whole. Power devices that carry  out the conversion and control of electrical power energy are  of central importance in this realization. Fuji Electric leads other companies in the field of power  devices in its research and development. Specifically, in  recent years we have focused on the development of SiC  (silicon carbide) devices that are expected to play a leading  role among next-generation power devices. Compared  with conventional devices that deploy silicon as a material,  SiC devices drastically cut electrical power loss during  power conversion, raise energy efficiency, and contribute to  reducing size and weight of control devices. Fuji Electric, in  cooperation with industry, academia and the government, is  using its vanguard technologies in the aggressive promotion  of industry-wide measures to step up the pace of SiC device  development in the industry as a whole. Promoting the Development of Next-Generation  Power Devices to Support Smart Grids with patents, while three others have progressed to sample  production. In addition, academic staff and students from  Zhejiang University have visited Fuji Electric R&D facilities as  part of a promotion drive for active personnel exchange.  We also founded the Zhejiang University-Fuji Electric  Innovation Center in February 2010 to strengthen the  cooperative framework between Zhejiang University and Fuji  Electric in pursuit of the development of products for the  Chinese market and creation of new business operations.  Located within the campus of Zhejiang University, the center  is promoting R&D in an array of areas to contribute to the  creation of a recycling-oriented society in China, including  construction of smart grid, establishment of efficient  transportation systems, purification of the water environment  and development of IT solutions. Fuji Electric is promoting such collaborative R&D with  offshore research  organizations in other  regions throughout  the world in a bid  to contribute to  the formation of  recycling-based  societies.  Measures sensitized to the social conditions and economic  trends of individual countries and to regional environments  are indispensable to the realization of a recycling-oriented  society. Accordingly, Fuji Electric utilizes its diverse  accumulated technologies to provide solutions in step with  conditions in different countries worldwide and promotes  R&D to hasten commercial realization of these technologies.  For example, we commenced a technological exchange  program with Zhejiang University in Hangzhou, Zhejiang  Province, China, in 2004. Through this initiative we are  promoting R&D into fundamental and applied technologies  in collaboration with Japan-China industrial and academic  organizations.  In April 2006, we established the Zhejiang University- Fuji Electric Systems R&D Center to reinforce synergies  by leveraging a combination of Fuji Electrics technological  accomplishments and operational experience and Zhejiang  Universitys wealth of technologies and human resources.  This facility is conducting 10 R&D projects focused on  high-voltage inverter technology, methane fermentation  systems, stack gas analysis systems and other areas of  benefit to the development of Chinas domestic social and  industrial infrastructure. Of these, four have been rewarded  Promoting Joint Research on a Global  Basis, in Tune with the Actual Conditions in  Various Countries Hajime Okumura Director  Advanced Power Electronics Research  Center (ADPERC) NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED  INDUSTRIAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (AIST) Ceremony to mark the establishment of the  Zhejiang University-Fuji Electric Innovation Center SiC switching device Zhejiang University Zhao Rongxiang Director Zhejiang University-Fuji Electric Innovation Center  Developing Next-Generation  Technologies That Propel Us Toward the  Realization of a Low-Carbon Society Fuji Electric is striving to develop new technologies that hasten the realization of next-generation  energy infrastructure and the resolution of global environmental issues. Research and Development for the Future Special Feature Steps Toward Achieving  Environmental Vision 2020 1Stop Global Warming Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 19 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 20  1,344 489 (1,000m3) (FY) 1,000 1,500 500 0 1,326 533 584 1,382 1,118 559 941 497 (%) Volume of puried  water used Puried water  recycling rate Puried water  recycling rate 40 60 20 0 36 40 42 50 53 2005 2009 2006 2007 2008 Volumes of Purified Water Used and the Recycling Rate Introducing and Operating Unique Water Treatment Facilities in Light of Water Environment  Conditions in China Rapid economic growth in China in recent years has precipitated societally problematic  pollution levels of the water environment arising from factory effluent. Fuji Electric (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., introduced wastewater treatment equipment and a  recycling system in April 2007 to control the increase in industrial water use and effluent  generated as a consequence of growth in the production of photoconductive drums. We are  still implementing ongoing improvement activities to ensure the achievement of controlled  and stable operations, while boosting the daily recycling rate.  In October 2007, we installed domestic wastewater treatment facilities in a bid to extend  thorough treatment of effluent beyond the factory premises. This equipment enables  collective treatment of wastewater from the plant, employee accommodation, dining and  other facilities. Moreover, we are promoting stabilization of wastewater quality through the  introduction of constant monitoring equipment. Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions at the Matsumoto Factory (CO2 Equivalents) (1,000 tons of CO2) 1,000 1,500 500 0 1,332 321 338 227 2000 2009 2006 2007 2008 119 (FY) Reduced to less than 10% of scal 2000 levels Semiconductors Etching gas SF6 Others CO2 Report by the Head  of the Matsumoto Factory Aiming to be a Front-Line Facility in Terms of  Environmental Activities Befitting the Generation of  Energy-Saving Products The Matsumoto factory manufactures power semiconductors,  which are a key device in our portfolio of energy-saving equipment.  However, this has rendered us a large-volume consumer of electrical  power and water. Accordingly, we have been promoting thorough  environmental measures in a bid to be a front-line plant in terms of  energy and resource conservation, as appropriate for a creator of  energy-saving products.  In recent years, we have  faced harsh capital investment  conditions. However, we have  achieved substantial results  by implementing successive  innovations through increases  in the number of improvement  initiatives and by strengthening  management. In the future,  we plan to extend such  innovations implemented at  the Matsumoto factory to  Group companies in Japan  and overseas to contribute to  energy and resource savings  and to greenhouse gas  reductions on a global scale. warming potential 24,000 times  that of CO2), which was used  in insulation gas in the power  semiconductor testing process,  has been replaced with HFE  (hydrofluoroether). This switch has  realized the total elimination of SF6  in this process.  As semiconductor fabrication necessitates clean rooms  and other advanced facilities, it also involves substantial  energy use. Accordingly, the Matsumoto factory of  Fuji Electric Systems, which manufactures power  semiconductors and other similar devices, is the Fuji  Electric Groups prime emitter of greenhouse gases. Aggressive countermeasures to reduce greenhouse  gasses drove down total emissions including energy- derived CO2, during fiscal 2009 to less than 10% of fiscal  2000 levels.  Perfluorocarbon (PFC) gas is used as a process gas during  semiconductor etching and other manufacturing stages.  Its global warming potential runs to several thousand times  that of CO2, rendering emission reductions a priority issue  for the Company. By situating within the factory equipment  designed to remove harmful substances, we are working to  lower emissions. Furthermore, SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride, with global  Promoting Pioneering Measures at the  Matsumoto Factory, a Semiconductor Plant  with High Environmental Impact Promoting Reduction Measures for Greenhouse  Gases Emitted during the Semiconductor  Fabrication Process Case Study of Initiatives at an Overseas Factory Wastewater Treatment at the Shenzhen Factory in China in wafer fabrication, we have switched to an ion-exchange  resin method that requires large volumes of cleaning  water during maintenance. By expanding the introduction  of electrical deionized water units, we have drastically  reduced this consequent water consumption.  In addition, we separate wastewater from the  manufacturing process according to its degree of  contamination, fully recovering the recyclable portion.  Currently, we are achieving a recovery rate of more than  70% from some production lines. Moreover, we collect  and reuse as materials the silicon particles suspended in  recovered wastewater from the polishing process, which  contributes to a reduction in waste.   Formerly, hot steam for air-conditioning during the winter  was supplied from oil boilers. However, in step with the  conversion of utility gas supply to natural gas, we have  introduced cogeneration equipment, with consequent  improvements to overall electrical power and thermal  energy efficiency. Various measures to realize effective use  of exhaust heat and steam from cooling have boosted  total energy use efficiency to between 75% and 81%,  which represents an annual CO2 emissions reduction  effect of approximately 10,000 tons compared with levels  prior to the introduction of cogeneration equipment. This  corresponds to approximately 10% of CO2 emissions at  the Matsumoto factory. In addition to energy, large volumes of water are used as  purified water for the cleaning process in semiconductor  production. At the Matsumoto factory, we are working  aggressively toward effective use of such water resources. Specifically, in the manufacture of purified water for use  Reducing CO2 Emissions by 10,000 Tons Through  the Introduction of Cogeneration Equipment Recycling Vast Quantities of Water Used in the  Cleaning Process HFE vaporization equipment Clean room at the Matsumoto factory Kuniaki Yanagisawa General Manager, Semiconductor  Business Headquarters, and Head of the  Matsumoto Factory  Executive Officer, Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd.  Wastewater treatment equipment Results of Activities and  Future Developments Promoting Energy Conservation  and Water Recycling at  Semiconductor Plants Fuji Electrics Matsumoto factory uses large quantities of energy and water in its semiconductor fabrication  processes. We are aggressively promoting energy- and resource-saving strategies at this facility.   Reducing the Environmental Load at Our Own Factories Special Feature Steps Toward Achieving  Environmental Vision 2020 2 Create a Recycling- Oriented Society Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 21 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 22  Amid rising global environmental awareness on a  worldwide scale, the range of environmental problems  facing corporations is expanding and diversifying. The Fuji  Electric Group has long fought against global warming,  promoted resource recycling and chemical substance  control, and conducted various other activities to reduce  the environmental burden. In addition to these initiatives,  in recent years we have also aspired to incorporate  consideration for biodiversity into this agenda.  Based on its recognition that its business activities are  both blessed by and exert an influence on biodiversity, the  Group is working to minimize the impact of its operations  on biodiversity and to contribute to the conservation of  biodiversity through the provision of products and services  and cooperation with society.  In order to share this consciousness throughout  the Group and to promote supportive measures, we  formulated the Fuji Electric Group Biodiversity Action  Guidelines in March 2010.  Formulation of Action Guidelines to Promote  Biodiversity Preservation Activities Fuji Electric Group Biodiversity Action  Guidelines Message from an Expert Vital for Each and Every Employee to Deepen Understanding and  Raise Awareness of Biodiversity The global environment is made up from the interaction of various types of natural life  forms. The impact of human intervention has exceeded the tolerance levels of the global  environment, which is devastating biodiversity in regions around the world. Recognizing  this crisis situation, it is vital that governments, corporations, citizens and other groups  strive to preserve biodiversity in their respective domains and substantiate measures to  realize recycling-oriented, symbiotic societies.  Electronics manufacturers have been prone to treat biodiversity as an alien theme.  However, the tenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties, COP10, to be held  in Nagoya in October 2010, may be the event that triggers changes to the future  approach of companies. In February 2010, I participated in the Fuji Electric Group-Wide  Environmental Seminar as a guest lecturer. I believe that providing such opportunities to  deepen understanding and raise awareness of biodiversity in the future will serve as an  important first step toward the preservation of biodiversity.  Case Study 1 Returning Purified Water Used Within the  Otawara Factory to the Local Community Our Otawara factory in Tochigi Prefecture is located on a green  site amid abundant natural beauty. Accordingly, consideration for  the surrounding environment is absolutely essential. Since the  facility went on line in 1973, we have consistently endeavored to  keep its environmental burden to a minimum through thorough  factory wastewater purification and water quality management. Following purification, water used for air-conditioning and other  applications passes through a fishpond in the factory grounds and  on to rice paddies in the surrounding area, where it is effectively  used for agricultural irrigation. Further, the quality of wastewater  is monitored annually in cooperation with the City Office and  local farmers and subjected to regular voluntary inspections and  maintenance. Safety is ensured through management of data  gleaned from water quality measurements and other processes,  which in turn aids our efforts to conserve the ecosystems that  support natural life forms indigenous to the local rice paddies  where it is used for irrigation. Factory Wastewater Purification Case Study 2 Contributing to the Preservation of  Biodiversity in the Environs of the  Kumamoto Factory Through the  Regeneration of Satoyama and Tanada As part of our environmental preservation program, in 2006  we joined forces with local residents around the Kumamoto  factory to instigate the Satoyama restoration project for forested  areas. During 2009, the fourth year of this initiative, there is clear  evidence of recovery among the species of wildlife in the area.  In the forested area located in the higher reaches of Satoyama,  we cut back undergrowth, thinned out bamboo and removed  dead and fallen trees. This cleared the way for a healthy growth of  new saplings. Furthermore, as a result of the organic regeneration  of Tanada without recourse to agrochemicals, we have been able  to confirm the reappearance of loach, freshwater crabs, newts,  toads and other wildlife. Participants also reported an increase  in the types of wild birds that could be seen in the area. In the  future, we shall continue with these activities to contribute to the  preservation of biodiversity in the environs of our factories. Restoration Projects for Forested Areas 1. Reduce the Environmental Burden in the Field of Energy  and the Environment and Contribute to the Preservation of  Biodiversity     The Fuji Electric Group contributes to reducing the  environmental burden of society as a whole and to the  preservation of biodiversity through aggressive measures to  develop technologies geared to saving and creating energy  throughout the energy supply chain, from production through  use.  2. Minimize the Impact of Our Business Activities on  Biodiversity and Strive to Promote Sustainable Use     The Fuji Electric Group endeavors to minimize the impact  on biodiversity in all aspects of its business activities and  throughout the lifecycle of its products and strives to promote  sustainable use. 3. Cooperate with Society and Aggressively Promote Activities  that Pay Due Consideration to Preservation of Biodiversity     The Fuji Electric Group collaborates with its diverse group of  stakeholders and actively promotes business activities that are  considerate of biodiversity and social contribution activities.  Forestry Conservation Activities in Azumino, Nagano A fishpond supplied with water that is ultimately used for irrigation of rice paddies Regeneration of Tanada as part of  the Satoyama restoration project for  forested areas Freshwater crabs and newts in the  regenerated Tanada area Shiro Wakui Professor, Landscape Architect (J.R.L.A.); Professor,  Faculty of Environmental and Information Studies,  Tokyo City University; Professor, Chubu University;  Chair of the Committee for Promotion of Biodiversity  Participation and Public Relations, Ministry of the  Environment Paying Consideration to Nature in  the Environs of Operating Sites Based on a newly formulated action plan that recognizes the benefits of biodiversity and the impact  of our business activities, we are endeavoring to preserve biodiversity. Preservation of Biodiversity Special Feature Steps Toward Achieving  Environmental Vision 2020 3 Meet our Corporate  Social Responsibilities Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 24 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 23  * GC10 principle: See page 1 Fiscal 2009 Targets Initiative Theme Item Major Results of Activities in Fiscal 2009 Strengthen  relationship of trust  with stakeholders Together with customers Together with suppliers Together with employees Communication Together with  local communities Please see pages 47-48 Corporate governance  Stepping up corporate governance Compliance Risk management  Implementing thorough compliance  Strengthening information security  Strengthen Group governance in line with business restructuring   Promote activities for the prevention of patent     infringements against third-parties  (other companies)  Held director training (20 participants),  general manager and manager training (120 participants),  sales and administrative division training (700 participants)  and overseas subsidiary training (42 participants from four companies)   Provided improvement guidance and related materials to 17 consolidated and  nonconsolidated subsidiaries  Implement director training, rank-based training     (general managers, managers and new hires),     compliance training at overseas subsidiaries, and other programs Social contribution  activity initiatives Environmental management Management SP = Signicant progress; Y = Target achieved; PA = Partially achieved; N = No progress  Strengthening quality  improvement activities  Improve service quality (30% up)   Promoting manufacturing site activities  to ensure product safety  Implement solution sales training (600 participants)  Improving customer satisfaction  Strengthening solution proposal  activities  Build an optimal sales system  Merged sales subsidiaries in June 2009, thus completing  construction of a sales system capable of swift, comprehensive response  Reduced failure response time (system introduction and cultivation  of human resources) and improved service quality by 35% Assessment Y Y Y Y SP Page P33 P34 P30, P39-42 P58 P55, P57 P56 P43-54 P31-32 Contrast with  GC10 Principle* Principle 10  Carried out the 11th restoration project for forested areas, with 489 participants  (from April 2009 to March 2010); Received an Agricultural Contribution Award  in the Kumamoto Agricultural Contest in recognition of activities to date in February 2010   Conducted two agricultural experience events for employees and their families  (approximately 100 participants each); Determined to continue to focus activities to  address problems with fallow land on Uenohara, Yamanashi Prefecture  Opened the Fuji Electric Environment School, which was attended by 38 sixth-year  elementary school pupils from Nagomi-machi and Nankan-machi, in Kumamoto  Prefecture, under the tutelage of Mr. Ken Noguchi, in November 2009  Held science classes for elementary school teachers at a school  (Hino Municipal Fifth Elementary School, Hino City) near the Tokyo factory in August 2009;  Conducted science classes for children at three locations, in Mie, Kobe and Tokyo  Promoting CSR, including  among suppliers  Implement Group QC Diagnostic Investigative Committee meetings     (planned for 10 operational sites)  Ascertain quality status at manufacturing sites in China (eight sites)   Conduct product safety educational courses     (22 operational sites)  Sign a Memorandum for the Exclusion of Antisocial  Forces with suppliers  Carry out presentation meetings, factory tours and other  events for shareholders and investors  Expanding dialog with  shareholders and investors  Respecting diversity  Carried out sales training to strengthen solution sales (646 participants)  Japan: Held Group QC Diagnostic Investigative Committee meetings at 10 sites  Ascertained quality status at Chinese manufacturing bases (eight sites)   Conducted product safety courses (e-learning and on-demand)  at 22 operational sites (600 participants)  Signed the Memorandum for the Exclusion of Antisocial Forces,  with four operating companies, covering almost all suppliers   Hosted Communications Activation Workshops at 18 model worksites (15 times)  Strengthened information dissemination by revamping the CSR website;  Received the Tokyo Stock Exchanges 15th Disclosure Award  Carried out community cleanups and other regional contribution  activities at all operational sites (33 events)  Announced the Medium-Term Management Plan; conducted presentation meetings  Held small meetings for domestic institutional investors (10 times)   Paid visits to institutional investors in Japan and overseas (26 times)  Offered factory tours for shareholders (Kawasaki and Kobe)  Organized seminars for individual investors (Fukuoka, Nagoya and twice in Tokyo)   Promote greater employment of disabled workers     (employment rate for people with disabilities of 1.8% or more)  Promote improved awareness of womens career     development among all Group employees  Support womens career development  Strengthen communication between supervisors and     subordinates  Promote  work-life balance  Hold Communications Activation Workshops (13 times)  Promote safety and health activities at manufacturing sites  Strengthen information provision via the Company website  Achieved an employment rate for people with disabilities of 2.03%  Enhancing health and safety in  the workplace  Protecting the natural  environment  Promoting global  contribution activities  Communicating with local  communities  Supporting youth development  Support the Children's Forest Program in India  Support regional health and education centers in Indonesia  Host Fuji Electric Environmental School events  Conduct science classes for teachers and manufacturing  experience classes for children  Continue restoration activities of forested areas in the  Kumamoto region  Begin employee-participation environmental preservation  activities in the Kanto region  Promote exchange with local communities at all operational sites  Strengthened risk avoidance measures and health and  safety management systems at manufacturing sites in Japan and overseas  Conducted safety diagnostics at three overseas manufacturing bases   Building a better working  environment 2009 Targets and Results and Fiscal 2010 Targets  Strengthening communication  with stakeholders Fiscal 2010 Targets  Strengthen IR with overseas institutional investors and  with individual investors   Foster a climate conducive to product safety (conrm by  monitoring)  Investigate and assess the status of CSR measures at the  four operating companies  Promote improvements in diversity awareness among all  Group employees   Support career development for diverse human resources  Strengthen communications between supervisors and  subordinates  Strengthen risk avoidance measures and health and safety  management systems at manufacturing sites in Japan and overseas  Conduct safety diagnostics at four consolidated overseas  manufacturing bases   Promote risk assessment at domestic manufacturing sites  Strengthen information provision via the Company website  Stimulate communications with local communities  Hold further Fuji Electric Environmental School events  Organize science classes for teachers and for children and  manufacturing experience classes  Strengthen governance in step with Group restructuring  Ensure thorough global compliance  Implement director training, rank-based training, training at  overseas subsidiaries, and other programs  Plan to carry out diagnostics and investigations  at 11 operational sites  Develop quality staff for two major regions  Maintain the employment rate for people  with disabilities at 2.0% or more  Strengthen auditing and supervision functions to consolidate  and upgrade measures at all overseas bases  Promote the stimulation of workplace communications  Upgrade solution sales training contents  Boost service quality by shortening failure response time  Improve operational quality through business improvements  Strengthening acquisition of  patent rights and examination of  third-party patents Together with shareholders  and investors  Held briengs at meetings for intellectual property rights ofcers in 11 regions  (eight companies) and carried out publicity activities through intellectual property education   Highlighted prevention of third-party patent infringements through intellectual property  education  Promoted monitoring and follow-up activities for the prevention of patent infringements  against third-parties (other companies)  Conduct nal investigations to systemize the ndings of the  Labor and Management Investigative Committee to promote  a better work-life balance among employees  Continue restoration project for forested areas in the  Kumamoto region  Continue agrarian regeneration activities in the Uenohara region,  Yamanashi Prefecture  Continue forestry conservation activities in Azumino, Kumamoto   Continue to support the Childrens Forest Program in India  Support the construction of regional health and education  centers with maternity facilities in Indonesia  Donate Fuji Electric solar power generation systems to areas  without electricity  Promote activities for the prevention of patent infringements  against third-parties  (other companies)  Upgrade the intellectual asset management system at  overseas R&D facilities  Revised extended working hours   Fortied systems for repeated childcare leave and shorter working hours  and extensions to periods of childcare leave and nursing support  Released messages from the presidents of major Group companies  Held training sessions on working styles and communications (three operational sites)  Conducted training for managers  (six times for newly appointed managers, once for newly appointed executive ofcers)   Hosted factory tours for female employees (ve times) and  exchange events inside and outside the Group (ve times)  Conducted training for employees returning from childcare leave on  communications between supervisors and subordinates (ve times)  Revised basic policy to strengthen corporate governance amid moves to consolidate  functions relating to business in the eld of "energy and the environment"   Complete adjustments to conditions, such as systems, registers and employee  education, that underpin endeavors at overseas bases (excluding China)  Supported the Childrens Forest Program, organized by NPO, OISCA India  Provided ongoing support for regional health and education centers  in Indonesia P29, P35-38 Principles 1-6 Principles 8 Principles 7-9 Principles 1-6 Principles 10 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y SP SP SP CSR Activities Targets and Results CSR Activity Report 2009 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 25 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 26  Over the past few years, there has been an increase in the  incidence of serious industrial accidents, such as explosions  and fires at major plants and disasters relating to machinery  and equipment. This has led to heightening societal  concerns over safety and security and stimulated calls  for more stringent demands to be made of corporations.  Against this background, European safety regulations  have been adopted worldwide as part of broader ranging  moves to enhance the safety of products and systems.  In Japan, this has been manifest in the application of  Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) as a benchmark for  safety regulation. Moreover, the chemical, petroleum, iron  and steel, automobile, power generation, rail and other  industries have consequently stepped up initiatives to set  new safety standards.  These operating conditions have strengthened the Fuji  Electric Groups acknowledgement that delivering safety  and security to customers is a prime corporate social  responsibility. In response, we provide total safety solutions  and are developing one-stop services attuned to the safety  lifecycle, from risk assessment and consulting through  safety conservation and maintenance. In addition, we offer  original safety products and systems that fuse IT solutions,  control technologies and sensor technologies.  Our Safety Engineers are a group of dedicated  professionals that support customers safety through  solutions provided by Fuji Electric. Depending on their roles, which span risk assessment and  consulting, safety system design and development support  for safety products, Safety Engineers are classified into three  levels. Of these Safety Innovator is in the foremost position in  terms of requisite levels of knowledge and expertise. Safety  Innovators are specialists in the field of machine safety, who  work toward Safety Assessor certification*. As of 2009,  there were 144 qualified Safety Assessors throughout the  Fuji Electric Group, with more than 80 planning to sit the  necessary professional examinations during fiscal 2010.  Customer Comments High Expectations of Fuji Electrics Role in Our Response to International Safety Specifications Although food machinery in Japan maintains the worlds highest levels in terms of the  production of foodstuffs, awareness of conformance with international safety specifications  is still lagging on an industry-wide basis. Accordingly, we are carrying out investigations and  research into the inherent safety and hygiene of food machinery and into control systems,  applications and other functional safety components in collaboration with academic staff  from universities and safety experts. Through this approach, we are aggressively advancing  responses to international safety specifications.  Fuji Electric has a pivotal role in the investigation and research activities we are currently  conducting into safety control panels, and is thus making a significant contribution to  recovery for the food machinery industry. In the future, we have great expectations of Fuji  Electric as one of Japans few manufacturers that also provides total safety systems. Risk assessment is an effective means of visualization of the  existence and scale of risks to ensure the safety of facilities  and systems. The Fuji Electric Group introduced risk assessments  relatively early on as a method of preventing occupational  accidents within the Group and has accumulated significant  know-how in this field. Leveraging this expertise, we carry  out risk assessments together with our customers as part  of our safety solutions provision.  For example, since March 2010 we have conducted risk  assessments in conjunction with Fuji Electric client, JP Steel  Plantech Co., to determine potential dangers in facilities  for the production of iron. Steel Plantech has praised this  initiative as helpful in training inexperienced staff and  passing on technologies, key to facilitating quantitative and  qualitative assessment of the scale of risks, and useful in  verifying sufficient consideration for safety in the companys  products.    As such, this cooperative arrangement contributes to the  visualization of latent risks.  Safety  Innovator Safety  Innovator Risk assessment Safety solution specification  proposals Risk management Production facility safety  support Safety product development  support Safety component design and  development Safety solution proposal marketing Safety specification  merchandising technologies Safety system design and  development Safety  Product  Development  Engineer Safety  Manufacturing  Engineer Basic  training Work  experience Roles Levels and Roles of Safety Engineers Comments Providing Optimal Safety Solutions and Post-Installation Support That Includes Operational Improvements An array of skilled personnel work at our customers operational sites, which comprise a  broad range of facilities, housing a variety of machinery and equipment. Accordingly, there is  a rising interest in systems that build security through technologies, moving away from total  dependence on staff.   In response to this trend, the Fuji Electric Group proposes total safety solutions, from  components to systems. In order to cater to the dual needs for productivity and safety, we  propose optimal client-specific solutions, which we aim to connect to capital investment  efficiency upgrades through a full range of support services, from installation to operational  improvements. Madoka Shimizu Sales Headquarters Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd. Major Themes 1:  Ensuring Customer Safety and Security One-Stop Support for Customers  Facilities and Systems One-stop safety services Risk assessment  and consulting Safety design  and engineering Installation  and testing Safe operation and  safety monitoring Safety repairs  and maintenance The Safety Lifecycle of Customers Facilities and Systems Total Safety Solutions manager Hiroyuki Ohmura Manager, Technical Division Business Department The Japan Food Machinery Manufacturers Association * Safety Assessors conduct risk assessments of machinery, equipment and  production systems at manufacturing facilities. This involves providing  users with explanations and reports and advising on safety protection  policies. The Safety Assessor qualification is accredited by the Nippon  Electric Control Equipment Industries Association (NECA). Focus on Safety Engineer Training to  Support Customers Safety Risk Assessments Together with Customers Total Safety Solutions symbol Carrying out risk assessments together with JP Steel Plantech Co.       Providing Total Safety Solutions for  Customers Facilities and Systems Amid ongoing globalization of safety and security standards, with  corresponding rises in expectations toward corporations, the Fuji Electric  Group provides solutions aligned to the safety lifecycle, which ranges from  risk assessment and consulting through repairs and maintenance. Social Report CSR Activities Report 2009 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 27 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 28  Comments Training Program Bolstered Cooperation in the Workplace and Efficiency in the Execution of Duties I joined Fuji Electric in July 2008 and am currently General Manager of the Finance Division.  This involves overall administration of funds and formulation of and upgrades to finance- related rules and regulations, in addition to responsibility for measures to promote employee  training and in-house technological exchange.  In September 2009, I participated in manager training hosted by Fuji Electric Holdings  (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. The element of the course that impressed me most focused on the  exercise of leadership. When putting this into practice myself, I found that it boosted  cooperation among the members of the division. In addition, work efficiency was raised  through improvements to the workplace atmosphere.  In the future, I hope to cultivate my own abilities and advance my professional standing by  participating in a variety of training programs. Management Training Course Participant Amid rapid operational expansion in China, the Fuji Electric  Group is strategically focusing on local employee training as  an important management theme.  Based on this policy, we are prioritizing on-site training and  have been improving and enhancing our range of courses  since fiscal 2005. These are led by level-specific training,  and extend to selective training for managers and job-specific  training for general affairs, financial and other staff. Between  fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2009, Fuji Electrics training programs  in China extended to 2,078 participants.  In the future, we shall plan and implement additional  training geared to cultivation of Chinese managers and  reinforcement of sales and technological development skills  as part of our bid to further promote localization. Major Themes 2:  Developing Human Resources at Overseas Operational Sites Promoting Training That is Finely Tuned to  Rank and Position Reinforcing Training of Offshore  Employees in Preparation for  Business Expansion in China We are stepping up training of local employees to keep up with the escalating pace of business  development in the Chinese market and to promote localization. Major Themes 3:  Social Contributions in Deprived Areas Various Support Activities in  Economically Disadvantaged  Countries and Regions In step with the globalization of business activities, we are conducting ongoing social  contribution activities across a broad range of regions, led by Asia, spanning such themes as  conservation of the environment and support for economically disadvantaged areas. The Fuji Electric  Group is backing  the Childrens Forest  Program, organized  by OISCA North India  for the promotion  of environmental  education and  treeplanting activities by schools in India. On November 12  and 13, 2009, four Fuji Electric Group employees visited two  elementary schools in the suburbs of Delhi to make donations  of personal computers, microscopes and water purifiers, in  addition to planting commemorative saplings.  In addition, we began selling beverages in Fuji Electric  branded PET bottles to Group employees in November 2009.  Part of the sales from these purchases has been used to build  a framework for the Childrens Forest Program.  The Fuji Electric Group has supported the activities of  non-profit organization PH-Japan in the construction of a  community health and education center, which was completed  in April 2009. Currently, this facility serves as a childcare center  and clinic, carrying out weight checks, vaccinations and  performing other tasks, in addition to serving as an educational  base for PH-Japan and a regional community hub.  As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact  platform, the Fuji Electric Group is doing its utmost to  contribute to the UNs Millennium Development Goals of  reducing the infant mortality rate and improving health during  maternity. In May 2010, we held presentations to enlighten  employees as to conditions in economically disadvantaged  regions that are deprived of adequate medical care, support  activities for PH-Japan, the status of the community health  and education  center backed by  the Fuji Electric  Group, and other  issues. These  activities serve to  deepen employee  understanding of  these issues. Aiming to Love Nature and Cultivate the Next  Generation, while Improving the Environment In India, the progress of urbanization and industrialization, and  accompanying deforestation, has been running unchecked as a result  of explosive population growth and economic development. Against  this background, OISCA India has been striving to cultivate love of  nature and resolve to value indigenous flora, in addition to promoting  regional greenery, through the Childrens Forest Program.  At an elementary school  supported by the Fuji Electric  Group, pupils now have free  access to personal computers,  a supply of safe drinking water  and an enhanced educational  environment thanks to these  endeavors.  In the future, OISCA India  would like to extend these  activities to other elementary  schools with help from the  Fuji Electric Group and other  supportive bodies. Ritu Prasad Secretary-General, OISCA North India A Community Health and Education Center  in Indonesia That also Serves as a Social Hub Supporting the Childrens Forest Program in India OISCA North India Comments Children at a ceremony to mark the start of Fuji  Electrics support activities Presentation to employees (May 18, 2010) A community health  and education center,  supported by the Fuji  Electric Group, in use as  a childcare center Training for managers On-the-job training Training to hone fundamental  work skills Shen Li Shanghai Fuji Electric Switchgear Co., Ltd. and  Shanghai Fuji Electric Transformer Co., Ltd. CSR Activities Report 2009 Social Report Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 29 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 30  The Fuji Electric Group advocates a commitment to its  customers: With innovative technologies and a dedication  to customer service, we strive to satisfy the needs of our  customers and to anticipate their future requirements. We  continue to endeavor to bolster customer satisfaction based  on this approach. Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd., supplies component  equipment and system products. The company offers two  services that have gained high acclaim from customers:  a repaired product information management system that  facilitates onsite confirmation of completion schedules and  repair progress to update customers with information; and  the Fuji Maintenance Information Service (FMains), which  allows each customer to view data relating to their facilities,  such as maintenance plans and history, on a dedicated  subscriber website.  In July 2009, Fuji Electric Systems absorbed the  semiconductor sales division of Fuji Electric Device  Technology Co., Ltd., and five sales subsidiaries as part of a  restructuring initiative to enable direct communications with  customers.  In addition, to enhance understanding of its inverters,  servomotors and other component products, the company  has been hosting product study sessions since 1998. These  events comprised 80 sessions over three locations during  fiscal 2009, with 457 participants drawn from 178 companies. The Fuji Electric Group utilizes opinions and requests from  customers to upgrade and improve its products.  For example, the View Series of Glass Front Vending  Machines, marketed by Fuji Electric Retail Systems Co.,  Ltd., was criticized by customers for difficulties in viewing  displayed products, a complicated operating procedure and  problems in extracting dispensed items. Accordingly, we  implemented the improvements outlined below during fiscal  2009, to the acclaim of our customers. Further, in recent years local authorities and other bodies  have called for vending machines that are considerate of  the needs of elderly and disabled customers. Fuji Electric  Retail Systems has responded with barrier-free and universal  design solutions to provide appropriate dispensing systems.  In March 2010, the Japanese Industrial Standards  Committee formulated guidelines for design that take  into account elderly and disabled people, such as in the  operability of vending machines. We plan to make ongoing  improvements to our lineup attuned to this directive.  The Fuji Electric Group recognizes quality as an integral  element of production technology. In November 2005,  we established a Production Technology Committee,  comprising four subcommittees, as part of our bid to  promote production technologies across the Group. Groupwide quality improvement activities are centered  on the Quality Assurance Working Group and carried out  in liaison with the other subcommittees. We also strive to  enhance customer satisfaction through pursuit of stable and  consistent levels of quality.  During fiscal 2009, we selected 10 key operational sites  based on the previous years data for QC diagnostics by  a group of cross-organizational members. Other sites  conducted self-assessments using a common check sheet. The results of diagnostics and assessments revealed room  for improvements to the evaluation and verification framework  at the product development stage. Accordingly, we plan to  repeat the checking and correction cycle to a more detailed  level during fiscal 2010 in ongoing pursuit of greater refinement.  Furthermore, we carried out investigations and  conducted hearings regarding conditions at operational  sites in China during fiscal 2009, taking corrective action as  needed. During fiscal 2010, we aim to import quality control  technologies and frameworks from Japan to construct a  system that works to a higher degree of perfection.  The Fuji Electric Group is aware that providing customers  with safety and peace of mind is one of a corporations  social responsibilities. Based on this recognition, we  comply with the stipulations of Japans Product Liability  Act, Consumer Products Safety Act and other pertinent  jurisdiction. Moreover, in June 2008 we formulated the  Voluntary Action Plan for Product Safety as part of a  concerted drive to ensure product safety.  During fiscal 2009, we established assessment standards  pertaining to the progress of our efforts to implement the  Voluntary Action Plan for Product Safety and carried out  diagnostics and assessments at nine operational sites  based on these standards. The Fuji Electric Group intends  to extend this initiative to other operational sites during fiscal  2010 and beyond.  Based on its Voluntary Action Plan, the Fuji Electric Group  carries out activities to promote staff awareness of product  safety. During fiscal 2009, we held Product Safety Basic  Courses at 22 operational sites, attended by approximately  800 employees. In addition, we offer an e-learning platform  for members of design, development, manufacturing and  quality assurance divisions, which has attracted some  3,000 participants. In the future, we will select candidates from among  the participants in Product Safety Basic Courses to train  for Safety Assessor certification, a qualification that  recognizes attainment relating to product safety design and  technologies. The product safety professionals who will  conduct diagnostics and assessments at each operational  site will subsequently be reared from among the successful  Safety Assessor graduates. Ensuring Product Safety Formulation and Implementation of an  Autonomous Code of Practice for Product Safety Fostering Awareness of Product Safety Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Thoughts and Initiatives Regarding Customer  Satisfaction during Fiscal 2009 A dominant characteristic of the View Series is that products can be perused directly through the glass  faade of the vending machine. Accordingly, customers can make their purchases with absolute peace  of mind as to their product selection.  The current batch of improvement activities continued to prioritize product visibility, but with a design  that ensures an easier view for customers. This feature is combined with a control panel that is inclined  at 30 to enhance operability. In addition, a new configuration facilitates collection of dispensed items  from immediately in front of the customer.  In the future, we shall continue in our pursuit of designs that enhance ease of use. In Continual Pursuit of Designs That Result in Vending Machines That Are Easy to Use for Customers  Developer of the View Series of Glass Front Vending Machines The Fuji Electric Group conducts its quality improvement activities based on a thorough quality  management system. This concept involves building a total optimized framework across all  production activities, spanning orders, development, manufacturing, inspection and shipment,  and installation and operation. Quality is then maintained through resolute implementation of  selected frameworks and rules.  In the future, we shall continue with our efforts to provide products worthy of customer  satisfaction by taking a course of action based on three principles: 1) Perpetual investigation  of defects and deficiencies in rules and frameworks, always correcting identified problems;  2) Accurate reflection of expertise gleaned from past experience in current endeavors; 3)  Implementation of promotional activities based on a plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle. This  approach is supplemented by our premise that customers are the true product quality  assessors and evaluators.  Ongoing Improvement Activities for Customers—The True Product Quality Assessors and Evaluators General Manager of the Quality Control Division Product Improvements Stemming from  Customer Comments Masakazu Hirata Design Division   Fuji Electric Retail Systems Co., Ltd. Comments Kazuro Shibata MONOTSUKURI Strategy Division Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd. Product Quality Assurance Promotion System for Quality  Assurance Activities Comments Examples of Improvements to the View Series  of Glass Front Vending Machines Improvement 1: Enhanced Viewing of Displayed Products Boosted visibility of products on display, adding an LED that lights up during  dispensing, etc.  Improvement 2: Simplified Operating Procedure Introduced universal design colors, moved the operational buttons and  display panels to a height compatible with the line of vision of children and  customers in wheelchairs, etc.  Improvement 3: Easier Extraction of Dispensed Products Redesigned vending machines so that products are dispensed immediately in  front of customers and installed lighting to illuminate the dispensing section. An industry-leading display  section, with clear view of  up to four tiers of displayed  products An easy-to-use, push- button 3D control panel,  inclined at 30   Enhanced visibility and  easy extraction through  a dispensing section that  opens immediately in front  of the customer Together with Customers We strive to improve quality and safety throughout the product lifecycle—planning, manufacturing,  sales and services—in an ongoing drive to make products that render customers satisfied. CSR Activities Report 2009 Social Report Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 31 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 32  Together with Suppliers We aim to conduct transactions in Japan and overseas with fairness in accordance with laws  and regulations, while building sound, trusting relationships with our suppliers and pursuing  mutual harmony and benefits. Staff training in procurement-related laws and regulations T O P I C S Widespread Acclaim for Timely, Appropriate and Easily Comprehensible Information Disclosure Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd., received the Tokyo Stock Exchanges 15th Disclosure Award  in fiscal 2009. This prize is given annually in recognition of disclosure of corporate information  in a fashion that is timely, appropriate and easy to understand by investors through such IR  publications as financial statements, annual reports and shareholders reports, in addition to IR  tools, CSR reports and the Internet. Fuji Electric Holdings was selected from a shortlist of seven  companies. Furthermore, we gained recognition for our disclosure efforts in the 12th Nikkei Annual Report  Awards, in which the company was chosen from an initial selection of 12 companies.  The prize-giving ceremony for the  Tokyo Stock Exchanges 15th  Disclosure Award Cash Dividend per Share (FY) (Yen) 2007 8.0 2009 2006 8.0 2005 1.5 2008 4.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 0 7.0 In the Fuji Electric Group Purchasing Policy, fair trade  transactions are clearly stated as the Groups plan of action  for procurement activities. Accordingly, we seek suppliers  in Japan and around the world that offer highly competitive  quality, prices, delivery and services and pay due attention to  their corporate social responsibilities.  Further, we make an effort to promote mutual  understanding while creating and maintaining good  partnerships through transactions conducted on equal terms  with suppliers chosen through fair and free competition. Each year, the Fuji Electric Group carries out an internal audit  and staff training regarding procurement-related laws and  regulations.  Specifically, we acknowledge Japans Subcontract Act*  as an important ordinance that governs our procurement  activities, and since 2005 we have, in principle, conducted  an annual internal audit to monitor responses to the  Subcontract Act. This audit is carried out through mutual  checking by corporate auditors from each Group company.  During fiscal 2009, the internal audit to monitor responses  to the Subcontract Act revealed no issues that could be  deemed problematic.  Our educational activities target employees engaged in  the procurement divisions of Group companies and focus  on the Subcontract Act and other procurement-related laws  and regulations. During fiscal 2009, we carried out 10 such  training sessions, attended by some 200 employees. When selecting suppliers, the Fuji Electric Groups  fundamental policy is to make its decisions in a spirit of free  competition, regardless of whether suppliers are from Japan  or overseas. Based on this approach, we respond to all  enquiries with sincerity, promptly dispatching any necessary  information and taking an open and welcoming stance  toward new suppliers.  In the selection of new suppliers, we carry out  comprehensive investigations of such factors as quality,  price, lead times, stability of supply and environmental  considerations. Moreover, we conduct reassessments  of our existing suppliers on an annual basis, providing  guidance and urging improvements in areas that fall below  our exacting standards.   The Fuji Electric Group is actively engaged in CSR activities  with its suppliers and incorporates items for consideration  in the promotion of CSR into its procurement policy. We  believe that this approach enables us to continue to provide  useful products and services and heightens the trust of  people and society surrounding the companies of the Fuji  Electric Group.  During fiscal 2009, we focused on the abatement of  antisocial forces. In recent years, activities by antisocial forces  to solicit funds have been become increasingly sophisticated.  The Japanese Government announced guidelines to counter  this trend in June 2007. The Fuji Electric Group and the  majority of its suppliers sign a Memorandum for the Exclusion  of Antisocial Forces to reinforce its damage limitation position.  In addition, we always respond to requests from customers  to sign corresponding agreements or otherwise cooperate to  this effect.  In the future, we aim to cultivate harmony and mutual  prosperity while continuing to step up collaboration with  suppliers.  Fair-Minded Procurement Thoughts and Actions Regarding Suppliers Thorough Compliance with Procurement Laws  and Regulations Selection of Fair-Minded Suppliers Memorandum for the Exclusion of  Antisocial Forces * Formally, the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to  Subcontractors. The purpose of this act is, by preventing a delay in payment  of subcontract proceeds, to ensure that transactions with subcontractors  are fair and, at the same time, protect the interests of the subcontractors. In order to gain the appropriate understanding and trust  of its shareholders and investors, Fuji Electric Holdings  Co., Ltd., discloses information as required by laws and  regulations. In addition, we strive to disclose information in  a timely and fair manner in situations not required by law  when material information about the Group is expected to  have an influence on investment decisions. We will continue to expand our IR activities focused on  bilateral communications. In May 2009, Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd., held a  management policy presentation meeting to outline a  recovery scenario that will return the Group to profitability  and to explain future strategies for growth. We also host  quarterly results briefings to report on business restructuring  measures, progress with overall expense reductions  and other matters. In February 2010, we made a public  announcement of our Medium-Term Management Plan— the vision that will guide us from fiscal 2009 to 2011 in  becoming a corporation that contributes to society through  its energy and  the environment  business. Moreover, we  organize small  meetings for  institutional investors  in Japan, visit  overseas investors,  and participate  in individual investor seminars and other events to boost  opportunities for dialog with investors. Approximately 200  investors also participated in factory tours in Kawasaki and  Kobe conducted during the fiscal year. Through such initiatives, we continue to promote  consistent IR activities, regardless of the severity of our  business performance, in a drive to maintain relationships of  trust with shareholders and investors. Fuji Electric strives to implement stable, continuous dividend  distribution of retained earnings after taking into account  medium- to long-term cyclical factors. Cash dividends for  the year are determined after comprehensive consideration  of the terms business results, R&D and capital investment  plans for future growth, the management environment and  other factors. Purchase of treasury stock is carried out as part of a  flexible policy on profit returns to supplement dividend  distribution of retained earnings in response to the status of  cash flows and other factors.  Information Disclosure and  Communication Basic Policies Regarding IR Activities Returning Profits to Shareholders Dialog with Shareholders and Investors Promoting CSR Activities with  Suppliers Seminar for individual investors at the Nagoya  Stock Exchange Together with Shareholders and Investors The Fuji Electric Group takes communication with its shareholders and investors seriously and  makes an effort to disclose information in a timely, appropriate and easily comprehensible manner. CSR Activities Report 2009 Social Report Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 33 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 34  Human Rights Education Program Participant  Numbers during 2009 Fuji Electric Group Rank-based training Workshops by human rights organizations Operating companies Training for employees in their rst two years of service Harassment training Compliance training Training by human rights and local government organizations  767 9 200 553 415 102 Type of course No. of participants Number of Disabled Employees/Employment Rate (%) 2.03 No. of  employees Employment  rate 100 50 150 200 250 300 0 1.0 0.5 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 0.0 271 1.47 1.48 1.67 1.97 216 205 254 198 * Scope: 11 major domestic companies (FY) 2007 2009 2006 2005 2008 Through Enhanced Communications, Working to Build an Environment That Facilitates an Easy  Transition Back to Work from Childcare Leave Participant in Training to Bolster Communications Between Managers and Female Employees Taking  Childcare Leave * This training was filmed by NHK and broadcast as Corporate Measures to Fully Utilize Female Employees. Kurisaki: When taking part in the training program, I had just  returned to work from childcare leave, so was going about my  duties in a state of anxiety. However, listening to others in the  same boat as me regarding the juggling of childcare with work or  with more experience than myself did much to lighten my angst.  Building a support network and consequently having a channel  for information exchange were particularly beneficial steps. In  the future, I would like to continue to be proactive in terms of  communications with my line manager.  Ozawa: Respect for diversity is vital to gain the optimum skills  deployment from the staff I manage, and not only with regard to  childcare leave. This training prompted me to keep this in mind  in the future with a view to raising workplace productivity. At  the same time, I also sensed the difficulty in fulfilling these roles  properly.  In addition to creating a company that does not ignore the  rights of foreigners or individuals with mental or physical  disabilities or intractable diseases, the Fuji Electric Group  strives to address issues of social discrimination and prevent  all forms of harassment.  In fiscal 2003, we established a Group Human Rights  Advisory Committee, with a membership drawn from the  heads of the personnel departments of operating companies  and major affiliates, and formulated a Group Human Rights  Awareness Policy. Furthermore, operating companies  have each founded their own human rights education and  promotion committees. We instituted Group Sexual Harassment Guidelines in April  2008, have established in-house consultation helpdesks,  and carry out staff training relating to harassment issues on  an ongoing basis.  The Fuji Electric Group conducts an array of courses to  raise employee awareness of human rights issues among  its workforce. In 2009, we operated a rank-based training program for  department heads, business leaders and others members  of the managerial stratum to equip them to deal with  discrimination and harassment issues. Furthermore, Fuji  Electric corporate officers responsible for labor relations,  heads of personnel departments, and recruitment and  human rights specialist staff attend various workshops and  other events hosted by human rights organizations. We also  conduct various other types of training, including courses  tailored to operating company employees in their first  two years of service, and instruction on harassment and  compliance. In the future, we intend to broaden the scope  and increase the number of employees reached through  our human rights training and education programs. The Fuji Electric Group recruits and employs a diverse workforce  and aims to cultivate corporate management that capitalizes on  the variegated qualities and strengths of its employees.  We recruit new graduates and mid-career professionals  without regard for gender or nationality. Moreover, we have  created a system that makes use of veteran workers who  elect to extend their career beyond the age of 60 years old. The Fuji Electric Group established a plan for the expansion  of employment for the disabled in fiscal 2006, which called  for each operating company and affiliate to set its own target  employment rates and to promote opportunities groupwide.  As a result of these efforts, as of June 1, 2009, we had 271  employees with disabilities, representing an employment  rate for people with disabilities of 2.03%, which exceeds the  legally mandated rate of 1.8%. Fuji Electric Frontier Co., Ltd., established in 1994 as a  special-purpose subsidiary focused on employment for  the disabled, currently engages 67 people. The company  is aggressively working to expand the number of people  with disabilities it employs and the range of occupations  to which it caters. During fiscal 2009, we organized visits  for pupils from schools for the disabled to experience  the work environment at four of our operational sites and  hosted factory tours, to which we also invited the families of  disabled employees, allowing them  to witness their invigorating working  conditions. Moreover, staff from the  company have also exhibited their  remarkable accomplishments at the  Abilympic vocational skills contest,  held by the Japan Organization  for Employment of the Elderly and  Persons with Disabilities. Respect for Human Rights Human Rights Education and Promotion System Human Rights Education for Employees Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities Recruitment and Appointment of Employees That  Respect Diversity Making the Most of a Diversified Workforce In February 2006, the Fuji Electric Group established a new  working group reporting directly to the president of Fuji  Electric Holdings Co., Ltd., setting fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2011  as target years in providing support for female employees  in their career development and the dual demands of  workplace and home.  During fiscal 2009, we carried out awareness and skills  development training for female employees, backed by  supportive training for male managers. In addition, we  introduced a communications support system for female  employees taking childcare leave and their line managers,  facilitating discussions on their return to work and  subsequent career path, in addition to starting up a training  program specifically targeting managers, which covers  communications with women on childcare leave regarding  their return to the workplace.  As a result of these endeavors, the percentage of  managerial positions,  including heads of  departments and  sections, occupied  by women stood at  0.45% at March 31,  2010, compared with  0.14% for fiscal 2006.  The ratio of female  employees working  primarily in high-grade  planning positions  (assistant managers and supervisors) was 17%, up from  10% in fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2010, we shall focus on allocating the right  people to the right places, conducting selective courses  for staff in planning roles, promoting male sharing of  household duties and childcare, and other courses of action  to support various aspects of the advancement of female  employees. Moreover, we plan to carry out a third survey by  questionnaire, using the results to further improve support  systems and the working environment.   During fiscal 2008, the Fuji Electric Group established a  Labor and Management Investigative Committee to promote  a better work-life balance among employees. The committee  comprises eight company representatives and nine members  of the Fuji Electric labor union.  This body facilitates the sharing of ideas between labor  and management and identifies potential problems in the  promotion of future activities. Currently, the Labor and  Management Investigative Committee is dealing with two  major issues: work-style reform and enhancement of a  support system to provide fulfillment in and outside of work.  Its endeavors also include the expansion and improvement  of various systems and innovations to workplace awareness  and climate.  Supporting the Advancement of Female Employees Inauguration of the Labor and Management  Investigative Committee Promotion of a Work-Life Balance Comments Miyuki Kurisaki and Takashi Ozawa Finance and Accounting Department, Administration Division Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd. Disabled employees taking one  silver and two bronzes at the  Abilympic Kanagawa vocational  skills contest Training to enhance communications  between managers and female employees  on childcare leave, held at five operational  sites nationwide and attended by 54  participants Together with Employees We promote the creation of comfortable workplaces through measures that enable workers to  excel while enhancing their skills. CSR Activities Report 2009 Social Report Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 35 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 36  Grateful for the Opportunity to Combine  Work with Childcare Up until my return to work, I was filled with anxiety as to whether  I could resume my post in the same way as before. However,  with my current limit on working hours I have been able to find a  means of working efficiently.  For a working mother, it is a tremendous assurance to have a  system of shorter working hours for childcare in place. With the  help of my colleagues, I hope to continue to balance the dual  responsibilities of company and family into the future.  Employee Taking Shorter Working Hours for  Childcare Aiming to Provide Comprehensive Support for  Mental and Physical Wellbeing, Attuned to the  Circumstances of Individual Employees Recently, in step with changes in social conditions and living  environments, there was an increase in the number of people  receiving outpatient treatment at hospitals while continuing to  work. Further, this growth was accounted for by patients with  psychiatric maladies as well as  long-term physical illnesses.  In order to bolster knowledge  of mental health issues,  obviously it is imperative to  carry out ongoing educational  activities for employees and  managers. However, beyond  this I believe that measures  are also necessary that are  attuned to the circumstances of  individual employees to prevent  mental illness, or to avoid  aggravation or recurrence. Industrial Physician Masako Akahane Head of Matsumoto Factory Health  Management Center Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd. Employees from Fuji Electric Systems Okinawa Branch participating in the  Okinawa Marathon as part of the eSmile (initiative) Megumi Endo (front row, left) Control & Safety Solutions Center Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd. (pictured with other members of the Exchange Use Support Center) Comments Work-style reforms were launched in the second half of  fiscal 2008, primarily redressing holiday work and extended  working hours in an attempt to improve productivity and  time value. During fiscal 2009, we focused on thorough overtime  management, with labor and management reaching a concerted  decision on a cap to the monthly overtime hours worked.   In light of the April 2010 revisions to the Japanese Labor  Standards Act, we shall continue our drive to reduce  excessive working hours in the future.  In terms of enhancing fulfillment in and outside the  company, we improved and expanded our childcare  leave and nursing support systems during fiscal 2009  and fortified our systems for repeated childcare leave  and shorter working hours and extensions to periods of  childcare leave and nursing support.  In addition, we implemented training geared to support  employees on childcare leave on their return to work  in order to create an environment conducive to easy  utilization of these systems (see page 36). We will focus in the future on building a comfortable  workplace environment for all employees while expanding  currently implemented systems.  The Fuji Electric Group divides employee education and  training into three main categories: courses for employees  at different levels within the organization; selective courses  designed to train the next generation of business leaders,  targeting younger potential leaders and department and  section heads; and specialist courses for technical staff,  salespeople and staff in administrative roles.  Since their introduction in 1995, selective courses have  successively targeted department heads, section heads  and younger potential leaders. Each year, approximately  90 employees complete selective courses, with a total of  approximately 1,000 benefiting from this training to date. Technical training is provided on the job, along with  a curriculum geared to boosting our technological  prowess as a manufacturer. The program includes basic  technology training, core technology training courses  targeting engineers, who are a major source of competitive  advantage for the Group, and Company-wide technology  seminars and other events aiming to supply young  engineers with greater insight into various technical issues. Since 1991, a technical training center based in  Yokkaichi, Mie Prefecture, with dedicated training  facilities and staff, has conducted 12-month intensive  training courses for new recruits. During fiscal 2009, 100  participants attended five courses. Moreover, training  is strategically conducted at each manufacturing site in  line with the skill requirements and levels of individual  employees to maintain and upgrade workers technical  skills on an ongoing basis.  Promoting Work-Style Reform Supporting Fulfillment In and Outside Work Education and Training System Human Resource Cultivation and  Fair Evaluation The companies and employees that make up the Fuji  Electric Group are united in a drive to ensure that safety and  health activities are effective. Measures at Domestic Sites At operating sites in Japan, we have introduced the danger  prediction and risk assessment method to eliminate risks  that have the potential to cause occupational accidents.  This grass-roots safety approach toward machinery and  equipment has been highly successful. During fiscal 2009, we formulated targets and plans based  on steady establishment and implementation of risk assessment  and systematically put this approach into action. As a result, our  frequency ratio of days lost to accidents or disasters in Japan  was 0.22, lower than the all-industry average of 1.62 and the  0.46 average for the electrical equipment industry. During fiscal 2010, we shall continue our aggressive  application of risk assessment and reinforce our  occupational health and safety activities.  Overseas Initiatives As a corporate group with global business interests, we  work in collaboration with overseas bases to ensure the  safety and health of all employees.  During fiscal 2009, we conducted safety diagnostics at  three factories among our offshore facilities: Fuji Electric  (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd.; Fuji Electric Semiconductor (Malaysia)  Sdn. Bhd.; and Fuji Electric (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Moreover,  we carry out regular health checks for the maintenance  and improvement of the physical and mental wellbeing of  employees at overseas bases and their families.  The Fuji Electric Group is working to enhance its line-care/ self-care education for Group employees. During fiscal 2009, we carried out educational programs  spanning 2,700 employees at 14 operational sites. These  included training to heighten basic awareness of stress  and depression, study sessions for managers to highlight  proper response to those with mental health problems and  groupwork for employees in the 30 to 35 age bracket. In  addition, our Health Management Center and Personnel  Division, in cooperation with external healthcare and other  organizations, has upgraded our consultation and guidance  system to complement efforts to facilitate a smooth return  to work and prevention of recurrence for employees taking  time off due to illness. Promoting Occupational Health and Safety Safety and Health Management  for Employees Health Management and Mental Healthcare Two vital elements for a workplace that supports a  diverse employee base are good ventilation and lively  communications. In particular, as communications also form  the foundation for various corporate and CSR activities,  the Fuji Electric Group is striving to invigorate workplace  communications through the eSmile (initiative) and other  initiatives. Workplace Communications Comments Number of Participants in Childcare and  Nursing Support Systems FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 150 71 2 Nursing leave Shorter working hours  for childcare Childcare leave 144 72 6 150 74 3 143 94 3 152 110 4 * Scope: 18,700 employees in major domestic companies Together with Employees CSR Activities Report 2009 Social Report Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 37 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 38  T O P I C S Key Social Action Programs Areas 1. Protection of the Natural Environment Restoration projects for forested areas Forestry conservation Agrarian regeneration Cleanup activities 2. Global Contribution Activities Poverty relief Environmental conservation 3. Communications with Regional Communities  Social welfare Sports promotion Hosting and sponsoring festivals and events 4. Support for Youth Development Manufacturing experience classes  Science classes for teachers Environmental School for elementary  school pupils Forestry conservation activities Manufacturing experience classes Commemorative tree planting as part of the  Childrens Forest Program in India Breakdown of Donations for Social Action Programs  by Activity Type 2.2% 15.9% Other 27.1% Promotion of formal education 4.8% Promotion of science and technology 4.8% The environment Promotion of culture and sports 1.2% International exchange and cooperation 0.5% Social welfare 44.0% Regional social  activities Total:  180 million  Agrarian Regeneration Activities in Uenohara, Yamanashi Prefecture The full team of participants, along with  representatives of regional government and  local residents, in front of the site targeted for  regeneration High Expectations of This New Means of  Stimulating the Agricultural Community In the future, I hope that these activities by the Fuji Electric  Group, utilizing former agricultural land to preserve traditional  farming methods, will provide opportunities for abandoned  elementary school in this area, will support the management of  fences for wildlife damage  prevention and will find  other applications linked  to regional development.  Measures such as these  are almost unprecedented  in Japan and present  significant possibilities for a  new form of stimulation of  the agricultural community.  I am delighted that  this project may facilitate  preservation of the regions  heritage of wheat and millet  cultivation. Comments from a Yamanashi  Prefectural Government Representative The Sakurai Settlement in Uenohara City, Yamanashi  Prefecture, includes many uncultivated plots. We have had  serious concerns as to the best possible course of action for  this land in the future.  Aided by the positive approach of prefectural government  employees and the assistance of the Fuji Electric Group,  we have been able to  commence agrarian  regeneration activities. The  members of the Sakurai  Settlement would like to  offer their thanks for this  achievement. Through  these activities, we hope  to reduce the amount  of uncultivated land and  revitalize the settlement  as a hub for local  communications.  A Wonderful Experience for Children—And for Adults, Too! Although the primary objective of participating in these activities is to provide  children the broadest possible range of experiences, in fact there was much involved  that was new for parents, too. It was a truly educational and satisfying experience,  with such activities as making manure and binding straw into rope, in addition to  offering an opportunity to enjoy traditional cuisine and relax at a hot spring.  I expect Sakurai Farm to bring us all great pleasure into the future, for participants  of any age! Comments from an Agrarian Regeneration Activities Participant The Fuji Electric Group commenced agrarian  regeneration activities in Uenohara City, Yamanashi  Prefecture, in fiscal 2009 in a bid to make effective use  of agricultural land and to preserve traditional farming  methods. These activities were instigated at the request  of Yamanashi Prefecture, which is aiming to reduce the  amount of fallow land*. Accordingly, we resolved to take  on the project as a long-term undertaking that facilitates  easy participation by employees and their families.  The two activity sessions carried out to date, in  November 2009 and February 2010, each attracted  approximately 100 volunteers. Planting watermelons on  redeveloped land The Fuji Electric Group considers the expansion of social  action programs important. We take part in social action  programs in Japan and overseas that meet pressing  societal and community needs, such as protection of  the natural environment, global contribution activities,  communications with regional communities and support for  youth development.  We provide pertinent information to employees and their  families, encouraging them to volunteer for community  programs and other social action programs in their vicinities,  and support them when they do so. Policy on Social Action Programs In February 2007, the Fuji Electric Group started a  restoration project for forested areas near Nagomi, a town  in Kumamoto Prefecture adjacent to Nankan, where the  Group operates a solar cell plant. Although purchased  by the town of Nagomi, the scrub and forested land had  subsequently been left undeveloped. The purpose of these  activities was to regenerate the countryside* to facilitate the  coexistence of people, flora and fauna.  Residents of Nagomi, students from the Prefectural  University of Kumamoto and employees of the Fuji Electric  Group joined forces to work on this project, cutting back  scrub and planting trees, reestablishing fields on land lying  fallow, creating compost from cattle manure and fallen  leaves, clearing undergrowth and carrying out other tasks.  The site came to  serve as a forum  for exchange with  the local populace  and an important  center where  younger participants  could learn about  the importance of  nature. Protection of the Natural Environment Restoration Projects for Forested Areas in  Kumamoto Prefecture In August 2009, the Fuji Electric Group signed an  agreement with Azumino City over a new forestry  restoration project. The city municipal authorities are taking  an intermediary role in this new collaborative undertaking  between regional bodies in Nagano and private companies.  Initially, approximately  32 hectares of city- owned land has  been cleared and  otherwise prepared.  With sessions planned  four times a year, we  anticipate that the  scope of activities will  expand in the future. New Forestry Conservation Activities in  Azumino, Nagano * Countryside in this context refers to a region between urban areas and  primary natural land that is shaped by the hand of man. It is principally  made up of secondary forest, agricultural land, ponds and reservoirs. * Land that has not been sown with crops for one year or more,  with no plans for cultivation over the subsequent few years. Grateful for Fuji Electrics Support and Cooperation  in Reducing the Amount of Uncultivated Land Comments from a Yamanashi  Uenohara Sakurai Farm Worker Kuniko Kojima Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd. Rice planting as part of a restoration project for  forested areas Clearing and preparing land for forestry  conservation activities Masaaki Chino Senior Staff Agricultural Entrant Office Agriculture Department Yamanashi Prefectural Government  Suehiro Omata Head of the Yamanashi Uenohara  Sakurai Farm Together with Local Communities Focusing on social contribution activities in Japan and overseas, centered on four key activity  areas with high societal and regional needs. CSR Activities Report 2009 Social Report Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 39 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 40  We opened the Fuji Electric Environmental School  near the Kumamoto factory in November 2008 to impart  understanding of environmental protection to children,  who will bear the responsibility of the next generation, and  to cultivate human resources to carry on our woodland  preservation endeavors. At the location of the plant and  the site of woodland preservation activities, we carried  out a range of programs for children of employees in the  sixth grade of elementary school, spanning forest and land  workshops and courses on making bamboo rice cookers,  chopsticks, cups and other items.  One important point of the activities is to communicate  the fact that protection of nature is an ongoing process.  Accordingly, we held a second event in November 2009,  with 38 participants. The childrens enjoyment was kindled  through various nature games to enhance their woodland  observation. They  also listened  enthralled to a talk  on the impact of  global warming  on our lives by Mr.  Shinohara of the  Prefectural University  of Kumamoto.  Opening of an Environmental School We began conducting Fuji Electric full-display tours at the  Tokyo Factory of Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd., in fiscal  2009. Through introductions to Fuji Electric technologies and  products, these tours are designed to teach local elementary  school pupils the relationship between manufacturing and  society.  The Fuji Electric Full-Display Tour on August 21, 2009,  was joined by 200 children. It embraced four themes;  the mechanism of solar cells, water purification methods,  diagnostics of household electricity consumption and the  mechanism of cup-type vending machines. The tour was  supported by booths with such features as how to make a  model move using a solar cell and a dramatic interpretation  of energy-saving  techniques. By  deploying such  ingenious means  to hold the pupils  interest, we ensured  that their studying  was carried out in an  atmosphere of fun. Although people say that children are drifting away from the  sciences, a survey suggests that some 70% of elementary  school pupils are interested in science. Rather than this, current  concerns should focus on the motivation of teaching staff.  We want to bring teachers who are tied up in the business of  education into closer contact with a far broader range of actual  science- and physics-related events.  We have high  expectations of the  role of Fuji Electric,  which deals in  energy-creating and  energy-conserving  products, in  communicating  the fun of science  through its leading- edge technologies. In August 2009, we invited JEF United Ichihara Chiba  players and children  from a special needs  school to visit the Fuji  Electric Chiba Factory.  The event included  a factory tour and a  chance to meet and  exchange information  for guests and  employees. Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd., became the official partner  of J-League soccer club, JEF United Ichihara Chiba, in  fiscal 2007. The company has cosponsored one home  game per season and taken that opportunity to invite pupils  from elementary schools in Ichihara and Chiba and children  with disabilities to attend the match as spectators.  During fiscal 2009, we extended an invitation to 505  youth soccer team members and 254 students with special  needs and their carers to spectate the JEF United Ichihara  Chiba versus Shimizu S-Pulse match on July 25, 2009.  Since fiscal 2004, Fuji Electric Philippines has carried out     Share an Hour activities, which are based on the theme of  sharing an hours happiness.   Employees, serving as volunteers, pay visits to homes for  orphaned or abused children, refuge facilities for women, old  peoples care facilities and other such establishments. Funds,  gathered from employees company wide at the rate of one  hours remuneration are  used to buy toys, clothes,  study materials, medicines  and food, which are  donated to these causes  in an atmosphere lightened  by fun and games with the  volunteers. Fuji Electric Corp. of America participates in the Toys for  Tots charity activities carried out by the U.S. Marine Corps.  In addition, we gather  canned, dried and other  preserved foods via local  churches for distribution  to families in need.  During fiscal 2009, we  collected considerable  amounts of toys and  foodstuffs through these  channels. Global Contribution Activities Invitations to Watch Professional Sporting Events Charity Work in the Holiday Season  (Fuji Electric Corp. of America) Donna Munley (left) and Gerri Boomer of  Fuji Electric Corp. of America participating  in global contribution activities Ever-Conscious of Providing Support and  Giving Presents to Disadvantaged People Through my involvement with these activities, I renewed my  awareness of just how lucky we really are. The smiles of innocent  children and the terminally ill cant  help but fill me with humility and  thoughts about the depth and  meaning of life. I am so grateful  to Fuji Electric Philippines for  developing these CSR activities.  In the future, I intend to do my  utmost to be of service to others.       Share an Hour Activities Participant J-League soccer players exchanging  information with children at the Chiba  Factory Making Fuji Electric More Accessible Through  JEF United Ichihara Chiba Fuji Electric? Theyre the ones with their names on the back of  the JEF United Ichihara Chiba strip, right? For the children at  Shiinoki Special School for the Mentally Retarded, this is what  makes Fuji Electric a familiar name. On the day that they were  invited to the Chiba Factory, the children were overwhelmed  throughout—by their first meeting with JEF United Ichihara  Chiba players and by the scale of the machinery in operation  on the shop floor.  When all was over,  the consensus was  Great, well be back  for another look!,  which leads me to  believe that on that  day the factory served  as a stage for valuable  social experiences. Comments from a Participant in the  Exchange Event at the Chiba Factory  Teachers absorbed in making a motor A Fuji Electric employee, serving  as the course instructor, fielding  questions from a class of teachers Aiming to Communicate the Fascination of Science  and Physics Comments from a Science Training Organizer Children watching with great interest as a film- type solar cell drives a model train Ken Noguchi, Principal of the Fuji Electric  Environmental School, with children eating rice  prepared on a bamboo rice cooker Comments Rose P. Gerona Fuji Electric Philippines, Inc.       Share an Hour Activities  (Fuji Electric Philippines, Inc.) Communications with Regional  Communities Exchange Event at the Chiba Factory Masato Osawa Education Center, Hino City Board of Education  Kuniko Kobayashi Department of Education, Hino City Board of Education Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd., aggressively pursues  activities to communicate the wonders of science and  technology to children. As part of this initiative, we  responded to the call by the Board of Education of Hino City  for training for elementary school teachers to help them  deliver science lessons that are interesting for pupils by  dispatching technical staff to the Hino Municipal Education  Center Summer Workshop in August 2009.  The training itself featured motor drive principles and their  applications to driving railway stock in the morning sessions  and practical experience in making and storing electricity  and related industrial applications in the afternoons. The  course was attended by 45 participants, with the technician  delivering the course evaluating its reception as surprisingly  more responsive than expected; I want to stimulate childrens  interest and concern in the technologies around them. In the future, we would like to expand from this initial event in  Hino City to respond to similar requests from other regions. Support for Youth Development Science Classes for Elementary School Teachers Introducing Environmental Technologies and  Products to Local Elementary Schools Naoya Yamamoto (center) School teacher  Shiinoki Special School for the Mentally Retarded  (Ichihara, Chiba) Children delighted with gifts from  employees carrying out volunteer activities Together with Local Communities CSR Activities Report 2009 Social Report Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 41 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 42  Comparison of CO2 Emission Volumes  (Lost Electric Power Equivalent) (tons of CO2/year) 1.21 Conventional model GX Series 2 1 3 4 0 3.43 Approximately 2.2 tons of CO2/year reduction Operating conditions: 8,760 hours operation per year; load factor of 80% Reduction Effect Calculation  Parameters (during Use) Conventional model: J Series with 85% efficiency Current model: GX Series with 93% efficiency CO2 emission coefficient: 0.555kg-CO2/kWh Eco-products Products Certification Certification Super eco- products Super eco- products Environmental  contribution  products Products that are eco-friendly  and that are superior in their  contribution to the environment Eco-friendly products IGBT modules Energy management systems Motors and inverters Turbines Solar cells Mobile agricultural management  guidance and support systems Products that  Contribute to CO2 Emission Reduction Energy-Saving Products Mainstay Products Products that achieve reduced  CO2 emissions compared to  conventional products during  use through higher efficiency  and lower loss Energy-Supplying Products Products that realize  CO2-emissions-free power  generation or low CO2 emissions  during power generation through  use of renewable energy or  effective energy utilization Energy-Visualization  Products Products that support  energy-conservation activities  and contribute to CO2 emission  reduction activities through the  visualization of energy Information and  Communication  Technology (ICT) Products that contribute to  CO2 emission reductions by  boosting business efficiency  or laborsaving Uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) High-frequency induction furnaces Molded-case transformers Plant-derived-dielectric-oil-immersed transformers Mainstay Products Energy management systems Energy plant optimal operation systems Vending machines Open display cases Synchronous motors Inverters Mainstay Products Micro hydroelectric power generation Hydroelectric generation Solar cells Geothermal power generation Fuel cells Steam turbine generators Mainstay Products Work flow (ExchangeUSE) Document management systems  for local government General affairs administrative systems  for local government Mobile agricultural management guidance  and support systems Power supply ICs  MOSFETs IGBT modules Eco-Product Certification System T O P I C S The Fuji Electric Group evaluates the environmental  contribution of products and consideration for the environment  on a groupwide platform. Products meeting fixed criteria are  certified as eco-products and super eco-products. Our environmental medium-term plan during the three  years up to fiscal 2011 includes expansion of the proportion  of eco-products in the overall Fuji Electric portfolio to 40%.  During fiscal 2009, we revised certification regulations in  a groupwide effort to enhance usability and to propel us  toward this target.  The Fuji Electric Group conforms to laws and regulations  in regions in which it operates, worldwide, with regard to  chemical substances contained in products. To achieve  this, we promote the sharing of information on legislative  trends and other issues through regular liaison meetings  and companywide seminars, while building optimal control  systems for each operating site.  During fiscal 2009, we constructed and went online  with a universal Group database for chemical substance  control in response to the REACH* Regulation. We  organized explanatory briefings to provide an outline of  this database and its operating procedures spanning five  areas in November 2009. These events were attended by  approximately 300 participants.  Revisions to Certification Regulations to Facilitate  Expansion of Our Eco-Products Lineup Example of a CO2 Reduction Effect Calculation Nikkei Superior Products and Services Awards  for Industrial Fuel Cells Fuji Electric is currently upgrading the performance and  promoting widespread use of a unique phosphoric acid fuel  cell (PAFC) that it has commercially realized. The latest version,  FP-100 i, achieves power generation efficiency that surpasses  conventional models and, when running on utility gas, can save  394 tons in CO2 emissions per  year of continuous operation.  In recognition of this  environmental performance,  Fuji Electric received an  outstanding performance  award in the Fiscal 2009  Nikkei Superior Products and  Services Awards.  Major Theme:  Reducing Environmental Impact Through Fuji Electric Products Cup-Type Beverage Vending Machine Gains  Japan Machinery Federation Award for Energy- Conserving Machinery Non-CFC vending machines developed by Fuji Electric are the  worlds first to be mass-produced with an installed icemaker  that features CO2 refrigerant, with lower  greenhouse effect impact than with CFC  models. Compared with existing models,  power consumption is down 1,077kWh/year,  representing a 44% energy saving.  The new vending machine gained the  Japan Machinery Federation Chairmans  Prize in the Fiscal 2009 Japan Machinery  Federation Awards for Energy-Conserving  Machinery in light of its environmental  performance. We ascertained an annual CO2 emissions reduction  effect of 2.2 tons for a 10kVA system from our Global  Mini UPS GX Series of uninterruptible power supplies  compared with a conventional model.  Types of Products That Contribute to CO2 Emission Reduction Reinforcing the Management System for Chemical  Substances Contained in Products In the future, we will consider introducing a system to  gather information through the supply chain on chemical  substances in  procured products  and a framework to  provide customers  with data in a  swift and accurate  fashion.  Fuji Electrics Environmental Vision 2020 cites a target of  reducing societal CO2 emissions by 2.4 million tons by  2020 through the provision of energy-saving products and  energy-creating products. During fiscal 2009, we classified products that can  contribute to CO2 emissions into four groups and devised  quantitative CO2 reduction calculation methods for each.  We were thus able to sum up total CO2 emissions  reductions from products sold during fiscal 2009 using  these calculation methods. For example, the generation  capacity of shipped geothermal power systems totaled  86.6MW, which contributed 280,000 tons to CO2  emissions reductions during the year. * REACH Regulation: A comprehensive regulation concerning the  registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals that calls  for information management in the supply chain as well as companies that  manufacture products. Start-up of Quantitative Assessment of Contributions  to CO2 Emission Reductions by Products Briefing held in the Suzuka area Promoting Manufacturing That Contributes  to Lowering the Environmental Burden for  Customers and Society Fuji Electric is striving to develop and is promoting the widespread adoption of eco-products,  which boost energy efficiency, cut chemical substances contained in products and take various  other environmental factors into account, and products that help to alleviate the environmental  burden of society as a whole.  CSR Activity Report 2009 Environmental Report Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 43 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 44  The Fuji Electric Group has created environmental  management systems throughout its production  operations and at all its sales bases and is pursuing third- party certification. By fiscal 2007, all domestic sites had  gained ISO 14001 certification, and we currently practice  environmental management that incorporates environmental  initiatives into business operations. Environmental Management in Accordance with  ISO 14001 Certification The Fuji Electric Group formulated its basic polices on  environmental protection in 1992, declaring within and  outside the Group its efforts to address diverse global  environmental problems. We also began working to reduce  the environmental impact of our business activities.  The Group revised these policies in 2003, clarifying ways in  which it contributes to society through its business operations. Environmental Policy The 21st century has been described as the century of  the environment, with increasing focus on a host of issues,  including global warming, the construction of a recycling  society, control of chemical substances and consideration for  biodiversity.  In its Medium-Term Plan (fiscal 2009–2011), the Fuji Electric  Group states its target corporate image as a corporation  that contributes to global society through its Energy and  the Environment businesses. To realize this vision, based  on the Environmental Vision 2020, formulated in 2009, we  have launched energy-saving equipment that aids global  warming countermeasures, boosted the contribution made to  net sales by energy-creating products that do not use fossil  fuels, reduced CO2 emissions associated with energy use  during production, and carried out various other environment- oriented activities.  Further, in our drive to be a company of high intrinsic value  that can contribute to society in the environmental field, we  worked together with all the business partners that make  up our supply chain to implement a plan-do-check-act  (PDCA) approach based on environmental management that  incorporates environmental measures into business activities.  From fiscal 2010, environmental risk assessment becomes  an integral element of the stipulations of ISO 14001. We will  continue to work to reduce risk and to strive to be the industry  frontrunner in the environmental sector through the introduction  of a Green Factory and Green Office certification system.  President and Representative Director of Fuji Electric Holdings Operating companies, subsidiaries and afliates Fuji Electric Holdings (FHC) Working group (established as needed) MONOTSUKURI Strategy Division MONOTSUKURI Center Environmental Management Department President of operating company ISO-certied sites under control of operating company (factories, subsidiaries and afliates) Global Environmental Protection Committee of operating company, etc. Group Environmental Promotion Responsibility Council Group Global Environmental Protection Committee  (Chairperson: FHC executive ofcers responsible for environmental management administration) Chairperson Promotion Ofcer (Secretariat) Committee members Not acquired ISO 14001 Certication Status Acquired Consolidated businesses and operational sites Japan Overseas 32 32 0 9 8 1  (as of March 31, 2010) Number of sites Environmental Management Promotion Organization and Framework Aiming to be a Company That Contributes to Society in the Field of Energy and the Environment  Message from the Executive Officer Responsible for Environmental Management Administration Environmental site inspection at the Kobe factory Environmental Management The Fuji Electric Group—from R&D through production, sales and services—is uniting in an  ongoing drive to tackle global environmental problems. Michio Abe Director and Senior Executive Officer Executive Officer Responsible for Group Environmental Management Administration Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd. The Fuji Electric Group considers its environmental endeavors  to be part of its CSR activities. In July 2008, we created a  structure to promote environmental management as a global  response to societal needs.  At the core of this structure and with overall responsibility  for deliberating and determining measures for the Fuji Electric  Group is the Global Environmental Protection Committee,  which reports directly to the president.  In addition, the Group Global Environmental Promotion  Responsibility Council is in place to cascade policies  determined by the management, study measures for  resolving new problems and serve as a platform for the  exchange of information among Group companies. Special  committees and working groups are formed to address  environmental issues according to theme. During fiscal 2009,  we convened a working group to assess our contributions to  the reduction of CO2 emissions, supplementing the ongoing  functions of such permanent bodies as the Energy Saving  Team and Environmental Risk Management Working Group.  Environmental Management Organizational  Framework Environmental Management  Framework Basic Policies of the Fuji Electric Group on  Environmental Protection The Fuji Electric Group is keenly aware of its social responsibilities  as a good corporate citizen and regards efforts to protect the global  environment as one of its most important management tasks. We  will strive to achieve a sustainable, recycling-based society in  compliance with the following basic policies: 1. Provision of products and technologies that contribute to global  environmental protection 2. Reduction of environmental impact throughout the product  lifecycle 3. Reduction of environmental impact in business activities  4. Compliance with environmental laws, regulations and standards 5. Establishment and continuous improvement of environmental  management systems 6. Elevation of employees awareness of environmental issues and  contributing to society 7. Promotion of communications about our environmental activities Since 2003, the Group has conducted annual  environmental site inspections of sites certified under ISO  14001. In fiscal 2007, we began establishing a proprietary  checklist for compliance to relevant environmental laws and  regulations and evaluating environmental risk to boost the  effectiveness of our environmental management. During fiscal 2009, we revised this checklist in response  to the previous years results, streamlining the number of  items to 120.  Group Environmental Internal Audit The Fuji Electric Group introduced environmental accounting  in fiscal 2000 as a key means of assessing environmental  management performance.  Using the 2005 guidelines released by Japans Ministry  of the Environment as a base, we established in-house  calculation methods for environmental preservation costs and  benefits. Each year, we ascertain and analyze these costs  and benefits quantitatively and disclose this information to  the public. To expand our number of eco-products, we also  calculate and total the estimated benefits of products when  used by customers. Environmental preservation costs totaled 9.10 billion,  consisting of 1.78 billion in investments and 7.32 billion in  expenditures. Total environmental preservation effects came  to 9.34 billion, including 1.01 billion in proceeds from  the sale of valuable items, 0.25 billion in energy savings  and other reductions in costs and 8.08 billion in estimated  benefits. Principal environmental investments during fiscal 2009  included the installation of photovoltaic power generation  equipment at the Tokyo and Mie factories. In the future,  we will continue our course of systematic investments and  expansion of our eco-product portfolio.  Environmental Accounting Fiscal 2009 Results Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 45 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 46 CSR Activities Report 2009 Environmental  Report  Promotion of environmental management Medium-Term Plan Objectives (Fiscal 2009–2011), and Fiscal 2009 Objectives and Performance Medium-Term Plan Objectives (Fiscal 2009–2011) Fiscal 2009 Targets Fiscal 2009 Results Assessment Expand range of  eco-products Expand range of technologies/ services that help in the saving  and generation of energy Resource recycling Chemical substance control Reduction of business activities environmental impact Reduction of environmental risk Promotion of social contribution activities and  environmental communications  Improve environmental management evaluation  Promote Environmental Vision 2020  Respond to environmental obligations compliant with international accounting standards  Maintain inclusion in Dow Jones Sustainability Index  Increase ranking in the Corporate Environmental Management Level  Survey by the Nihon Keizai Shimbun (target: top 70 companies)  Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the fth consecutive year  Ranked 40th in the Corporate Environmental Management Level Survey by the Nihon  Keizai Shimbun (92nd in scal 2008)  Submitted articles to external magazines (Environmental Manage- ment), included coverage in the CSR Report and on the Company  and external websites, and hosted inhouse environmental seminars  Fuji Electric Retail Systems submitted notication of designated shippers to the  Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (designated shipper no. 048713) and other  operating companies and continued activities to assume shipper obligations  Implemented environmental audit at all operational sites using a  118-item checklist centered on drainage and waste management  Implemented risk management using a Company-wide soil risk map  Eliminate asbestos-containing products and complete the  decontamination of production facilities and buildings  Implement decontamination plans for high-concentration  PCB equipment  Prepare for revisions to the Law Concerning the Rational  Use of Energy  Respond to emissions trading and other measures  Promote compliance with the REACH Regulation (construct a  management system)  Promote global environmental management  Obtain environmental ISO certication at all consolidated     subsidiaries in Japan and production companies overseas  Publicize Environmental Vision 2020 inside and outside     the Company  Completed environmental ISO certification for all newly consolidated subsidiaries in Japan  Certification not yet obtained at one production company overseas  Constructed and began operating a REACH database  Developed EuP information  Strengthened photovoltaic power engineering technology  Installed photovoltaic power generation systems for energy-conservation     PR use at two domestic factories  Increase the proportion of eco-products in full Fuji Electric portfolio (40% or more)  Improve the functions of management systems for controlling harmful chemicals  used in products  Construct a system to respond to new environmental regulations (EuP*1 and REACH*2)  Calculated total asset elimination obligations (asbestos and soil)  Formulated and developed certication regulations and a quantitative     calculation framework for eco-products   Maintained and improved the systems for managing RoHS-regulated     and other chemical substances at target operating sites  Respond to asset elimination obligations in the environmental eld  Formulate certication regulations and a quantitative calculation     framework for eco-products   Maintain or improve systems for managing RoHS-regulated and     other chemical substances  Established FeSMART at sales bases  Achieved zero waste emissions at all operational sites but one   Expand businesses and services that contribute to     environmental protection  Developed policies on response to revisions to the Law Concerning     the Rational Use of Energy  Formally participated in the Ministry of Economy,     Trade and Industry's mock emissions trading scheme  Comply with revisions to the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy and     the revised Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures  Respond to post-Kyoto framework, including emissions trading  Expand businesses that contribute to environmental protection and promote     the development of environmental technologies  Promote initiatives in new businesses, including emissions trading  Reduce domestic energy-derived CO2 emissions by 6% by scal 2010 relative to scal 2006 levels  Semiconductor device manufacturing operations to reduce six greenhouse gases, including  energy-derived CO2, by 70% by scal 2010 relative to scal 2000 levels  Promote the energy inefciency elimination campaign  Introduce an energy inefciency elimination campaign  Promote energy conservation at ofces  Promote energy conservation in logistical operations  Preserve water resources (reduce water usage and promote reuse)  Reduce total emissions of chemical substances (reduce by 40% by scal 2010,  compared with scal 2000 levels)  Implement a decontamination program for polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) equipment  Achieve full compliance with statutory regulations through environmental audits  Implement measures for the protection of biodiversity  Promote community engagement programs, such as corporate citizen activities  Continue to publish the CSR Report   Ensure implementation of asbestos waste countermeasures  Enhance information systems to support environmental     management (FeSMART) at ofces  Assume shipper obligations in response to revisions to the Law     Concerning the Rational Use of Energy  Achieve zero waste emissions at all operational sites  Reduced VOCs by 72.2% and PRTR-designated substances by 59.2%  Reduce total emissions of chemical substances by 37%     relative to scal 2000 levels  Implement environmental risk management audits  Introduced and promoted an electronic manifest for waste products  Carried out decontamination at Kobe and Hokuriku factories  Eliminated asbestos-containing products and completed     the decontamination of production facilities and buildings  Formulated and established the Fuji Electric Group Biodiversity Guidelines  Issued the CSR Report, including coverage of Environmental Vision 2020  Continued Kumamoto woodland preservation activities  Increased the number of participants in the Ministry of the Environments     environmental house-keeping book  Formulate soil risk management plans and investigate usage     history of designated substances  Introduce an electronic manifest for waste products  Develop biodiversity activities  Issue CSR Report  Achieve zero waste emissions at all sites (landll waste as a ratio to total waste of  1% or less) and implement standards for total waste emissions  Held review meetings to consider items for operational site energy inefciency elimination  Forecast a 17.8% reduction in domestic-energy-derived CO2 emissions for scal 2010  Reduced domestic-energy-derived CO2 emissions by 21.1% relative to scal 2006 levels  Reduced six greenhouse gases including CO2 emissions for semiconductors by 87.8%     compared with scal 2000 levels, achieving targets ahead of schedule  Participate actively in local environment fairs and promote factory tours  Expand application of the Ministry of the Environments environmental     house-keeping book  Reduce soil and groundwater risks at production plants in Japan and overseas  Reduce waste risk Not achieved (less than 70%) Partially achieved (70% or more) Target achieved Reduction of product/ technology/service  environmental impact Prevention of global warming Environmental Management  Targets and Results To realize Environmental Vision 2020, which sets forth clearly the Groups goals for 2020, we are  steadily promoting our Medium-Term Plan (fiscal 2009–2011).  *1 The Energy-using Product (EuP) directive mandates that all energy-consuming devices have eco-friendly designs, and is one of the directives with which a  product must comply to be labeled with a CE mark. *2 The REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) Regulation specifies registration and management requirements for all  chemicals within the European Union. Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 47 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 48 CSR Activities Report 2009 Environmental  Report  The Fuji Electric Group has participated from the initial  formulation process in the voluntary action plans of four  electric and electronic industry organizations*. As such,  we have contributed to achieving national emissions and  other targets. In addition to these production unit targets,  since fiscal 2007 we have set a voluntary target of reducing  domestic energy-derived CO2 emissions by 6% by fiscal  2010 relative to fiscal 2006 levels, which we have driven  forward through energy-saving activities. Moreover, in step  with revisions to the Energy Conservation Law of Japan, we  are expanding the scope of CO2 emissions calculations from  fiscal 2010 from production activities only to include offices  and all other operational sites. Historical data from fiscal 2006  onward has been retroactively adjusted and is shown in the  graphs below.  Reducing Greenhouse Gases During fiscal 2009, we introduced photovoltaic power  generation facilities at two domestic sites and completed  energy saving diagnostics of all factories in Japan, a process  which was instigated in fiscal 2008. In addition to these  endeavors, production volumes declined under the impact  of the economic recession.  Accordingly, CO2 emissions  for fiscal 2009 were 21.1%  down from fiscal 2006 levels,  at 176,546 tons. We also cut  Group overall energy costs  approximately 3% through  energy-saving activities. CO2 Emission Reduction Targets and Results * The Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association,  the Communications and Information Network Association of Japan, the  Japan Business Machine and Information System Industries Association,  and the Japan Electrical Manufacturers Association I N P U T O U T P U T * Global warming potential (GWP) measures the relative greenhouse effect caused by a gas compared with CO2, which is assigned a GWP value of 1. Energy Consumption Fuji Electric Group Operating sites R&D Procurement Manufacturing/ assembly Products Logistics/ sales/services Recycling Customers Environmental consciousness Energy saving Chemical substance  management Zero waste emission Green procurement Eco-products Product development (FY) (FY) (FY) (Ten thousands of kilowatt-hours) (Thousands of kiloliters) 53.9 2009 20,810 58.7 2008 25,937 15,000 10,000 5,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000 0 30 20 10 40 50 60 70 0 59.5 2007 30,613 CO2 Emissions  (FY) (Tons of CO2) 2009 2007 176,546 2008 203,546 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 0 224,234 Emissions of PRTR- Designated Substances (FY) (Tons) 2009 2007 150 2008 216 100 200 300 400 0 332 Amount of Industrial Waste (FY) (Tons) 2009 2007 20,019 2008 26,348  10,000 5,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 0 29,338 Greenhouse Gas  Emissions Other than CO2 (FY) (GWP*, thousands of tons) 2009 2007 65 2008 154 100 50 150 200 250 300 0 293 Wastewater Emissions (FY) (Thousands of tons) 2009 2007 5,373 2008 6,496 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 0 6,559 Industrial Waste Sent to  Landlls (FY) (Tons) 2009 2007 39 2008 62 20 40 60 80 0 72 Waste Recycled (FY) (Tons) 2009 2007 16,848 2008 20,107 10,000 5,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 0 23,360 PRTR-Designated  Substances Handled (Tons) 2009 2007 2008 800 600 400 200 0 Water Consumption (Thousands of tons) 2009 2007 6,591 2008 8,349 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 0 Emissions of Other  Substances with  Environmental Impact NOx SOx BOD COD Nitrogen Phosphorus 7.1 0.6 2.3 4.7 6.1 0.9 (Tons) Main Materials (Tons) Ferrous Non-ferrous Plastic Rubber/other 44,100 4,100 2,900 150 Electric Fossil fuels (crude-oil  equivalents) 9,258 759 526 345 Six types of gases, including CO2 and alternative  chlorofluorocarbons, are considered greenhouse gases, as  they contribute to global warming. Of all the greenhouse gases, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) is  the most potent. The Fuji Electric Group has completed  the transition from SF6 to alternative gases in the insulation  testing processes at its semiconductor fabrication facilities.  As a result, during fiscal 2009 emissions of greenhouse  gases other than CO2 dropped 58% from fiscal 2008.  In addition to reduction activities targeting production  processes, we are developing alternative technologies  to eliminate greenhouse gases during product use and  otherwise contributing to alleviation of the environmental  impact of products.  Reducing SF6 and Other Greenhouse Gases Notes:  1.Totals are calculated using data from the Fuji Electric Groups domestic consolidated  subsidiaries, including offices and other facilities.  2.Per unit sales figures are calculated as CO2 emissions amount over consolidated net sales. 3.Emission estimates use the emissions coefficient for electric power users (3.38 tons of  CO2 per ten thousand kilowatt-hours in fiscal 2009), taking into account the goal of a 20%  emissions cut relative to 1990 levels by 2010, as specified by the Federation of Electric  Power Companies of Japan. Note: After detailed investigation of in-house data, we have recalculated emissions values.  Accordingly, figures differ from those given in the previous fiscal years report.  * Global warming potential (GWP) measures the relative greenhouse effect caused by a  gas compared with CO2, which is assigned a GWP value of 1. Photovoltaic power generation  equipment installed at our Tokyo factory Interplay Between Business Activities  and Environmental Impact The Fuji Electric Group continuously strives for efficient utilization of raw materials and energy  and for waste reduction through all its business activities. Preventing Global Warming The Fuji Electric Group recognizes the prevention of global warming as an important part of its  corporate activities and works aggressively to reduce the energy used in its corporate activities. (Tons of CO2) (Tons of CO2 per 100 million) (FY) 2006 223,862 2007 224,234 2008 203,546 26.6 2009 176,546 25.5 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 0 10 20 30 40 50 0 CO2 emissions CO2 emissions  per unit of sales 24.7 24.3 (Tons of CO2) (FY) 2006 81,212 2007 101,480 2009 102,621 2008 101,906 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 0 Overseas Manufacturing Subsidiaries CO2 Emissions (FY) (GWP*, thousands of tons) 2007 2008 2009 2006 1995 900 600 300 0 812 21 1 790 790 48 59 180 180 293 44 29 220 220 154 31 24 99 99 SF6 24 HFCs 12 PFCs 29 65 287 Note: Overseas energy and electric power conversion coefficients obtained from the Japan  Electrical Manufacturers Association website (Ver. 3, March 2006). CO2 Emissions and CO2 Emissions per Unit of Sales in Japan Breakdown of Emissions of Greenhouse Gases Other Than CO2 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 49 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 50 CSR Activities Report 2009 Environmental  Report  Total 20,019 tons Composition of Waste Generated (Japan) Plastics 5% Glass and ceramics 0% Other 4% Paper and wood 15% Acids 12% Sludge 10% Metals 54% Environmental Impact of Logistics CO2 emissions (tons of CO2) (Tens of thousands of tons x kilometers) (FY) 2006 2007 8,087 2008 12,398 6,387 2009 11,977 6,089 10,000 5,000 15,000 0 10,000 5,000 15,000 0 Impact of logistics 13,881 13,750 9,315 At the Iiyama factory of Fuji Electric Power Semiconductor, we place great importance on energy-saving  activities as a focus for our ongoing efforts. However, the significant impact of social conditions during  fiscal 2009 rendered energy-saving activities alone to be insufficient, highlighting the need for further  drastic measures.  Accordingly, the head of the factory, in concord with all employees, made a thorough examination of  a procedure manual for the switching off of electrical power sources as a means to identify unnecessary  electrical power usage. As a result, we dramatically reduced  the use of unnecessary electricity. Further, such improvement  activities as research into cases of energy saving by using  inverters and application of these devices linked to motion  sensors enabled reductions in the use of superfluous lighting,  which in turn facilitated annual reductions in electrical power  consumption of 10,000 kWh. In addition, we constructed a  surveillance system to monitor the factorys overall power use  and are working toward the visualization of electrical power  consumption. As a result of these activities, we achieved a 12% cut  in electrical power use on a crude oil equivalent specific  consumption basis (kl/million units) during fiscal 2009.  Successfully Slashing Electricity Consumption Through Concerted Companywide Energy-Saving Activities Energy-Saving Activities Promoter Promoting the use of inverters in extractor  fans at the Iiyama factory  Nago (left), Ogasawara (right) T O P I C S Strengthening Waste Disposal Management in Response to the Introduction of an Electronic Manifest Shinshu Fuji Electric Co., Ltd., meticulously separates combustible trash, plastics and other  waste generated in its factory and strives to reduce amounts sent to landfill by promoting  recycling.  In fiscal 2008, the company introduced an electronic manifest system to control waste  disposal status as part of a bid to strengthen management of waste treatment.  Collection point for separated waste  (Shinshu Fuji Electric) (Tons) Waste Emitted and Sent to Landll (Japan) Waste generated 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 (FY) 72 2007 2008 29,338 2009 26,348 62 0 20,019 39 Ratio of waste sent to  landll to waste generated Waste sent to  landll 0.2 0.2 0.2 (%) 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 (FY) 2007 9,258 2008 8,349 0 Water Consumption (Japan) (Thousands of tons) 2009 6,591 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 (FY) 2007 6,559 2008 6,496 2009 0 5,373 Wastewater Emissions (Japan) (Thousands of tons) Comments To reduce CO2 emissions in the area of logistics, shippers  are required to measure and improve their energy  consumption. The Fuji Electric Group developed Group Guidelines on  Shipper Obligations to facilitate smooth and appropriate  response by its operating companies and sites to  legislation that came into force in April 2006. It is also  striving to enhance understanding of and to publicize the  measurement range and computational procedures for CO2  emissions, methods of reporting, roles of key personnel and  other factors. In order to ascertain the environmental impact  of logistics activities, we have implemented the FeSMART  Energy Conservation Initiatives in  Logistics environmental management support system for centralized  data management.  In addition, Fuji Retail Systems, which manufactures  vending machines and other such products, has been  designated a specified shipper by the Ministry of Economy,  Trade and Industry, and is continuing to reinforce its energy- conservation activities. The Fuji Electric Group participates in the national Team  Minus 6% activities for the prevention of global warming. In  addition, all our workplaces, including offices, are promoting  energy-saving activities. These measures evolved into the  Challenge 25 Campaign from January 2010. We have  registered as a Group to continue our participation in this  repackaged initiative.  Further, since fiscal 2009 we have been encouraging  employees to use the Ministry of the Environments  environmental house-keeping book to raise their awareness  of energy conservation at home. We are offering a range of  incentives to stimulate participation in this program.  Boosting Environmental  Awareness in Offices and Homes * FeSMART (Fuji Electric Sustainable Management Support System)  enables registration of and access to all environmental data relating to  the Groups factories and operating sites using a Web browser on the  Companys Intranet.  The Fuji Electric Group has been promoting the recycling of  waste to attain the goal of zero waste—a ratio of waste sent  to landfills to waste generated of no more than 1%. Since  reaching this goal of zero waste in fiscal 2004, we have  continued to improve our results each year. During fiscal 2009, total waste was approximately 6,000  tons less than in the previous year, at 20,019 tons, and  landfill waste dropped 20 tons, to 39 tons. This led to a  landfill ratio of 0.2%, the same as the past years ratio. We  aim to maintain this zero waste ratio in the future, as we  strive to help create a resource-recycling-based society. Reducing Waste Water resources are an essential part of a resource- recycling-based economic system. Along with the saving of  species, the preservation of water resources was one of the  important issues raised in the biodiversity convention. Based on its Biodiversity Guidelines, the Fuji Electric  Group is working to preserve aquatic environments. We aim  to reduce our water consumption, decrease wastewater  emissions and step up our efforts to manage the quality of  wastewater emissions. Efficient Use of Water Resources Preventing Global Warming Hirofumi Uehara Manager of the Manufacturing  Engineering Department, Production Division Iiyama Factory Fuji Electric Power Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Recycling of Resources The careful use of limited resources is considered an important step toward realizing a resource- recycling-based society. Accordingly, the Fuji Electric Group is promoting zero waste and the  efficient use of water resources. Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 51 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 52 CSR Activities Report 2009 Environmental  Report  Since the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law of  Japan went into effect in February 2003, the Fuji Electric  Group has conducted soil surveys when discontinuing  operations at facilities specified by the Water Pollution  Control Law and when improving the soil for new facilities. The Fuji Electric Group began conducting soil and  groundwater surveys on the land it owns in 1998 to  determine pollution risks, and these had been completed  by fiscal 2007 at all sites in Japan. Of these sites, four  that still exceed the environmental limit have begun  cleanup measures and the effectiveness of their cleaning  has been confirmed. As of fiscal 2009 we have not yet  driven down  figures to below  benchmark levels  and are continuing  our ongoing  measurement and  surveillance.  Furthermore, no  new polluted sites  were discovered  during fiscal 2009. Throughout the Fuji Electric Group, there are 5,000 pieces  of equipment that contain PCBs. We strictly manage and  store these units at the respective operating sites and have  provided appropriate notification of this equipment.  In fiscal 2007, the Group began its first commissioned  treatment of PCB waste by the Japan Environmental Safety  Corporation (JESCO). During fiscal 2009, we completed  treatment for condensers at the Hokuriku factory of Fuji  Electric Power Semiconductor and some of the equipment  at the Kobe factory of Fuji  Electric Systems.  We plan to carry out  decontamination of  equipment that contains  PCBs in the Matsumoto  and Suzuka areas and at  the Kobe and Azumi Fuji  plants during fiscal 2010. Storage and Decontamination of  Equipment Containing PCBs Soil and Groundwater Purification One type of VOC, dichloromethane, is used in the semiconductor assembly cleaning process at the  Omachi factory of Fuji Electric Power Semiconductor. In order to achieve the Fuji Electric Groups fiscal  2010 target of reducing by 40% its atmospheric emissions of VOCs relative to fiscal 2000 levels, it is  absolutely necessary to switch to low-environmental-impact alternative substances. Accordingly, we have  been working to introduce substitute cleaning solutions since fiscal 2007. Specifically, we selected hydrocarbon system alternative cleaning solutions, but this presented  tremendous difficulties for our staff. The companys products  feature high voltages, so impurities arising from insufficient  washing are directly linked to product failures, leading to a  succession of technical problems regarding safety, cleaning  performance, treatment times and so forth that needed  to be solved. After continuous endeavors, we introduced  cleaning equipment using alternative solutions for part of  the semiconductor assembly cleaning process during fiscal  2009, which led to a drastic cut in the amount of VOCs used  and enabled us to meet Group reduction targets ahead of  schedule. In the future, we shall progress with our efforts to  extend alternative cleaning solutions to the remainder of the  semiconductor assembly cleaning process. A Drop in VOC Atmospheric Emissions Through the Introduction of an Alternative Cleaning Process VOC-Reduction Activities Promoter 200 400 600 800 (Tons) (FY) 367.4 2009 210.6 2010 444.8 220.0 0 (Target) 757.2 VOC Atmospheric Emissions and Emissions of  PRTR-Designated Substances (Japan) 2008 337.7 216.2 VOC atmospheric  emissions Emissions of  PRTR-designated  substances 149.9 2000 (Benchmark) Consumed 79.8 tons Eliminated/ treated 33.8 tons Released into public  water courses 0.1 ton Atmospheric  emissions 149.8 tons Recycled 40.7 tons Transferred to other sites 39.3 tons Released into  sewage system 1.8 tons Material Balance of Substances Specied  by the PRTR Law Total handled  345.3 tons T O P I C S Risk Sensitivity Improvement Training in the Matsumoto Area The Matsumoto factory invited members of the Environmental Risk Management Study Group  of four electric and electronic industry organizations to carry out Risk Sensitivity Improvement  Training in October 2009. This event targeted 30 participants from the Environmental Facilities  Management Division and the EMS Secretariat. The training was conducted using risk sensitivity improvement tools recommended by the  study group to bolster risk sensitivity (the capacity to sense and deal with potential risks) and  to enhance the ability to recognize and commoditize risks within the organization. Working  members of Group environmental risk management also attended the session to hone their  skills and knowledge.  In the future, we plan to repeat this training on an annual basis to further strengthen risk  management.  Risk Sensitivity Improvement Training Amounts of Dichloromethane Used (Fuji Electric Power Semiconductor) 50 100 150 200 (FY) 2007 185.1 2008 116.2 0 (Tons) 2009 48.1 Management of Chemical Substances All chemical substances have certain excellent properties. At the same time, however, if misused  they can harm peoples health and have negative effects on the environment. The Fuji Electric  Group endeavors to manage chemical substances appropriately and reduce their emissions. Akihiro Yamagishi General Affairs Department,  Administration Division Omachi Factory Fuji Electric Power Semiconductor Co., Ltd. The Fuji Electric Group has set a fiscal 2010 target of  reducing by 40% its emissions into the environment of  substances designated by the Law Concerning Pollutant  Release and Transfer Register (PRTR), as well as its  atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds  (VOCs), relative to fiscal 2000 levels. In fiscal 2009, our emissions of PRTR-designated  substances came to 149.9 tons, a 59.2% reduction from  fiscal 2000 levels. Furthermore, atmospheric emissions of  VOCs amounted to 210.6 tons, down 72.2% from fiscal  2000 levels. In both cases, we achieved the targets we had  set for fiscal 2009. Part of the reason we achieved these  reductions was that production volumes were down, so the  amounts of chemicals used decreased accordingly. Other  factors included a shift to the use of alternative items and the  steady benefits of environmental capital investment to date.  Our policy to prevent emissions from increasing in the  future once production volumes recover is to anticipate the  amounts of chemicals handled from production volumes  and to introduce equipment that employs new technologies  and other countermeasures if there are concerns that  emissions will exceed target values.   Information on atmospheric emissions of VOCs is reported  in the Voluntary Action Plan by the Electronics and Electrical  Industries Regarding Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs). Management and Reduction of  Chemical Substances Comments In accordance with the Fuji Electric Group asbestos  countermeasure policy, no asbestos is used in production  goods. We also have completed measures to eliminate  asbestos from facilities and buildings. We will continue to promote measures to dispose of  asbestos waste, in accordance with Group guidelines for  the treatment of this waste. During fiscal 2009, we specified and calculated asset  elimination obligations in compliance with international  accounting standards.  Asbestos Countermeasures Groundwater pumping equipment at the  Kawasaki factory Confirmation of documentation during  shipment of equipment that contains PCBs Environmental Risk Management We are surveying the current situation to determine what environmental risks, such as soil and  groundwater pollution and the aftereffects of using PCBs and asbestos materials, may be present  as a result of past business activities. We also are working to counter these risks. Group companies and plants subject to surveys Not  surveyed Surveys complete Below  benchmark  levels Above benchmark levels Cleaning  complete Cleaning  in progress 4 6 10 18 28 0 28 Status of Soil Surveys at Group Companies and Plants Note: Cleaning is in process at four locations, the Kawasaki, Mie, Matsumoto  and Azumi Fuji plants Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 53 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 54 CSR Activities Report 2009 Environmental  Report  The Fuji Electric Groups Medium-Term Management Plan  (fiscal 2009-2011) cites three important strategies: focusing  on businesses in the field of energy and the environment,  strengthening solutions businesses, and expanding  global operations. To ensure a fitting Group management  framework to facilitate this shift in emphasis, we need to  focus management resources in the business domains of  energy and the environment, while pursuing synergies  from the perspective of overall optimization. Accordingly,  Fuji Electric Systems, which takes primary responsibility  for energy and the environment businesses, and Fuji  Electric Holdings, the principal control-holder for Group  corporate functions, resolved to commence preparations for  integration in May 2010. Innovative Changes to the Group  Management Framework Internal Control Initiatives   The Fuji Electric Group adopted a resolution at a meeting of  the Board of Directors in 2006 on fundamental policy related  to the establishment of an internal control system regulated  by the Companies Law. The Group has subsequently  publically disclosed this policy. We are able to respond  swiftly and precisely to the operating environment in which  the Group functions through ongoing reviews of the internal  control system. In response to reforms to the Group management  framework outlined above, in fiscal 2010 we will reinforce  the Group management supervisory function. To ensure  the appropriateness of management decision-making, we  have expressed our intention to actively encourage the  participation of outside executives.  (1) Directors and Board of Directors The Directors and Board of Directors fulfill Groupwide management  supervision and decision-making functions. Fuji Electric proactively appoints  outside directors with a view to strengthening the management supervisory  function from a customer-centric perspective and maintaining the fairness and  appropriateness of decision-making pertaining to business execution. Of the  total of 11 directors, three are outside directors as provided in the Companies  Act and of these, two meet the criteria for independent executives stipulated  by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. (3) Group Management Council The Group Management Council serves as an advisory body to the president  of Fuji Electric Holdings, conducting deliberations regarding the entire Group  and reporting on issues relating to monitoring of Group management. During  fiscal 2010, the council implemented operational revisions to stimulate  discussions and to clarify the decision-making process. (2) Auditors and Board of Auditors The Auditors and Board of Auditors are responsible for auditing Group  management. Of the five auditors, three are outside auditors, as provided  in the Companies Act, and all meet Tokyo Stock Exchange criteria for  independent executives. In addition, the Companys standing auditors  concurrently serve as auditors for major operating companies, while working  to strengthen the management audit function within the Group. (4) Group Committees We have established and run committees for each operational area to carry  out Group-wide investigations into issues relating to seven specialist fields:  compliance promotion, global environmental protection, human rights  guidance, health and safety promotion, production technology, human  resources development, and reinforcement of technical expertise.  The Fuji Electric Group Compliance Program was  established to clarify the roles and responsibilities of each  compliance-related organizational unit (see page 57). We  have also developed training programs that incorporate  items that Group company executives and employees need  to abide by and factors for consideration in the practical  execution of business activities. These compliance training  programs are conducted throughout the year. Compliance training comprises level-specific and job- specific courses. The former are tailored to executives,  general managers, managers or new employees and consist  of classroom sessions lasting a half to one full day, focused  on the Fuji Electric Group compliance framework and the  Fuji Electric Group Compliance Program. The latter are  divided to meet the needs of sales staff, managers and other  professional roles, featuring items for consideration in practical  business situations in half-day classroom-based sessions.  In addition, we promulgate information as needed to  executives and employees of Group companies to raise  awareness of compliance issues through Company  magazines and other channels.  In the future, we plan to implement real-time compliance  training via the Internet, local training at overseas  subsidiaries, and training utilizing teleconferencing systems.  These initiatives will ensure the thoroughness of Group  compliance on a global basis.  Major Theme:  Strengthening Compliance Developing a Compliance Education  Framework in Japan and Overseas Promoting Training and Awareness- Enhancing Activities for Group  Executives and Employees Fuji Electric conducts compliance training throughout the year for domestic Group companies  and is expanding educational programs for employees at overseas subsidiaries in a bid to  bolster compliance throughout the Group.  The Fuji Electric Group Corporate Governance Framework General Meeting of Shareholders Fuji Electric Holdings Board of Directors Board of Auditors Internal Auditing Division Group Management Council Group Committees Independent Auditors Internal Auditing Division Independent Auditors Board of Directors Executive Ofcers Management Meeting Major Operating Companies Appointment Appointment Appointment Cooperation Audit Oversight/Reporting Submission/ Reporting Advice Audit President Standing Directors Executive Ofcers Ofcers Responsible for Major Operations  Standing Auditors President Oversight/Reporting Auditors Deliberation The Fuji Electric Group is developing a compliance framework, spanning Japan and other countries, to  support a concerted drive for globalization by all employees.  To step up promotion of these efforts, the Fuji Electric Group Compliance Promotion Committee,  on which I serve, convenes twice a year to deliberate on enforcement results and plans. Infringements  of laws and regulations and other incidents are reported to the committee; confirmed violations are  promptly dealt with by a process in which I am also involved, spanning, as needs dictate, appropriate  corrective measures, steps to prevent recurrence, in-house disciplinary action and public disclosure.  In the future, I firmly believe that the Fuji Electric Group can become a corporate group with even  higher levels of societal trust through its endeavors to ensure thorough compliance, leveraging the  currently promoted compliance training structure. Anticipating a Concerted Effort by Group Employees for Thorough Compliance Enforcement Comments from a Member of the Fuji Electric Group Compliance Promotion Committee Training for newly appointed directors Akira Nishiyama Attorney at Law Hokuto Law Office Corporate Governance As part of our drive to be global corporate group that provides optimal solutions in the field of  energy and the environment, we are transforming our Group management structure. Through this  initiative, we aim to create appropriate corporate governance and internal control systems. CSR Activities Report 2009 Management  Framework CSR Activity Report 2009 Management  Framework Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 55 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 56  The Fuji Electric Groups Medium-Term Management Plan,  announced in fiscal 2009, proclaimed its objective of becoming  a company that contributes to society through expansion of  businesses in the field of energy and the environment and  promotion of localization. We aim to achieve this goal as a  feature of the regenerated Fuji Electric Group by leveraging the  technologies accumulated to date. As we aggressively promote  this policy, we are strategically emphasizing compliance and  CSR as a foundation to attain sustained corporate growth.  Based on this Group policy, we formulated the Fuji  Electric Compliance Regulations and the Fuji Electric Group  Compliance Program, which incorporates four perspectives— in-house rules, surveillance, auditing and education—on  relevant domestic and overseas rules and regulations. By  practicing compliance along these lines at each Group  company in Japan and overseas, we are ensuring thorough- going global compliance.  Specific compliance initiatives undertaken include the  establishment of the Fuji Electric Group Compliance Promotion  Committee, presided over by the director for compliance  from Fuji Electric Holdings and comprising external experts  (attorneys at law) and various responsible officers from within  the Group. This committee meets twice a year to deliberate on  compliance implementation results and plans.  Moreover, we are aggressively promoting global compliance  through such steps as the formulation of the Fuji Electric  Group Code of Conduct in September 2010. This directive  provides basic action guidelines for the concerted efforts of all  employees to promote globalization. Notwithstanding, the above we have received a claim  from the Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau for adjustments  to Corporate taxes on the Groups consolidated income for  the years ended March 31, 2005, to March 31, 2008, which  we paid in July 2009. The Fuji Electric Group, regarding this  situation with the utmost seriousness, took remedial measures  at the first possible juncture with recourse to in-house  disciplinary action or public disclosure against those responsible  and their supervisors. Moreover, as a result of this incident  we have instituted in-house rules, reinforced day-to-day  supervision and auditing, stepped up educational activities, and  implemented other measures for the prevention of recurrence  in a renewed drive to concentrate our efforts on thorough  compliance. Amid overseas business expansion, the Fuji Electric Group  is promoting localization of management and construction  of partnerships with offshore enterprises, while bolstering  its overseas compliance program. Specifically, we classify  our offshore bases into three regions and have tailored our  compliance programs accordingly through formulation of  the Fuji Electric Group European and U.S. Compliance  Program, the Fuji Electric Group China Compliance  Program and the Fuji Electric Group Asian Compliance  Program. In particular, we are stepping up monitoring,  auditing and education regarding the prohibition of acts of  discrimination and human rights violations, as a common  issue to be addressed throughout global society.  Further, we have extended our Business Ethics Helpline  system to overseas subsidiaries and taken other steps for  the early detection and prevention of violations of laws and  ordinances.  In the future, we aim to raise the compliance awareness  of each and every Group employee through local  compliance education initiatives, while improving and  expanding our compliance system as needs evolve. The Fuji Electric Group operates a Business Ethics Helpline  to promote the prevention and early detection of legal and  in-house rule violations as one aspect of its compliance  structure.  Group employees worldwide can make use of the  helpline to report actual or suspected legal and regulatory  compliance violations or any breaches of internal rules. The  helpline provides a route of communications, independent  from regular business channels, of reporting directly to  the president of Fuji Electric Holdings, who holds ultimate  responsibility for Group management. Employees may use telephone, facsimile, e-mail, written  documents or other forms of reporting created exclusively  to communicate relevant information. In addition, reports  are received by the Fuji Electric Group department  responsible for compliance as the best possible course  from the perspectives of protection of helpline users, ease  of reporting and swiftness of response. Action is then taken,  with possible recourse to attorneys at law, as appropriate  for the case in question. If reported violations are confirmed,  depending on the severity of the case, we implement  corrective measures, steps to prevent recurrence, in-house  disciplinary action and public disclosure.  Furthermore, The system guarantees that through such  reporting of information, employees will not suffer any  prejudicial treatment, reprisals, internal discrimination or  other punishment for their actions. Any words or deeds  perceived as reprisals or discrimination shall be treated with  the utmost severity by the Fuji Electric Group. Strengthening Compliance at  Overseas Subsidiaries Compliance Policies and Systems Business Ethics Helpline The Fuji Electric Group manages Group-related risks  (strategic, financial, operational, hazard and other risks) in an  organized and systematic fashion, based on the Fuji Electric  Group Risk Management Codes, formulated in May 2006. Of these, large-scale natural disasters, serious product- related incidents, accidents that cause severe personal  injury, the spread of infection and certain other risks  are treated as specified Groupwide risks. We clearly  designate the responsibility for each of these specified  risks to respective departments and have prepared  response manuals for guidance in their management.  During fiscal 2009, we established the Group Emergency  Countermeasures Headquarters to provide protection  against the ramifications of new strains of influenza,  formulated action guidelines prioritizing the safety of all  employees, and implemented measures to prevent the  spread of infection and group infection.  Furthermore, the Fuji Electric Group formulated  a Contingency Plan for Emergency Situations in  2005, designating a director with crisis management  responsibilities, empowered to establish communication  channels and task forces in the event of any emergency.  To protect personal and confidential information, the Fuji  Electric Group has formulated internal rules, instituted  training programs for employees and implemented various  other measures. As part of this drive, Group companies requiring high-level  information security management have acquired Information  Security Management System (ISMS) or Privacy Mark  certification. One department newly gained ISMS certification  during fiscal 2009 and seven departments (spread over  five companies) completed certification procedures. Two  companies were awarded Privacy Mark certification.  During fiscal 2009, we conducted local audits of affiliated  companies in China in an ongoing drive to boost information  security levels that was instigated in fiscal 2007. As of  December 2009, we had covered 17 companies, ascertaining  their information security status and providing guidance as  needed. Each company is promoting corrective action and  improvements based on the results of these audits.  Leveraging experience gained in China, Fuji Electric  carried out compliance status evaluations and individualized  instruction at 17 companies spread across nine countries,  spanning Southeast Asia, Taiwan, South Korea, Europe  and the United States (with the exclusion of China). As a  Risk and Crisis Management  Systems Information Security result, each of these companies was able to implement initial  upgrades to management documentation, training systems  and other operational facets.  In the future, we will continue to strive to entrench and to  make ongoing improvements to Groupwide activities that  include the overseas regions in which we operate. The Fuji Electric Group has formulated coherent business,  R&D and intellectual property strategies with the aim  of creating and maximizing intellectual property assets.  Activities in this area are conducted to contribute to overall  business development. We formulated an Intellectual Property Medium-Term Plan  in March 2009, to strengthen our patent portfolio* and to  reduce litigation risk by bolstering investigations into patents  held by third parties (other companies).  During fiscal 2009, Fuji Electric focused on evaluating  and expanding its patent portfolio, developing acquisition of  patent rights in strategic areas and preventing infringements  against patents held by third parties (other companies).  We also highlighted potentially problematic issues through  meetings for employees responsible for intellectual property,  attended by intellectual property officers from Group  companies and staff from related departments, and our  intellectual property education program, supported by  some 500 technicians and other employees. In addition,  our existing patent information news support system  was superseded by a new system that went online from  December 2009. This upgrade enables more efficient  confirmation of patents held by other companies.  In the future, we plan to strengthen the intellectual  property protection systems and activities for our expanding  overseas business and R&D operations. Intellectual Property Protection * Patent portfolio: This overall approach to understanding patents held by  the Group is useful in evaluating our competitiveness and establishing  business strategy, while improving the awareness of the Fuji Electric  Groups technological position (weaknesses and strengths) compared to  other companies.  (FY) (Patents) 2007 2008 2009 4,000 2,000 6,000 8,000 0 Japan 5,062 Europe 394 Others 13 Asia 606 7,097 6,994 5,476 5,220 5,476 5,220 883 871 883 871 U.S. 919 401 591 14 412 13 595 7,379 Number of Patents Held by Region Compliance We ensure full abidance with statutory regulations and corporate ethical standards at all Group  companies, in Japan and overseas, based on the Fuji Electric Compliance Regulations and the Fuji  Electric Group Compliance Program. Risk Management Strengthening management of a broad range of risks, through disaster countermeasures,  protection of intellectual property, information security and other initiatives. CSR Activities Report 2009 Management  Framework CSR Activities Report 2009 Management  Framework Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 57 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 58  Company Name:  Established: Head Office:  FUJI ELECTRIC HOLDINGS CO., LTD. August 29, 1923 (changed into a   pure holding company in 2003) Gate City Ohsaki, East Tower, 11-2,   Osaki 1-chome, Shinagawa-ku,    Tokyo 141-0032, Japan Capital Stock:  Consolidated Net Sales:  Number of Employees   (Consolidated Basis):  Number of Group  Companies:  47.5 billion 691.2 billion (fiscal 2009) 23,524 (as of March 31, 2010) Consolidated companies: 53  Equity-method affiliates: 5 (as of March 31, 2010) 800 1,000 600 400 200 0 2008 2005 (FY) (Billions of yen) 766.6 922.1 2009 691.2 897.2 2006 908.0 2007 50 40 30 10 20 -10 0 -20 (Billions of yen) 2005 41.0 2006 46.2 35.9 2007 (FY) 2008 -18.9 2009 0.9 Domestic Overseas Net sales: 691.2 billion 25.7% 74.3% Solutions Products Operating Sector Thermal power plant equipment, geothermal power plant equipment, hydroelectric  power plant equipment, nuclear power-related equipment, photovoltaic power  generation systems, fuel cells, energy management systems, power transmission and  distribution systems Control and drive systems, inverters, measurement systems, industrial information  systems, measurement/sensors, electrical machinery for facilities, industrial power  supplies, transportation systems (rail, road, airport, railcars), transfer systems, power  supply systems, social information systems, stores/distribution solutions, water  environment systems Power ICs, IGBT modules, power discrete devices, hybrid devices, pressure sensors,  photoconductive drums for printers and copying machines Vending machines, beverage dispensers, tea servers Magnetic contactors, push buttons and indicator lights, molded-case circuit breakers,  earth-leakage circuit breakers Aluminum and glass substrate magnetic disks, aluminum substrates Business Segment Operating Companies Energy Solutions Environmental Solutions Semiconductors Vending Machines Electric Distribution & Control  (ED&C) Equipments Magnetic Disks Fuji Electric Systems Co., Ltd. Fuji Electric Retail Systems Co., Ltd. Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems Co., Ltd. Fuji Electric Device Technology Co., Ltd. These third-party opinions regarding my perception of the Fuji  Electric Group, as gleaned from this report, are given from the  viewpoint of analyst providing corporate information to financial  institutions for the purpose of socially responsible investment.  The Fuji Electric Groups CSR activities and related disclosure  have achieved dramatic progress over the past few years. The  Groups endeavors are sufficiently comprehensive, based on an  approach of contributing to solutions for global environmental  problems through its businesses in the fields of energy and the  environment. Moreover, from a global perspective, Fuji Electric is  also mindful of its activities at overseas bases.   However, simply being committed to achieving the items,  themes and targets listed in CSR Activities Targets and Results  is not ipso facto sufficient.  First, I would like to make clear whether or not the Groups  business activities always incorporate consideration of social and  environmental impact. Pointing out that the businesses in the  fields of energy and the environment contribute to solving global  environmental problems displays recognition of positive impacts,  but, conversely, sufficient awareness of the negative impacts of  its activities is also necessary. The report refers to the  environmental burden of the Groups factories, but there is no  clear indication of analysis and awareness of the exact nature of  the whole impact, for example, in terms of damage to  biodiversity. Similarly, the coverage of mental healthcare could  include a cause analysis centered on the workplace, and not only  post-test remedial measures. Consideration of such points could  render the Groups disclosure more credible.  Second, there are, of course, issues and problems to be  solved even in the case of activities that generate a positive  impact. As such, I would like to see an indication of Fuji Electrics  course of action when faced with such a situation. For example,  why is it that there is no sweeping trend toward geothermal  power generation in Japan? Often cited causes include overdue  improvements to the legal system and opposition from certain  interested parties. Hitherto, the solutions to such problems were  probably considered outwith the sphere of a facilities and  equipment manufacturer. However, if Fuji Electric has confidence  in its claims that geothermal power generation contributes to  solving global environmental problems, it also has a major social  responsibility to make policy proposals for the expansion of its  use. In the future, I think that Fuji Electric could include those  kinds of activities, supported by simultaneous promulgation of  information.  Third, I think that there needs to be further evolution of CSR  understanding in terms of global context. Signing up to the UN  Global Compact in February this year simply represents a  declaration of Fuji Electrics commitments to avoidance of human  right violations, realization of decent work, preservation of the  environment, and avoidance of corruption and other global  agenda. The United Nations is focusing on specific problems,  such as those that arose at the end of the supply chain in recent  years. Further, it is warning about cases of corporations indirectly  involved in cases of human rights violations. In the future, when  Fuji Electric orientates toward full-scale localization, each of its  overseas bases should make meticulous efforts to be at the  forefront of discussions on CSR.  These comments do not represent any assertion of a judgment  as to the accuracy of measurements and calculations in this  report based on generally accepted standards for the  preparation of environmental reports and other publications, nor  to the comprehensive inclusion of all significant items.  The Fuji Electric Group, aiming to be a global corporation in the  elds of energy and the environment, is working aggressively  to prevent global warming and preserve biodiversity, while  promoting CSR management, to contribute to the realization of  a sustainable society. We shall strive to intensify our endeavors  from a triad of perspectives: analysis of the negative impact  incurred by our business operations, activities geared to solving  problems arising amid overall positive impact, and promotion of  nely tuned CSR management on a global basis. In the future,  we will continue to bolster communications with stakeholders  to become a corporate group that is trusted and respected by  society. A Final Word Toshihiko Ishihara  General Manager Group CSR Promoting Dept. Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Ltd. Mr. Adachi graduated from the Department of Economics at Hitotsubashi University in 1986. He  is currently Research Chief at the Japan Research Institute, Limited, where he also holds the  position of head of the ESG Research Center. His responsibilities are mainly focused on  industrial surveys and company evaluations from the perspective of corporate social  responsibility. Mr. Adachi also provides corporate data to financial institutions for the purpose of  socially responsible investment and eco-friendly financing. Books coauthored by Mr. Adachi  include A Graphic Representation of Environmental Problems Corporate Management (published  by Toyo Keizai, Inc.; 1999), An Introduction to Socially Responsible Investment (Nihon Keizai  Shimbun Inc.; 2003), CSR Management and SRI (Kinzai, 2004), Growing Businesses for the  Global Warming Period (Toyo Keizai, Inc.; 2007), and An Introduction to Environmental  Management (Nikkei Publishing Inc.; 2009).   Mr. Adachi served as a Japanese Expert on the ISO 26000 Standard's Working Group until May  2009, and is currently a member of the Japan Standards Association's ISO/SR National Committee. Eiichiro Adachi Research Chief, The Japan Research  Institute, Limited Head of the ESG Research Center Net Sales Operating Income Business Outline Domestic/Overseas Sales  Composition (Fiscal 2009) Status of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index Inclusion Fuji Electric Holdings is included in the global SRI indices offered  by Dow Jones (United States) and SAM (Switzerland), and  has been selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for  five years running, since 2005, reflecting the evaluation of our  CSR initiatives. Within the SAM CSR ratings, we have been  selected as the sector leader, silver class, among the firms  ranked. We are also among 150 firms in the SRI index selected  by Morningstar Japan to be part of the Morningstar Socially  Responsible Investment Index. Corporate Environmental Management Level Survey Each year, Nikkei Inc. publishes the results of its Corporate  Environmental Management Survey evaluating environmental  measures. Of the 484 companies assessed in fiscal 2009, the  Fuji Electric Group ranked 40th (last years ranking was 92nd). Environmental management system Global  warming  countermeasures Resource recycling Product  countermeasures Pollution/ biodiversity countermeasures 100 Average of all  manufacturing 50 0 Fuji Electric Company Outline Basic Financial Data (Consolidated) Third-Party Evaluation Fuji Electric Group Outline An Independent Perspective Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 59 Fuji Electric Group  CSR Report 2010 60