~1AJt!l'lPR.(lC:L;AII.eD'  N1'!~~~;~""'J~~L_U EN$tJR61"HA"tTHE'Y.ARENQTCPMPLlCn:lNHUMAN  GROUP  A YR Group Limited  United Nations Global Compact  Annual Communication on Progress (COP) 2009 - 2010  te't'~R~~QfJj~p.~;.c +44 20 7664 8727  AYR Group Limited  28.11.10  100 Pall Mall  London  31.07.06  SW1Y 5NQ  United Kingdom  60  Megan Rose  Operations Support  Aerospace & Aviation  Manager  AYR Group Limited owns and operates aircraft for peacekeeping and humanitarian relief missions as  well as for commercial charter. We specialise in the operation of heavy-lift helicopters in austere  environments, for wrlich we provide flight crew, engineering support and project management. We are  currently flying in Nepal, Pakistan, and South Sudan. Our main clients have included the UN World  Food Programme, several non-governmental organisations, and contractors to government agencies.  AYR group is a British company in origin but now has satellite offices in the USA, Russia and Ukraine  and an aircraft base and maintenance facility in the United Arab Emirates. Despite our broad range in  geographical terms we remain a relatively small organisation with sixty permanent employees.  AYR Group Limited is a participant in the UN Global Compact. Created in July 2000 by UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, the global Compact is a voluntary network of UN agencies, corporations, non governmental organisations, labour and academic institutions that endorse a shared set of principles  on good corporate citizenship. A YR Group Limited is proud to be a UN Global Compact signatory and  is committed to advancing the Global Compact's ten principles on human rights, labour, the  environment and anti-corruption.  AYR Group Limited remains committed in its support for the UN Global Compact principles, which are  aligned to its own polici  on environmental and social responsibility. By developing our policies in  line with these  ating them to companies with which we work, we can further  the UN's aims  responsible business community.  Executive Vice President  [S~IOt.JrWD$t.Jll>p()RT AN[),R~~SPI;CT TJ:fEPROtt:OTIONOP  ...nJ!MA,NRIGHTS<  Our commitment or policy  Much of A YR Group's work is in support of projects to improve the lives of people living in zones of  conflict and deprivation. Many of the people living in this area have been subjected to gross human rights  abuses and forced to flee their homes. The peacekeeping missions we often support were put in place to  create the security conditions necessary to allow the sustainable and voluntary resettlement of refugees.  AYR Group inherently and necessarily supports the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.   GROUP  A brief description of our processes or systems  We comply with all laws of every country in which we operate, including those relating to human rights.  We consider our employees to be our greatest asset and treat them with the respect they deserve. All  permanent UK employees are provided with a package of benefits including a pension and healthcare.  Although conditions for our employees in the field can at times be difficult, we endeavour to make their  living conditions as comfortable and secure as possible.  Actions implemented in the last year I planned for next year  Greater scrutiny of suppliers with regard to human rights policies.  Measurable results or outcomes  There have been no incidences of A YR Group Limited being complicit in any abuse of human rights.  B1.:JSINI:SSSHqULDYPHO~DTHEFRf?ED()M.OFASSOCIItTtONANDTHE  EFFECllVE RECOGNI'fION.Of THE RIGHl' TOCOI,.;;I.,.ECTIVE BARGAINING  Our commitment or policy  AYR Group Limited upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to  collective bargaining. Management engages in open discussion with employees on matters of working  conditions.  A brief description of our processes or systems  All A YR Group employees are free to join trade union bodies. No employee has ever been discriminated  against as a result of any associations or beliefs he or she has had.  Actions implemented in the last year I planned for next year  Much work has been done in the past year to improve living accommodation for crews in Pakistan and  Nepal. A YR Group senior management listens to feedback from crewmembers and takes appropriate  action to improve conditions.  Measurable results or outcomes  Crews have been moved to better hotels and provided with supplemental foods as a result of their  collective action.  Bl'$INr;~;SH()~l...t)~lJPPORJTHt:EUM1N~tIONtJFALLFQRMS.OF:FOIiC.ED  ANDCOMf:UlSQRYf..ABOUR  .  Our commitment or policy  AYR Group supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  A brief description of our processes or systems  A YR Group does not force employees to work beyond the reasonable working hours described in their  contracts of employment, which are in line with employment law in their countries of employment. The  working hours of our flight crew are strictly controlled by civil aviation authority rules.  Actions implemented in the last year I planned for next year  Improve scrutiny of suppliers with regard to forced and compulsory labour.  PRINCIPLES'  . l3:(j$I"f;$SSI"fQ~.L[)~tlJ;JP{JRT1tt.I:t=Fft:CTM;~BQt..;f'f:IQNQFCAtL.O lABQUR  .'  '.  Our commitment or policy  AYR Group supports the effective abolition of child labour.  2   A brief description of our processes or systems  AYR Group does not and will not employ anyone tJnder the age of 16 in any of our operations, regardless  of local laws in the countries in which we operate.  Actions implemented in the last year I planned for next year  Check suppliers' adherence to I LO child labour guidelines.  PRINCIPLES 	 BUSINesS. $HOtJl.[)SlJPPORT.THEEI.JMINATJONOF.DISCRIMINATIONIN  RESPEC;rOFEMPLOYMEN,..ANpOCCUPATION  Our commitment or policy  A YR Group Limited supports the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  A brief description of our processes or systems  A YR Group Limited employs a range of men and women across a broad range of ages, from different  nations and ethnic backgrounds, and with differing religions and beliefs.  A YR Group supports diversity in its workforce and its associates. In matters of hiring, advancement and  remuneration, AYR Group does not discriminate on any criteria other than an individual's experience,  skills and performance.  Actions implemented in the last year I planned for next year  In June 2010 AYR Group published a formal Code of Business Conduct, which must be read and signed  by all employees. Within this code is a section on equal opportunities and diversity issues. A grievances  procedure is included for any employee who feels that they have been the victim of discrimination in the  workplace.  Measurable results or outcomes  There have been no reports of discrimination in the workplace.  PRINCIPLE7  BlJ~I"J::SS.~f:I()UI...D~Y.PPQR,.A~RECAlJtIONAR'(.APPROACH . TO  ENVIROMMENTAL,"CliAt,teNGES  .  .  PRIN~IPLE8  B~$I~~~SSH09tJ:)~NPf:RrAI<EI"ltlAtIVEStO.PROMOTEGR.EATER  .EN\lIRUtiMENTALRESPONSIBtliTY  P~INPIPLE9 	 BtlSl~~~!?~ffQ~~~5t:~~~1J~AG~1"tfl;DI:".EL.OPMENtAN[).t)IFFUSIQNQf  ENYIRONMENTALLYFRIEND:VTeCHN0I10GIES  .  .  Our commitment or policy  A YR Group Limited is committed to making our operations as environmentally sustainable as possible.  A brief description of our processes or systems  We strive to maximise the efficiency and lifespan of all our technical equipment, including aircraft parts,  through regular maintenance. Parts are refurbished and reused wherever this is possible without  compromising on safety and performance. This policy is economically as well as environmentally  beneficial.  A YR Group's London office has a recycling policy for all office recyclables. The office purchases post consumer recycled paper for printing and copying, which is then reused for scrap paper where possible,  before being collected for recycling. We source promotional items which are manufactured using recycled  materials where possible.  Actions implemented in the last year I planned for next year  We have been working to create a paperless o'fflce environment. We have increased the amount of  recycled promotional goods that we have used.  3   GROUP  Measurable results or outcomes  Our project offices in the field are now paperless apart 'from a small amount of crucial paper  documentation required by our clients.  PRINCIPLE10 	 BUSINESS SHOULD WORKAGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALLITS FORMS,  INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY  Our commitment or policy  AYR Group Limited is committed to working against corruption is all its forms, including extortion and  bribery.  A brief description of our processes or systems  Unfortunately, corruption is rife in some of the areas in which we operate, particularly among officials  such as those in customs. AYR Group will always do its best not to become involved in bribery.  Our own company accounts are submitted annually to independent auditors.  Actions implemented in the last year I planned for next year  In June 2010 AYR Group published a formal Code of Business Conduct, which must be read and  signed by all employees. Within this code is a section dealing with issues of corruption and bribery.  Measurable results or outcomes  Our auditors gave the following statement in their summary of our accounts for the financial year  2008-2009.  "In our opinion:  the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom  Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 August  2009 and of its pro"flt for the year then ended;  the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  1985; and  the information given in the Report of the Director is consistent with the financial statements."  AYR Group Limited's Communication on Progress will be made available to interested parties online  via:  the UN Global Compact website - www.unglobalcompact.org ; and  the AYR Group Limited website - www.AYRgroup.co.uk .  It will also be distributed to A YR Group Limited employees and selected clients and suppliers.  4