Font Size   Contact Sitemap Home > About Yokogawa > Corporate Social Responsibility > Employees Employees Promote utilization of human resources from the diversity perspectives Human Resources are an important asset for Yokogawa. It is stated in the Standards of Business Conduct for the Yokogawa Group that "we value and respect the dignity of each individuals and all basic human rights". Irrespective of race, nationality, sex, educational background, age, etc., we provide employees with career opportunities that allow them to fully maximize their potential, and actively seek to ensure that our employees maintain a sound work-life balance. We also encourage the employment of people with disabilities Developing and Using Global-Minded Human Resources Human Rights Career Development and Work Life Balance Employee Assistance Program Employment of People with Disabilities Occupational Safety and Health Annual Report CSR Report Archive Group Companies' Efforts UN Global Compact Index About Yokogawa Company Overview Investor Relations News Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Report Message from President Yokogawa Policies CSR Highlights Environment Citizenship Customers Supplier Relations Employees Human Rights Career and Life Employee Assistance Disabilities Safety and Health Governance and Compliance UN Global Compact Index Contact Us Careers Research & Development Top of this page Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations  PDFmyURL.com  Font Size   Contact Sitemap Home > About Yokogawa > Corporate Social Responsibility > Employees > Human Rights Human Rights Yokogawa has explicitly defined respect for human rights as part of the group's overall goals, in its Philosophy, Standards of Business Conduct, and Group Management Standards. The company has also set up compliance hotlines for everyone working at Yokogawa as a way to avoid human- rights violations before they happen. Philosophy Yokogawa's corporate philosophy defines "contributing to society" as a corporate mission, and calls for its employees to be good citizens. Based on this philosophy, Yokogawa uses measurement, control and information as tools to contribute to social infrastructures that support people's daily living such as energy, communications, waterworks, etc, and to contribute to industry infrastructures, to make them run more efficiently and to help people work more safely. This philosophy is practiced by every employee and in all of the countries where Yokogawa operates, its employees have been willing volunteers, helping out when natural disasters occur. Corporate Brand and Philosophy Standards of Business Conduct One of the five pillars in our Standards of Business Conduct explicitly states that the company will uphold respect for human rights and respect the dignity of all. Some of the particular courses of action that follow from this are preventing harassment, discrimination, privacy intrusions and maintaining an overall healthy workplace. Standards of Business Conduct Yokogawa Group Management Standards The Yokogawa Group Management Standards, which states in writing the basic policies required of group management, applies to every branch of the Yokogawa group. It gives clear rules and guidelines relating to human rights, obedience to the law, workplace safety, hygiene, etc. Annual Report CSR Report Archive Group Companies' Efforts UN Global Compact Index About Yokogawa Company Overview Investor Relations News Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Report Message from President Yokogawa Policies CSR Highlights Environment Citizenship Customers Supplier Relations Employees Human Rights Career and Life Employee Assistance Disabilities Safety and Health Governance and Compliance UN Global Compact Index Contact Us Careers Research & Development Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations  PDFmyURL.com  The Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines make the following statement regarding human rights: 03 Respect  f or basic human right s The Yokogawa Group always respects the basic human rights and personal dignity of every person with whom we are involved. 27 Equal Opport unit y Thanks to our fair and impartial personnel system operating under the basic policy of the Yokogawa Group, each employee is afforded equal opportunities in hiring, placement, promotion, pay rises, training, etc. An employee in a position of management or leadership must have a basic knowledge of the labor laws of the country in question, and must have a thorough knowledge of labor contracts and work regulations. It is important that he or she work on the basis of this knowledge to maintain a workplace free of unfair discrimination, engaging in ample communication with his or her subordinates and ensuring that day-to-day personnel management goes smoothly. 28 Prohibit ion of  f orced labor/child labor Forced labor in any form whatsoever is not to be allowed; nor is any person to be made to work against their will; nor is it acceptable for children below the minimum working age of each country to be employed. Care must be taken to ensure that we do not support inhumane conduct even indirectly, for example through the actions of business partners. 29 Ensuring healt h and saf et y In addition to observing the laws relating to occupational safety and health, we have established our own independent standards and are striving to improve safety and health. We are working on a program of improvements to ensure the safety of every employee working for the Yokogawa Group, promote better health, and create a pleasant working environment. Each and every employee must act to cooperate with the safety and health measures that have been decided upon. 30 Prohibit ion of  harassment No form of harassment whatsoever is acceptable, whether it be sexual harassment, stalking, or power harassment. We respect each other as individual human beings, and have built up a corporate atmosphere in which harassment is not accepted. Attention to human rights in the supply chain Following its Group Management Standards, Yokogawa upholds their philosophy for human rights throughout its supply chain. The Supply Chain CSR Guidelines include guidelines prohibiting forced  PDFmyURL.com  throughout its supply chain. The Supply Chain CSR Guidelines include guidelines prohibiting forced labor, inhumane treatment and infringements of human rights, child labor, and discrimination, while ensuring appropriate wages, regulated working hours, and the right to freedom of association, and vendors are asked to follow these guidelines. Supply Chain Responsibility UN Global Compact Yokogawa has declared its support for the UN Global Compact. The company respects the human- rights guidelines proclaimed in the Global Compact, and upholds international human-rights standards. UN Global Compact Index Top of this page Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations Terms of Use Privacy Guidelines   Copyright 1994-2010 Yokogawa Electric Corporation.  PDFmyURL.com  Font Size   Contact Sitemap Home > About Yokogawa > Corporate Social Responsibility > Employees > Developing and Using Global-Minded Human Resources Fatmadian Darman Manager, Human Resources Division Kersi Framji Aspar General Manager, Global Sales depertment, Field Instruments Business Center Developing and Using Global-Minded Human Resources Development and utilization of diverse human resources is Yokogawa's strength and a requirement for global expansion of its business. Yokogawa has set up its organization to enable decision-making with a global perspective, by placing human resources from diverse ethnicities and nationalities in strategic positions. In addition, Yokogawa makes it clear across the entire Group, its compliance to the international standards of human rights, its awareness regarding regional/cultural differences among the employees' execution of tasks, and its policy against any discrimination based on ethnicity, nationality, sex, or disability. These notions are clearly laid out in the compliance guideline. By forming a team of diverse human resources and promoting good communication, each employee is given an opportunity to learn new ways of thinking. It is in this type of environment that new solutions and innovations are birthed. Here are comments on Yokogawa's approach to diversity from some of the members working in its headquarters. Annual Report CSR Report Archive Group Companies' Efforts UN Global Compact Index About Yokogawa Company Overview Investor Relations News Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Report Message from President Yokogawa Policies CSR Highlights Environment Citizenship Customers Supplier Relations Employees Human Rights Career and Life Employee Assistance Disabilities Safety and Health Governance and Compliance UN Global Compact Index Contact Us Careers Research & Development Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations  PDFmyURL.com  Font Size   Contact Sitemap Home > About Yokogawa > Corporate Social Responsibility > Employees > Development of Global Human Resources > Emproyee's Coment Fatmadian Darman Manager, Human Resources Division I was assigned as an expatriate employee to a global human resources management role in the Human Resources Department at Yokogawa headquarters. I am honored to have this opportunity, but at the same time, it has been a challenge for me to be able to perform in a different environment. My first impression of my colleagues at Yokogawa headquarters was that they were not focused on where I came from; in other words, they have a good respect for diversity and do not treat people of other nationalities any differently. Furthermore, even though my Japanese language skills are somewhat limited, I and my Japanese colleagues can always find a way to communicate. Their passion in trying to make contact is the best foundation for building good communication. It is so interesting and humorous to recall the many ways we use to communicate, such as gestures, pictures, and examples. Development of Global Human Resources Emproyee's Coment People at Yokogawa headquarters are truly committed to globalization. These types of behaviors and attitudes are especially important now that we are accelerating toward globalization. Respect for diversity is key to achieving optimum synergy in the organization. We dont need to force people to adopt the same style, way of thinking, or behaviors, and we can utilize our differences to create something greater than what we could accomplish on our own. I believe that all people around the world have something of value to offer; by bringing them together and building cooperation, amazing results can be achieved. Through my experiences, I am learning about the Japanese culture and getting a better grasp of how things work at Yokogawa headquarters. I am trying to find the best approach for bridging the differences and am looking for common ground Having the same basic goals and framework makes all the differences and the aforementioned language difficulties easier to deal with. I have also tried to utilize peoples strengths and encouraged them to do more and exceed their Annual Report CSR Report Archive Group Companies' Efforts UN Global Compact Index About Yokogawa Company Overview Investor Relations News Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Report Message from President Yokogawa Policies CSR Highlights Environment Citizenship Customers Supplier Relations Employees Human Rights Career and Life Employee Assistance Disabilities Safety and Health Governance and Compliance UN Global Compact Index Contact Us Careers Research & Development Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations  PDFmyURL.com  expectations. It turns out that we learn many things from each other. While trying to find common ground and to work based on such an approach, I have come to the realization that people at Yokogawa headquarters are truly committed to globalization. In fact, Ive gained operational experience in assisting people who have asked for training programs to improve their subordinates capabilities in dealing with their colleagues outside Japan. At Yokogawa headquarters, the HR Division, particularly the HR Development Group, began last year to proactively create new cultural communication training programs especially for newcomers and expatriates (the pre-assignment program). By providing such programs, they have helped participants develop a greater understanding of interpersonal communications, especially between cultures. Again, it shows how strong the commitment is at Yokogawa headquarters to diversity and globalization. Regarding this diversity, my future challenge is to make a strong bridge between the people at Yokogawa headquarters and those outside Japan, especially in HR matters. As it sometimes appears, not all employees outside Japan have a good understanding of how things work at the headquarters and differ in terms of practices and approaches. We need to accommodate the needs of those outside Japan and improve their cooperation with Yokogawa headquarters to produce the effective collaboration that is key to our business growth. Its going to be a challenging job for us since it will involve many people from many different countries and backgrounds. Thanks to the good foundation of respect for diversity that we all share, I believe this will bring us success in the near future. Next Developing and Using Global-Minded Human Resources Top of this page Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations Terms of Use Privacy Guidelines   Copyright 1994-2010 Yokogawa Electric Corporation.  PDFmyURL.com  Font Size   Contact Sitemap Home > About Yokogawa > Corporate Social Responsibility > Employees > Development of Global Human Resources > Emproyee's Coment Kersi Framji, Aspar General Manager, Global Sales depertment, Field Instruments Business Center How do you f eel about  Yokogawa and it s human resource management  polices? Yokogawa has provided me with a lot of growth opportunities and I feel very proud to be associated with the company. I have gained a wealth of experience in a variety of business units and countries, and it has been both challenging and rewarding to play a role in making Yokogawa a leader in the industrial automation field. The vigilant spirit of Yokogawa has been a cornerstone in achieving the above. It is too early for me to comment on Yokogawas human resource policies as I have just commenced my assignment here. However, I will say that HR management policies are critically important in a multinational company. In todays world, where markets and the business situation are changing at a phenomenal speed, we need to identify, train, and groom future leaders who will be able to make Yokogawa a world leader. Yokogawa now faces major challenges with a saturated home market and fierce global competition, and diversity has become a critically important factor. Diversification is the route to globalization. Development of Global Human Resources Emproyee's Coment Diversity has become a critically important factor for Yokogawa. Why do you t hink diversit y is so import ant  f or us now? As a multinational company, it is a strength to have a diverse workforce. Outstanding professionals come from all regions, religious backgrounds, and walks of life. Nevertheless, we need to identify and build on the strengths of an emerging breed of hybrid leaders. Hybrid leaders tend to be Annual Report CSR Report Archive Group Companies' Efforts UN Global Compact Index About Yokogawa Company Overview Investor Relations News Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Report Message from President Yokogawa Policies CSR Highlights Environment Citizenship Customers Supplier Relations Employees Human Rights Career and Life Employee Assistance Disabilities Safety and Health Governance and Compliance UN Global Compact Index Contact Us Careers Research & Development Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations  PDFmyURL.com  hopeful about the prospects for changing the world because of their view of human nature. Some notable examples include Barak Hussein Obama, Carlos Ghosen, and Indre Nooyi. Mr. Ghosen is a French-Lebanese-Brazilian executive who runs both a French automaker (Renault) and a Japanese one (Nissan). Ms. Nooyi is an India-born American citizen who is the Chairwoman of PepsiCo and speaks of entering American politics some day. When leaders are able to draw on diverse teams, they can potentially harness and funnel high levels of innovation which in turn can produce creative solutions and ideas. With diverse life experiences and world views often comes diversity of perspective and thought – things that can enrich both learning and the team environment. Hence, we must embrace diversity as we look to the future. How do you plan t o cont ribut e t o Yokogawa? I have worked for 24 years in areas such as test & measurement, IA systems and products, and marketing, and can say that we managed to grow our business in the Southeast Asian market and achieved the No. 1 share in certain field product categories. The key to success was differentiating our products and services by offering a total solution, going the extra mile to help the customer, and never giving up. Implementing the above gave us a big success. Based on the above guidelines, I plan to use my past experience to motivate our global sales force and work with them to make Yokogawa a leader in their respective territories. If you believe with your heart and not just with your head, you can achieve anything. What  are your challenges? It is a very interesting question. The most difficult point is communication. Language is one of the most critical hurdles, although I find people here are extremely helpful and supportive, and go out of their way to help. The next challenge is to understand the culture and encourage team members to look beyond their immediate confines to strengthen our global competitiveness and achieve our goal of globalization. Pre Developing and Using Global-Minded Human Resources  PDFmyURL.com  Font Size   Contact Sitemap Home > About Yokogawa > Corporate Social Responsibility > Employees > Career Development and Work Life Balance We provide a program to help the employees design their career and life when they reach a turning point in his or her career. This is an awareness program for managing health and for building future life plan. As the program name "Refresh & Challenge" suggests, participants are given a fixed number of off days after the training for refreshing themselves physically and mentally. The program provides ideas to support the employees in setting new goals. In particular, in the training provided for employees at the age of Career Development and Work Life Balance Career development for the growth of both employees and organization We carry out HR measures to realize the right person on the right job so that each employee is able to perform at their full capacity. We have created a system where the employees are able to notify their short-term and mid-term career plans to their managers and also promote their acquired skills and experiences to the managers of other department. These systems allow the employees to autonomously build their own careers. Under the job opportunity system, employees are able to submit their career plans without approval from his/her superiors. Such a system helps to expedite the speedy deployment of the resources especially under the circumstances where there is a manpower requirement due to new business or project. Moreover, we have an on-the-job training program by exchanging members between Japan and group companies in overseas. This program is aimed at developing global players who can contribute to the global business operations. "Refresh & Challenge" Program to Support Employees Work-Life Balance Annual Report CSR Report Archive Group Companies' Efforts UN Global Compact Index About Yokogawa Company Overview Investor Relations News Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Report Message from President Yokogawa Policies CSR Highlights Environment Citizenship Customers Supplier Relations Employees Human Rights Career and Life Employee Assistance Disabilities Safety and Health Governance and Compliance UN Global Compact Index Contact Us Careers Research & Development Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations  PDFmyURL.com  45, participants are able to take 15 days of leave from work. They can utilize this leave freely. Some of the participants join the training course to obtain qualifications and others review their future plans on private life and career. These 15 days of leave help the employees to regain their motivation and energy. Improving Employee Motivation by Promoting Work-Life Balance We make an effort to provide a work environment where the employees are able to gain satisfaction while maintaining a good balance between their work and private life. For instance, the employees are able to utilize work hours for child-care and nursing of elderly family members, in additions to the number hours specified under the statutory benefit. We have also introduced a system to provide financial support to our employees who are raising children. Employees under such conditions are able to receive 100,000 yen annually per children. Many of our employees, both male and female, are making full use of other company supports such as flexible working hours or paid maternal leave. These systems are helping increase employees' motivation. In September 2006, we opened a day care center near Yokogawa Headquarters. The center is contributing to the local communities as it can be utilized by both the employees of Yokogawa and the people living in the vicinities. In fiscal year 2007, Yokogawa was certified by the Chief of the Tokyo Labor Bureau as an Enterprise Supporting Balanced Work and Family life. Comment  f rom an Employee who Took a Mat ernal Leave Fumiko Sasaki in HR headquart ers At Yokogawa, there is a good support system for child-care, and many employees utilize them. I was able to take a maternal leave without hesitation or concern in view of the strong support provided by the company. I took time off until my child was 18 months old, and I was able to spend enough time with him. It was a valuable period for me. Also, it was a good opportunity to think about my work from new point of view. Lifestyle and working style change due to events such as marriage, childbirth and child-raising.  PDFmyURL.com  I am thankful for the support system that helped me to continue working at Yokogawa after childbirth. Top of this page Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations Terms of Use Privacy Guidelines   Copyright 1994-2010 Yokogawa Electric Corporation.  PDFmyURL.com  Font Size   Contact Sitemap Home > About Yokogawa > Corporate Social Responsibility > Employees > Employee Assistance Program Employee Assistance Program EAP (employee assistance program) to help promote a healthy working life We have implemented an Employee Assistance Program to help employees perform at their full capacity while avoiding situations where they are unable to fully demonstrate their capabilities due to stress. The main characteristic of Yokogawa's EAP is that it provides employees with both psychological and career support. Our psychological support includes stress checks for all employees, with feedback provided to organizations in the company to help identify areas where additional supports, such as counseling, is necessary. In addition, we have introduced a management training and a mental health training for the employees. Our career support includes career counseling for employees who request it. Our EAP offers total support such as prevention/early detection of problems, early therapy, rehabilitation and career development so that employees can maintain physical and mental health and have a fulfilling career. Annual Report CSR Report Archive Group Companies' Efforts UN Global Compact Index About Yokogawa Company Overview Investor Relations News Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Report Message from President Yokogawa Policies CSR Highlights Environment Citizenship Customers Supplier Relations Employees Human Rights Career and Life Employee Assistance Disabilities Safety and Health Governance and Compliance UN Global Compact Index Contact Us Careers Research & Development Top of this page Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations  PDFmyURL.com  Font Size   Contact Sitemap Home > About Yokogawa > Corporate Social Responsibility > Employees > Employment of People with Disabilities Employment of People with Disabilities Employing and developing people with disabilities Since the beginning of the "Normalization Project" in 1992, we have made a proactive effort to employ people with disabilities. In addition to meeting the legal employment rate of people with disabilities on a non-consolidated basis, the Group as a whole has worked to promote the employment of people with disabilities and to ensure that they are provided with career opportunities. With the goal of recruiting people with mental disabilities, we established the Yokogawa Foundry Corporation in 1999, and the company was certified in the same year with a special subsidiary for the employment of disabled individuals. Employees of Yokogawa Foundry received full training programs to improve their skills, and are provided with many types of challenging jobs as well as opportunities to broaden the scope of their daily lives. Furthermore, Yokogawa Foundry employees are also active outside of the Company, and have, for example, won awards at the Abilympics. We Yokogawa keep on providing opportunities for people with disabilities to play an active role at workplace. Disabilit y employment  rat e Annual Report CSR Report Archive Group Companies' Efforts UN Global Compact Index About Yokogawa Company Overview Investor Relations News Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Report Message from President Yokogawa Policies CSR Highlights Environment Citizenship Customers Supplier Relations Employees Human Rights Career and Life Employee Assistance Disabilities Safety and Health Governance and Compliance Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations  PDFmyURL.com  Yoshihiro Hashimot o in Yokogawa Foundry Silver award in the world competition 2007 I wanted to compare my skills in data input with the other participants. That is the reason why I competed in the Abilympics. I felt very happy that I could display my skills and efforts to the audiences. I trained hard until just before the competition started, so I could make a good result. In the future, I want to try not only data input but also other skills. Tsuyoshi kubo in Yokogawa Foundry Silver award in the Japanese competition 2008 Aiming to win at least a bronze medal at Abilympics, I got a better result. I trained very hard for my sake and for the sake of my co-workers, and as a result earned a silver medal. My skills are not yet perfect, so I want to keep working hard to improve my skills. Comment  f rom Employees of  Yokogawa Foundry Corporat ion Who was Awarded at t he Abilympics The Abilimpics challengers Compliance UN Global Compact Index Contact Us Careers Research & Development  PDFmyURL.com  A lot of employees challenge in the Abilimpics every year. Top of this page Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations Terms of Use Privacy Guidelines   Copyright 1994-2010 Yokogawa Electric Corporation.  PDFmyURL.com  Font Size   Contact Sitemap Home > About Yokogawa > Corporate Social Responsibility > Employees > Occupational Safety and Health Management audit at Yokogawa Electric China Co., Ltd. (Suzhou) Recognizing that "safety and health are a basic responsibility of the management," the Yokogawa Group implements OSHMS to ensure the safety and health of all of its employees and its sub- contractors. Improvements are made in phases, with constant assessments to eliminate or minimize potential risks. Regular evaluations and reviews of the activities are also done through audits. The effectiveness of the system has improved by combining conventional activities, such as safety patrols, and countermeasures against occupational incidences and near misses. Sixty-four Yokogawa Group companies in and outside Japan share the same safety and health objectives for all workers, including subcontractors. Moreover, sixteen Yokogawa Group companies have acquired certifications in compliance with OHSAS18001*1, which is internationally recognized. Occupational Safety and Health In 2006, the Yokogawa Group established the "Yokogawa Group Health and Safety Policy" and began implementing the Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS). Since 2007, the Yokogawa Group has implemented the OSHMS in each of its companies to promote a higher level of safety and health by making continual improvements through risk assessment and other methods. Yokogawa Group Safety and Health Policy Statement  Operation of the Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) *1. Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series. A certification standard for Occupational Safety and Health Management System. 2010 Yokogawa Group Safety and Health Objective  Annual Report CSR Report Archive Group Companies' Efforts UN Global Compact Index About Yokogawa Company Overview Investor Relations News Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 CSR Report Message from President Yokogawa Policies CSR Highlights Environment Citizenship Customers Supplier Relations Employees Human Rights Career and Life Employee Assistance Disabilities Safety and Health Governance and Compliance UN Global Compact Index Contact Us Careers Research & Development Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations  PDFmyURL.com  Safety and Health Education To ensure that the "Yokogawa Group Safety and Health Policy" is adhered to across the entire Yokogawa Group, the "Safety and Health Guide Book," which contains basic information and day- to-day rules regarding safety and health, has been created and distributed to all staff and engineers at every Yokogawa Group company. To maintain and improve all levels of activities throughout, persons in charge, committee members and newly appointed personnel are educated through safety and health committee workshops, as well as on-site safety training at customer plants and factories. Safety and Health Guide Book Occupational Incident and Accident Data Since the implementation of OSHMS in 2007, the Yokogawa Group has compiled quarterly data of all occupational incidents and accidents at its subsidiaries in and outside Japan. The results are used to improve operations. The number of days lost due to accidents has decreased by 15%, although the total recordable incidents in 2009 have risen marginally since 2008. Frequency Rate of Occupational Incident and Accident Data  PDFmyURL.com  Meeting with Officials from Vietnam FR=(No. of workers having occupational accident with lost days / total working hours)  1,000,000 Vietnam Safety and Health Officials Visit Yokogawa Electric In August 2009, at the request of the Japan Industrial Safety and Health Association, Yokogawa Electric met with a group of officials from Vietnam, including the Vice Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs. The group visited Japan to conduct a research into laws and business activities related to occupational safety and health. In visiting Yokogawa Electric, they collected information regarding our safety and health system and activities. On the day of the visit, the group was briefed on our implementation and execution of OSHMS, educational system, and case studies of our success in improving our work environment over the years. They also visited the clinical center to observe the MRI and CT equipment that we have installed, and to exchange information regarding health management with our industrial physician. The group observed our safety and health system and activities extensively, and intently inquired into our educational and training programs, employee awareness plans, and legal basis of such programs and activities. Afterwards, one of the visitors commented, "With the growth of the industries in Vietnam, the rate of occupational incident and accident is rising. As part of strategizing how to integrate our national  PDFmyURL.com  safety and health laws, credential certification systems, and OH&S (Occupational Health and Safety) programs into the businesses in Vietnam, we visited Japan to conduct a research into the safety laws of Japan and the activities within its businesses. On visiting and exchanging information with Yokogawa Electric, we saw firsthand the vast differences from our country. Everything we learned will serve as a valuable reference to improve our legal system as well as to plan improved operation methods under the new system." We will continue to actively network with other groups to mutually grow in the area of safety and health. Top of this page Home Products & Solutions About Yokogawa News Investor Relations Careers Worldwide Locations Terms of Use Privacy Guidelines   Copyright 1994-2010 Yokogawa Electric Corporation.  PDFmyURL.com