UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT  ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Country:  Canada Industry Sector:  Manufacturer/Supplier  Report Period:  December 2010 - December 2011 COMPANY DESCRIPTION: For more than 3 decades Stormtech has been successfully conquering the challenges of Canadas extreme and unpredictable climate.  Over the years this once tiny  supplier of niche outerwear has broadened into a globally recognized Canadian brand of  technical apparel that is available in over 30 countries. At the top end of the STORTMECH Collection is the Expedition Series - a range of activity- focused outerwear that  has been engineered to provide maximum performance and  functionality with commanding elements of design.  Waterproof / breathable bonded fabrics,  sealed seams, waterproof zippers, and mechanical moisture management technology all ensure  a successful expedition. STORMTECH Performance Apparel - conquer the elements with condence. COMPANY COMMITMENT: STORMTECH is proud to have been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since  2007– and is committed to upholding its Ten Principles that pertain to human rights, labour,  environmental standards, and anti-corruption. We believe that by incorporating these principles into our action plans for each year we can  create a better local and global community for everyone to enjoy.  These actions begin at the  top-most levels of our companys management, and trickle down into the daily activities of  everyone who works for us or with us. Our commitment in 2011 is to continue to work with our suppliers as well as our own internal  staff to further increase awareness about corporate social responsibility and integrating and  enhanced respect for the earth and its inhabitants into our daily activities.  Blake Annable President, CEO www.stormtech.ca www.stormtechusa.com www.stormtech.eu www.stormtech.cn  STORMTECH Performance Apparel POLICIES/PRACTICES REGARDING UNGC PRINCIPLES: Human Rights: Principle 1:  Business should support & respect the protection of  internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2:  Business should ensure that they are not complicit in  human rights abuses Principle 1:  Business should support & respect the protection of  internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2:  Business should ensure that they are not complicit in  human rights abuses STORMTECH believes  strongly in human  rights.  All humans  deserve equality, rights,  & respect. Because STORMTECH  has been a member of  the Fair Labour  Association since 2007  our labour standards  reect the requirements  of the FLA (and  therefore the UN  International Labour  Organization). STORMTECH works  with factories that  uphold the Worldwide  Responsible Apparel  Production standards. STORMTECH believes  strongly in human  rights.  All humans  deserve equality, rights,  & respect. Because STORMTECH  has been a member of  the Fair Labour  Association since 2007  our labour standards  reect the requirements  of the FLA (and  therefore the UN  International Labour  Organization). STORMTECH works  with factories that  uphold the Worldwide  Responsible Apparel  Production standards. Actions & Indicators: STORMTECH continues to require new 3rd party vendors  that it has signed up to manufacture our product  to sign off  on their support of our labour standards.  A copy of our  labour code has been attached to this COP. Within its own ofces STORMTECH proudly supports  diversity among its employees in areas such as gender,  ethnicity, sexual orientation, and disabilities. Annual reviews by each department manager help to  ensure that everyone is happy and productive. STORMTECH ofces have established Healthy Workplace  Committees in association with provincial measures to  ensure the mental, physical, and emotional health of our  employees. STORMTECH 2010 COP Page 2  Labour  Standards: Principle 3:  Business should uphold the freedom of association & the  effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4:  Business should support the elimination of all forms of  forced and compulsory labour Principle 5:  Business should support the effective abolition of child  labour Principle 6:  Business should support the elimination of discrimination  in respect of employment and occupation Principle 3:  Business should uphold the freedom of association & the  effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4:  Business should support the elimination of all forms of  forced and compulsory labour Principle 5:  Business should support the effective abolition of child  labour Principle 6:  Business should support the elimination of discrimination  in respect of employment and occupation STORMTECH takes  a great deal of pride  in its workforce and  upholds employment  standards in it  ofces / warehouses  in all of its  international ofces. Employees with HR  questions can either  talk directly to their  department manager  or go to an HR staff  person. STORMTECH takes  a great deal of pride  in its workforce and  upholds employment  standards in it  ofces / warehouses  in all of its  international ofces. Employees with HR  questions can either  talk directly to their  department manager  or go to an HR staff  person. Actions & Indicators: At the factory level STORMTECH requires each 3rd party  vendor that manufactures our product sign a contract stating  their support of our labour standards.  These standards  include:  Non-use of involuntary or forced labour; indentured,  bonded, or otherwise.  Non-use of employees under the age of 14 or any age  interfearing with compulsory schooling.  If local laws  require lower minimum age then these are followed.  Recognition of employee rights to free association and  collective bargaining  Maintaining work environments free from harassment,  abuse, or corporal punishment.  Employee compensation based on skills and ability to do  their jobs rather than personal characteristics or beliefs Since our 2009 Internal Planning Session internal  committees have continued to carry forward the work of  evaluating our hiring, training, and career development. The company clearly outlines its rules regarding work hours,  breaks, etc for its employees.  Position availability is posted  to all employees.  In instances where an position must be  eliminated we try to nd other roles that staff might t into.  STORMTECH 2010 COP Page 3  Environment: Principle 7:  Business should support a precautionary approach to  environmental challenges Principle 8:  Business should undertake initiatives to promote  greater environmental responsibility Principle 9:  Business should encourage the development and  diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 7:  Business should support a precautionary approach to  environmental challenges Principle 8:  Business should undertake initiatives to promote  greater environmental responsibility Principle 9:  Business should encourage the development and  diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies One person is  responsible in our  company for reviewing  STORMTECH  environmental  requirements with  factories. One person is  responsible in our  company for reviewing  STORMTECH  environmental  requirements with  factories. Actions & Indicators: We continue to require each 3rd party vendor that  manufactures our product to sign off on the STORMTECH  OurWorld Production Code.  This code requires factories to  not only comply with all applicable local laws, but sets  standards that supports the International Standard  Organizations 14000 series of environmental standards. These standards include:  Limitations in the areas of air,water, soil, and noise  pollution  Requirements to recycle where-ever possible  Non-use of phosphate compounds, heavy metals,  harmful dyes, chlorine bleaches, or black listed/red  listed / carcinogenic or mutagenic substances in our  products STORMTECH continues to offer a range of technical fabrics  that are produced in part from recycled water and pop  bottles.  The manufacturing process of these products  undergoes strict third party auditing procedures. STORMTECH strives to use FSC, recycled paper, and earth- friendly inks whenever possible - whether it be shopping  bags, yers, business cards, magazines, catalogues, or  shipping boxes.   Our warehouses re-use boxes to send product to clients, and  compact/recycle any paper products that can no longer be  used, including all catalogues and yers. Our ofces recycle/shred all unused paper.  We have also  reduced the number of catalogues that get printed each year  and encourage our clients to order online and view product  information online.  This reduces faxes and printing. STORMTECH 2010 COP Page 4  Anti-Curruption Principle 10:  Business should work against corruption in all its  forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 10:  Business should work against corruption in all its  forms, including extortion and bribery. STORMTECH does not allow  for any corruption to occur at  any level. STORMTECH does not allow  for any corruption to occur at  any level. Actions & Indicators: As part of its production and labour standards,  STORMTECH has had all of its vendors agree to:  maintain facility security procedures to guard  against the introduction of non-manifested cargo  into outbound shipments (e.g. drugs, explosives,  biohazards, and/or other contraband).  comply with applicable customs laws and in  particular, establish and maintain programs to  comply with customs laws regarding illegal  transshipment of apparel products. STORMTECH records are routinely audited  COP Contact:   Mike Dreher  STORMTECH Performance Apparel 2560 Boundary Road Burnaby, BC   V5M 3Z3 1.866.407.2222 miked@stormtech.ca STORMTECH 2010 COP Page 5  OurWorld Production Code At STORMTECH we realize that we need to take responsibility  for our world. Not only do we comply with all applicable  environmental regulations and laws in the countries of our  production, but we have gone a step further to create our own  ethical production code. The STORMTECH OurWorld Production Code ensures that  no materials used in the production of STORMTECH gear  contain any substances that are harmful to the environment.  Requirements are detailed for production facilities in the areas  of air, water, and noise pollution, as well as recycling in order to  minimize the impact they have on their surroundings. Every production facility used by STORMTECH provides their  consent to upholding this code.  Before doing business with any  third party manufacturer we visit their facility to see first-hand if  they can meet our environmental standards. The requirements  of this code illustrates our support of the International Standard  Organizations 14000 series of environmental standards, as  well as other key international environmental initiatives. We are committed to protecting our world and conserving its  natural resources. Its a healthy choice for the planet, and for  the consumer who wears STORMTECH Performance Apparel. w w w. s t o r m t e c h . c a      w w w. s t o r m t e c h u s a . c o m      w w w. s t o r m t e c h e u r o p e . c o m  w w w. s t o r m t e c h . c a      w w w. s t o r m t e c h u s a . c o m      w w w. s t o r m t e c h e u r o p e . c o m code of conduct This Code serves as a guide for all  STORMTECH operations. All STORMTECH employees and business  partners must adhere to these principles. Child labour We do not employ  any individual under  the age of 15 (or  14 where national  law dictates) or  younger than the  age for completing  compulsory education  in the country of  manufacture where  such age is higher  than 15. ForCed  labour We do not use  forced labor,  whether in  the form of  prison labour,  indentured  labour, bonded  labour, or  otherwise. health & SaFety We provide safe  and healthy working  environments to prevent  employee accidents and  injury to health arising  out of or occurring in  the course of work.   Where applicable, all  necessary measures  are taken to also  ensure healthy and safe  conditions in employee  residential facilities  as well. CompenSation Employees are paid  at least the legal  minimum wage, or  prevailing industry  wage (whichever is  higher), and provide  legally mandated  benefits. environment We comply with  applicable national  environmental  regulations and laws. hourS oF Work We comply with legally  mandated work hour  limitations. Maximum  work hours per week  are capped at 60 hours  per week (including  regular and overtime  hours) unless the legal  maximum requires  even less.  Employees  are provided with at  minimum one day off  in seven. Freedom oF  aSSoCiation  and  ColleCtive  bargaining We recognize and  respect the right  of employees  to freedom of  association  and collective  bargaining. pregnanCy Female employees are  not asked about their  pregnancy status, nor  are they required to be  tested for pregnancy.   We abide by all local  and international  laws regarding  working conditions  for pregnant workers,  including but not  limited to rest breaks  and adequate seating. non- diSCrimination No person shall  be subject to any  discrimination in  employment, including  hiring, salary, benefits,  advancement, discipline,  or termination on the  basis of gender, race,  religion, age, disability,  sexual orientation,  nationality, political  opinion, social or ethnic  origin. haraSSment or abuSe Every employee  is to be treated  with respect and  dignity.  Any form  of harassment or  abuse, whether  physical, sexual,  psychological, or  verbal will not be  tolerated. 1 2 5 3 6 4 7 10 9 8  w w w. s t o r m t e c h . c a      w w w. s t o r m t e c h u s a . c o m      w w w. s t o r m t e c h e u r o p e . c o m 1. Child labour We do not employ any individual under the age of 15 (or 14 where national law  dictates) or younger than the age for completing compulsory education in the country  of manufacture where such age is higher than 15. 2. ForCed labour We do not use forced labor, whether in the form of prison labour, indentured labour,  bonded labour, or otherwise. 3. CompenSation Employees are paid at least the legal minimum wage, or prevailing industry wage  (whichever is higher), and provide legally mandated benefits. 4. hourS oF Work We comply with legally mandated work hour limitations. Maximum work hours per  week are capped at 60 hours per week (including regular and overtime hours) unless  the legal maximum requires even less.  Employees are provided with at minimum one  day off in seven. 5. health & SaFety We provide safe and healthy working environments to prevent employee accidents  and injury to health arising out of or occurring in the course of work.  Where  applicable, all necessary measures are taken to also ensure healthy and safe  conditions in employee residential facilities as well. 6. environment We comply with applicable national environmental regulations and laws. 7. Freedom oF aSSoCiation and ColleCtive bargaining We recognize and respect the right of employees to freedom of association and  collective bargaining. 8. haraSSment or abuSe Every employee is to be treated with respect and dignity.  Any form of harassment or  abuse, whether physical, sexual, psychological, or verbal will not be tolerated. 9. nondiSCrimination No person shall be subject to any discrimination in employment, including hiring,  salary, benefits, advancement, discipline, or termination on the basis of gender, race,  religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, political opinion, social or  ethnic origin. 10. pregnanCy Female employees are not asked about their pregnancy status, nor are they required  to be tested for pregnancy.  We abide by all local and international laws regarding  working conditions for pregnant workers, including but not limited to rest breaks and  adequate seating. code of conduct This Code serves as a guide for all STORMTECH operations. All STORMTECH employees and business partners must adhere to these principles.