United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 3 Message from the Chief Executive Officer Promon is a Brazilian company whose principal  characteristics include the fact that it is entirely  owned by its staff. Its vigorous and authentic  organizational culture is the result of the experience  garnered by generations of professionals in  surmounting challenges during its 50-year history.  Values such as integrity, trust, respect and equity  are central to its corporate culture and character. Its  history evidences an incessant pursuit of innovative  ways to harmonize business goals with human  needs, capital with labour, value creation for clients  with effective contributions to social development,  competitiveness with the professional and human  fulfilment of its people. We therefore believe that in addressing issues  related to human rights, industrial relations,  environmental management and the fight against  corruption organizations can and should go beyond  the indispensable adoption of policies and practices  aligned with the principles of corporate social  responsibility, by including the requirements of  sustainability among the fundamental elements that  define their culture and inserting these requirements  into their goals and strategies.  By continuing to support the Global Compact we  publicly reaffirm our belief that companies are active  agents in the process of development of society and  environmental conservation, and that as such they  have a role to play in the construction of a more  prosperous and just society, both by example and by  action. Luiz Fernando Telles Rudge CEO  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 5 System: Indicators Action Performance System: Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. Organisational Culture The Campos do Jordo Charter was drafted in 1970 by  a group of leaders who reassembled in 2000 to update  the documents language and adapt it to contemporary  circumstances. The result is expressed in the document  Vision, Mission & Values.  A book entitled Corpo & Alma (Body & Soul) was  published in 2009 to share the companys history and  culture. Distributed to all staff and service providers, as  well as major clients, suppliers and partners, the book  sets out to translate at least partly the motivations for  engagement and the results of the dedication of all those  who have contributed to the companys development.  The chapter Our Conduct describes Promons ethical  worldview, which prioritises mutual respect, protection  of the environment, transparency and excellence in all  activities and relations with stakeholders. This chapter  of the book seeks to present the positions developed by  Promon during its entire history. Ethical  Guidelines System: System: Action Action Performance Performance Organisational One of the winners of the  quality award Prmio Nacional  da Qualidade – 2007 Promons employees are its sole shareholders. Equity  ownership is open to all staff without exception on a  voluntary basis. This ownership model enables Promons  professionals to participate actively in corporate  governance, including elections for senior executive  positions by secret ballot. Members of the Board of  Directors and Executive Committee are held every three  years and independently audited. All profit from operations is used for the benefit of  employees, as follows:   profit sharing (semiannual) for all staff, whether or not  they are shareholders   dividends paid to shareholders, all of whom are  Promon employees   reinvestment in the business, which in turn is reflected  in the share price and hence in employee wealth. Ownership  Structure People Promons occupational health, safety and environmental  management (HSE) systems are certified against  OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001, and cover all projects  and worksites. Actions to minimize hazards and risks,  prevent accidents and comply with legal and regulatory  requirements have a strong impact on the provision of a  safe and healthy working environment while minimising  occupational accidents and disease. Such HSE actions  include: Guidance for visitors and suppliers – Visitors to  Promons offices are given leaflets with basic information  on emergency action, emergency telephone numbers,  escape routes, and information on recycling of materials.  Worksite visitors and suppliers receive guidance in the  form of films and leaflets with explanatory material on  basic precautions to be taken while at the worksite. Occupational  Health &  Safety  2009 2010 79% 2008 75% 74% I am treated with respect and fairness by Promon at work – Agree  Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey) Employees who own shares in the company Source: Financial Management / Promon 81% 82% 81% 2010 2008 2009 89% 2009 90% 87% 2010 2008 Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey) Is Promon a safe place to work? – (Yes answer) Number of complaints alleging unfair trade pratices filed with or by CADE, Brazils antitrust regulator Source: Legal Department / Promon  0 2008 2009 2010 0 0  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 6 Indicators System: Action Performance Quality-of-Life  Programme  Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. Office environment and worksite induction  training – Information on Promons Health, Safety  & Environment Policy, its HSE management system,  workplace conditions and climate, risks inherent in the  job, preventive measures, emergency telephone numbers,  escape routes, and key work procedures and instructions is  supplied to all office and worksite staff. Worksite HSE toolbox talks – Talks held before work  begins, led by site foreman or supervisor, to discuss  inherent procedures, risks and prevention for activities to  be performed that day.  Specific HSE requirements for subcontractors – For  all subcontracted services, HSE requirements are specified  in the request for proposals and from then on for each  scope of work, so that bidders and selected suppliers can  budget and plan appropriately. HSE kick-off meetings with subcontractors –  Meetings led by the head of HSE to explain Promons HSE  guidelines, corporate policy, procedures, objectives and  targets for the activity in question. Emergency drills – Evacuation drills, basic firefighting,  procedures to respond to alarms resulting from a gas leak  or chemical spill etc., assuring that all staff know what to  do in an emergency or contingency. Specific training – Provided as planned or whenever  need is detected by awareness surveys or required by non- compliance, accidents or emergency situations. Safety campaigns – Organised by the companys  accident prevention committees, for education and training  on ergonomics, AIDS, STDs, stress, use of fire extinguishers,  and safe behaviour.  Scheduled HSE inspections – Weekly HSE inspections  are carried out at worksites using checklists to detect  any vulnerabilities or hazards that need correcting, e.g.  housekeeping/cleanliness, PPE use, CPE use, suitability of  facilities. Weekly HSE meeting – HSE teams meet with  subcontractor site foremen to decide what needs to be  done generally in the week ahead and agree on corrective  action plans for any deviations or pending matters. Occupational  Health &  Safety  People Action Performance Open House – Annual event for employees families  to visit the company on a specific day and take part in  specially planned activities. Flextime – Introduced by Promon in 1973, flexible  working hours allow staff to choose times to clock on  and off, subject to agreement with managers and within  predetermined periods.  Pension fund – Introduced in 1976 and available to all staff. Loans – Personal loans from Promon are available to all staff, in  amounts corresponding to up to 12 months pay. The company  finances purchases of company shares by employees.  Layout – Offices and other workspaces are mainly  open-plan, with common rooms and furniture designed to  facilitate integration of staff. Short vacation internship – School students aged  17-21 belonging to employees families are admitted as  interns during school vacations to develop behavioural  skills, prepare for the selection process and familiarise  themselves with the dynamics of a business environment. 89% 2009 90% 87% 2010 2008 Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey) Is Promon a safe place to work? – (Yes answer) The CCPR Consortium, formed by Camargo  Corra and Promon Engenharia, Brazil won  the Protection Award in Occupational Safety  2010 edition of the journal Protection Initiative  in two categories: Working at Height and  Corrective Actions in Health and Safety. 3.3% 2009 3.5% 3.9% 2010 2008 Source: Quality Management / Promon HSE training man-hours vs. man-hours worked  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 7 System: Indicators Action Performance Quality-of-Life  Programme  Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. People Promon does not permit discrimination on grounds of  age, gender, colour, race, creed or sexual preference in  recruitment and selection.  Inclusion of Persons with Special Needs (PSN)  – Attitude to Include Programme aims to extend  companys inclusion culture by hiring more PSN, providing  support for them, and raising staff awareness. Adolescent Apprenticeships – Specific two-year  programme to include and train 17-20-year-olds. Technical  supervision by CIEE (Centro de Integrao Empresa-Escola,  an education nonprofit funded by business). Oversight  by Promons Human Relations and Communication  Departments. Hiring &  Induction Action Performance Corporate portal – Created in 2002 to enable staff to  access all the necessary company information. Our People – Section of the portal where employees  share personal experiences and amusing or significant true  stories about their lives. Internal  Communication  Action Performance Thematic Happy Hour – Special quarterly event to  enhance integration and communication, introduce new  members of staff and celebrate birthdays that fall during  the month. Medical and dental care plan – First-class medical and  dental plan for all employees and for retirees who agree to  pay the full contribution.  Voluntary check-up – On reaching certain ages,  employees who have worked at Promon for more than a  year can choose to have a general health check-up and  receive medical advice based on the results (the company  bears the cost of this programme). Preventive tests – All employees have an opportunity  to undergo preventive tests during Safety Week, including  blood pressure, eyesight, eye pressure, early diabetes  detection and cholesterol.  Gymnastics – Physical exercises in the workplace to  improve fitness and physical performance, concentration,  and posture. Quick massage – Physical therapy in the workplace,  focusing on body energy balance and muscle relaxation. Fitness centre – Promon has a fully equipped fitness  centre occupying about 100 square metres in the  penthouse of its office complex. Sports tournaments – Ongoing activities, including  soccer and volleyball, as well as seasonal activities, such as  sports tournaments for staff and families.  Walking – PE specialists supervise walking exercise for  staff and families, with relatively undemanding options to  cater for all ages and physical conditions. Running clubs – Help with training for runners, including  personalised weekly training plans, Q&A, counselling,  prizes, information, health tips, enrolment and supervision  for main races in Brazil and abroad. Publications – Articles on health, quality of life and  related topics are regularly published on the intranet.  1,935 2,936 2008 2,117 2009 2010 Number of young people benefited by work readiness programmes supported by Promon Source: Human Resources Management / Promon  Recognized in all editions of Guia Exame Voc  S/A as one of the best places to work in Brazil.  Elected Company of the Decade in 2006.  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 8 Indicators System: Action Performance People Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. Self-proposed salaries – Staff propose salary  levels using a standard form with a justification for the  parameters involved. After analysis and assessment by  managers, including interaction with the individuals  concerned, the results of the salary review are  communicated to each professional. Promon does not permit discrimination on grounds of  age, gender, colour, race, creed or sexual preference in its  training processes. Pay Professional  Development Action Action Performance Performance Engagement  in Social  Initiatives  System: Action Performance Society & Environment Signatory of National Compact to Eradicate  Slave Labour in Brazil – Promon is a signatory of the  Compact, based on a report by the International Labour  Organisation (ILO), undertaking not to acquire goods  whose production chain involves slave labour. Member of Movimento Todos Pela Educao –  The All for Education Movement is an alliance of civil  society, business, social organisations, educators and public  administrators in education to guarantee basic schooling  of high quality for all by 2022, when Brazil celebrates its  independence bicentennial. Internal  Communication  Promon Comunidade – Monthly newsletter with articles  about Promon on topics such as people, business, social  responsibility and internal projects.  Specific meetings – Open to all staff to encourage  discussion and dissemination of ideas and knowledge.  Meetings with HR – Meetings open to all staff to  encourage dissemination of knowledge and discussion of  ideas relating to human resources policy and practices. Use of videoconference rooms – The companys  videoconference rooms enable groups to communicate  in real time wherever they are located, facilitating  collaboration and the sharing of information and work  materials without any need to travel. Regular forums – Lunchtime meetings known as  Mastigando Ideias (Chewing Ideas) held since 2000 to  enable staff to swap experiences on subjects relevant to  the company. Blogs – Introduced on the intranet in 2007 to enhance  communication and dissemination of content relating to  matters of importance to the company. We currently have  16 blogs covering business, volunteering, sustainability and  the affairs of the Secretarial Development Committee.  Roda Viva – Periodical meetings coordinated by HR and  attended by CEO and senior executives. Open to all staff  but limited to 20 people per meeting to assure effective  and intense dialogue on topics of interest to participants. Chats with top management – Periodical meetings  coordinated by HR and attended by CEO and senior  executives, involving groups of ten employees with highly  varied profiles, from new hires to outstanding performers.  Opportunity for informal open-ended discussion of relevant  topics, as well as knowledge sharing and integration. 87% 96% 92% 2008 2009 2010 Does Promon communicate well with its employees on matters that affect them? – (Yes answer) Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey) 91% 2008 92% 91% 2009 2010 Is Promon socially responsible in its positioning with regard to society? (Yes answer) Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey)  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 9 System: Indicators Action Performance Society & Environment  Engagement  in Social  Initiatives  Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. Social  Investment Action Performance Member of Rede Nossa So Paulo: Outra  Cidade – Our So Paulo: Another City is a network  comprising dozens of civil society organisations whose  aim is to build a political, social and economic force  through comprehensiveness, representativity, credibility,  commitment and effectiveness that will engage society  and successive governments with an agenda and a set of  targets to offer a better quality of life to all inhabitants of  the city.  Member of Instituto Ethos de Empresas e  Responsabilidade Social – Since 2000 (Instituto  Ethos is a nonprofit whose mission is to promote CSR). Member of Instituto Akatu pelo Consumo  Consciente – Since 2007 (Instituto Akatu is a nonprofit  whose mission is to raise consumer consciousness of the  value of sustainable goods and services).  Member of Brazilian Global Compact  Committee – The committee comprises 32 companies  which voluntarily work with the Global Compact Network,  provide guidance for signatories, and promote adoption of  the Compacts Principles by the management of companies  operating in Brazil. Member of Fundao Nacional da Qualidade – FNQ,  the National Quality Foundation, is a non-governmental  organisation created in 1991 to research and disseminate  the fundamentals of management excellence, help  enhance the competitiveness of Brazilian business and  improve the quality of life for all Brazilians. Member of GIFE – Group of Institutes, Foundations &  Enterprises is the first South American association of  grantmakers and other private-sector organisations  that fund or operate CSR projects (social, cultural and  environmental). GIFE assists its members in developing  efficient and effective CSR activities by supplying accurate  information, offering training through workshops, courses  and conferences with Brazilian and foreign experts,  providing a space for the sharing of ideas and experiences,  and stimulating SR partnerships between private  enterprise, government and organised civil society.  Instituto Razo Social – IRS is a nonprofit institution  founded by Promon and other companies in 2001 to  contribute to teaching-learning processes and school  management in public education in Brazil, based on the  understanding that business organisations can conduct  projects in partnership to join forces and produce more  effective results. Currently funded by Gerdau as well as Promon. IRS initiatives supported by Promon  Progesto Online – Distance learning: Promon has created  an online version of Progesto, a continuing education  course for public primary and secondary school managers. Social Mobilisation for Education Plan, Araucria, Paran – With  partners in business, civil society and government, Promon  disseminates information about family participation in  school to worksite employees in the city of Araucria,  Paran, which has a municipal plan for this purpose as  part of a call from the federal ministry of education to  encourage families and the community in general to  volunteer for this kind of activity in order to improve the  quality of education. The plans core values are human  rights, citizenship, ethics, solidarity, inclusion and tolerance. 93% 92% 92% 2008 2009 2010 Does the company adopt a socially responsible attitude toward the projects for which it is responsible? – (Yes answer) Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey) 2010 89 2008 2009 82 81 Number of cities covered by Instituto Razo Social Source: Instituto Razo Social Recognized as one of the 20 model  companies in corporate sustainability  by Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade 11,990 8,114 6,321 2010 2008 2009 Number of educators directly and indirectly benefited from projects supported by Instituto Razo Social Source: Instituto Razo Social 169,805 160,000 146,822 2008 2009 2010 Number of students directly benefiting from projects supported by Instituto Razo Social Source: Instituto Razo Social  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 10 Indicators System: Action Performance Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. Society & Environment  Social  Investment Ao Comunitria do Brasil – Nonprofit that since 1967  has run programmes in education, culture and citizenship  to advance social inclusion for people in situations of social  vulnerability. It currently focuses on capacity building and  networking for community leaders, providing legal support  for the creation of neighbourhood associations, and  mobilising residents.  ACB initiatives supported by Promon  Project Pingo – Dissemination of knowledge and use of new  and old media in educational activities for poor children to  promote local talent, resources and services. Projeto Eu, Tu, Ns – I, You, We installs computer  labs, sets up internet networks and produces community  newspapers in poor neighbourhoods.  Projeto Cr-Ser – Growing & Becoming is a network  linking schools with families and communities to protect  children and defend their rights, while enabling them to  experience high-quality education in such areas as reading  and writing, visual and plastic arts, music, games and better  study habits.  Projeto Som, Ritmo e Movimento – Sound, Rhythm &  Movement runs cultural activities in music, dance and  other performing arts, as well as sport and capoeira.  Sorri-Brasil – Promon supports Sorri-Brasil, a nonprofit that  runs educational programs for people with special needs and  works to raise social awareness of PSN issues. Sorri-Brasil initiatives supported by Promon  Contando Histria: Convivendo com as Crianas com  Deficincia – Storytelling and Living with Children with  Disabilities is a project designed to make teachers and  children at So Paulos public nursery schools aware of  issues relating to children with disabilities via games and art.  Roda de Conversa: o que eu quero ser quando crescer?  Conversation Circle: What Do I Want To Be When I Grow  Up? – Project designed to provide opportunities for  reflection on the world of work today and the real  possibilities of professional fulfilment for young  people with special needs, via presentations to public  secondary schools in So Paulo State. Casa do Zezinho – NGO assisting children and young  people in one of So Paulo Citys poorest and most  dangerous areas. Currently assists 1,200 at-risk individuals  aged between 6 and 21. Founded in 1994 to use  education as a means of forming aware and autonomous  citizens. Casa do Zezinho initiatives supported by Promon Programa Arte na Periferia – Art on the Outskirts provides  art workshops and recreation at weekends for poor  children as well as running income generation projects.  Educao de Jovens para o Sculo XXI – 21st Century  Education for Young People provides courses in reading  and writing, arithmetic, English, Spanish and computer  skills for adolescents aged 14-18 to promote equality of  opportunity and citizenship. Donation of 30 computers for modernisation of IT lab. Associao Junior Achievement – Junior Achievement  is an organisation dedicated to educating children about  work readiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy  through experiential, hands-on programmes while they  are still at school. Its main goal is to stimulate personal  development, help them build a clear vision of the world of  business, and facilitate access to the labour market. 6,328 2010 6,500 6,281 2008 2009 Number of people benefiting from projects supported by Ao Comunitria do Brasil Source: Ao Comunitria do Brasil 2010 70 schools 33 schools 2008 2009 5,905 children 1,525 teachers 68 schools 5,149 children  2,606 teachers 12,597 children 713 teachers  Number of people benefiting from projects supported by SORRI-Brasil Source: SORRI-Brasil The Project Art in the  Periphery of the Dewey House  entity, supported by Promon  since 2000 was cited as one of  the top 30 social projects in the  2010 report A Global Compact  for Development of the United  Nations.  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 11 System: Indicators Action Performance Social  Investment Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. Society & Environment  JA initiatives supported by Promon  Programa Introduo ao Mundo dos Negcios – Introduction  to the World of Business provides practical information for  children and adolescents to develop awareness and knowledge  of the way business is done in a free-market society.  Programa Economia Pessoal – Personal Economics is an  educational programme designed to teach children and  adolescents about budgeting, managing personal and family  finance, and investing and spending wisely, as well as the  pros and cons of credit.  Projeto Casulo – NGO that aims to foster the personal and  social development of children, youngsters and families in  two poor communities in the southern suburbs of So Paulo  (Real Parque and Jardim Panorama). Projeto Casulo initiative supported by Promon  Casulo Community Library – Encourages children to read  by democratising access to books in ways that promote  diversity, fun and critical thinking. Associao dos Meninos do Morumbi – NGO founded  in 1996 to use music as an alternative to drugs and juvenile  delinquency in a slum area of southern So Paulo (Morumbi). AMM initiative supported by Promon  Environmental Education – Project designed to encourage  children to address local socio-environmental issues through  participatory practices and engagement.  Instituto Bola pra Frente – Social promotion for socially  vulnerable children aged 6-17 in a northern neighbourhood  of Rio de Janeiro (Guadalupe) through sport, education, art,  culture and vocational training. BPF initiative supported by Promon  Sport & Education Project – Contributing to all-round education for  children and young adults through sport training and recreation. Associao Ser Cidado – Vocational education for  16-20-year-olds from poor communities. All courses  have two modules. The basic module focuses on youth  protagonism, comprising art education, music, reading,  drama, environment and citizenship. The association also  works with students families. ASC initiative supported by Promon  Coral Oficina – Choral singing workshops led by specialists to  train and develop 15-20-year-olds in Santa Cruz, Rio de Janeiro. Donation of 35 computers for three IT labs and  modernisation of administration.  Camp Vila Isabel – Vocational training for 14-18-year- olds by Crculo de Amigos do Menino Patrulheiro de Vila  Isabel, founded in 1985 and operating out of the offices of  the Brazilian Red Cross in Rio de Janeiro. Free courses in  Portuguese, mathematics, English, work readiness, computer  literacy, personal hygiene etc. Some 80 adolescents graduate  from the clerical course each year. CVI initiative supported by Promon  Donation of 25 computers for IT lab and to computerise  administration. Asylo Esprita Joo Evangelista – Founded in 1927 to  provide a home and educational activities for orphaned girls. AEJE initiative supported by Promon Donation of ten computers for IT lab. 89% 2010 93% 84% 2008 2009 Do the companys CSR initiatives help raise employee awareness of the importance social and environmental sustainability? (Yes answer) Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey) Promon Engineering entered  the Benchmark Group of the  Ethos of Corporate Social  Responsibility (composed of  companies which received the  top prize based on the score of  2,167 firms that answered the  questionnaire).  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 12 Indicators System: Action Performance Society & Environment  Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. CCA Lar Escola Recanto Cristo – Supplementary  education for at-risk children and adolescents, plus meals,  arts and crafts, sport, and computer skills.  CCA LERC initiative supported by Promon Donation of 15 computers for modernisation of IT lab. CCA Santa Teresa de Jesus – Founded in 1988 to improve  the quality of life for children and adolescents through  education, providing help with school work and courses in  arts and crafts, music and computing, as well as recreation. CCA STJ initiative supported by Promon Donation of 12 computers for modernisation of IT lab. Oxignio Desenvolvimento de Pol ticas Pblicas e  Sociais – Educational and social development programmes  designed to contribute to conservation and sustainable use  of biodiversity, dissemination of CSR practices and other  activities that prioritise human rights and dignity. Oxignio initiative supported by Promon Donation of 45 notebooks, 21 desktops, LCD monitors,  docking stations and Cisco IP phones, sent to Oxignios  computer reconditioning unit, a partnership with Microsoft,  for use in national digital inclusion programme. Creche Santa Teresa de Jesus – Daycare centre for 1-3-year- olds, providing educational and recreational activities. CSTJ initiative supported by Promon Brinquedoteca – Creation of play space with toys and books  for 120 children per year and staff training in importance of  play to child development.  Centro Beneficente Nossa Senhora da Glria –  Education and quality-of-life assistance for children,  adolescents and the elderly in Alemanha, a neighbourhood  near the centre of So Lus, Maranho. Children are given  help with school work, literacy and religion, the elderly  with self-esteem via recreational activities, friendship and  prevention of old-age-related diseases. CBNSG initiative supported by Promon  Donation of utensils and office furniture. AMMJP Associao Missionria Menino – Help with  school work, computing and recreation for poor children in  So Lus, Maranho. AMMJP initiative supported by Promon  Donation of utensils and office furniture. GRAAC –  Support Group for Children & Adolescents with Cancer,  established the city of So Paulo to guarantee the right to a cure  with quality of life according to the highest scientific standards. Instituto Ronald McDonald – Established in Rio de  Janeiro to support children with cancer anywhere in Brazil  through programmes that promote early diagnosis, referral  and first-class treatment. IRM initiative supported by Promon  Participation in McHappy Day Campaign (all revenue from  sales of Big Macs on last Saturday in August, excluding  some taxes, and promotional material produced by  participating organisations donated to institutions fighting  child cancer throughout Brazil). Promons So Paulo and  Rio de Janeiro offices purchased 500 and 200 vouchers  respectively, with proceeds donated to GRACC and Instituto  Ronald McDonald, and gave vouchers away to children  assisted by partner institutions in both cities. Social  Investment 95 123 2008 116 2009 2010 Number of young participants in Work Readiness visits to Promon Source: Human Resources Management / Promon   UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 13 System: Indicators Action Performance Promon encourages employees to engage in volunteering  and social responsibility activities. These are considered  part of the companys responsibility to the nation and are  structured and organised so as to assure maximum social  returns on the resources used and the time spent by the  employees concerned. The programme focuses on four  areas: school homework, work readiness, managerial and  infrastructure support for partner NGOs, and activities  relating to social campaigns, communication and  engagement.  Communication and engagement initiatives Volunteer Blog – Virtual environment for employees,  interns and service providers to exchange ideas,  knowledge and experience, publicise opportunities and  discuss lessons learned in connection with volunteering. To  be upgraded in 2011. Volunteer Email – Email accounts exclusively for Promon  employees to deal with matters relating to voluntary  service. Promon Volunteering Week – First held in August 2010  to celebrate Brazils National Volunteer Day (Aug.  28). Designed to recognise employees who volunteer  while informing and motivating the rest. Activities held  during the week at all Promon offices (Belo Horizonte,  Campinas, Manaus, Rio de Janeiro and So Paulo) included  exhibitions, presentations and workshops relating to  voluntary service, as well as involvement of children cared  for by partner NGOs.  Talks with senior executives – Volunteers have a chance  to meet periodically with top management, including  the CEO, in So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Meetings are  coordinated by HR and open to all volunteers but limited  to ten per meeting to enable a real dialogue on any topic  related to the subject of volunteering.  Entity benefited Ao Comunitria do Brasil – Nonprofit that  since 1967 has run programmes in education, culture  and citizenship to advance social inclusion for people in  situations of social vulnerability. It currently focuses on  capacity building and networking for community leaders,  providing legal support for the creation of neighbourhood  associations, and mobilising residents.  Activities  Work Readiness – Adolescents and young adults aged  16-21 visit Promons offices for presentations, group  dynamics, testimonials and technical visits to different  departments, all mentored by volunteers, who also provide  information on employability, personal and professional  development, and the Promon selection process, including  mock interviews. Infrastructure Support – Volunteers helped regularise  municipal planning permission for ACBs office building  by producing the floor plan, cross-section and elevation,  facade elevation, plot plan, and roof plan for three rooms  in the building. Management Support – Workshop on strategic planning  for 42 community leaders who partner with ACB. Presentation on what employers expect from young people  for educators in ACBs work readiness programme. Voluntary  Service  Programme  Society & Environment  Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. 2009 2010 773 2008 62 352 Number of volunteers in Promon Group (Voluntary Service Programme and social campaigns) Source: Human Resources Management/ Promon 95% 98% 93.7% 97.3% 89.4% 95% volunteers children volunteers children volunteers children Source: Human Resources Management / Promon Percentage of positive responses (excellent) of the volunteers and children participating in Voluntary Service Programme 2010 2008 2009  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 14 Indicators System: Action Performance Society & Environment  Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. Voluntary  Service  Programme  Entity benefited CCA Lar Escola Recanto Cristo – Supplementary  education for at-risk children and adolescents, plus meals,  arts and crafts, sport, and computer labs.  Activities  Help with school work English – Basic English classes given by volunteers with  specific material and supervision by English for All, a  Brazilian nonprofit. Social campaigns – Donation of clothes, shoes and toys for  children during the year-end holiday season. Entity benefited CCA Santa Teresa de Jesus – Founded in 1988 to improve  the quality of life for children and adolescents through education,  providing help with school work and courses in arts and crafts,  music and computing, as well as recreation. Activities  Help with school work Mathematics – Volunteers lead Q&A sessions on basic  maths for children from low-income households basic  maths with university teachers (Universidade Anhembi- Morumbi) providing classroom material and online  pedagogic support.  English – Basic English classes given by volunteers with  specific material and supervision by English for All, a  Brazilian nonprofit.  Entity benefited Crculo de Amigos do Menino Patrulheiro de  Vila Isabel (Camp – Vila Isabel) – Founded in 1985  to provide vocational education for adolescents aged 14- 18. Operating at the Rio de Janeiro offices of the Brazilian  Red Cross, This NGO provides courses in reading, writing  and arithmetic, work readiness, computing and personal  hygiene, among other subjects. Courses are free of charge  and held every morning. Some 80 adolescents graduate  from the clerical course each year. Activities  Help with school work Introduction to the World of Business – Partnership  with Associao Junior Achievement. Volunteers present  concepts and basic principles of business management  through games and other fun activities in five one-hour  classes on one day each week. The idea is to help students  develop awareness while acquiring skills and practical  knowledge of business.  Personal Economics – Course designed in partnership with  Associao Junior Achievement to teach adolescents in ten  one-hour classes on one day each week about budgeting,  managing personal and family finance, and investing and  spending wisely, as well as the pros and cons of credit.  English – Basic English classes given by volunteers with  specific material and supervision by English for All, a  Brazilian nonprofit.  Work Readiness – Adolescents and young adults  aged 16-21 visit Promons offices for presentations by  volunteers, group dynamics, testimonials and technical  visits to different departments, receiving information on  employability, personal and professional development, and  the Promon selection process, including mock interviews. Entity benefited Associao Ser Cidado – Vocational education  for 16-20-year-olds from poor communities. Formally  set up four years ago, the association has a 20-year  2009 2010 9,583 2008 372 2,259 Number of children and adolescents benefit from the actions of the Volunteer Program Promon Source: Human Resources Management/Promon  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 15 System: Indicators Action Performance Society & Environment  Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. Voluntary  Service  Programme  history grounded in the activities developed by Educao  de Trabalho (Education for Work). All courses have two  modules. The basic module focuses on youth protagonism,  comprising art education, music, reading, drama,  environment and citizenship. The association also works  with students families. Activities  Help with school work Personal Economics – Course designed in partnership with  Associao Junior Achievement to teach adolescents in ten  one-hour classes on one day each week about budgeting,  managing personal and family finance, and investing and  spending wisely, as well as the pros and cons of credit.  English – Basic English classes given by volunteers with  specific material and supervision by English for All, a  Brazilian nonprofit.  Work Readiness – Adolescents and young adults  aged 16-21 visit Promons offices for presentations by  volunteers, group dynamics, testimonials and technical  visits to different departments, receiving information on  employability, personal and professional development, and  the Promon selection process, including mock interviews.  Presentations by volunteers in 2010 covered information on  the labour market and career prospects.  Management support – A group of volunteers are helping  the management of ASC with strategic planning and related  processes.  Social campaigns Book donation – Volunteers collect books donated to start  a library. Entity benefited Creche Vov Carmen – Daycare centre in Rio de Janeiro  providing educational and recreational activities for 105  children aged 2-6, as well as psychological support and  social counselling for their families. Activities  Infrastructure support – Diagnosis, analysis and preparation  of technical options for conversion of a space into a play  room with toys and books. Entity benefited GACC Amazonas – In 2002 the local chapter of Support  Group for Children & Adolescents with Cancer set up a  centre for 25 children in treatment at the Amazonas State  Oncology Centre. The centre offers educational activities,  recreation, and psychological and pedagogical counselling.  In addition, GACC Amazonas distributes food, basic  household goods and clothing, among other items, to 225  registered children. Activities  Social campaigns Donations of food, groceries and basic household goods to GACC. Entity benefited Fundao Toque – Nonprofit providing specialised  educational support to children and adults with intellectual  and multiple disabilities, and clinical, cultural, vocational  and sports-related support to persons with hearing, sight  and other physical disabilities. Activities  Infrastructure Support – Volunteers produced architectural,  plumbing and electrical designs for a new wing for the  foundations building. 2009 2010 16 2008 6 11 Number of entities benefited by Voluntary Service Program Source: Human Resources Management / Promon Promon Voluntary Service  Programme ranked among top 11  CSR initiatives in 2010 by Brazilian  Association of Sales & Direct  Marketing Managers (Prmio Top  Social ADVB).  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 16 Indicators System: Action Performance Partners & Suppliers  Inclusion of CSR requirements based on Social  Accountability Standard SA8000 in supplier selection and  assessment procedures. CSR Clause  in Supplier  Contract  Promon Integra 2009 – Biennial event bringing  together key suppliers to share ethical principles and  deploy joint initiatives relating to labour law commitments  that contribute to the development of Promons supplier  network. The next such event is scheduled for 2011. Supplier selection and performance assessment based on  documents that prove the legality of their activities in the  marketplace in both the social and environmental spheres.  Promon staff visit suppliers for inspection of social and  environmental practices.  Initiative to  Share Values  & Principles Assessments  for Supplier  Qualification  & Monitoring Technical  Inspection  to Verify  Best Practice  in Social &  Environmental  Responsibility Action Action Action Performance Performance Performance Principle 1 Businesses should  support and respect  the protection of  internationally  proclaimed human  rights. Commitment: Ethics are at the core of  everything Promon does.  In striving to harmonise  the interests of its staff,  clients, suppliers and  other stakeholders,  and prioritising respect  for the human being  in every relationship,  Promon recognises its  role as an agent of social  development. 2009 2010 93% 2008 89% 91% Are Promons relationships with suppliers socially responsible? (Yes answer)  Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey)  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 17 System: Indicators Action Performance Principle 2 Businesses should  make sure they are not  complicit in human  rights abuses. Commitment Promon is committed to  ensuring that all business  units of the organisation  avoid complicity in human  rights abuses. Promon does not permit discrimination on grounds of age,  gender, colour, race, creed or sexual preference in recruitment  and selection.  Inclusion of Persons with Special Needs (PSN) –  Attitude to Include Programme aims to extend companys  inclusion culture by hiring more PSN, providing support for  them, and raising staff awareness.  Adolescent Apprenticeships – Specific two-year  programme to include and train 17-20-year-olds. Technical  supervision by CIEE (Centro de Integrao Empresa-Escola,  an education nonprofit funded by business). Oversight by  Promons Human Relations and Communication Departments. Hiring &  Induction People Promon does not permit discrimination on grounds of age,  gender, colour, race, creed or sexual preference in its training  processes. Professional  Development  Action Performance Statistical survey of workforce by gender, age (over 45),  hierarchical level and ethnicity for publication in CSR  report according to standard developed by IBASE (Instituto  Brasileiro de Anlises Sociais e Econmicas), a nonprofit  founded in 1981 to build democracy by fighting inequalities  and stimulating citizens participation through research,  surveys, advocacy and solidarity campaigning. Inclusion of CSR requirements based on Social Accountability  Standard SA8000 in supplier selection and assessment  procedures. Staff in HR, Legal, Procurement, Administration  and HSE trained as internal auditors of SA8000 compliance. Supplier selection and performance assessment based on  documents that prove the legality of their activities in the  marketplace. Promon Integra 2009 – Biennial event bringing  together key suppliers to share ethical principles and  deploy joint initiatives relating to labour law commitments  that contribute to the development of Promons supplier  network. The next such event is scheduled for 2011. Signatory of National Compact to Eradicate Slave Labour  in Brazil – Promon is a signatory of the Compact, based on a report  by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), undertaking not to  acquire goods whose production chain involves slave labour. Promon staff visit suppliers for inspection of social and  environmental practices. IBASE CSR  Report CSR Clause  in Supplier  Contract Assessments  for Supplier  Qualification  & Monitoring Initiative to  Share Values  & Principles Engagement  in Social  Initiatives Technical  Inspection  to Verify  Best Practice  in Social &  Environmental  Responsibility System: System: Action Action Action Action Action Action Performance Performance Performance Performance Performance Performance Society & Environment  Partners & Suppliers  98% 2008 97% 97% 2009 2010 People here are treated well, regardless of colour or ethnicity – Agree  Source: Melhores Empresas para se Trabalhar, poca magazine and Great Place to Work Institute, 2010 97% 2008 98% 98% 2009 2010 People here are treated well, regardless of gender – Agree  Source: Melhores Empresas para se Trabalhar, poca magazine and Great Place to Work Institute, 2010  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 18 Indicators System: Action Performance Principle 3 Businesses should  uphold freedom  of association and  effective recognition of  the right to collective  bargaining. Commitment Promon respects the right  of employees to join the  associations of their choice,  values other forms of  voluntary association by  its staff, and encourages  suppliers to do the same. Organisation Promons employees are its sole shareholders. Equity ownership  is open to all staff without exception on a voluntary basis. This  ownership model enables Promons professionals to participate  actively in corporate governance, including elections for senior  executive positions by secret ballot. Members of the Board of  Directors and Executive Committee are held every three years and  independently audited. All profit from operations is used for the benefit of employees,  as follows:   profit sharing (semiannual) for all staff, whether or not  they are shareholders   dividends paid to shareholders, all of whom are  Promon employees   reinvestment in the business, which in turn is reflected  in the share price and hence in employee wealth. Ownership  Structure Promon respects the right of employees to join  professional associations and trade unions and engage  in collective bargaining, thus respecting the freedom  of association and other collective rights enshrined in  Brazilian law.  Inclusion of CSR requirements based on Social  Accountability Standard SA8000 in supplier selection and  assessment procedures. Staff in HR, Legal, Procurement,  Administration and HSE trained as internal auditors of  SA8000 compliance. Supplier selection and performance assessment based on  documents that prove the legality of their activities in the  marketplace. Promon staff visit suppliers for inspection of social and  environmental practices. Freedom of  Association  CSR Clause  in Supplier  Contract Assessments  for Supplier  Qualification  & Monitoring Technical  Inspection to  Verify Best  Practice in Social & Environmental Responsibility System: System: Action Action Action Action Performance Performance Performance Performance People  Partners & Suppliers  Self-proposed salaries – Staff propose salary levels  using a standard form with a justification for the  parameters involved. After analysis and assessment by  managers, including interaction with the individuals  concerned, the results of the salary review are  communicated to each professional.  Pay Action Performance Promon Integra 2009 – Biennial event bringing  together key suppliers to share ethical principles and  deploy joint initiatives relating to labour law commitments  that contribute to the development of Promons supplier  network. The next such event is scheduled for 2011. Initiative to  Share Values  & Principles Action Performance Freedom of association Source: Human Resources Management / Promon  100% of our employees belong to a professional association or trade union  2009 2010 100% 2008 100% 100% Contracts including sustainability requirements Source: Procurement Department / Promon  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 19 System: Indicators Action Performance Promon staff visit suppliers for inspection of social and  environmental practices. Technical  Inspection to  Verify Best  Practice in Social & Environmental Responsibility Action Performance Principle 4 Businesses should  uphold the elimination  of all forms of forced  and compulsory labour. Commitment Promon will not tolerate  worker exploitation  under any circumstances  and has no business or  contractual relations with  organisations that use  any form of forced or  compulsory labour. Signatory of National Compact to Eradicate Slave  Labour in Brazil – Promon is a signatory of the Compact,  based on a report by the International Labour Organisation  (ILO), undertaking not to tolerate slave labour in the  production chain. Engagement  in Social  Initiatives  Society & Environment  All contracts signed by suppliers of goods and services  include a clause repudiating and prohibiting the use of  any form of forced labour or child labour throughout the  supply chain.  Supplier selection based on documents that prove the  legality of their activities in the marketplace. Inclusion of CSR requirements based on Social  Accountability Standard SA8000 in supplier selection and  assessment procedures. Staff in HR, Legal, Procurement,  Administration and HSE trained as internal auditors of  SA8000 compliance. Supplier selection and performance assessment based on  documents that prove the legality of their activities in the  marketplace. CSR Clause  in Supplier  Contract Documents  Required Inclusion  in supplier  selection and  assessment  policies  of specific  criteria  assuring the  elimination  of all forms  of forced or  compulsory  labour Assessments  for Supplier  Qualification  & Monitoring System: Action Action Action Action Performance Performance Performance Performance Partners & Suppliers  Promon Integra 2009 – Biennial event bringing  together key suppliers to share ethical principles and  deploy joint initiatives relating to labour law commitments  that contribute to the development of Promons supplier  network. The next such event is scheduled for 2011. Initiative to  Share Values  & Principles Action Performance 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 Number of reported violations relating to use of forced labour in production chain  Source: Ethos indicators for Social Responsibility, 2010 Number of violations of ban on child labour imputed to Promon by Ministry of Labour inspectors Source: Human Resources Management / Promon 0 2008 2009 2010 0 0  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 20 Indicators System: Action Performance Principle 5 Businesses should  uphold the effective  abolition of child labour. Commitment Promon will not tolerate  under any circumstances  the exploitation of  children and young people  under legal working age,  and has no business or  contractual relations with  organisations that use child  labour in any form. People Adolescent Apprenticeships – Specific two-year  programme to include and train 17-20-year-olds. Technical  supervision by CIEE (Centro de Integrao Empresa-Escola,  an education nonprofit funded by business). Oversight  by Promons Human Relations and Communication  Departments. Hiring &  Induction  Signatory of National Compact to Eradicate Slave  Labour in Brazil – Promon is a signatory of the Compact,  based on a report by the International Labour Organisation  (ILO), undertaking not to acquire goods whose production  chain involves slave labour. Member of Movimento Todos Pela Educao – The  All for Education Movement is an alliance of civil society,  business, social organisations, educators and public  administrators in education to guarantee basic schooling  of high quality for all by 2022. It has five major aims: all  children aged 4-17 to attend school; all children to be  fully literate by the age of 8; all children to attain a level  of learning appropriate for their grade; all children to  complete secondary schooling by the age of 19; well- managed and rising investment in education. Funding member of Fundao Abrinq pelos  Direitos da Criana e Adolescente – The Abrinq  Foundation was set up in 1990 to defend the rights and  citizenship of children and adolescents. Sixteen-to-21-year-olds from Ao Comunitria do Brasil,  Associao Ser Cidado and Camp Vila Isabel receive  advice on work readiness through presentations, group  dynamics and testimonials in guided visits to Promons So  Paulo and Rio de Janeiro offices. Engagement  in Social  Initiatives Voluntary  Service  Programme System: Action Action Performance Performance Society & Environment  1,935 2,936 2008 2,117 2009 2010 Number of young people benefited by work readiness programmes supported by Promon Source: Human Resources Management / Promon   UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 21 System: Indicators Action Performance Principle 5 Businesses should  uphold the effective  abolition of child labour. Commitment Promon will not tolerate  under any circumstances  the exploitation of  children and young people  under legal working age,  and has no business or  contractual relations with  organisations that use child  labour in any form. All contracts signed by suppliers of goods and services  include a clause repudiating and prohibiting the use of  any form of forced labour or child labour throughout the  supply chain. CSR Clause  in Supplier  Contract Partners & Suppliers  Supplier selection based on documents that prove the  legality of their activities in the marketplace. Documents  Required Action Performance Inclusion of CSR requirements based on Social  Accountability Standard SA8000 in supplier selection and  assessment procedures. Staff in HR, Legal, Procurement,  Administration and HSE trained as internal auditors of  SA8000 compliance. Supplier selection and performance assessment based on  documents that prove the legality of their activities in the  marketplace. Inclusion  in supplier  selection and  assessment  policies  of specific  criteria  assuring the  elimination  of all forms  of forced or  compulsory  labour Assessments  for Supplier  Qualification  & Monitoring Action Action Performance Performance Promon staff visit suppliers for inspection of social and  environmental practices. Technical  Inspection  to Verify  Best Practice  in Social &  Environmental  Responsibility Action Performance Ministry of Labour penalties for use of forced labour Source: Human Resources Management / Promon 0 2008 2009 2010 0 0  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 22 Indicators System: Action Performance Principle 6 Businesses should  uphold the elimination  of discrimination in  respect of employment  and occupation. Commitment Promon is committed  to human relations  policies geared to justice,  transparency, impartiality  and professionalism. No  form of discrimination  based on race, gender,  social orientation, colour,  religion, age, ethnic origin  or any other factor is  allowed in any business  processes or in the  workplace. Organisation HR conducts the selection and accession process entirely in  line with Promons commitment to eliminate discrimination  in the organisation. Candidates participate in all stages  of the selection process regardless of job description or  hierarchical level. Inclusion of Persons with Special Needs (PSN) – The  companys Attitude to Include Programme is designed  to extend its inclusion culture by hiring PSN, providing  assistance and raising staff awareness. The same benefits, including pay, medical care and  retirement plans, are available to all professionals  regardless of hierarchical level, function, gender, ethnicity,  religion and age. Promotion strictly by merit, with no discrimination based on  hierarchical level, function, gender, ethnicity, religion or age.  The performance assessment system is the same for all staff  regardless of hierarchical level, function, gender, ethnicity,  religion or age. Professional development programmes are  offered to all staff regardless of hierarchical level, function,  gender, ethnicity, religion and age. Employees participate in all stages of the separation process  regardless of job description or hierarchical level. HR assists  employees with the production and dissemination of  their CVs. Following separation, ex-employees may opt to  continue paying for the pension plan provided they bear the  full cost of the premium. Hiring &  Induction Pay Professional  Development, Education &  Training  Separation System: Action Action Action Action Performance Performance Performance Performance People  Promons employees are its sole shareholders. Equity  ownership is open to all staff without exception on a  voluntary basis. This ownership model enables Promons  professionals to participate actively in corporate  governance, including elections for senior executive  positions by secret ballot. Members of the Board of  Directors and Executive Committee are held every three  years and independently audited. All profit from operations is used for the benefit of  employees, as follows:   profit sharing (semiannual) for all staff, whether or not  they are shareholders   dividends paid to shareholders, all of whom are  Promon employees   reinvestment in the business, which in turn is reflected  in the share price and hence in employee wealth. Ownership  Structure 84% 2010 83% 85% 2008 2009 The company offers me training and professional development opportunities – Agree  Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey)  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 23 System: Indicators Action Performance Principle 6 Businesses should  uphold the elimination  of discrimination in  respect of employment  and occupation. Commitment Promon is committed  to human relations  policies geared to justice,  transparency, impartiality  and professionalism. No  form of discrimination  based on race, gender,  social orientation, colour,  religion, age, ethnic origin  or any other factor is  allowed in any business  processes or in the  workplace. Partners & Suppliers  All contracts signed by suppliers of goods and services  include a clause repudiating and prohibiting all forms of  discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CSR Clause  in Supplier  Contract Supplier selection is based on documents that prove the  legality of their activities in the marketplace. Required Documents Action Performance Inclusion of CSR requirements based on Social  Accountability Standard SA8000 in supplier selection and  assessment procedures. Staff in HR, Legal, Procurement,  Administration and HSE trained as internal auditors of  SA8000 compliance. Supplier selection and performance assessment are based  on documents that prove the legality of their activities in  the marketplace. Inclusion  in Supplier  Selection &  Assessment  Policies of  Specific  Criteria  Assuring the  Elimination of  Discrimination  in  Employment  & Occupation Assessments  for Supplier  Qualification  & Monitoring Action Action Performance Performance Promon staff visit suppliers for inspection of social and  environmental practices. Technical  Inspection  to Verify  Best Practice  in Social &  Environmental  Responsibility Action Performance Promon Integra 2009 – Biennial event bringing  together key suppliers to share ethical principles and  deploy joint initiatives relating to labour law commitments  that contribute to the development of Promons supplier  network. The next such event is scheduled for 2011. Initiative to  Share Values  & Principles Action Performance  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 24 Indicators System: Action Performance Principle 7 Businesses should  support a precautionary  approach to  environmental  challenges. Commitment Promon acts to protect the  environment wherever  it does business. It uses  natural resources rationally,  preferring recyclable  materials wherever  possible and taking other  steps to mitigate pollution  of the air, water and soil  as well as noise and visual  pollution. Promon is certified against ISO 14001, the most widely  recognised international standard for environmental  management. The key component of its HSE Management  System is the identification and preventive treatment of  potential causes of damage to the environment, society  or property, setting goals and targets for enhanced  environmental performance. All projects and worksites  comply fully with ISO 14001.  In 2009 and 2010 the HSE Management System used by  Promon and the consortia in which it participates was  recognised by independent bodies as a benchmark for  best management practice, receiving awards such as the  Petrobras Contractor HSEQ Prize for the diesel hydrotreater  unit (DHTU) at the Revap refinery and the Banas  Sustainable Development Prize for the retarded coking unit  at the Repar refinery. HSE  Management  System  Society & Environment  Promon includes environmental management among the  various disciplines it uses to develop engineering solutions,  aiming to guarantee compliance with environmental law  and develop a technical approach to identify the best  environmental solutions for its projects and clients.  Working groups comprising professionals from various  technical areas of engineering, whose remit is to procure,  implement and disseminate available technologies that  minimise the environmental impact of the companys  projects. The groups include engineers allocated to projects  in accordance with the work themes addressed. Multidisciplinary group whose main remit is to strengthen  and disseminate the companys social and environmental  activities. Programmes to conserve or substitute non-renewable  resources and minimise the amount of renewable resources  used, both in management of the organisations facilities  and in the supply of products and services to clients and at  worksites. Recycling of paper, plastic cups and fluorescent  bulbs, use of recycled paper, collection and proper disposal  of batteries used in offices, office furniture made of certified  wood and reduction of electricity and water consumption  are some of the preventive measures taken to address  environmental challenges. Environmentally secure disposal of electronic waste from  offices, such as monitors, mice, keyboards and notebooks,  via a company selected on the basis of compliance with  environmental licensing legislation and waste disposal  operator certification requirements.  Training and awareness-raising campaigns organised by  Promon at its offices and worksites include:   Periodic Training Plan, with procedures and actions  for the entire workforce to minimise scope-of-work  environmental impact, such as selective waste  collection, wood reuse, water conservation, leak  prevention etc. Environmental  Management  Discipline Environmental  Responsibility  Working  Groups  in Engineering  Projects  Society &  Environment  Group Socio- Environmental  Awareness  Raising Action Action Action Action Performance Performance Performance Performance 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 Number of reported violations relating to use of forced labour in production chain  Source: Ethos indicators for Social Responsibility, 2010 The CCPR Consortium, formed  by Camargo Corra Promon and  Engineering, won the National Award  for Management Banas 2010 in the  categories: Quality and Sustainable  Development - Environment, an  initiative of the Journal Banas.  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 25 System: Indicators Action Performance Principle 7 Businesses should  support a precautionary  approach to  environmental  challenges. Commitment Promon acts to protect the  environment wherever  it does business. It uses  natural resources rationally,  preferring recyclable  materials wherever  possible and taking other  steps to mitigate pollution  of the air, water and soil  as well as noise and visual  pollution. Structured process for environmental aspect and impact  studies and procedures in project implementation and  operation are used to identify and deploy intelligent  solutions with superior environmental performance in plant  construction and operation. Promon is developing a sustainability meter to measure the  environmental and social impacts of its business activities.  The environmental component of the system has been  tested on some projects. The social component is still under  development.  Participation in the Brazilian programme to implement the  Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a partnership between the World  Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for  Sustainable Development (WBSCD), adapted to the Brazilian  context to produce a carbon emission inventory. Employees in various departments receive financial  assistance and/or leave for graduate studies or short courses  on sustainability-related topics. Environmental  Aspects &  Impacts Sustainability  Meter Brazil GHG  Protocol  Programme Employee  Sustainability  Training  Action Action Action Action Performance Performance Performance Performance Socio- Environmental  Awareness  Raising   Environment Week, held to coincide with World  Environment Day (June 5); publicised on the  companys intranet, with activities including  presentations, recycling workshops for employees, and  tips on ways to reduce water and power consumption,  plus how environmental footprint is calculated (using  a tool that measures the natural resources used to  generate electricity based on the material and energy  requirements of a given population). Society & Environment  2009 2010 84% 2008 65% 79% I am satisfied with the way Promon handles environmental issues in its offices – Agree Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey)  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 26 Indicators System: Performance Performance Performance Performance Action Action Action Action Principle 8 Businesses should  undertake initiatives  to promote greater  environmental  responsibility. Commitment Promon promotes  environmental  responsibility in its regular  operations and through  environmental education  and conscientious  consumption programmes. Society & Environment  Recycling of paper, fluorescent bulbs and plastic cups,  use of recycled paper, collection and proper disposal of  batteries used in Promons offices. Recycling of electronic  equipment from offices, such as monitors, mice, keyboards  and notebooks, by a specialised company that retrieves  components and metals for reuse.  Continuous programme to reduce office consumption of  water and electricity. All engineering designs, blueprints  and other technical documents are now digital to  economise paper, printing, plotting and copying. Other  items that indirectly entail resource consumption (e.g. filing  cabinets, stamps, correcting fluid, cardboard boxes etc.)  have been reduced or eliminated. This economy of paper  and other materials also reduces consumption of power,  water and trees. In 2010, all engineering design processes were modified to  include electronic verification prior to document issuance,  as well as electronic verification of supplier documents,  instead of printing out copies for verification, significantly  reducing consumption of paper and printer ink, generating  less waste and using less power.  Worksite waste, residue and effluent are properly collected,  stored and disposed of in accordance with guidelines and  specific procedures for each project. Engineering develops  design solutions to reduce consumption of raw materials  in plant construction and operation. Worksite design  includes programmes to mitigate environmental impacts by  reducing air pollution and water consumption, as well as  promoting reuse of materials, substituting plastic for wood  pallets and recycling the plastic instead of disposing of it in  construction landfills.  HSE toolbox talks lasting at most 15 minutes daily are  held at every worksite for Promon, consortium and  contractor personnel. All new employees take an induction  course that includes specific lectures on environmental  management. Alongside awareness-raising events,  including lectures and worksite campaigns, the annual  calendar of internal events includes, for example, a Water  Conservation Campaign held in March at all worksites to  coincide with World Water Day, with actions to encourage  employees to reduce water consumption and reuse water;  Tree Day, with worksite campaigns to raise awareness  of the importance of conserving vegetation and planting  trees on worksites or local parks; and other campaigns in  accordance with a specific agenda.  Encouragement of and technical support for the inclusion  of environmental best practices in engineering designs,  with assistance for technical, economic and environmental  feasibility studies. The following were proposed in 2010:   alternative ways for alumina, steel and thermal power  plants to recycle industrial waste;    inclusion of sustainable or green building materials,  such as translucent roofing, louvre blinds, thermal  ceilings, rainwater use, solar water heaters and solar  panels on utility poles. Materials  Recycling Reduction  of Resource  Consumption Socio- Environmental  Awareness  Raising Inclusion of  Environmental  Responsibility  Practices in  Engineering  Designs  2009 2010 81% 2008 77% 80% I am satisfied with the way Promon handles environmental issues in its business portfolio – Agree Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey)  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 27 System: Indicators Action Performance Principle 8 Businesses should  undertake initiatives  to promote greater  environmental  responsibility. Commitment Promon promotes  environmental  responsibility in its regular  operations and through  environmental education  and conscientious  consumption programmes. Society & Environment  Provision of chartered transport between offices, metro  stations and car parks to reduce demand for parking  spaces and traffic congestion in the vicinity of Promons  offices. Encouragement of employee carpooling. Employee  Mobility  Actions  Performance Performance Action Action Development of Environment & HSE Management module  for distance training of interns and new employees. The  module deals with the history of the topic at Promon with  engineering design and worksite applications.  Periodic meetings of senior executives and line managers  to plan and follow-up actions relating to Promons social  and environmental responsibility. Environment  & HSE  Management  Module –  Trajectories  Programme Social &  Environmental  Responsibility  Coordination  Group  2009 2010 77% 2008 79% 76% I am satisfied with the way the company handles environmental issues in services and at worksites for which it is responsible – Agree  Source: Pesquisa de Prticas, 2010 (Workplace Climate Survey) BCV The Consortium, formed by  Camargo Corra, MEP and Promon  Engineering, won the Prize Petrobras  / Engineering Quality, Safety,  Environment and Health in Industrial  Construction Category.  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 28 Indicators System: Action Performance Principle 9 Businesses should  encourage the  development  and diffusion of  environmentally  friendly technologies. Commitment Promon is committed to  developing and adopting  sustainable technologies as  an intrinsic part of its business. Society & Environment In 2010, all engineering design processes were modified to  include electronic verification prior to document issuance, as  well as electronic verification of supplier documents, instead  of printing out copies for verification, significantly reducing  consumption of paper and printer ink, generating less waste  and using less power. Structured process for environmental aspect and impact  studies and procedures in project implementation and  operation are used to identify and deploy intelligent  solutions with superior environmental performance in plant  construction and operation. Solutions deriving from these  studies include: Buildings: Use of translucent roofing, large window frames  (natural lighting and ventilation), fibreglass venetian blinds  (side ventilation and lighting), heat-insulated metal roof  tiles, natural roof ventilation (lantern roof), louvres (interior  insulation control), independent self-supporting structural  elements not requiring mortar or outer coating, and mineral  fibre ceilings (thermal and acoustic insulation). Electricity: Use of dry-type transformers in substations –  no toxic gas emissions, no fire hazard, no fire propagation,  smaller footprint, less drainage required (less material,  excavation and waste), less risk of leaks. Water reuse: Rainwater tank designed to enable worksite  water reuse and for garden irrigation, plumbing, toilet  flushing, boot washing etc., for up 40% potable water  saving. Worksite waste management plans include solutions to  enhance waste recycling and avoid landfill disposal, such as: Rubble – Concrete waste from pile driving is sent to  concrete recycling plants rather than construction landfills. Scrap metal – Used to make simple tools, worksite utensils,  litter baskets, ashtrays etc. instead of being thrown away. Hazardous waste – Co-processing preferred whenever  possible to disposal via licensed landfill, thus mitigating  environmental impact. Brazilian sugar & ethanol producer – Promon  designed a plant to produce ethanol from sugarcane and  generate electricity for consumption and sale of surplus  power to the grid. The design called for the use of proven  technologies such as diffuser extraction, treatment of juice  using a clarifier with low retention time, heat regeneration,  juice evaporation to generate process steam and reduce  steam consumption, batch fermentation, yeast recovery by  centrifugation, and distillation by direct heating with steam  generation. Electronic  Document  Verification Procedure to  Identify & Treat  Environmental  Aspects &  Impacts Operational  Waste Control New Energy  Projects Action Action Action Performance Performance Performance Recognized as one of the 20 model  companies in corporate sustainability  by Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade The CCPR Consortium, formed  by Camargo Corra Promon and  Engineering, won the first prize  of Project of the Year 2010 for  developing the project Construction  and Installation Portfolio REPAR of  Coke in recognition of his expertise  in project management .  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 29 System: Indicators Action Performance Principle 9 Businesses should  encourage the  development  and diffusion of  environmentally  friendly technologies. Commitment Promon is committed to  developing and adopting  sustainable technologies as  an intrinsic part of its business. At the start of 2010, Promons interns were invited under  the New Talent Programme to develop projects involving  innovation, creativity and process improvements at Promon  Engenharia. Prize-winning environmental and sustainability- related initiatives included projects for worksite waste  disposal, sustainable office behaviour, technical and  economic analysis of solar power use in offices,  implementation of collective transport, and carpooling. Open meetings held from time to time, where employees  make presentations on engineering-related issues including  environmentally sustainable solutions, such as use of  biofuels, solar water heating, photovoltaic solar power and  sustainable building practices. New Talent  Programme Engineering  Meetings Action Performance System: Training Engagement in Social Initiatives   UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 30 Indicators System: Action Performance Performance Performance Performance Performance Performance Action Action Action Action Action Principle 10 Businesses should work  against corruption in  all its forms, including  extortion and bribery. Commitment Promon does not  tolerate corruption in  any shape or form. All  business processes include  instruments that explicitly  prohibit professionals from  accepting or encouraging  inducements or favours of  any kind. Organisation Guidelines for business conduct and accountability to  shareholders. Guidelines for auditing. Corpo & Alma (Body & Soul) was published in 2009  to share the companys history and culture. Distributed  to all staff and service providers, as well as major clients,  suppliers and partners, the book sets out to translate  at least partly the motivations for engagement and the  results of the dedication of all those who have contributed  to the companys development. The chapter Our Conduct describes Promons ethical  worldview, which prioritises mutual respect, protection  of the environment, transparency and excellence in all  activities and relations with stakeholders. This chapter  of the book seeks to present the positions developed by  Promon during its entire history. Conduct in respect of hiring, timekeeping, worktime  accounts, holidays, pay and benefits, employee mobility, use  of the healthcare plan, compliance with safety standards,  occupational health and environmental protection.   Guidelines on access control, shipping, reimbursement,  security, handling of internal and external documents  and pouches, use of telephones, vehicles, and buying,  selling, donating, transfer and safekeeping of property.   Policies for use of hardware and software, internet use,  email and telephony.   Conduct in handling information relating to business  management, clients and other stakeholders.    Secrecy, transparency in relationships, commitment to  technical solutions, and integrity in complying with all  contractual and legal requirements.   Clarity and objectivity in meeting technical and  commercial requirements.   Guidelines on relationships with internal and external  stakeholders, visual identity, and publicity material. Signature of Business Compact For Integrity &  Against Corruption in Brazil – The anti-corruption  compact (2006) comprises a set of guidelines and  procedures governing relations between government and  business organisations or other types of signatory. Latin American Conference on Corporate  Responsibility in Promoting Integrity and  Combating Corruption – Promon participated  in discussions on topics such as cooperation among  companies and institutions to inhibit corruption at the  international level. Commitment to environmental and social improvements  and transparency in informing the public about social and  environmental impacts. Guidelines &  Practices Ethical  Guidelines Guidelines &  Practices Engagement  in Social  Initiatives Guidelines &  Practices System: System: People  Society & Environment  Number of complaints alleging unfair trade pratices filed with or by CADE, Brazils antitrust regulator Source: Legal Department / Promon  0 2008 2009 2010 0 0 Complaints filed with or by ANVISA (public health surveillance), IPEM (weights and measures), IDEC (consumer defence), INMETRO (weights and measures), PROCON (consumer defence), other government bodies or NGOs for irregularities in Promons processes, services and products Source: Legal Department / Promon  0 2008 2009 2010 0 0  UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2010 | page 31 System: Indicators Action Performance Principle 10 Businesses should work  against corruption in  all its forms, including  extortion and bribery. Commitment Promon does not  tolerate corruption in  any shape or form. All  business processes include  instruments that explicitly  prohibit professionals from  accepting or encouraging  inducements or favours of  any kind. Ethics, secrecy, and compliance with technical and  commercial requirements. Guidelines on understanding and meeting legal  requirements relating to contracts with clients. Compliance with contractual requirements in payment  process. Guidelines &  Practices Clients Ethical principles in supplier relations. Guidelines on managing contracts with partners. Supplier selection and performance assessment are based  on documents that prove the legality of their activities in  the marketplace. Promon Integra 2009 – Biennial event bringing  together key suppliers to share ethical principles and  deploy joint initiatives relating to labour law commitments  that contribute to the development of Promons supplier  network. The next such event is scheduled for 2011. Guidelines &  Practices Assessments  for Supplier  Qualification  & Monitoring Sharing of  Values &  Principles System: Action Action Action Performance Performance Performance Partners & Suppliers  95% 98% 2008 2010 97% 2009 Proportion rating top management honest and ethical in conducting the companys business Source: Melhores Empresas para se Trabalhar, poca magazine and Great Place to Work Institute, 2010