Old Mutual South Africa  Sustainability Report 2009  No tree in Africa embodies the spirit of  Africa more than the baobab. In years  gone by kings, elders and leaders would  hold meetings under huge baobabs to  debate and discuss important issues and  ideas. Not only did the trees provide  shelter, but the tribal leaders also  believed that the spirit of the baobab  would always help them make wise  decisions. Being a succulent, the baobab makes  optimum use of scarce resources. The  tree survives prolonged droughts by  storing water in its massive, fibrous,  sponge-like trunk. The baobab is seen  as a symbol of endurance, conservation,  creativity, ingenuity and dialogue. The baobab reflects much of what Old  Mutual South Africa (OMSA) strives to  be. For 165 years, we have provided  financial shelter and nourishment to  people and businesses. OMSA aims to  serve all sectors of the South African  economy and elements of the African  economy by providing products and  services that are appropriate, affordable  and accessible. We recognise that  knowledge and wisdom are not held  by one person, but are rather the sum  of all within OMSA, the wider industry,  government and society. Collaboration  is, and will continue to be, the key to  achieving a truly sustainable future. Front cover This Sustainability Report covers  a significantly broader range of  sustainability issues than our  previous Corporate Citizenship  Reports. The content has been  developed with reference to  sustainability initiatives such as the  Global Reporting Index (GRI), the  JSE Socially Responsible Investment  (JSE SRI) Index, the United Nations  Global Compact (UNGC) and   King III. While our aim for this  years sustainability report is to give  as full and transparent a picture  of our successes and challenges  in relation to sustainability as  possible, we recognise that there is  still a lot to be done. The process  of developing this report has  helped us identify and clarify areas  where we need to work harder and  achieve more, and has provided  a strong basis for reporting and  communicating our progress in   the future.  This report covers the 2009 financial  year and includes information on  the activities of OMSA and all its  subsidiaries. Old Mutuals African  Operations have only recently  begun reporting into OMSA and  their sustainability issues are thus  covered at a high level in this years  report. Old Mutuals operations in  other emerging market countries  such as Columbia, Mexico, India and  China are not covered in this report.  With these countries now reporting  to Kuseni Dlamini – CEO of OMSA  and Emerging Markets, they will be  covered in the 2010 sustainability  report. A longer version of this  report is available on the website at  About this report  www.oldmutual.co.za/sustainabilityreport  1 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009   Contents    Material issues  2   About Old Mutual  4   Statement by the Chief Executive Officer Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc;     and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa  6   Statement by the Chief Executive Officer of Old Mutual South Africa     and Emerging Markets  8   Framework for managing sustainability  10   Sustainability Review   Serving our customers  16   Investing responsibly  26   Strengthening relationships with our intermediaries  32   Ensuring ethical behaviour  37   Continuing our commitment to transformation  38   Supporting our communities  44   Ensuring our status as employer of choice  50   Minimising and managing our impact on the environment  58   African Operations  62   Old Mutual South Africa dti scorecard  65   Global reporting initiative (GRI) G3 Index  66   Glossary  68   Contact details  IBC  2 Material issues Chapter Material issues Serving our  customers  >> page 16   Customer feedback: ensuring we engage with and respond to our  customers   Product access: making relevant products and services accessible to  consumers   Financial education: empowering consumers to make informed financial  decisions   Product pricing: providing products that are fairly and affordably priced   Product promotion: ensuring that we market our products and services  fairly and accurately Investing  responsibly  >> page 26   OMSAs SRI funds: providing investment options to our clients that are  socially and environmentally responsible   Transformation-related financing: channelling funds as formally  prescribed in the Financial Sector Charter (FSC)   SRI-based investment decisions: incorporating environmental, social and  governance criteria into our investment decision-making Strengthening  relationships with  our intermediaries  >> page 32   Building the intermediary pool to ensure equitable access to financial  advice   Raising the standards of financial advice and developing intermediaries  businesses   Supporting the sustainability of intermediary businesses Ensuring ethical  behaviour  >> page 37   Promoting ethical behaviour amongst our employees and consumers  and protecting our funds and clients from fraudulent activity Continuing our  commitment to  transformation  >> page 38   Equity ownership: participation by black people   Management and control: appointment of black people in senior  management positions   Employment equity: participation of black people in management levels and  black disabled people in all levels   Skills development: skills spend on black employees, black learners and  black disabled people   Preferential procurement: BBBEE procurement spend from all suppliers    Enterprise development: supporting the development and growth of micro,  small and medium businesses and black-owned businesses    Socio-economic development: uplifting communities through financial and  other support Supporting our  communities  >> page 44   Corporate social investment: focusing on enterprise development, skills  building, education and staff volunteerism   Sponsorships: uplifting communities through the use of relevant marketing  campaigns   Development support: providing financing and support to micro, small and  medium businesses and building capacity in government (through Masisizane) Ensuring our status  as employer of  choice  >> page 50   Attracting and retaining talent, particularly for critical roles    Integrating skills and career development across the business   Employee relations and engagement with unions   Unifying our People Strategy across Africa Minimising and  managing our  impact on the  environment  >> page 58   Reducing the environmental footprint of properties we manage   Reducing the environmental footprint of properties we develop   Reducing environmental impacts through investment decision-making  Key indicators Status   Percentage achievement of service levels   Number of branches   Number of people trained through financial education  programmes   Percentage of customers delighted by OMSAs customer  service   Number of complaints   55% of our customers are delighted and 89% of our customers are  satisfied by our customer service    Increased our footprint in the provision of products and services  for the Foundation market by growing the number of branches  servicing customers from 65 to 167   Provided education to 49 724 consumers across the country   9% reduction in complaints compared to 2008   Assets under management in socially responsible  investment (SRI) funds    Percentage of SRI funds against all OMIGSAs assets  under management   Well developed SRI-related funds within OMSA, with R21.1 billion  assets under management   Number of black brokers trained through the Old Mutual  Academy for Financial Planners   Number of tied agents trained through workshops    Number of independent financial advisory practices  that entered the South Africa Best Practice of the Year  Award competition    Intermediary satisfaction with service   194 black brokers have been trained to date   Intermediaries have been supported and trained to prepare for  regulatory and economic market changes, with 6 176 attending  workshops   Masthead was established to provide an independent voice for  brokers   125 independent financial advisory practices entered the 2009  competition   77% satisfaction achieved at end 2009 versus target of 72.5%   Measurement of internal fraud in the Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee   Our forensic structures and systems have been voted best in  class by a third party   Dti Codes of Good Practice statistics:   –  Equity ownership   –  Management and control   –  Employment equity   –  Skills development   –  Preferential procurement   –  Enterprise development    –  Socio-economic development   A decrease in equity ownership as compared with 2008 scores   An improvement in employment equity   A decrease in the skills development score as compared with  2008 scores   Significantly improved preferential procurement BEE score   Full score for enterprise development maintained   A decrease in the score for socio-economic development as  compared with 2008 scores   CSI spend; number of jobs or skills created; number of  students from OMSA-supported schools passing matric  with Bachelors qualifications; number of staff and  hours spent on volunteer work   Sponsorship spend   Refined our CSI strategy and implemented an electronic project  management system for reporting and tracking contractual  agreements and project progress   CSI spend of R31 million   3 046 jobs created   50% of all staff participating in volunteer programmes   Sponsorship spend of R39.68 million   Employee turnover    Percentage of female employees   Spend on skills development    Employee engagement   Number of employees using the Employee Well-being  Programme   Increased total employee turnover to 30.01%   52.7% of employees are female    Integrated skills and career development across business  units and job families, with R98.5 million being spent on skills  development   Accredited 90% of our training programmes run through the   Old Mutual business school.    Achieved 69% employee climate survey score as compared to  67% in 2008   1 680 employees using the Employee Well-being Programme   Energy usage   Water usage   Proportion of waste recycled   Significant energy savings in select buildings managed by OMSA   Green features being designed into new build projects  please open for  full material issues  table Looking forward Chapter   Continued focus on service improvement   Target to achieve 90% satisfied customers by the end of 2010   Expand the rollout of appropriate products and services to the  foundation and mass markets and to our African Operations   Open 60 to 70 new branches providing service and product  advice a year until 2012   Continue to review and deliver our financial education  programmes Serving our  customers  >> page 16   Further grow our SRI funds   Develop and implement appropriate standards and approaches  to SRI-based decision making across our businesses    Investing  responsibly  >> page 26   Further increase the number of black brokers through  establishing a sustainable model of operation for the Academy  for Financial Planners and the Black Distributors Trust   Continued focus on improving service, including investment  in technology to enable straight through processing of new  business Strengthening  relationships  with our  intermediaries  >> page 32   Ensure that our employees and customers maintain their  integrity, particularly in the tough economic climate Ensuring ethical  behaviour  >> page 37   Continue to improve on all seven pillars   Address skills development gaps, particularly with regard to  black women, black employees enrolled in learnerships and  disabled Continuing our  commitment to  transformation  >> page 38   CSI: continue to focus on programmes that provide sustainable  and meaningful improvements   Sponsorships: continue to ensure that our projects help us to  strengthen our relationships with communities while providing  strategic value to our business Supporting our  communities  >> page 44   Address employee turnover    Continue to address skills development and talent  management, particularly of women and black employees   Align human resources practices across our South African and  African Operations Ensuring our  status as  employer of  choice  >> page 50   Managing resource efficiency improvements in a systematic  way   Ensuring implementation of new building projects to a four star  Green Building Council of South Africa rating   Realising opportunities through investing in environmentally  friendly technologies Minimising and  managing our  impact on the  environment  >> page 58 Material   issues We have selected our material  issues by:   Assessing the sustainability  reporting of other financial  services companies,   Engaging with Old Mutual plc  to understand the direction  of sustainability in the  Group,   Conducting numerous  interviews across the  company,   Reviewing the feedback from  our employee and customer  surveys,   Engaging with limited  external stakeholders. >> 3 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009  About Old Mutual South Africa Old Mutual is the largest and most well-established financial services provider in Southern Africa. Our  prominent position in the industry is reflected in our strong operating performance across all our businesses,  our good balance sheet position, strong financial flexibility with demonstrated access to international capital  markets and diversity of business. Our partnership with Nedbank and Mutual & Federal (M&F) – two sister subsidiary companies under the Old  Mutual plc banner in South Africa – enables us to offer a variety of financial products and services. These span  investment, life assurance, asset management, banking, healthcare and general insurance. Our client base  comprises individuals, businesses, corporates and institutions. Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) is a significant participant in the South African economy. Our product and  service solutions take into account what our clients need and deliver this through our collective skills base,  years of experience and our value-driven people. Old Mutuals African Operations also report into OMSA and  include operations in Kenya, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland and Zimbabwe.  Old Mutual South Africa     2009    Rm %   2008    Rm %   2007    Rm % Revenues including interest and  investment income  71 312    14 590 73 919 Expenses excluding staff costs  (7 736)   (6 679) (6 373) Total value added  63 576    7 911 67 547 Value allocated     - Staff  4 247  7% 3 610 46% 3 752 6% - Customers  44 229  70% 6 469 82% 50 392 75% - Shareholders  4 314  7% 7 907 100% 7 881 12% - Government  2 129  3% 1 733 22% 4 099 6% Retained for Growth  8 657  14% (11 807) -149% 1 423 2% Total value allocated  63 576  100% 7 911 100% 67 547 100% Indicator   2009 2008 2007 Adjusted operating profit R5 537m R7 989m R7 016m Return on allocated capital 26.0% 27.8% 24% Return on embedded value 9% 14% 11% Capital adequacy (SCAR) 4.1x 3.8x 3.5x Assets under management R493.9bn R489.0bn R451.7bn % black Board members 29% 50% 30% % of black staff in executive management 50% 44% 45% % of black women staff in executive management 13% 0% 9% % of black staff in senior management 32% 26% 26% % of black women staff in senior management 11% 8% 7% % of black staff in middle management 47% 41% 39% % of black women staff in middle management 20% 17% 15% % of black staff in junior management 75% 57% 53% % of black women staff in junior management 40% 32% 28% Skills development investment in black staff as a percentage of  payroll 2.07% 2.67% 2% Affirmative procurement spend R4.265bn R4.282bn R2.484bn Corporate Social Investment R31m R35m R35m Energy consumption in units (kWh) 552 364 472* 270 985 920 346 004 864 Water consumption in units (Kl) 4 100 604* 1 068 302 Old Mutual South Africa value-added statement Old Mutual South Africa key sustainability indicators * The 2009 information includes water and energy consumption figures for buildings under OMSAs management that were not accounted for in 2008.  4 Old Mutual Group at a glance please open for  more information GROUP Old Mutual is an international  long-term savings, protection and  investment Group. Adjusted operating   profit (AOP) 2009 1,170m 2008: 1,136m Funds under   management 2009 285bn 2008: 265bn Number employed 53,706 1 2008: 56,546 LONG-TERM SAVINGS (LTS) We provide innovative life  assurance based solutions which  address both protection and  retirement savings needs. Adjusted operating   profit (AOP) 2009 685m 2008: 452m Funds under   management 2009 112.2bn 2008: 91bn Number employed 22,269 2008: 24,515 BANKING We have a majority shareholding  in Nedbank, one of South Africas  leading banks, which also has  banking interests in other  countries in Southern Africa. Tier 1 Capital Adequacy Ratio 11.5% 2008: 9.6% Total Assets 47.9bn 2008: 41.3bn Number employed 27,346 2008: 27,570 SHORT-TERM INSURANCE We provide short-term insurance  solutions in southern Africa  through Mutual & Federal. Adjusted operating   profit (AOP) 2009 70m 2008: 76m Combined ratio 98.0% 2008: 96.1% Number employed 2,331 2008: 2,703 US ASSET MANAGEMENT We aim to grow our customers  savings and wealth, whether through  active and direct asset management  or the selection of funds and  managers for customers to invest in. Adjusted operating   profit (AOP) 2009 83m 2008: 97m Funds under   management 2009 161.5bn 2008: 164.9bn Number employed 1,544 2008: 1,600 Contribution to group 7.1% AOP2 56.7% FUM3 Contribution to group 6.0% AOP2 0.1% FUM3 Contribution to group 40.2% AOP2 2.9% FUM3 Contribution to group 58.5% AOP2 39.4% FUM3 Our primary operations are in the following geographies: LTS – Southern Africa, Europe,  Colombia, Mexico, India and China US Asset management – US Banking – Southern Africa Short-term insurance – Southern  Africa 1	 Includes	Group	Head	Office	and	Bermuda. 2	 Pre-tax	AOP	of	operating	segments	less	finance	and	other	corporate	costs. 3	 Charts	do	not	include	Bermudas	contribution	to	the	total	Group	Funds	under	management. *  5 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Group Sustainability Achievements   Completed the second public Group carbon disclosure project   Won five customer services awards   Invested 10.1 million in community programmes   Set up the Group Responsible Business Committee   Formalised our Responsible Business Policy   Retained membership of FTSE4Good Index and JSE Socially Responsible Investment Index Our strategy is to build a long-term savings,  protection and investment group by leveraging  the strength of our capabilities in South Africa  and around the world. We will focus, drive and  optimise our businesses to enhance value for  shareholders and customers. Julian Roberts, Group Chief Executive, Old Mutual plc Global footprint Long-term savings division * Appointed: March 2010     ** Appointed: June 2010 Kuseni  Dlamini CEO,  Emerging  Markets Jonas  Jonsson CEO,   Retail  Europe Rose  Keanly* Head, LEAN  Operations Bertil   Hult CEO,   Nordic Chris  Chapman CEO,   US Life Bob  Head CEO,   Wealth  Management Steven  Levin* Head of  Product  Development Richard  Boynett** Head of IT Paul Hanratty   CEO, LTS *  6 During 2009 the volatility in the financial markets  highlighted the important role of business in  society, and also the importance of long-term  sustainable growth.  At Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) we take our  role in achieving a sustainable future seriously,  and try to incorporate an understanding of our  social and environmental impacts in the business  decisions we take. We are aware that OMSA has  a role to play in being a partner for progressive  change. Global issues such as climate change,  water and energy supply and food security cannot  be solved by governments alone. Business has  a role to play in building a stronger society, of  which it is part. In addition to the requirements  we face as part of a UK listed company we  have committed to embedding the framework  suggested by the King Report on Governance  (King III). A key part of this for OMSA has been  strengthening governance in the South African  markets, through our work as a key sponsor of  King III. At the heart of the King Report is a call  for corporate leaders to rise to the challenges of  sustainability. This requires a fundamental shift  towards considering the legitimate interests and  expectations of all of those who are affected  by our business, not just shareholders. In  this inclusive stakeholder model, a company  determines its most important issues through  real engagement with stakeholders, and through  balancing their needs and concerns against  the companys business risks. Crucially, King  III also recommends integrating the reporting  on sustainability performance with business  performance, in order to present a balanced,  holistic view of the business long-term viability   in society.  Statement by the   Chief Executive Officer Long-Term Savings,  Old Mutual plc; and Chairman, Old Mutual  South Africa I believe the dramatic events in the  global economy over the past couple  of years are changing the way the  world functions and does business.  Responsibility, prudent decision- making, traditional values and long- term goals are in, while greed, risky  deals and short-term gains are out. Paul Hanratty, CEO Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc;  and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa  7 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 This approach is designed to recognise not only  the challenges the business faces, but also the  opportunities for developing new and more  appropriate products and services, to the benefit  of both society and the companys competitive  position in the marketplace. Eighty percent of the  worlds population live in emerging economies.  Through our robust understanding of the social,  environmental and economic challenges that  people living in these economies face, we have  uncovered significant growth opportunities.  Where the level of financial services penetration  is low, we can use our knowledge and experience  of working in emerging markets to provide  appropriate products and services. We have an  opportunity to do well by doing good – to leave a  lasting legacy. These steps towards integrating sustainability  into the way we do business are closely linked  to a similar journey that is underway across the  Old Mutual Group. A Group Responsible Business  Policy was developed in 2009 and, following the  announcement of the Group strategy in March  2010, we have aligned our strategic plans to a  common set of values for the Group. There is still  much for us to do. However given the progress we  have made in 2009, we are now well positioned to  take the next steps on our sustainability journey.  Paul Hanratty To help shape the economic debate and  contribute to the South African economy  and social turnaround in South Africa,  OMSA and Nedbank facilitated the launch  of Dinokeng. Dinokeng was a think tank  that brought together more than 35 of the  countrys brightest and most influential  thinkers from civil society, the private  sector, labour and education to debate the  countrys key accomplishments and failures  since 1994 as well as the challenges that  lie ahead. The conclusions have been  summarised in the Dinokeng Scenarios,  spelling out three possible paths for South  Africas future, with the next step being  to broaden and publicise the debate. In  the words of Paul Hanratty, If we are to  live up to the promise of 1994, we need a  strong, sustainable economy with a vibrant  private sector that can work together with  government to achieve job creation, deliver  essential services and facilitate economic  upliftment. See further details on:   www.dinokengscenarios.co.za  8 Im pleased to introduce Old Mutual South Africas  first sustainability report, which replaces the  corporate citizenship report previously issued  annually.  This report aims to cover the material, social and  environmental issues that affect us as a financial  services company. Weve begun integrating  sustainability considerations into our business and  this report both represents and documents an  important first step in that process. Its both a report on our progress and a statement  of our intent. Drawing on the guidance of the  King III report, were examining how social,  environmental and economic issues influence  the decisions we make about the business. In  some areas, such as product development and  transformation, this is already well established.  But were now examining how stakeholder views  and perspectives can be integrated across our  operations.  That principle supports the management and  reporting of our sustainability performance. In this  report, weve focused on material issues relating  to our customers, responsible investment, our  intermediaries, ethical behaviour, transformation,  our communities, our employees and the  environment. In the past year we have worked hard to improve  customer satisfaction. Weve also continued to  develop affordable products and services for  all markets, and to distribute them through  appropriate channels.  Our ongoing investment in financial education  programmes has seen nearly 50 000 people  throughout the country trained directly, with  countless more being educated through radio and  other channels. Weve maintained our support for  our intermediaries despite the difficult economic  climate, focusing on helping them to provide  appropriate advice, whilst they sell our products  in a clear and transparent way.  Strong governance controls are key to  maintaining a strong business performance, and  thats never been truer than when times are  tough. Weve continued to work on developing  our governance processes. A recent benchmark  of Old Mutual South Africas fraud function for  example, measured against industry best practice,  shows our structures and systems are considered  best in class and ought to help prevent unethical  behaviour. We remain focused on improving transformation  in the company, and have significantly improved  measurements on employment equity and  preferential procurement in 2009. To accelerate  employment equity we continue to make sure that  our current employees have the skills they need  to ensure the future success of our business. Our people are central to the success of our  business and deserve a culture that is enabling,  empowering and supports their personal  development. To facilitate this, in 2009 we set  up a number of skills development programmes,  including a talent management programme. Old  Mutual owes much of its success over the last  165 years to the communities in which it operates  and were determined to maintain and nurture  those relationships so we can continue to do great  things together.  Statement by the   Chief Executive Officer of Old Mutual  South Africa and Emerging Markets  My role will be to provide clarity and build productive, value-creating  relationships and partnerships. Together, by learning from mistakes and being  open to new things, we will deliver superior results and develop a culture of  high performance. By maximising this contribution and being active corporate  citizens, we can unleash the full potential of our great nation and be a real  force for good for all South Africans.  Kuseni Dlamini, CEO Old Mutual South Africa and Emerging Markets  9 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 We aim to ensure that our corporate social  investment programmes arent simply about  donating money to good causes, but about  making a real and sustainable positive impact.  We work with communities to find out what they  need, solve the issues and form partnerships that  are underpinned by mutual respect. Its in our  interest to effectively support communities, so  where appropriate, we work with our competitors  to deliver wider-reaching programmes. In December, I attended the Copenhagen climate  talks. Since then, weve examined a number of  important questions such as how we become part  of the national efforts to reduce South Africas  carbon footprint in line with the commitment that  our government made at Copenhagen.  Weve already shown our commitment to  designing, building and maintaining property in  accordance with the Green Building Council of  South Africas green star rating tool. We realise  though, that this is just one area of our broader  environmental impact. Some of our responsible  investment funds have begun expanding their  focus from financial returns and social benefits to  include environmental opportunities and impacts.  The successful future of OMSA requires us to  broaden the scope of what weve traditionally  considered good business. Making environmental,  social and governance issues our core business  will move us to a more holistic view of business  risk and opportunity, while integrating the full  range of stakeholder issues with our business  strategy – ultimately delivering long-term  success. Kuseni Dlamini  10 As we enhance our approach to sustainability,  we have developed a framework to identify our  material issues, prioritise them and set relevant  targets. This process will help us, now and in  the future, to manage and report on the related  risks and opportunities, including our approach  to ensuring regulatory compliance and how we  engage with our stakeholders to support us on  our journey. Structures for managing sustainability As a Group, we recognise that understanding and  managing the risks and opportunities presented  by our social and environmental impacts are  fundamental to delivering our vision. As a result,  Old Mutual has introduced a Group Responsible  Business Policy, designed to provide clarity on  sustainability issues while allowing local market  flexibility through individual business unit delivery. To provide clear leadership and governance  in relation to Old Mutual Groups social and  environmental impacts, a Group Responsible  Business Committee was established in 2009. The  committee supports and makes recommendations  to the Group Executive Committee on how to  manage risks and opportunities related to its  approach to sustainability. For more information  visit the Group Annual Report on our website*. Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) has focused on  implementing aspects of sustainability through a  number of Board committees which include: the  Environment Committee (covering stakeholder  engagement); the Customer Affairs Committee;  the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee; the  Remuneration Committee; and the Corporate  Governance and Nomination Committee. OMSA  does not yet have its own environmental policy,  but uses the Old Mutual Group environmental  policy as a guide. We have recognised that we  need to achieve greater co-ordination of our  sustainability agenda as a whole. As part of the release of the King III report and  code, in September 2009, we established a King  III Management Steering Committee to manage  our alignment to the code. In 2010, as part of  reviewing our governance of sustainability, we will  be reviewing how this committee complements  existing bodies that cover these issues. It must be  noted that our adoption of King III is in addition  to our requirements as a UK primary listed  company. We have used the 2009 sustainability reporting  process to help us improve our strategies,  frameworks, systems, capacity, accountability  and management related to sustainability in  order to enhance how we manage our impacts  and opportunities more effectively. As part of  this development process we recognise the need  to establish a formalised structure and develop  appropriate targets for managing sustainability.  This will include the development of indicators  for each one of our material issues. At a senior  level, the CEOs performance contract already  includes key performance indicators related to  social issues, something that we hope to expand  to broader sustainability in the future. We are also engaged in the Group Operating  Model governance project which sets out a clear  and comprehensive governance framework, with  appropriate procedures, systems and controls,  facilitating the satisfactory discharge of the duties  and obligations of regulated firms, directors and  employees within the Group. Approach to risk management Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) aims to identify  new opportunities and identify, understand,  mitigate and manage risks in order to optimise  the level of return on investment. The company  operates a risk management framework which  integrates risk management into the core business  strategy and functions. Risks are assessed over  a rolling three year period, our risk principles are  outlined on our website. The risk management  framework used for OMSA is also used to manage  risks across our African Operations. Risk governance structure: the three  lines of defence model OMSA has adopted a three lines of defence  model to manage risk. The first level involves the  direct roles of the Executive Committee, the OMSA  CEO, and our people in the management of risks.  In the second, the chief risk officer, supported  by experts from other functions, addresses the  risks and makes policy recommendations to  strengthen the management of risks. The third  provides independent objective assurance on the  effectiveness of the management of enterprise  risks across OMSA, undertaken by the Group  Internal Audit function and the Audit, Risk and  Compliance Committee. Managing and monitoring risk OMSAs risk appetite is determined both  qualitatively and quantitatively and is periodically  reviewed. Raising awareness of risks is also  undertaken during the business planning process.  Input is gathered through regular contact  between risk and other functions combined with  Framework for   managing sustainability *	http://www.oldmutual.com/mediacentre/financialReports.jsp  11 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 In an already heavily regulated, complex and  constantly changing financial services industry,  non-compliance with legislation has emerged as  one of the higher risk areas that organisations in  our sector face. Legislative and other regulatory impacts on our  businesses are identified, documented, assessed  and prioritised and compliance risk management  plans are produced and monitored. The Group  Internal Audit function annually conducts an  independent review of the compliance processes  and procedures to ensure an objective view of the  status of compliance. The OMSA compliance officer has responsibility  for determining OMSAs future compliance  strategy, dealing with our primary regulators and  co-ordinating and monitoring the effectiveness  of the overall OMSA compliance structure. A  standardised compliance framework and Group  Compliance Manual have been developed and  published. To ensure effective implementation of  regulatory requirements, individual compliance  officers are allocated to individual segments of the  business and business units. In 2008, Deloitte UK, at the request of Old  Mutual plc in London, conducted a Compliance  Effectiveness Review across OMSA. Good Practice  findings were awarded for OMSA across all five  compliance areas assessed. In supporting industry  best practice of corporate governance, OMSA  actively engages with government and regulators  in the development of financial services legislation  and regulation. the provision of training materials and access  to online risk information. Risks are identified,  reviewed and prioritised in terms of their potential  impact on achieving the strategic and business  objectives. Risk management action plans are  developed and monitored with the top 20 OMSA  risks being reported up to Group level; and any  other significant issues or control breakdowns are  escalated. Inclusion of sustainability factors into  enterprise risk management Our static risk profile currently covers 131 risks in  a single risk log that includes financial, operational  and strategic risks and is a component of each  executives reporting. Our risk profile is currently  driven from a financial savings perspective only.  Many of the identified risks relate to sustainability  and highlight its inclusion in our core business  strategy and delivery. Although not currently  included, we are now exploring how we include  the potential risks generated by our investment  decisions. We are also developing a control  framework to govern unlisted investments. Regulatory compliance and related  issues The OMSA compliance function ensures we adhere  to the legislation and regulations that govern our  sector. The function provides our stakeholders  with the assurance we will provide our clients with  appropriate financial advice, we will honour their  policies, safeguard their pensions and protect  their investments.  12 Old Mutual recognises the competitive benefits  of proactive stakeholder engagement. At the end  of 2008 we completed a Stakeholder Perception  and Relationship Quality Survey to benchmark  our stakeholder engagement approach. The  results guided our stakeholder engagement  strategy in 2009; which focused on engaging our  stakeholders in an effective way, managing our  relationships over the long-term and working with  them to identify risks and opportunities for the  business. We are committed to making sure that our  stakeholder engagement is transparent and  inclusive ensuring meaningful dialogue. In doing  so, we consistently improve our engagement  process through seeking ongoing conversations  with a diverse stakeholder base in a manner  that promotes constructive engagement,  advances long-term relationship building and  provides impactful outcomes that are measured  and monitored. Our stakeholder engagement  programme is coordinated through a designated  unit within the Corporate Affairs team, with  its mandate being to manage the companys  reputation. Respect and integrity in stakeholder relations  are central to the philosophy and value system  of OMSA. To this end, it is essential that  commitments we make are kept as this supports  the building of trust and establishing good  working relationships with stakeholders.  Framework for managing sustainability (continued) In addition to political role-players a range  of stakeholders needs to be considered.  The formulation of an engagement strategy  is important for all stakeholders and the  success of this strategy will, in part, be  dependent on reviewing and prioritising  our engagement with those individuals  that represent the following stakeholder  groups:   Our people: management, boards/ directors, sales forces, and the rest of  the group.   Distribution: IFAs, brokers and other  intermediaries.   Customers: policyholders/customers  and corporate clients (both locally and  internationally).   Government: local and other.   Political parties.   Political, economic and social forums  and committees.   Trade unions.   Faith-based organisations.   Local regulatory bodies including FSA  and SARB.   Shareholders.   The investment community in general.   Specific sectors of the investment  community (e.g. FTSE4Good).   Companies and institutions in which we  are invested.   Media: local and international.   Local communities.   Suppliers.   Business partners.   Black Business Partners (BBPs).   Business Associations: Business  Leadership SA (BLSA); the National  Business Initiative (NBI); BUSA and  ASISA.   NGOs and SMMEs supported by the  Foundation and Masisizane Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement Analyse and plan Strengthen engagement capacity Design process and engage Initiate stakeholder engagement process Identify key stakeholders and significant issues Act, review and report Stakeholder engagement approach  13 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 We also engage in public dialogues (for example,  Dinokeng Scenarios, as detailed on page 7) and  debates aimed at exploring key issues, challenges  and conversations current to Old Mutual, the  national agenda and global positions.  We see our revised approach to stakeholder  engagement as an opportunity to continue to  improve our service to, and our impact on, the  citizens and businesses in South Africa and  Africa. To this end, we have taken up corporate  membership with a number of associations,  such as the Association for Black Accountants in  South Africa, Black Management Forum, Business  Leadership South Africa and the Institute of  Directors (IoD) South Africa. A full list is available  on the website. A good reputation stands or falls  on the perception of stakeholders.   Essentially our stakeholders are  partners in our long-term value  creation. Head, Stakeholder Relations  15 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability   Review  16 Customers have become more discerning over  time, viewing product quality, value for money,  value of advice and investment performance as  part of their service experience. Governments  have begun to ensure that consumers are  provided with responsible access to financial  products and services. With the recession, the  integrity of the financial sector has been called  into question.  Old Mutual is predominantly a service organisation  and every employee is regarded as a brand  ambassador. We actively seek and value client  feedback so that we can improve. We have  developed affordable products and services suited  to less affluent markets and have distributed them  through appropriate channels.  Our financial education programmes were  provided to almost 50 000 people in 2009. While  some of our programmes showed a marked  increase in participants, others showed a decline,  which needs to be addressed.  The key challenge that we face in product pricing  is balancing added costs of products with the need  to keep prices as low as possible for customers.  In terms of product promotion, our focus is  on providing appropriate advice and avoiding  misleading communications. Serving our customers Material issues The recession has forced us to innovate, to go back to basics, to regain the  lost skills and the detail we took for granted and to be more intimate with  our customers so that we can understand and provide for them even better  than before. Marshall Rapiya, Managing Director, Retail Mass Market Indicator 2009 figures Percentage of customer delighted by OMSAs customer service 55% Percentage of customers satisfied by OMSAs customer service 89% Capital committed by Old Mutual shareholders to Masisizane for loans   to SMMEs R650 million Number of new OMSA retail branches providing services to customers  opened in 2009 65 Number of individuals directly trained through our financial education  programmes in 2009 49 724 Customer feedback: ensuring we engage with and respond to our customers >> Product access: making relevant products and services accessible to consumers >> Financial education: empowering consumers to make informed financial decisions >> Product pricing: providing products that are fairly and affordably priced >> Product promotion: ensuring that we market our products and services fairly and accurately >>  17 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Lean Transformation –   Old Mutual South Africas strategy  to sustainably improve service and  drive down costs OMSTA* commenced its Lean  Transformation in 2005/2006. Lean is based  on the philosophy that anything that does  not add value to the customer is waste  and that, by eliminating waste, service will  improve and costs will decrease. Following  initial pilots, Lean has been rolled since  2007, with all initiatives aimed at building  a clear lean philosophy and culture into  OMSTA.  OMSTA Way To ensure sustainability of the Lean  journey, in 2007 OMSTA began codifying  the Lean principles and other best of breed  management and work practices into 15  modules called the OMSTA Way. Using Lean  problem-solving methodologies, we can  most effectively identify problems, root  causes and potential countermeasures.  Lean principles are then applied in driving  process improvements. Management and  champions from the floor drive changes,  with leadership spending time visiting the  floor to support the implementations.  Targets are set to improve work practices  and improve business performance and  these are built into annual performance  contracts. Alongside cementing and  improving lean traction, there is also  a focus on business performance and  involvement including quality, productivity,  delivery and energised people.  Results achieved through the Lean  focus  In 2009 alone, we have achieved direct  financial savings of R60 million through  specifically identified lean interventions  and a further R190 million indirectly as  part of a culture of operational excellence  that is inherent in Lean leadership, while  improving service levels. In the last year,  we have also received a number of service  awards as detailed in the box overleaf.  The way forward We in OMSTA believe that Lean is a long  term (10 to 20 year) journey and that we  are in its early stages. The value that we  have achieved has lead other parts of OMSA  to also actively want to explore Lean. While  this will stretch our capability, the future  potential is significant.  * The Old Mutual Service Technology and Administration division which provides most of OMSAs policy administration and IT services Everything that does not add value to our customers is waste. Using Lean  principles, by removing waste, we improve customer satisfaction, drive down  costs and create a more empowered working environment. Rose Keanly, Managing Director, Old Mutual Service Technology and Administration  18 Customer feedback Customer surveys Client feedback allows us to improve our services  and processes. Our surveys (detailed below) have  indicated that, largely as a result of the recession,  consumers have moved from being passive  buyers who are tolerant and trusting of companies  to becoming more demanding and discerning,  sceptical of companies, risk averse, avoiding  credit and seeking simplicity in the products  and services that they purchase. This change in  mindset has required us to reconsider how we  engage with our customers and the products and  services that we offer.  Customer service tracking study We undertake a customer service tracking study  twice a year, canvassing 5 000 respondents  who have been serviced during that year. The  survey assesses responsiveness, efficiency,  reliability, accountability, warmth, courtesy and  demonstrable support.  In June 2009, our results indicated that we are  still satisfying a large number (89%) of our  customers, while the number of dissatisfied  customers remained the same at 7%. We noted,  however, a 6% decline in delighted customers,  which we need to address. Serving our customers (continued) OMSAs good reputation was ranked first out of the top ten Johannesburg Stock Exchange-listed  companies, across all industries as surveyed by the Reputation Institute. OMSA customer service awards OMSA won the Best SA Customer Service Centre award at the annual national 2009 African  Stars Awards for national contact centres. Ms Bulelwa Koyana, interim CEO of Business Process  enabling South Africa (BPeSA) says, Congratulations to Old Mutual. You continue to show  why South Africa is an internationally renowned Business Process Outsourcing and call centre  destination. OMSA has again been recognised as the industry winner in the Long-Term Insurance Industry  section in the 2009 Ask Afrika Orange Index Survey on Service Excellence having won the same  award in 2008. In commenting on the results in Finweek, Ameila Richards (Ask Afrika Business  Manager) made the point that Old Mutual has consistently provided good service in the long- term insurance industry since 2008. Category 2007 2008 2009 Delighted (score 9 – 10) 62% 61% 55% Satisfied (score 6 – 10) 88% 89% 89% Dissatisfied (score 0 – 5) 8% 7% 7% Results of the 2009 customer service tracking study To ensure our products are designed to meet customers needs and  preferences, we rely heavily on market feedback. The strongest message that  theyre giving is that they want products that are easy to understand.  Richard Treagus, General Manager, Product Development >>  19 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Customer value proposition (CVP) study For the last five years, we have undertaken an  annual customer value proposition (CVP) study  across our Retail Affluent customers, which  complements the customer satisfaction survey.  Key findings for the middle-income groups are  that the overall satisfaction scores have declined,  the brand is still struggling to improve its  leadership perceptions and trust is being eroded  in the core market. Key findings for the high- income groups indicate an improvement in overall  satisfaction scores, but the score is still very low  against the target set. Detailed findings from the  survey can be found on the website. Percentage of OMSA clients who have experienced high levels of overall customer satisfaction   (scoring 9 – 10 out of 10) Income group 2008 2009 R10 000 – R12 000 55% 45% R12 001 – R20 000 41% 37% R20 001 – R30 000 33% 25% Brand tracker survey We also undertake a brand tracker survey that  assesses the views of OMSA customers and non- customers across all segments. The research  shows that there is a reservoir of growing  goodwill towards Old Mutual that is waiting to be  harnessed.  Customer complaints We actively learn from all complaints so that  we can substantially improve service processes,  product design and advice processes. The  Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services  (FAIS) Act requires that each financial institution  has a documented and properly maintained  internal complaints resolution procedure. This is  guided in OMSA by an Internal Complaints Policy  and procedure. Clients can lodge complaints with OMSA through  our branches, call centre, website or in writing,  and information regarding the complaints process  and escalation protocols is available through all  channels. Where a client feels that their complaint  is not adequately addressed, channels are  available to escalate the matter. The Old Mutual  Office of Internal Arbitration facilitates arbitration  or independent assessment of client complaints  where required. We had a 9% decrease in  complaint volumes in 2009 over 2008 volumes.  OMSA actively works with industry to improve  complaints governance. We are a subscribing  member of the voluntary Ombudsman for Long- term Insurance scheme, an active member  of the Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance  Committee and engage with all relevant statutory  ombudsman schemes. We also engage regularly  with the International Network of Financial  Services Ombudsman Schemes to share ideas and  stay abreast of all relevant developments. Communicate with regard to the performance of investments during the  current economic climate and offer peace of mind with regard to security. Old Mutual South Africa customer  20 Product access In order to provide access to financial services  to all consumers, and to tap into the business  opportunities of less affluent markets, we have  developed affordable products and services suited  to the Foundation and Retail Mass markets. We  focus on providing for the foundation market  through community groups and alternative  channels such as retail outlets. Through our  resources and capital allocations to Masisizanes  programmes, we contribute to the financing  and capacitating of micro, small and medium  enterprises, particularly those owned by women,  youth and people with disabilities. The Foundation Market OMSAs Foundation Market Business was created  in 2007 to formally service the foundation market  – a market recognised as significant enough to  warrant a special focus. We serve this market on a  commercial basis to ensure sustainability beyond  simply satisfying legislative requirements.  Our foundation market products are designed  to be as simple, affordable and as accessible  as possible. The business delivers to two core  groupings: community groups and individuals. We  have built a strong reputation for honouring valid  claims and for paying within 48 hours of receiving  all claim documentation. We have recently also  launched a new product called Group Funeral  Solutions, where we target the same communities  but with age-banded rates. While community  groups – including burial society groups, stokvels  and funeral parlours – form the bulk of financial  services purchased in this market, there has been  a growing demand from individuals for financial  services, particularly in urban areas.  Serving individuals To service this demand and to ensure easy  access for citizens, OMSA has engaged with  outlets such as retailers like Shoprite to act as  distribution points. We offer a Pay-When-You-Can  family funeral product, specifically designed for  those who cannot commit to monthly payments.  Given that these products are not sold by  financial advisers, careful attention is required to  provide simplified products and literature to help  customers understand what they are buying and  the implications of their purchase.  While our products are priced to reflect inherent  risks, we have tried to keep the products as  affordable as possible and to keep the pricing  structure simple.  Providing services under one roof  In 2007, we embarked on a project called Imbizo  in order to provide for services in rural areas.  Initially, together with Mutual & Federal, Nedbank  and Wiphold, the vision was to build green  shops in specific areas where a core need was  identified. In the first such initiative in the Eastern  Cape, the group of companies sponsored the  building materials and the structures were built  by the communities themselves. Through this  mechanism, and with the flagship green shop built  in Centane in the Eastern Cape, as a Group, we  have been able to provide the community there  with all financial services under one roof.  Serving our customers (continued) >> Old Mutual South Africas five  public-facing segments   Foundation Market   (incomes of R1 to R3 000 per month)   Retail Mass   (incomes of R3 000 to R12 000 per  month)    Retail Affluent   (incomes of R12 000 to R80 000 per  month)    Corporate (pension funds, etc.)   Old Mutual Investment Group South  Africa (asset managers and the  boutique model) Elements of product access   The Foundation Market: providing  access to financial products such as  funeral polices and accidental death  cover to low-income customers.    Masisizane: financing, supporting and  providing financial education to micro,  small and medium-sized enterprises  owned by women, youth and the  disabled.   Lending a hand: providing loan  products.  21 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Challenges We face a number of challenges in providing  for the foundation market. While we need to  ensure that our products are affordable, we  also need to ensure commercial profitability to  maintain the sustainability of the business. The  competitive landscape is tough and the legislative  and economic environment challenging. There  are, however, new opportunities created by the  potential micro-insurance legislation that has been  the subject of discussion in the industry over the  last year.  Through our experiences in setting up and  growing our Retail Mass business, we are  confident that we can profitably serve the  foundation market while meeting consumers  needs. Masisizane is a development financier established  as a Section 21 Company and with a mandate  that includes the initiatives detailed overleaf.  Importantly, the Masisizane strategy is based  on collaboration between OMSA and partners,  from government, the private sector and civil  society, to leverage combined efforts and  facilitate business-to-business and business-to- government collaboration in economic and social  transformation. We are building a nation and  ensuring a better tomorrow for all  South Africans through our focused  transformation efforts as well as in  our daily business, by developing  financial products and services  that are more accessible, more  affordable, more flexible and easier  to understand by more people. Crispin Sonn, Director, Marketing, Communication and  Corporate Affairs Masisizane: investing in transforming the  South African economy Masisizane or lets help each other  is a set of development initiatives  aimed at supporting national economic  transformation. When Old Mutual  demutualised in 1999 eligible policyholders  were issued with shares. Policy holders  were required to claim these shares and  by 2006 98% had done so. The shares  were placed in an Unclaimed Shares  Trust and when this was closed in 2006  approximately 54 million shares remained  unclaimed. The after-tax proceeds were  split three ways and Masisizane was  initially allocated R400 million, which was  later topped up to R650 million. Three  main areas are focused on; enterprise  development, with a bias toward women- owned business, capacity building through  skills development and financial education,  and assistance with marketing. For more  on the work of Masisizane please visit  our website http://www.oldmutual.co.za/ about-us/transformation/masisizane.aspx Current Masisizane initiatives Investment SME financing R375 million Financial education R60 million iLima Trust R50 million Technical & marketing support  R40 million Promotion  R25 million Micro-financing R100 million Total R650 million Site visit: Andile Ncontsa (Head, Old Mutual  Foundation), Sanele Titus (Chairman, Tshapile  Ulimo) and Ayanda Sema (Programme  Manager, Enterprise Development) * See further information on Tshapile Ulimo on page 45 Breakdown of Masisizane fund allocation   22 Financing and support of enterprises: focused on  micro, small and medium-sized enterprises owned  by women, youth and the disabled to facilitate  access to resources for job creation and poverty  alleviation, predominantly in rural and peri- urban areas. Applicants are supported to ensure  the sustainability of the business. Masisizane  has taken over the funding element of youth  development from the Umsobomvu Fund. In  terms of progress to date, 9 690 jobs have been  created and repayment rates are, on average,  around 96%.  Free	financial	education: see further information  on page 24. Skills capacity building: the iLima Trust is  staffed by former OMSA senior and executive  managers who chose early retirement in order  to contribute their knowledge, experience and  skills to build capacity. They focus on developing  leaders employed in national, provincial and  local government, assisting with policy-making,  development of processes and procedures, and  the training and development of management  and staff. In addition, they provide training,  support and assistance to community-based and  non-governmental organisations and emerging  enterprises, including many women-owned  enterprises supported by Masisizane.  Promotion of foreign investments: R25 million has  been committed by Old Mutual plc to encourage  foreign direct investment into initiatives in South  Africa that are aligned with the Masisizane  mandate.  Masisizane operates through collaboration with  partners, from government and private sector,  to leverage economic and social transformation.  In November 2009, we signed a memorandum  of understanding with Land Bank, which will give  us access to supporting farming enterprises and  communities. To assess the social benefits that Masisizane  provides through its assistance, an impact study  was conducted by iLima in association with  GreaterGood South Africa during the first half of  2009 that resulted in the development of a social  impact assessment process and tool. Lending a hand In 2007, OMSA decided to move into the field of  providing loan products through a joint venture.  Approach with a difference In contrast to some of our competitors, who  focus on a quick turnaround time for providing  loans, our approach is focused on responsible  lending. Roughly 44% of credit active consumers  in South Africa are more than three months in  arrears on one or more of their credit accounts.  Particularly in the case of loans, we identified that  foundation and mass market customers feel more  comfortable engaging with us in a retail shop  environment (rather than via call centres and  agents). During 2009, we therefore rolled out 65  new Old Mutual retail shops across the country in  shopping centres, CBDs and townships, that offer  all Retail Mass Market insurance and loan products  (including funeral cover, insurance, education  policies, loans, investments and savings) and  servicing. These branches stay open later at night  where required. We created 500 new jobs through  the rollout of these branches, with a focus on  recruiting staff members from local communities.  We anticipate the development of a further 65 to  70 branches per year for the next few years.  Our current focus is on unsecured loans. Personal  loans are granted up to R25 000 to be paid   over three years. Debt consolidation loans up  to R100 000 to be paid off within five years are  offered in the form of our My Money Plan product.  Over time, we would like to expand into the  housing loan market.  My Money Plan The first component of the My Money Plan product  is debt consolidation, without which consumers  frequently have multiple debit orders, resulting  in higher bank charges, multiple initiation and  administration fees and no personal relationships  with one service provider.  The second component helps the customer to plan  ahead and to provide for unforeseen expenses.  Customers are given access to interest-free cash  in the periods towards the end of the month,  helping them to avoid using expensive loan  channels.  We tailor our products to suit what our customers  are able to afford and illustrate the instalments  they need to make and how to plan for when they  will need money. We also provide our customers  with their bureau records and explain how credit  ratings affect them and how they can qualify for  credit. To encourage good debt management  and the building of customer credit integrity, My  Money Plan provides cash awards to clients who  stick to their payment plans.  We facilitate access to debt counsellors should a  potential client be too indebted for us to be able  to help them.  Serving our customers (continued)  23 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Financial education Financial education empowers consumers  with knowledge and skills to enable them to  make informed decisions about their finances  and lifestyles. We run our consumer financial  education through three programmes: the  financial well-being programme; Financial  Sector Charter (FSC) programme; and through  Masisizane. The financial well-being programme,  run through our corporate clients, saw a marked  increase in the number of participants, showing  the increased demand for financial education  by employees. While we have seen a significant  increase in the number of people being trained  through our FSC-related programme, the  number of Masisizane clients provided with  financial training has decreased and needs to  be addressed. Financial education and product  advice is also provided by our tied agents and  independent brokers and is covered further in the  chapter on Strengthening relationships with our  intermediaries (see page 32). >> Financial education programmes   Financial well-being: financial education  programme provided to the employees  of companies, including OMSA.   Financial Sector Charter education:  providing financial education for people  in LSMs 1-5 who are consumers or  potential consumers of first order retail  financial services and consumers of  credit for low-income housing, black  SMEs and agricultural development.   Masisizane financial education: targets  the Masisizane loan clients, Old Mutual  Foundation, iLima Municipalities,  Imbizos and Retail Mass Market clients. 14 000 12 000 10 000 8 000 6 000 4 000 2 000 0 2007 2008 2009 Number of participants Financial well-being Our On the Money financial well-being  programme is provided to Old Mutual employees.   In addition, we provide the programme to the  employees of companies that we serve. A   total of 11 457 participants across these  businesses were trained in 2009 (2008: 5 988;  2007: 1 557). R 3.5 million was spent on the  programme in 2009, an increase from R1.26  million spent in 2008. We have had challenges  in low attendance at workshops, affecting the  budgeting of our education provision and in  getting companies to release employees for a  whole day.  Financial education provided against  the guidelines of the Financial Sector  Charter As per the Financial Sector Charter (FSC), the  education that we provide must also be physically  accessible, appropriate, affordable, simple and  non-discriminatory.  In complying with the FSC, more than 25% of  our financial education is focused on peri-urban  and rural areas across eight of the countrys  provinces; our consumer education is provided  free of charge; and we have simplified our  programmes and translated them into the official  languages of South Africa. The programme is  focused on helping consumers to understand the  importance of managing finance and ensuring a  positive credit rating, to be able to differentiate  between wants and needs, set goals for needs  and families and access financial institutions and  financial credit.  As per the charter, 0.02% of after-tax profit is  spent on consumer financial education. Eighty  percent of OMSAs consumer financial education is  carried out through face-to-face interventions and  20% through media channels such as the radio.  Further as per the FSC, we try as far as possible  to ensure that consumers wishing to enter into  credit agreements with OMSA have received  financial education or demonstrated they can  make an informed choice regarding entering into  a credit agreement.  We believe that by delivering responsible financial solutions, supported  by long-term plans and relationships, we will help clients reach financial  independence. Phillip Vermeulen, CEO, Old Mutual Finance Financial well-being programme participants  24 Target audiences Our initiatives are targeted at learner education  and adult education. Learner education is offered  to learners in grades four, five and six, with OMSA  developing its own games that are aligned with  their curriculum. In 2009, training was given to  2 684 children. As part of this campaign, 2 501  parents, educators and community members of  grade four, five and six learners were provided  with financial education.  Candidates for the adult education programmes  are identified through burial societies,  unemployed youth, church groups and stokvels,  SMMEs and agricultural groups. Adult education is  classroom-based but interactive. Workshops are  held over a full day but are sometimes divided  into modules to suit the availability of delegates.  Programme performance In 2009, a total of 20 849 participants were  trained out of a target of 20 000 (2008:   15 857; 2007: 677). A total of R 12.12 million  was spent during 2009, an increase from   R8.2 million spent in 2008 and R7.8 million   spent in 2007. The project was implemented   in eight provinces and workshops were   conducted in nine official languages. We ask participants for their feedback on the  training provided so that we can improve the  programme where necessary. To receive more  thorough feedback, we are in the process of  developing and piloting pre- and post-assessment  tests, which will be implemented during 2010. On the Money programme While our On the Money programme was  traditionally run for employees of corporates  (see the Financial Well-being section), we have  adapted the programme to run through both  radio and print channels. For the radio channel,  our programmes provide information and allow  for questions and answers and are run across  ten radio stations that broadcast in ten of the  11 official languages of South Africa. For the  print channel, we target three publications with  a high LSM 1 – 5 readership. Financial advice is  given on various themes, such as parenting and  finances; youth and finances; and when to start  saving for retirement. We have also run columns  on managing finances and quizzes on managing  finances.  Financial education to support  Masisizane clients The Masisizane financial education initiatives  target the Masisizane loan clients, Old Mutual  Foundation, iLima Municipalities, Imbizos and  Retail Mass Market clients. We use the Old  Mutuals On-the-Money programme and   recruit unemployed graduates as trainers,  with 868 individuals having been through the  workshop training since inception. OMSAs  Foundation Market division in 2009 won the  International Labour Organisation (ILO) grant  for micro-insurance development linked with  financial education. This grant of approximately  R2.5 million will support the Foundation Market  Initiatives. Part of it is being utilised in a joint  impact assessment study to help us learn more  about how financial education can be utilised  to best serve the Foundation Market segment,  as well as Masisizane clients. A total of 17 458  participants were trained in 2009 (at a cost  of R3.8 million) against 25 931 in 2008. The  decrease in numbers could be linked to the  economic downturn as the people in these areas  need to travel distances to attend workshops.  While feedback regarding the programme has  been very positive, we are developing an impact  assessment tool to identify where the programme  needs to be reviewed. 25 000 20 000 15 000 10 000 5 000 0 2007 2008 2009 Number of participants trained Annual target for training Number of participants Training Achieved 75% 25% Female Male Financial education training  Financial education training by gender (2009) Serving our customers (continued)  25 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Product pricing We design products that are appropriate for  each of our segments. Pricing of these products  builds in risk assessments – for example charging  lower premiums for people who live a healthier  lifestyle – and asks only for checks that are  relevant. We take great pains to ensure that we  are not implementing discriminatory pricing by  backing up all our pricing with evidence as to its  appropriateness. We ensure sensible underwriting  that is fair and justifiable with any differentiation  based on objective criteria.  Bodies exist that produce pricing data for all in  the industry to use. We are currently reviewing  all industry agreements to assess whether they  might be viewed as collusive.  A key challenge that we face is the conflict  between increasingly stringent regulations which,  while protecting customers, add costs to product  development and distribution, and the need to  keep prices as low as possible for customers.  While we ensure good pricing of our products in  line with regulations and to make them affordable  to consumers, we need to ensure that we can  provide the service required. Product promotion  Our four values of integrity, respect, accountability  and pushing beyond boundaries assist us in being  a customer-centric company. Nine years ago, we  reviewed the business to ensure that products and  distribution channels meet high level customers  needs for each customer segment.  While OMSA has a marketing strategy, the units  accountable for each segment are responsible for  marketing that is specific to their area of focus,  detailed in a customer value proposition. As a  company, we set targets for what we want to  be known for and we conduct market surveys to  assess whether we are reaching our targets and  to identify where we are doing well and what we  need to improve on. This is discussed further in  the section on Customer Feedback (see page 18).  To reduce incidents of misleading communications  through advertising, all advertising and marketing  materials follow the Advertising South Africa  codes and go through an internal sign-off process  that includes legal, actuarial and marketing  screening. We ensure that all marketing material  is aligned with promises made in contracts. With  responses to media reports either being given by  OMSA or by the segment, it has been recognised  that the reporting process and tracking system  needs to be more formalised.  >> >> 2007 2008 2009 Total participants 3 244 25 931 17 458 Total spend R5 916 528 R5 834 146 R3 799 679 The workshop  was a wake- up call on how  to be more  efficient in  how to make a  budget out of  what we have. Feedback comment  from	financial	education	 workshop Financial education to support Masisizane clients Number of Masisizane-linked participants trained 10 000 7 500 5 000 2 500 0 2008 2009 Masisizane loan clients Old Mutual Foundation iLima Munici- palities Retail Mass Market clients Imbizos No.  26 OMSA has a duty to generate returns for its  clients, but is also aware that its investments  may have an impact on the environment or on  communities in which the business invests or  operates. There are some investment products  and capabilities available from our life assurance  and asset management businesses, which  are managed on an ethical basis and some  which could be tailored by clients to an ethical  perspective. We have taken steps to make our  asset managers aware of industry initiatives such  as the United Nations Principles of Responsible  Investment and the Equator Principles. All the  funds, products and mandates we manage are  done so in a transparent way and clients receive  information about how their funds are invested.  We believe that this is the best way to enable  clients to factor social and ethical factors into their  investment plans and choices. There are three aspects to the issue of responsible  investing which, as a financial institution, we  report on here:    our development of particular SRI-related  products;    transformation-related financing; and    SRI-based investment decision-making.  OMSA has developed SRI-related products  and more information can be found below.  Transformation-related funding refers to the  extent to which a company has channelled a  certain proportion of its funds under management  into investments that are responsible in the  context of South Africas transformation.  This has been prescribed in the Financial  Sector Charter (FSC) scorecard and covers:  targeted investments, such as funding of public  infrastructure projects, agricultural projects and  funding of SMMEs and BEE transaction financing.  Our BEE transaction financing is covered in the  Enterprise Development section in the chapter  Continuing our commitment to transformation  (see page 43). Our asset management business is structured as  a multi-boutique group comprising a number of  specialist investment businesses. Each of these  has their individual investment policy and process  and makes investment decisions independent of  the others. As such, we do not have a centralised  approach to responsible investment decision- making: some of our boutiques have considered  incorporating responsible investment into their  approach (and indeed include reviews of SRI  factors as a cornerstone of their investment  philosophy), while in others SRI does not play a  prominent role in this regard. Investing responsibly Material issues Indicator 2009 figures Assets under management in socially responsible investment (SRI) funds R21.1 billion Percentage of SRI funds against all OMIGSAs assets under management 4.89%* OMSAs SRI funds: providing investment options to our clients that are socially and  environmentally responsible >> Transformation-related financing: channelling funds as formally prescribed in the Financial  Sector Charter (FSC)* >> SRI-based investment decisions: incorporating environmental, social and governance criteria  into our investment decision-making >> *Funds under management for the OMIGSA boutiques at 31 December 2009 excludes any assets that the life company OMLACSA invests  directly	with	external	asset	managers. *Reporting	split	between	OMSAs	SRI	Funds	and	Enterprise	Development	(see	page	43).  27 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Old Mutual South Africas SRI Funds The interest in and awareness of SRI is growing  amongst institutional investors. Domestically, this  change is being driven by a shift in the focus of  empowerment based on ownership to a broad- based approach considering:   the upliftment of entire sections of society;   the acceptance of the potential challenges of  climate change; and    the direct impact of electrical power supply  problems.  Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa  (OMIGSA) has undertaken to provide mechanisms  for direct institutional investment in economic  transformation assets, and has established  industry-leading capabilities in these areas.  In addition to being focused on considering  environmental, social and governance (ESG)  factors, our SRI funds offer diversified portfolios  with good returns. Our approach to SRI, has to a  large extent, been defined by the requirements of  the Financial Services Charter (FSC). With the FSC  being under review, we are tracking developments  so that we can respond and adjust our definition  of SRI funds to be aligned with industry and  international standards. The exceptions to this  are Futuregrowth and the Ideas Fund, whose  approach to SRI was in place before the FSC came  into being and whose definitions are aligned with  best practice internationally. An overview of the SRI-related funds in OMIGSA  is detailed below, with total assets under  management of R21.1 billion (committed rather  than invested funds). This is 4.89% of all funds  under management for the OMIGSA boutiques  at 31 December 2009 (excluding any assets that  the life company OMLACSA invests directly with  external asset managers). We are fund raising  to expand the size of certain of our SRI-related  funds. An overview of select SRI funds follows,  with further details available on the website. Fund Assets under management Date of inception Futuregrowth Development Equity Fund  R525.9 million August 2006 Futuregrowth Infrastructure and  Development Bond Fund R3.9 billion January 1995 Futuregrowth Community Property Fund R3.3 billion June 1996 Futuregrowth SRI Equity Fund R47.3 million August 2004 Futuregrowth SRI Balanced Fund R6.7 million November 2004 Housing Impact Fund R4.6 billion  November 2007 SRI Real Estate Fund R350 million June 2007  African Infrastructure Investment Fund R1.3 billion (fully committed) January 2004 South Africa Infrastructure Fund R721 million (fully committed) May 2000* Kagiso Infrastructure Empowerment Fund R649 million (R173 million  committed, R476 million  uncommitted) September 2006 Community Growth Equity Fund  R2.4 billion June 1992  Community Growth Gilt Fund R1.1 billion July 1998 Community Growth Money Market Fund R18.65 million August 2002 Community Growth Fund of Funds R30 million April 2005 IDEAS Fund R2.4 billion January 1999 * AIIM assumed management of South African Infrastructure Fund in May 2000 (fund inception was in 1996) Old Mutual Investment Group (SA)s SRI funds >>  28 Futuregrowth funds Futuregrowth Asset Management joined Old  Mutual Investment Group South Africa (OMIGSA)  in August 2008 as the boutique specialising in  fixed interest and socially responsible investments  (SRI). Futuregrowth is a signatory to the United  Nations Principles for Responsible Investing  (UNPRI), a framework for investors considering  environmental, social and corporate governance  (ESG) issues in investment practices.  Futuregrowth segments the SRI universe into  three categories, with a particular focus on  positively screened investments:   Positively screened investments: involves  making investments in activities and  companies believed to have a positive social  impact.   Negatively screened investments: excludes  certain securities from investment  consideration based on social and/or  environmental criteria.   Investor engagement: a process of  engagement by shareholders and lenders with  companies to monitor and effect corporate  ESG strategies. The Futuregrowth Infrastructure and Development  Bond Fund was initiated in January 1995 and  currently has R3.9 billion worth of assets under  management, making it the largest dedicated  infrastructure debt fund in southern Africa. The  key aim of the fund is to make investments that  facilitate infrastructural, social, environmental and  economic development. The fund invests in projects that include  infrastructure development and social services;  community development; consumer and business  access to finance; agricultural development and  land reform; small medium and micro-enterprise  development; black economic empowerment; and  low income and affordable housing. The Futuregrowth SRI Equity Fund was initiated  in August 2004 and currently has R47.3 million  assets under management. Based on the  SRI principles of the JSE Socially Responsible  Investment Index, the fund includes listed  companies that integrate corporate responsibility  with business performance and activities. The  fund also aims to encourage businesses to  achieve long-term shareholder value through  developing and harnessing market potential for  sustainable products and services, while reducing  and avoiding costs and risks associated with  unsustainable business practices. African Infrastructure Investment  Managers (AIIM) The funds within AIIM (a joint venture established  by OMIGSA and Macquarie Africa (Pty) Ltd)  are focused on making equity investments in  infrastructure assets in South Africa and across  Africa. While AIIM invests in infrastructure  projects with a view to making commercial and  financial gains, the projects it undertakes have  various social and environmental framework  requirements, providing additional governance  structures supporting the legal and regulatory  requirements.  Investing responsibly (continued) 10 8 6 4 0 Infrastructure and Development Bond Fund All Bond Index 3 months 2 -2 6 months 1 year 3 years* 5 years* * annualised 2.13 1.08 5.51 4.07 1.58 -0.99 8.83 6.47 9.13 7.12 % 35 30 25 15 5 SRI Equity Fund SRI Index 3 months 10 0 6 months 1 year 3 years* 5 years* * annualised 9.71 11.73 22.74 26.72 27.60 32.53 5.90 6.38 18.67 20.37 20 % Futuregrowth Infrastructure and Development  Bond Fund performance (Dec 2009) Futuregrowth SRI Equity Fund performance   (Dec 2009)  29 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 The Infrastructural, Development and  Environmental Assets (IDEAS) Managed  Fund The IDEAS Fund is a socially responsible  investment (SRI) vehicle marketed by Setsing  Financial Services (Pty) Ltd, a company jointly  owned by Unity Incorporation and OMIGSA.  The fund invests in infrastructural, environmental  and developmental assets with the objective  to achieve social benefits while delivering  commercially acceptable returns to investors. In order to achieve the funds objectives, the  investment philosophy of the fund is to follow  an active, disciplined investment process,  underpinned by a thorough due diligence process. This is achieved through active and ongoing  involvement and clear definitions of responsibility  and accountability in the assets under the funds  management. Executives take key positions of  influence whenever possible so as to meet the  IDEAS Fund objectives for promoting positive  change.  At the end of 2009, the total size of the fund  was R2.4 billion but, in addition, it was able to  leverage approximately R15 billion in socially  responsible investment projects. While the main  focus of the IDEAS Fund is on South African  investment opportunities, it also invested in  development opportunities within the wider  Southern African Development Community  (SADC) region. Though below the target of CPI +7% in the last  year (see figure below), the fund has significantly  out-performed equity markets since July 2006  The IDEAS Fund is a tangible example of the ability of institutional investors to address the social  imperatives of development while maintaining strong investment returns. (see figure below). The performance of the fund  more closely mirrors the performance of the bond  market over the period (see figure below). This  period stands out as a valuable example of the  non-correlated nature of the funds returns and its  benefit as a portfolio diversifier. Growth going forward is expected in the areas of  clean power, carbon offsets, telecommunications  (data provision and services), developmental  projects (such as housing and public private  partnerships for prisons, schools, hospitals and  bulk water supply) and infrastructure (secondary  market transactions and non-coal energy). In  2010 the IDEAS Fund will focus on refining the  measurement and reporting of the environmental,  social and governance benefits of investments.  550 500 450 400 200 300 100 150 250 350 IDEAS R 153 Jan 99 Jan 01 Jan 03 Jan 05 Jan 07 Jan 09 Indexed total return value 18 16 14 12 4 IDEAS Fund CPI + 7% 8 0 6.56% % 2 6 10 12 months to date 5 years Since inception 13.35% 16.28% 14.04% 16.03% 13.75% 550 500 450 400 200 300 100 150 250 350 IDEAS Equity Property Jan 99 Jan 01 Jan 03 Jan 05 Jan 07 Jan 09 Indexed total return value Understanding performance: out-performance of  conventional portfolio Understanding performance: correlation with  bond performance Performance (end December 2009)  30 Case study: Gugulethu Square Project The IDEAS Managed Fund is the principle investor in the Gugulethu Square project, which was  launched on 27 November 2009. The R350-million project illustrates the societal benefits and  financial returns achieved through considering environmental, social and governance factors in  projects. Environment The project has implemented green building design principles aimed at using less resources  and producing less waste. These innovations will result in the centre having increasingly lower  operating costs. Key elements are the following:   Energy efficient, water cooled air-conditioning   Natural lighting   Intelligent lighting   Tilt-up concrete faade requiring no external painting   Rain and waste water collection and re-use   On-site recycling   The use of environmentally friendly and recycled materials in construction   Planting of 280 trees Society Community support – regarded as key to the success of the retail development – was actively  sought through:   A 25% local investor ordinary equity shareholding,   Allowance for a further 15% community investor shareholding,   A 10% community trust shareholding,   Local entrepreneurship business skills training and development both in terms of franchises  (e.g. Spur, Steers, Debonairs) and unique brands (overall approximately 10% of centre area),   More than 30% of employment during construction was local,   Extensive community consultation with local forums,   Incorporation of community aesthetics and poetry into design,   Accommodation of tenants of the former Eyona centre free of charge during construction and  the payment of relocation allowance where requested,   The creation of a CBD for Gugulethu. Investing responsibly (continued) Gugulethu Square is a dream  come true for me and the  residents of one of Cape Towns  oldest townships. We thank  socially responsible investors  such as the IDEAS Fund for  making this a reality. Mzoli Ngcawuzele, owner of Mzoli Properties  31 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 SRI-based investment decision- making  We recognise that the Public Investment  Corporation (PIC) – an investment management  company wholly owned by the South African  Government, which invests funds on behalf of  public sector entities, with its largest client being  the Government Employees Pension Fund – is  beginning to move from a focus on transformation  factors to a focus on environmental, social and  governance (ESG) issues. We further recognise  that Old Mutual plc has encouraged our asset  management businesses and the life company to  include the consideration of environmental and  social impacts in investment decision-making  processes.  With the exception of Futuregrowth, our  investment boutiques are not signatories to  the United Nations Principles for Responsible  Investing (UNPRI), as our investment processes  are not yet able to comply with the significant  reporting, monitoring and related work required  by the UNPRI. In South Africa, there are  significant conflicting demands on fund managers,  with focus being given to addressing the  transformation issue.  Old Mutual would be a very welcome signatory to the UNPRI at a corporate  level – particularly because they are asset owners. Dr Neil Eccles, Acting Chair, Unisa Institute for Corporate Citizenship  >>  32   Support our advisers in preparing for the  examinations; and    Provide financial support relating to  registration and examination fees to reward  good performance. OMSA provides a range of support measures in  response to stress on intermediaries businesses  from increasingly stringent regulations, changes  in commission structures and the economic  downturn. We see regulatory changes as our main challenge.  These changes are viewed by government as  being crucial to ensure that consumers are  provided with sound advice, access to financial  services and disclosure of information, and that  there is a decrease in fraud and abuse. The  economic environment has also posed challenges  for intermediaries who have struggled to generate  volumes of income.  Weve spent significant time,  resources and efforts in partnering  and engaging with brokers to  reinforce the message that we are  their business partner and there for  them in uncertain times. Marwan Abrahams, Executive General Manager,   Broker Distribution Intermediaries are a key stakeholder in the  insurance industry, and Old Mutual supports both  tied advisers and independent brokers, with a  focus on building the pool of young and black  intermediaries. Intermediaries provide financial  advice to consumers and sell our products. As  a financial services provider, we have a duty  to ensure that our customers are given sound  financial advice and that they are only sold  products that are relevant and appropriate for  them.  The FAIS Act has required increased  professionalism of intermediaries, with  intermediaries needing to be qualified to provide  advice and to comply with advisory processes and  disclosure. To address these issues, we:   Invest significantly in enabling our advisers  to attain the required qualifications through a  learning provider;  Strengthening relationships   with our intermediaries Material issues Indicator 2009 figures Number of tied advisers supported by OMSA 5 500 Number of independent brokers supported by OMSA 8 000 Number of black brokers trained through the Old Mutual Academy for  Financial Planners 194 Number of tied agents trained through workshops 6 176 Number of independent financial advisory practices that entered the South  Africa Best Practice of the Year Award competition 125 Percentage of intermediaries satisfied with OMSAs service delivery 77% Building the intermediary pool to ensure equitable access to financial advice >> Raising the standards of financial advice and developing intermediaries businesses  >> Supporting the sustainability of intermediary businesses >> Intermediaries provide financial advice to  consumers and sell financial and insurance  products and services. The Financial Advisory and Intermediary  Services (FAIS) Act (2002) provides a  general code of conduct for authorised  financial services providers and  representatives.  33 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Across the industry, upfront commissions on  retirement annuities were being charged, with  the company which underwrote the contract  recovering their money over the life of the  product. This did not create problems if the  product was held for life, but if the product  was withdrawn early, the policyholder was  required to pay a large penalty. Consumers and  government began to question the structures. Together with government and industry  players, OMSA was engaged in the process  of finding a solution. Clients now limit their  termination charges from 15% to 0% over  five years; intermediaries receive less  commission up front and instead receive their  commission over a greater period of time; and  life assurance companies (e.g. OMSA) take a  greater risk. For OMSA, the changes mean that  we have to:   Increase our focus on the persistency of the  business,    Ensure that our customers can afford the  products they are sold,   Provide our customers with improved  advice,   Address servicing issues,   Communicate more proactively with our  customers so that they dont choose to  withdraw from their policies. The commission structure was revised to a  system that provides a fairer solution to the  customer. With commissions being spread over  a greater period of time, the impact this has on  the intermediaries needs to be managed. With  the offer of financial security reduced, there  is a risk that the number of intermediaries  would also decrease, resulting in less financial  advice being given to consumers. Additional  challenges to advisers are the increased call for  more stringent qualifications and more detailed  paperwork.  OMSA provides both tied advisers and  independent brokers with business support  to enable them to weather the changes  in commission structures as well as other  regulatory changes (see main text and on the  website for further details).  Changes to commission structures  34 Building the intermediary pool Intermediaries are a key stakeholder in the  insurance industry and a core part of the OMSA  model. We currently support approximately   5 500 tied advisers and 8 000 independent  brokers through various channels. OMSA contributes significantly to the number  of intermediaries being trained in the country,  improving consumer access to financial advice.  Traditionally, we have only trained tied agents,  but recent years have seen OMSA investing in  other training initiatives including the Old Mutual  Academy for Financial Planners (see box below)  and the new broker entrant training. Both these  initiatives aim to address the representation  of intermediaries, with the majority of new  Strengthening relationships with our intermediaries (continued) >> The Old Mutual Academy for Financial Planners  was established in 2004 to address the need  to bring new black brokers into the market,  equip them with the skills necessary to address  the financial planning needs of the growing  black middle class and provide market access  for previously disadvantaged individuals.  Not only does the industry need to provide  appropriate products, but it has to deliver  cost-effective distribution by brokers from  the same communities speaking the same  language as customers both literally and  figuratively and who comply with the applicable  rules and regulations. Furthermore, with the  implementation of the Financial Advisers  and Intermediary Services (FAIS) Act, there  is a need for structured training of financial  planners.  Through a unique balance of theoretical and  practical infield training and application, the  academy now manages to train graduates  to reach the full 120 credit, NQF 5, Wealth  Management qualification in 12 months. The  academy has, to date, trained approximately  203 graduates and has embarked on  accrediting existing Old Mutual brokers who  had not yet attained their full accreditation.  We introduced a placement programme in 2006  that focuses on recruitment and placement  of academy graduates with independent  brokerages and bank brokerages. The academy  faced closure in 2009 but has now been  rescued, with 17 graduates enrolled for 2010. Old Mutual Academy for Financial Planners recruits that Personal Finance Advice (PFA) and  Retail Mass train being black. To further support  transformation, as part of OMSAs empowerment  deal, the Black Distributors Trust fund was set up  to support the development of black brokers.  The high turnover of intermediaries throughout  the industry affects the size and quality of the  pool of intermediaries. It is not only in our, but  also our customers interests that we minimise  this turnover, as we need intermediaries that  understand our products and services, can provide  customers with sound advice and engage with  us where improvements are required. To address  turnover, we have changed our remuneration  structures, introduced share options, improved  the way in which we deliver training and altered  the screening process for potential intermediaries. The Black Distributors  Trust provides financing  to qualified Black  financial advisers,  who are starting their  own financial planning  businesses.  35 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Raising standards of advice and  supporting intermediaries businesses Ensuring compliance with FAIS  We incorporate compliance requirements,  such as FAIS, into our business processes. To  ensure compliance, the line manager of the  representative checks and signs off each client  advice record before the business is processed.  We initiated a substantial roll-out campaign  where training was provided to all staff on the  requirements of FAIS and the related processes.  These requirements have been incorporated  into the learning tracks of advisers and all new  employees are required to successfully complete  an electronic assessment on the requirements of  FAIS. Personal financial adviser training Training is provided to our tied agents through  a number of different channels such as  facilitated workshops, distance learning, virtual  classrooms, formal qualifications in financial  planning, assessments for learners to track their  improvement needs and advanced coaching  workshops. We trained 6 176 delegates through  workshops in 2009 (2008: 5 649; 2007: 2 945).  We have to ensure that our learning materials  are updated to reflect changes in legislation, and  that the updated material is available timeously  at all regional support centres across the country.  We also need to ensure that we design learning  materials that cater for all learning styles and that  all training material is accessible electronically.  Despite these challenges, we recognise that  the training and support of our advisers is  fundamental to providing our customers with good  quality service.  We launched an On-boarding Programme for  new financial advisers, structured to provide  day-to-day guidance for the first month of an  advisers appointment. The new financial adviser  and a sales manager work closely together to  understand more about OMSA, its products,  services, processes and systems.  Practice management coaching Beyond financial advisory training and support,  running an effective business in a more onerous  legislative and higher cost environment requires  intermediaries to be skilled at networking,  marketing and dealing with the challenges of  running a small business. Australian experience  has shown that the provision of business advice  has a positive impact on increasing the earnings  of intermediaries. Celestis Broker Services (Pty)  Ltd (a subsidiary of OMSA), Masthead and PFA  have further supported independent brokers  and tied agents respectively with practice  management coaching.  >>  36 Our practice transition offering also deals with  the valuation and transition of advisers practices  to successors on reaching retirement. This is to  encourage advisers near retirement to transition  their practices to younger advisers, helping to  deal with the risk of our ageing sales force and  increasing the number of younger advisers. Our practice development managers provide  one-on-one coaching support to the top 250 PFA  advisers and top 15 private wealth management  advisers. Group workshops are provided for  sales management and advisers not in the top  250 and, in 2009, workshops were provided  for 200 advisers most impacted by commission  regulation. Tools and templates on effective  practice management are also provided. Through  the up-skilling of sales management in 2008,  basic practice management has been made  available to the balance (approximately 2 000) of  the PFA advisers and private wealth management  consultants. We started an annual Practice of the Year  competition in 2007 to recognise the financial  advisory practices that demonstrate the use  of best business principles. In 2009, 125  independent financial advisory practices entered  the competition, sponsored by OMSA, Coronation  Fund Managers Limited, Glacier (Sanlam),  Liberty, Masthead Distribution Services (Pty) Ltd,  Prudential Portfolio Managers and the Financial  Intermediaries Association of Southern Africa  (FIA). All the competition finalists were top  advisers who spoke positively about the benefits  of effective practice management, assisting  to build the overall interest in the practice  management programme.  Our practice management support programme  does have its challenges as up-skilling a practice  development manager takes time and they  have to build a rapport with the advisers they  work with, leading to delays in the programme  providing results.  Support provided by Masthead  OMSA helped establish Masthead in 2004 to  ensure the continued success of the independent  broker providing access to independent financial  advice. In addition to enabling intermediaries  to run an effective business, Masthead assists  independent brokers address compliance issues  related to FAIS. Masthead has evolved into a  recognised representative body for independent  intermediaries and is currently the largest  broker network in South Africa with more than  2 800 members. The organisation provides  a balanced view of the potential impacts of  regulatory changes on brokers, backed up by solid  research. Through this approach, Masthead has  established strong credibility with the regulators  ensuring that intermediaries are kept abreast of  planned regulatory changes. Both Masthead and  OMSA encourage intermediaries to raise their  concerns to ensure that they are represented  in discussions. Masthead is now also supported  by Sanlam, Metropolitan and Liberty Life,  helping OMSA to sustain the independence of  intermediaries in the industry. Supporting intermediaries beyond  training and practice management During the debate to introduce the changes to  commission regulations on savings business (see  box on page 33), OMSA played an active role in  representing the impact on intermediaries. We  helped intermediaries adapt to the changes and  thus managed any impacts. We provide further support to our intermediaries  through the recognition of our top producers, and  through incentives. Support includes a variety of  engagement, including showcase sessions for all  tied intermediaries (PFA), management contact,  regular communication, brokers being engaged  through broker consultants, access to specific  broker services in our call centres and access to  electronic tools and platforms. We also provide  intermediaries with leads from new and existing  clients. In addition, we provide strong legal advice  including the provision of training and support  on technical advice issues. The quality of the  intermediary relationship and appropriateness  of our support is measured through our annual  Intermediary Tracker Survey. In 2009, 77% of  our intermediaries were satisfied with our service  delivery versus a target of 72.5%. The long-term goal is self-sustainability for all   our intermediaries, and this is monitored through  the attainment of progress targets in their  businesses. Strengthening relationships with our intermediaries (continued) I should have had this training  years ago. All advisers should attend  this workshop and learn how to  manage your practice for improved  production. Intermediary after attending a workshop held for the  commission regulation affected advisers >>  37 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 The financial services industry takes responsibility  for its customers finances. To show we take this  responsibility seriously, we need to demonstrate  our commitment to ensuring ethical behaviour. OMSAs forensic function covers internal ethics,  risk prevention and management in OMSA and  its subsidiaries as well as external risk prevention  and management. A benchmark of OMSAs fraud  function against industry best practice recently  conducted by a third party revealed that our  structures and systems are best in class and  should manage to eliminate or minimise unethical  behaviour. Employees are required to sign off the Company  Code of Conduct (CoC) on an annual basis.  The CoC encompasses amongst others: the  Code of Ethics; the Policy on Fraud, Theft,  Corruption, Cyber-crime and Associated Internal  Irregularities; Conflicts of Interest Policy;  Moonlighting Policy; Gifts Policy; and a Whistle- blowing Policy.  Approach to managing fraud The forensic function at OMSA covers the  following functions:  Investigation function: involving liaising with and  assisting law enforcement in investigations and  working with others in the industry to manage the  threats posed by syndicates. An industry Fraud  Committee, of which we are an active member,  works to address fraud trends and approaches to  managing fraud.  Detection function: involving identifying potential  risks, instigating reviews based on trends,  identifying fraudulent activities and taking action.  Reporting function: quarterly reports are  presented to business units, the OMSA Audit  Committee and the Group Audit Committee.  Feedback on forensic trends and relevant  emerging fraud risks is also provided to business  units on a regular basis to assist with proactive  management of fraud-related risks. Old Mutual  performs reviews on all companies, shares best  practice and updates the policy framework as  required. The heads of the forensic function of all  Old Mutual Group companies meet regularly to  discuss fraud-related trends and challenges.  Examples of non-compliance and outcomes are  published on our intranet. Fraud awareness  presentations are performed regularly across the  business and employees are required to pass  computer-based training modules on a regular  basis. Various measures are in place to ensure the  independence of fraud management, which are  detailed on the website.  Reporting channels To provide for safe reporting, OMSA subscribes  to an external independent anonymous reporting  hotline managed by Deloitte and has designated  Group Forensic Services (GFS) to investigate,  follow up and feedback on all reports received. Whistle-blowing programmes are in place in most  of the countries where the Old Mutual African  Operations conducts business and GFS also  provides support for these programmes. Employees are able to make reports directly to  GFS via various channels. An increasing number  of calls are being received via these channels,  potentially indicating trust being placed in GFS.  A case management system is used to log calls,  track trends and highlight fraud issues to the  business units.  Ensuring ethical behaviour Material issue Promoting ethical behaviour amongst our employees and consumers and protecting our funds  and clients from fraudulent activity >>  38 Continuing our   commitment to transformation Material issues  (seven pillars of transformation as per the dti Codes of Good Practice) Equity ownership: participation by black people >> Management and control: appointment of black people to senior management positions >> Employment equity: participation of black people in management levels and disabled people in  all levels Preferential procurement: BBBEE procurement spend from all suppliers >> >> Skills development: skills spend on black employees, black learners and black disabled people Enterprise development: supporting the development and growth of micro, small and medium  businesses and black owned businesses >> >> Socio-economic development: uplifting communities through financial and other support >> We view transformation as key to the  sustainability of the company. According to our  dti scorecard (verified as at December 2008), we  achieved an overall score of 69.3 which allows  us to maintain our level four BEE contributor  status. Our BBBEE scoring is verified by AQRATE,  regarded as the leader in the verification of  insurance companies in the financial services  industry and, in 2009, independently rated the  number one verification agency in the country by  the Top 500 companies survey (at the time of the  award AQRATE were still trading as NERA).   A summary of our 2009 scorecard compared to  our 2008 scorecard is presented alongside in line  with the seven pillars of BBBEE. The full detailed  scorecard is presented as an appendix to this  report. While we have improved in our scores for  employment equity and preferential procurement,  our equity ownership and socio-economic  development scores have decreased. This is due  to market fluctuations and failing to meet the  threshold for our socio-economic development  spend. Our skills development score regressed to  4.90, but after focusing on this element, this has  been improved to 6.22 (unverified).  39 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Equity Ownership Ownership participation is encouraged in the  voting rights attached to shares, the economic  interest rights attached to shares and the extent  to which shareholding held by black participants  are unencumbered.  Due to being deemed a multi-national by the  Codes, the value of economic interests held by  black participants was measured as a percentage  of the value of OMSAs South African business  operations only, although the BEE transaction was  concluded at the Old Mutual plc level. OMSAs  BEE deal with Wiphold and Brimstone was the  first of its kind, with an extensive performance  contract specifying how these BEE partners  would assist us to achieve transformation in the  workplace. Aspects of the contract include support  in mentoring employees, recruiting key skills,  review of strategies and policies and conducting  interviews with staff and management. OMSA did not achieve all the points available  under ownership primarily due to the size of the  BEE transactions not reaching the general targets  of 25% black people involvement and 10% black  women involvement. In addition, the net equity  realisation points were not awarded due to the  outstanding liabilities by black shareholders  exceeding the value of the shares held by the  black shareholders. Respect refers to the consideration and regard each of us should display  towards our fellow colleagues, no matter how much they differ from us in  our beliefs. Phil Sack, Head of Old Mutual South Africa Industrial Relations dti BBBEE scorecard The detailed dti scorecard can be viewed on page 65. Element 2007 Score 2008 Score  2009 Score  Weighting Equity ownership 18.82 17.61 13.40 20 Management and control 5.34 6.32 6.21 10 Employment equity 4.84 7.72 9.04 15 Skills development 3.49 6.43 4.90 15 Preferential procurement 7.35 11.78 17.92 20 Enterprise development 15 15 15 15 Socio-economic development 3.16 4.28 2.83 5 Total score 57.99 69.13 69.30 100 15 10 5 0 20 25 2007 Score 2008 Score 2009 Score Weighting Equity ownership Management and control Employment equity Skills development Preferential procurement Enterprise development Socio- economic development Score >> Scorecard weighting for the last three years against weighting of the dti BBBEE scorecard.  40 Employment equity The Codes measure the participation of black  people in senior, middle and junior management  levels. They also measure the participation of  black disabled people in all levels of employment.  They further encourage the appointment of black  women.  Management and control Sub-categories under this element measure  the appointment of black people to the board  of directors; participation by black people as  executive board members; appointment of black  people to senior top and other top management  levels; and representation of black people as  independent non-executive board members. In  addition, the participation of black women on  board and top management level is encouraged  through the adjustment for recognition of gender  provisions of the Codes.  OMSA achieved milestones in its transformation  by appointing its first black CEO in September  2009 and its black female human resources  director in October 2009. However, the lack of  black executive board members and limited  participation at the top management level of black  people in general, and black women in particular  still pose a challenge for us. Continuing our commitment to transformation (continued) >> >> Position 2008 2009 Total no. of directors 16 16 Black directors 7 7 Black female directors 2 1 Total executive directors 3 3 Black executive directors 1 2 Black female executive directors 0 0 Independent non-executive  directors 9 8 Black independent non-executive  directors 4 3 Old Mutuals continued success is  driven by the commitment, energy  and different perspectives of its  diverse people. Paul Hanratty, CEO Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual; and  Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa Excludes	employee	figures	for	Masthead,	OM	Finance,	inactive	pensioners,	iLima	Trust	and	HiP. Headcount by race and gender Gender Race / Gender 2007 2008 2009 Female African female 2 722 3 106 3 130 Indian female 555 545 537 Coloured female 2 465 2 471 2 272 White female 2 545 2 383 2 307 Total female 8 337 8 505 8 246 Male African male 2 597 2 762 2 801 Indian male 497 500 545 Coloured male 1 750 1 817 1 684 White male 2 502 2 328 2 368 Total male 7 346 7 407 7 398 Grand total 15 683 15 912 15 644 Management and control figures  41 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Focus on women In terms of a focus on women, we run a  women-in-leadership forum, which hosts  regular meetings with guest speakers every  two months. In addition, we run a mentorship  programme in which junior female managers  are mentored by senior female managers.  For our Womens Day competition this  year, the theme was Women who develop  the best teams, with each business unit  electing a women leader not limited to senior  management. This is regarded as a prestigious  award, with the prize being a leadership course  in London and in 2009 was won by Marietjie  Erasmus (see right). We support women externally through our  preferential procurement practices (see page  43), by involving women in business through  Masisizane (see page 21) and through various  enterprise development CSI programmes (see  page 45). Employment equity is part of our bigger  transformation strategy, helping us to serve the  South African market better. The OMSA employee  profile must reflect the economically active  demographics in South Africa across all levels and  occupational categories, eradicating all forms of  unfair discrimination in the organisation.  An employment equity plan, developed in line  with the Employment Equity Act, has recently  been approved by the Department of Labour.  The employment equity plan outlines our current  status, our goals and our plan to achieve our  goals. A roadmap for implementing the plan has  been developed and was approved by the OMSA  Exco in December 2009. Implementing employment equity To reach our employment equity targets, we  include employment equity as a key criteria in  all strategies and initiatives such as recruitment,  retention, skills development, the Accelerated  Development Programme, our intern programme,  the Leadership Programme, the Actuarial  Recruitment Development Programme, the  TOPP programme (for Chartered Accountants)  and talent management. We survey employees  to identify any issues that might exist, run  employment equity and diversity awareness  campaigns and host employment equity and  diversity dialogues. We also actively focus on  the promotion of women in management and  recruit and accommodate people with disabilities.  Beyond the numbers, all policies and practices are  scrutinised regarding employment equity.  Our 2008 employment equity score was 7.72/15.  This improved to 9.04 in 2009. Training across  the regions covers discrimination, harassment,  diversity, disability, etiquette and ethics.  Employment equity challenges Limited participation in senior and middle  management levels by black people in  general, and black women specifically, and  limited participation by black female disabled  employees adversely affected OMSAs score  for this particular element. Our challenges  in meeting our employment equity targets  include: a limited talent pool of the right skills  and profile; ensuring line managers recruit  according to the employment equity ratios; and  changing perceptions regarding employment  equity. To address these, we are focusing on the  development of black talent and encouraging  dialogue sessions. The greatest challenge women face in the financial services industry is to  change the mindset that women are not supposed to be high flyers in this  industry to one of the skys the limit! Connie Morgets, Executive Financial Adviser First runner-up, Jomarie Van Zyl;   second runner-up, Jenny Coetzee; and   winner,	Marietjie	Erasmus  42 Skills development This element measures skills spend on black  employees and black disabled employees, with  a focus on the amount spent on black women  and the participation of black people in learner  programmes as defined in the Codes.  The total BEE skills development leviable amount  for 2009 was determined to be R3 372 million.  Although there was significant financial  investment into skills development, our score was  affected by the Codes targets focusing on black  people with disability (as opposed to all people  with disability) and the limited number of black  participants in learning programmes. Having said  this, although not yet verified, as of the end of  December 2009, the score for skills development  increased to 6.22. We have an important role to play in driving  the skills development of the previously  disadvantaged. Internal skills development is  outlined on page 52, with the summary statistics  presented alongside.  Continuing our commitment to transformation (continued) >> 12 000 10 000 8 000 6 000 2 000 Male Female 4 000 0 African 1 784 2 015 Coloured 1 317 1 866 Indian 497 455 White 1 480 1 530 Total 5 078 5 866 No. Number of employees attending skills training by  gender and race group Our external skills development programmes  are included in: The Old Mutual Academy for  Financial Planners (page 34); Masisizane (page  21); financial education programmes (page 23);  and corporate social investment (CSI) skills  development (page 46). It is through tools and knowledge, not through handouts and donations, that  we will meaningfully and sustainably transform and empower our countrys  poorest and most disadvantaged people. Benji	Norman,	Chief	Transformation	Officer  43 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Preferential procurement The procurement baseline figure for 2009 was  R6 413 million, with a weighted, verifiable BBBEE  procurement figure of R4 265 million. The overall  (unaudited) OMSA preferential procurement  achieved in 2009 was 76% or a score of 19.09.  Targets were not reached for spend with 50%  black-owned and 30% black-women-owned  businesses. The Procurement Council is accountable for the  implementation of the preferential procurement  strategy. In 2009, OMSA decided to align its  preferential procurement strategy in line with the  dti Codes of Good Practice, with a target for all  our suppliers to reach level 4 and above. In order to improve our preferential procurement,  we engaged with the top 200 vendors in our  database (80% of our spend) informing them of  OMSAs move towards BEE compliant vendors. We  have received dti Codes BEE certificates from 78%  of our vendors and have now moved to work with  our top 500 vendors. Upon proof, smaller vendors  may be exempt as per the Codes. OMSA plans to  take serious action against those suppliers that  have not complied after the window period is over.  OMIGPI engaged in an intensive and hands-on  approach to improve compliance of its suppliers,  with successful results (see the website for further  information).  We are challenged by the significant resources  required to effectively support our suppliers to  improve their BEE credentials and have shared  our BEE financial system with other large South  African companies so as to promote preferential  procurement nationally.  Enterprise development  Enterprise development measures the average  annual value of contributions to beneficiaries as a  percentage of net profit after tax (NPAT), with the  target being 3% of net profit after tax. The NPAT  was determined from the 2008 Annual Report to  be R5 537 million. Empowerment financing incorporates BEE  transactional financing and targeted investments.  We have not engaged in any significant BEE deals  in the last year, primarily due to the current  economic and investor climate. We do, however,  continue to contribute to targeted investments  through most of our socially responsible investing  (SRI)-type funds, which are discussed in detail in  the chapter Investing responsibly (see page 27). Enterprise development is a core objective of  Masisizane, with further information available on  page 45.  Socio-economic development Socio-economic development measures the  average annual value of contributions to  beneficiaries as a percentage of NPAT, with the  target being 1% of NPAT. A total weighted value  of R25.57 million for direct costs incurred on  socio-economic development initiatives and   R5.75 million for overhead costs of the socio- economic development business unit was  ultimately included for scoring.  The weighted spend incurred on qualifying socio- economic development beneficiaries represented  only 0.57% of the target of 1% of NPAT.  This pillar of transformation is covered under the  chapter Serving our communities: corporate social  investment on page 45.  >> 8 6 2 Weighted Unweighted 4 0 2007 2.48 3.56 R billion 2008 4.28 6.41 2009 4.65 6.09 Preferential procurement spend >> >>  44 The focus of our work in supporting our  communities is revitalising the South African  economy to bring about a shared prosperity for all  South Africans, black and white. In order to ensure the sustainability of our efforts,  we have aligned our interventions to both the  prevailing national priorities and our core business  operations. All our interventions are aimed at  economic transformation in South Africa.  Our strategy is supported by our capital  investment programmes, acting as catalysts  for economic growth. They include toll roads,  new power stations, property developments and  shopping centres in underserved areas such as  Gugulethu in Cape Town.  We serve our communities through a number of  channels, with our three primary channels being  our corporate social investment (CSI) programme  through the Old Mutual Foundation; women- owned enterprise development through the  Masisizane Fund, and our sponsorship activities  – mainly to support sport, arts and cultural  development. We regard our sponsorships as being separate  to our CSI portfolio in that their focus is on  communicating the companys brand image.   Through our sponsorships, we are a major  contributor to communities countrywide, with  many of these projects contributing significantly  to the transformation process.  Masisizane is also not included in our CSI spend,  as it was funded from unclaimed shares and  provides soft loans (see page 21 for further  information). Supporting our communities Material issues Indicator 2009 figures CSI spend R31 million Number of jobs created through CSI programmes 3 046 Number of learners trained at the Old Mutual Zeekoevlei Sailing Centre 60 Number of school children supported through LEAP schools 1 300 Number of students from OMSA-supported schools passing matric with  Bachelors qualifications 862 Number of employees who volunteered for the one-day Do it Day and Care  and Share programmes 5 689 Amount raised by staff through the payroll giving programme (or number  of staff and hours spent on volunteer work) R1.5 million Sponsorship spend R39.68 million Number of jobs created through Masisizane 9 690 Corporate social investment: focusing on enterprise development, skills capacity building,  education and staff volunteerism >> Sponsorships: uplifting communities through the use of relevant marketing campaigns >> Development support: providing financing and support to micro, small and medium businesses  and building capacity in government (through Masisizane)*  >> We accept that what we can achieve on our own will not have the desired  scale of impact to effect nationwide change. We would, therefore, like to  work with other industry players in order for us to collectively assist in the  economic transformation of the country. Kuseni Dlamini, CEO Old Mutual South Africa and Emerging Markets *	This	issue	is	dealt	with	in	the	section	Product	Access	on	page	20.  45 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Corporate social investment Our focus areas in corporate social investment are  enterprise development, skills capacity building,  education and staff volunteerism. We have  refocused our approach in the last year to:   Ensure economic development beyond social  welfare.    Develop a partnership approach with other  organisations and industry players.   Run big flagship projects that realise greater  social impact.   Focus on real societal and business results.   Take a long-term approach.   Formalise business processes, enabling due  diligence and transparent reporting of our CSI  programmes.  We have implemented an electronic project  management system, which helps us manage  and account for funds that are disbursed,  including contractual agreements, monitoring and  evaluation and progress reports. Enterprise development Our enterprise development projects in small  scale agriculture, manufacturing and the  environment focus on green jobs and labour- absorbing initiatives. Key projects include:  The Heiveld Co-operative: supporting 42 Khoisan  farmers who run every stage of tea production  and, in 2009, exported products worth   R7.8 million.  Indigenous Trees For Life: contributing to the  restoration of forests and ecosystems and the  sequestration of carbon dioxide while supporting  a network of tree-preneurs, who are usually  orphaned and vulnerable children.  Tshapile Ulimo Agricultural Co-operative: where  R2.5 million of funding has been leveraged to  fence grazing and agricultural lands. 650 ha is  now being farmed benefiting 10 000 community  members. Further infrastructure, training and  business support work will follow, with the project  being set up as a model of rural development.  Umdoni Communal Gardens: providing  sustainable rural agri-business for 271 members  belonging to 21 co-operatives. Emfundisweni Skills Development Centre: situated  in a rural village in the Eastern Cape, hosting  three profitable enterprises (a B&B, clothing  manufacturer and bakery) employing 62 people.  Case study:   The Bulungula Incubator  The Bulungula Incubator is situated  in a remote and poorly served area of  the Eastern Cape. Its priorities include  education, health, basic services  and sustainable livelihoods, with our  partnership focusing on the last of these.  Community-owned and run businesses now  include horse riding; canoeing; a vegetable  nursery and garden; and an essential oils  project. The essential oils project is aimed  at benefiting 100 families and has the  potential to revolutionise the communitys  income stream. Lemongrass is being grown  for export. Feasibility studies have been  completed for bee keeping, tree planting,  snail farming, poultry, hot boxes, a hair  salon, home stay tourism, hammock  sewing, and wool spinning and weaving.  As one of the key supporters of the  Bulungula project, our current role is to  help find and develop markets for the  products. For further details, see   www.bulungulaincubator.wordpress.com >>  46 Education We focus on improving mathematics and science  at secondary schooling level. Our interventions at  schools aim to address barriers in:   Leadership and management: building the  capacity and ability of principles and school  governing bodies,   Functionality: helping teachers to teach and  learners to learn,    Infrastructure: providing facilities, materials  and equipment to facilitate teaching and  learning.  We also provide programmes such as work  shadowing and mentorship, focusing on exposing  girls to the working environment. Our key  education projects include:  LEAP Science & Maths Schools: established in  collaboration with OMSA and other corporates  to try and address poor schooling. The schools  support about 1 300 learners from grades 9 to 12  across three campuses, with learners primarily  from township schools studying for free.  Dinaledi Schools: is the governments programme  to promote excellence in the teaching and  learning of mathematics and science in 500  schools. Old Mutual has adopted 10 of the schools  across the country (see case study on Dendron). Umlambo Foundation: focuses on leadership and  management development for school principals in  South Africa. Teach South Africa: recruits and trains top  university graduates to teach maths, science,  technology and English in disadvantaged schools  in urban and rural areas for a period of two years.  Skills capacity building Our projects focus on:   Product-to-market: product, business and  human capital development focused on the  craft sector,   Trades and artisans: such as plumbers,  carpenters and electricians,   Sport: supporting talented individuals to build  a career in and represent South Africa in  sport. Product-to-market (Old Mutual Legends  Programme): aimed at helping predominantly  struggling rural arts and crafts projects to become  sustainable businesses. Product and business  training and assistance is provided for the design  and production of marketable products. The  projects in the programme include: Waste2Wow!  producing fashion products from waste plastic;  Inina Crafts Agency, producing high quality  products through a wide network of crafters  (winner of the 2009 KwaZulu-Natal Exporters  Award); and the Umcebo Trust operating a  workshop and retail store at UShaka Marine  World, Durban (commissioned to build the worlds  tallest beaded tree to be showcased at the 2010  Design Indaba and Chelsea Flower Show). Sparrow School: provides vocational skills training  (such as motor mechanics and welding) to  marginalised youth with barriers to learning.  DreamFields: with a budget of R12 million, is  using the opportunity of 2010 to build and restore  soccer fields, distribute soccer kits and bags and  create enterprise opportunities around soccer  targeting underprivileged communities and  schools.  Supporting our communities (continued) LEAP schoolgirls with Barney Mookapele on Take a girl child to work day  47 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 DreamFields is a well-conceived  project, taking into account the  infrastructural requirements for  soccer (fields, kit, etc.) as well as  the emotional needs of children,  through the DreamEvents.  Judge at the Mail & Guardians 2009 Investing in the  Future	Awards. Case study: Dendron Secondary  School achieves a 100% matric   pass rate Dendron is part of the Dinaledi Schools  programme. It achieved a 100% matric  pass rate for four consecutive years and  was voted one of only six formally black  schools in the top 100 best schools in  South Africa. This has been achieved  without a library or laboratory.  According to Mr Moloko Matsapola,  principal, the success of the school is due  to an intensive study regime: learners  study together in teams, creating healthy  competition between them. Team members  and leaders are rotated regularly to share  learning. The learners study every evening  of the week, ensuring that the syllabus is  completed by May each year with the rest  of the year is spent on revision and tests.  The school governing board is actively  involved in running the school. Teachers  make great sacrifices, teaching on  Saturdays and sometimes Sundays. The  children are disciplined and parents make  sure that children are at school and on  time.  At the start of each year, the school holds  a function to congratulate the learners who  matriculated at the end of the previous  year, motivating grade 12 learners to set  their own goals, work hard, achieve and  succeed. Old Mutual is currently assisting the  school to raise funds to build and equip  world-class maths, science and computer  laboratories.  Case study: Old Mutual  Zeekoevlei Sailing Centre The Old Mutual Zeekoevlei Sailing Centre  introduces children from previously  disadvantaged communities to the sport  of sailing. In 2009, 60 learners from  four schools attend a sailing training  programme that starts with swim training  and works up to achieving a skippers  licence.  The programme develops teamwork,  decision making, sportsmanship,  responsibility and leadership and creates  the potential for careers in sailing and the  boat manufacturing industry. The school  marks of those attending the programme  have improved by 30-40%. A team from  the centre came tenth out of 28 teams in  the 2009 Lipton Challenge Cup.  48 Volunteerism  Our volunteerism programmes are design to keep  staff engaged with our communities, to develop  leadership skills and to give employees meaning  and purpose beyond work and self. A total of   7 188 (50% of Old Mutual staff) participated in  various staff volunteer programmes, making this  the highest staff participation of any company in  South Africa. The volunteer programmes focus on  donating time, talent and treasure. Care and Share: in 2009, 5 689 staff members  were given one day paid leave to work at a  community project.  Staff Community Builder: providing long-term  support to community projects, with participation  from 368 employees in 2009. Payroll giving: 1 131 employees donated   R1.5 million in 2009, despite difficult economic  conditions. These contributions were matched  rand for rand by the Old Mutual Foundation. Supporting our communities (continued) To stand in front of a school  of a thousand learners who are  celebrating the opening of their new  library, media centre or IT centre,  and witness the excitement and  expectation that such a project has  created for those developing minds  in poor areas is truly humbling. Paul Boynton, Chairman, Green Hands Committee,  Old Mutual Investment Group (SA) Our business is global but our  heart is South African  Paul Hanratty,   CEO, Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc; and  Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa  49 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Sponsorships Our various sponsorship projects allow us to  strengthen our relationships with communities,  maximise business opportunities and support  OMSAs strategic marketing and business  objectives. Our sponsorship spend in 2009 was  R39.68 million, up from R37.95 million in 2008.  R42.95 million has been budgeted for sponsorship  in 2010. Our sponsorship portfolio is focused  on running, soccer, golf, arts and culture, and  education and includes: Running: we sponsor the Old Mutual Two Oceans  Marathon, which attracts a field of up to 26 000  people; the Old Mutual Om die Dam Marathon,  and the Old Mutual Buffs Marathon. Soccer: we sponsor three teams in the Old Mutual  Mangaung Cup, which includes the DreamFields  Schools Challenge involving 16 girls and boys  primary school teams. We formed the Old Mutual  Football Academy in 2002 to give talented  young footballers, many of whom are from  underprivileged backgrounds, the opportunity  of becoming professional footballers. OMSA is a  founding partner of the Dreamfields Project, which  was launched in 2007 to provide South African  schools (especially in small towns and rural areas)  with resources for playing soccer. Golf: we sponsor the Old Mutual International  Pairs (OMIPSA), the South African leg of the  largest amateur golf event of its kind in the world. Arts and culture: we have sponsored the   Old Mutual National Choir Festival for the past  23 years as we believe that choral music is  an important cultural and heritage symbol for  all involved. The Old Mutual Summer Sunset  Concerts at Kirstenbosch National Botanical  Gardens; the Old Mutual Encounters Concerts   in the Johannesburg Botanic Gardens; and the   Old Mutual Music at the Lake in the Durban  Botanic Gardens all aim to promote South African  music. The Old Mutual Theatre on the Square  supports local theatre, the Old Mutual Comedy  Encounters features top local comedians and the  Old Mutual Trophy Wine Show promotes local  wines and winemakers.  Education: OMSA co-sponsors the Old Mutual  Budget Speech Competition with Nedbank  and sponsors SciFest Africa. We also award  gold medals to the top Masters of Business  Administration (MBA) graduates from four South  African universities. >>  50 Ensuring our status as employer of choice Material issues Attracting and retaining talent, particularly for critical roles >> Integrating skills and career development across the business >> Employee relations and engagement with unions >> Unifying our People Strategy across Africa >> Indicator 2009 figures Total headcount 16 984 Employee turnover 30.01%* Percentage of female employees 52.7% Percentage of black employees 70.12% Skills spend R98.5 million Number of employees trained through the Old Mutual Business School 10 794 Employee engagement 69% Number of employees using the Employee Well-being Programme 1 680 Headcount for African Operations 2 291 This is home away from home. The love, support and kindness I receive from  my work colleagues has taught me many valuable lessons. Old Mutual South Africa employee *	Excludes	figures	for	Masthead,	OM	Finance,	inactive	pensioners,	iLima	Trust	and	HiP. Old Mutual South Africa employees celebrating Diversity Day  51 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 With the world economy being under  unprecedented pressure and with our customers  having to deal with the associated uncertainty, it  is our people that enable OMSA to deliver on our  promises and preserve our legacy as a leading  financial services provider. We have a total of 16 984 employees   across our South African operations, with a  wage bill of approximately R169.33 million and  1 924 employees in our African Operations. An  OMSA people strategy was created and roll-out  commenced in 2009. We continue to be challenged by attracting and  retaining talent, particularly for critical positions  and by achieving employment equity objectives.  Staff retention continues to be a significant  focus, with the current turnover of permanent  staff sitting at 24.27% and the total turnover at  30.01%. During the last year, we made significant  advances in skills development, focusing more on  integration across business units and job families.  In 2009, we also shifted towards accredited  training.  The 2009 group-wide engagement survey  revealed an improvement in all figures except  for that of discretionary effort, which needs to  be addressed. We have matured the way that  we engage with unions towards an interest- based approach, which gives us clear guidelines  within which to operate, but also allows for open  dialogue. Our employee wellness programme  was used by 1 680 employees, an increase on  last year and well above the industry average,  showing trust in the programme. With our African  Operations only recently being brought into the  fold of OMSA, we are still busy aligning our OMSA  human resources programmes and reporting with  that of our African Operations. Key employee statistics for Old Mutual Finance 2007 2008 2009 Non-sales staff 7 972 7 605 6 895 Sales staff 5 602 6 289 6 427 Contracted employees 2 108 2 018 2 322 Masthead  83 65 49 OM Finance 45 172 562 Inactive Pensioners 693 696 709 iLima Trust 0 14 13 HiP 0 0 7 Total headcount 16 503 16 859 16 984 Turnover 16.96% 20.23% 30.01%* Employee turnover statistics for 2009 Turnover 2009 Non-sales staff 16.53% Sales staff 33.08% All permanent employees 24.27% Contracted employees 66.06% Total turnover 30.01% *	Excludes	figures	for	Masthead,	OM	Finance,	inactive	pensioners,	iLima	Trust	and	HiP.  52 We spent a greater percentage of our payroll in  2009 on employee training, despite the recession.  The Old Mutual Business School (OMBUS) OMBUS is the corporate university of OMSA. It  provides accredited learning aligned to the OMSA  business strategy and develops both individual  and team performance. In 2009, OMBUS obtained  approval to offer formal qualifications eg.  Certificate in Management and NQF Level 4. OMBUS learning interventions include classroom  training interventions, with 10 259 delegates  attending in 2009; online performance support  (Harvard Manage Mentor); and e-learning  modules. The Knowledge Hub is OMSAs corporate  library for all staff, providing knowledge support  and research as required.  Skills and career development and  talent management In 2009, we moved our skills focus to integration  across business units and job families (explained  further on the website). We are actively  identifying a pipeline of black talent and  accelerated development needs.  Ninety percent of training programmes run  through the business school are now accredited  and we are working towards accrediting some of  our technical and products training. This provides  huge benefits to employees and encourages  staff retention, motivation and recruitment. We  use a talent grid, redeployment programmes  and work skills plans to identify further learning  needs for job categories and the purposes of  transformation.  Retention Including sales staff and contractors, our staff  turnover in 2009 was 30.01%, up from 20.23%  in 2008. The key reasons for staff leaving the  organisation are illustrated in the table below.  It is difficult for us to put our turnover figures  in context as our research has revealed no  information on benchmark surveys of staff  turnover in the South African financial services  industry. We do have slightly higher retention  rates for our sales staff than the international  averages. The sales staff turnover figure does  significantly skew the turnover figure for  permanent staff. In addition, the nature of  contractors work leads to high turnover figures,  which further skews the overall turnover rate.   We had over 100 retrenchments in the last year  due to the move of Oxygen Medical Scheme out  of OMSA. In 2009, we once again won the Magnet award for  Best Employer in the Life Insurance Industry, as  viewed by varsity and technikon students. We actively work to address staff retention  through skills and career development  programmes; talent management; engaging with  our employees; ensuring market-related salaries;  addressing leadership in the organisation; and  giving recognition to good performance. Ensuring our status as employer of choice (continued) >> >> Reasons for leaving Grand Total Voluntary retrenchment 4 Retirement 30 Retire with retrenchment 1 Resignation 2 711 Involuntary retrenchment 98 Early retirement 7 Dismissal 159 Death 33 Contract ended 5 Appointment not taken up 76 Absent without leave 139 Grand Total  3 263 Skills spend Staff turnover *Figures exclude training spend on OMIGSA, OMIGPI and OMF Skills development spend R98.5 million Learnerships spend* R7.1 million Skills spend on people with  disabilities R552 088 % of staff trained that are black 79% % of staff trained that are black  females 39% % of staff trained that are  female 54%  53 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Delegate numbers on Old Mutual Business School programmes (January – December 2009) Course No. of delegates Essentials of self management Personal excellence 1 774 Service 454 Business skills 741 Financial well-being programme On the Money  (internal)  561 Financial well-being programme (external) 51 Leadership and management  development Leadership and management 2 122 Project management 102 Role-orientation workshops  (Management Development  Programme (MDP)) 3 780 Computer training 674 Harvard Manage Mentor    (registered users)* 1 260 *Provides a range of online modules and tools to support our managers in the workplace  54 Talent management We aim to develop internal talent to ensure  that we have the right skills at the right time  to achieve the future strategy of the business  and respond to changes in the market. Talent  management is focused on providing for  critical roles; developing leadership capacity;  succession planning; and developing black  employees, specifically black women. Individuals  in the talent pools are provided with coaching,  mentors, training and opportunities for rotations,  secondments, business exposure and strategic  projects and are considered as priorities for  succession planning.  Leadership Potential Programme The Leadership Potential Programme is an Old  Mutual plc initiative aimed at developing the Old  Mutual Groups future leaders. Where appropriate,  opportunities for secondments, movements  or project work are identified to support the  individuals development. Shared learning across  the individuals in the programme is promoted.  The programme is now being ramped up and  we hope to work together with Mutual & Federal  and Nedbank to place further employees on the  programme in the future. Further skills and career development  initiatives The Management Development Programme: has  been run for 8 000 staff since the inception of the  programme to develop employee management of  self and others. Learnerships: are provided for unemployed  matriculants enabling them to achieve  qualifications in areas such as long term  insurance and wealth management. Candidates  work with OMSA and their studies are paid for.  Approximately 250 people were engaged in  learnerships at OMSA in 2009.  Partnerships: we link with business schools such  as UCT and Wits to further develop our skills  development programmes and provide access to  expertise in particular fields. The Old Mutual Education Trust: sponsors and  provides mentorship and vacation work support  to tertiary education scholarships for members,  spouses and dependants of participating trade  unions.  Training Outside of Public Practice (TOPP):  contributes to addressing the shortage of  accounting skills in South Africa, particularly  among the black population. Graduate Development Programme (GDP):  aims to attract, develop and retain graduates  into the OMSA business at junior- and middle- management levels, with 85 GDP graduates being  employed since 2004 and a retention rate of 67%. Bursary schemes: see focus on the Actuarial  Graduate Recruitment Programme alongside for  further details. We offer various international skills development  programmes and coaching is provided to support  the development of our leaders. Ensuring our status as employer of choice (continued) Number of Old Mutual South Africa delegates on  the Leadership Potential Programme 2008 2009 2010 2 7 13 The MDP programme speaks to me as an individual. It provides key insights  into how the work I do is intrinsically linked to the success of the team I work  with, the department I work in and, ultimately, the company. It pinpoints  the small pockets of inefficiencies we are all aware of but simply bypass in  our day-to-day rush to get things done and nudges us into doing something  about it. Old Mutual South Africa Manager  55 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 The actuarial profession is core to the Old  Mutual business. It is, however, a challenge to  identify and recruit actuaries due to a limited  supply. The Actuarial Graduate Recruitment  Programme was started in the mid 1950s and  has, thus far, supported 174 candidates, 70%  of whom still work for Old Mutual. In addition to financial support, candidates  are provided with mentors, networking  opportunities and other support. Once a  candidate has graduated from the programme,  they are appointed into positions within OMSA,  where they are mentored and given further  tuition support and skills training.  Since 2001, we have focused on developing  actuarial talent from previously disadvantaged  communities. As a result, the employment  equity bursary student numbers have increased  from eight in 2001 to 30 in 2009, with   39 having already graduated. As of 2010, all  15 new bursary students are employment  equity candidates.  We do face multiple challenges in growing  our talent pool of actuaries. Candidates  have to do well enough at school to be  accepted into actuarial courses. With long  study timeframes, it is difficult to appeal to  young people who want to earn quickly. It is  challenging to identify candidates who are  strong mathematically and have potential  managerial skills. A large number of actuaries  have left South Africa, particularly during the  recession when actuarial skills were required  to redesign business models. We also lose our  skills to other businesses in Old Mutual Group,  which could be partially offset were we to have  a growth and rotation programme for actuaries  across the Group. Actuarial Graduate Recruitment Programme Employee engagement An increasing number of studies demonstrate the  link between levels of engagement of employees  and business performance. We engage with our  employees using various channels and measure  our level of engagement through two key surveys. Employee communication Our employee communication is aimed at  promoting engagement across all divisions in  the business so that employees understand  other products, services, areas of the business,  potential business and career opportunities and  OMSAs leaders. Communication covers electronic,  print and face-to-face channels, and aims to  break the silos between senior management and  all employees. In an independent communication audit recently  conducted to measure the effectiveness of  OMSAs communication channels and messaging,  it was found that staff largely view company  communication as being of high quality and  feel suitably informed. It is felt, however, that  communication is largely aimed at a homogenous  audience, which the employees of OMSA are not.  We will work actively to address this and other  concerns.  >>  56 Engagement surveys approach. This mature and balanced relationship  will entail both focusing on terms and conditions of  employment with well-defined boundaries and an  interest discussion group without legal rights. With  expansion into Africa, we need to ensure that both  OMSAs principles of employee engagement and  national labour laws are adhered to. About 5 500 of 13 500 (approximately 40%) of  our permanent workforce are represented by  independent trade union organisations or covered  by collective bargaining agreements. This is  higher than other financial services companies,  which we see as positive.  All operational terminations requirements are  labour law and ILO compliant, and all potential  retrenchments go through an extensive process  to be avoided (see the website for further  information). We had over 100 retrenchments in  the last year due to the move of Oxygen Medical  Scheme out of OMSA.  Employee Well-being Programme OMSA recognises that its employees will face  times of stress and illness, which will affect work  productivity. We therefore provide an Employee  Well-being Programme that offers counselling and  information service to employees in all regions  to help employees before they get into trouble.  The programme covers stress issues – such as  work pressure, depression and relationships; and  financial wellness issues. The programme has yet  to be rolled out to our African Operations. Counselling is provided for short-term solution  provision, with more deep-seated problems  being referred to external counsellors. While we  use an outsourced service provider to ensure  confidentiality, quarterly anonymous reporting  provides a breakdown of demographics and  highlights any increases in stress that business  units might need to be aware of.  The service was used by 1 688 employees  (10.8%) in 2009. This is higher than the industry  average of approximately 9.5%, showing trust  in the service. Of these, 1 151 staff received  individual face-to-face counselling. With the  recession, we have seen a large increase in the  utilisation of our financial wellness facility.  Employee engagement is measured through the  Old Mutual Group employee engagement survey  and the OMSA climate survey. These surveys are  confidential and run through third parties.  The Old Mutual Groups survey reveals an  improvement in rational commitment, emotional  commitment and the intent of employees to stay  with the Group. OMSA scores fairly well against  that of the Group, and international benchmarks. In addition to the employee engagement survey,  OMSA runs an annual climate survey, The  motivational index and the findings are used to  identify specific interventions necessary.  We had a 56% response rate for the engagement  survey (up from 43% in 2008) and a 60%  response rate for the climate survey. The  success of our employee engagement is partially  attributed to the involvement of senior managers  such as our CEO, Kuseni Dlamini.  Our last survey indicated that areas for  improvement included leadership, communication,  pride in the organisation, human touch and talent  management, which we have actively worked to  address.  Employee relations  OMSA has in place the Rules of Engagement  document, which contains a guide to manage  collective employee engagement. This document  is a restatement of rights contained in labour  legislation informed by and aligned with the  International Labour Organisation (ILO). Approaches to engaging with employees can  range from the extremes of a focus on industrial  relations and labour law – with the focus being  on litigation, procedures and court work – to  employee relations. Over the years, we have  oscillated between the two extremes. We are  currently looking to establish an interest-based  Ensuring our status as employer of choice (continued) >> 2008  Actual 2009  Target 2009  Actual 2010  Target 67% 70% 69% 75% Old Mutual South Africa climate survey results >>  57 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 On HIV/Aids, voluntary counselling and testing is  provided on an ad hoc basis and Kuseni Dlamini,  OMSAs CEO, sends letters out to all employees  encouraging them to know your status. Those  who identify themselves as positive are given  or signposted to the right support. The OMSA  medical aid scheme includes the provision of an  HIV/Aids management programme, including  proper nutritional, emotional and medical  support and focusing on lifestyle shifts. All HIV/ Aids-related programmes are voluntary and  confidential.  Human resources in our African  Operations OMSA established one People Strategy across  Africa, which is being implemented by the human  resources functions in each country. For the first  phase, we focused on building the foundations –  developing basic systems and processes such as  those for grading and performance management.  We are building the capabilities in each country,  identifying skills gaps and planning ways to fill  these gaps.  In 2010, the focus will be on creating an enabling  environment: building leadership skills, rolling  out our management development programme  to our African operations, aligning the grading  structure, and aligning our talent management  approaches and initiatives with that of OMSA  where appropriate.  In 2011, we will focus on in-depth employee  engagement, with the first climate survey for  Africa as a segment undertaken in 2009.  We are exploring using the OMBUS to provide  training to our African Operations. Technical  training will be provided at or through OMSA  and through rotations. This is, however, not yet  happening in a formalised manner and still needs  to be further developed. We aim to employ locals, with expatriates focusing  on the transfer of skills and on learning from  experiences that they can then share with OMSAs  other operations. Lastly, we work closely with the  governments of the countries within which we  operate to monitor and ensure compliance with  the local labour legislation. Mind, Body and Soul Day On 1 October 2009, the Human Resources  Employee Well-being Department hosted  a Mind, Body and Soul day. The aim of  this event was to raise employee spirit  and to remind all of the many benefits  that are available to OMSA employees,  with all service providers being given the  opportunity to showcase their services.  These included cholesterol testing, gym  on site, biokinetisists, financial counselling  and advisers, study bursary programmes,  business school training programme  overviews and HIV/Aids testing.  Participating staff received stickers for each  stand participated in and once enough of  those were collected, they became eligible  for a free massage. There was a fantastic  turnout and a really positive atmosphere  on the day.  >> Country No. of employees Kenya 700 Malawi 100 Namibia 535 Swaziland 20 Zimbabwe 837 Total 2 192 African Operations employee figures  58 As a financial services company, we can minimise  and manage our impact on the environment  through addressing both our direct and indirect  impacts. The ways in which we can address our  direct impact on the environment are detailed  below, with the focus being on property services  (retrofits) and property development (new  build or major refurbishments). Our ability to  address our indirect impacts on the environment  is largely determined through our investment  practices. The extent to which OMSA practices  the principles of responsible investment, which  incorporates environmental considerations in  investment decision-making, is covered in the  chapter Investing responsibly (see page 26).  In this sense, our role is rather to use our  investments to influence change in organisations  in which we invest or would like to invest – either  to minimise negative impacts on the environment  or to promote the development of environmental  opportunities. While we support various environmental days and  initiatives, we do not raise employee awareness of  environmental issues in a co-ordinated, structured  or thorough way. Part of awareness raising is  related to assigning accountability (through KPIs  or scorecards) for environmental issues. These  are gaps that we will need to begin addressing  during 2010. Minimising and managing our   impact on the environment Material issues Reducing the environmental footprint of properties we manage  >> Reducing the environmental footprint of properties we develop  >> Reducing environmental impacts through investment decision-making* >> Indicator 2009 figures Electricity usage 552 364 472 kWh Water usage 4 100 604 M3 Proportion of recycled to non-recycled waste 35.17% *	This	material	issue	is	covered	in	the	section	Investing	responsibly	(see	page	26). The	2009	information	includes	water	and	energy	consumption	figures	for	buildings	under	OMSAs	management	that	were	not	accounted	for	 in	2008. Oasis recycling centre at Mutual Park  59 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 Minimising management impact The Property Investment boutique within OMSA  (OMIGPI) buys, sells, manages and develops  large properties such as shopping centres and  office parks. The property services component  of OMIGPI includes facilities management, with  resource consumption improvements being made  through retrofitting.  We see value in greening our buildings as a  means of future proofing them. With proposed  electricity price increases and issues regarding  water supply and consequent pricing, we need to  make our buildings as cost effective to operate  as possible so that our tenants can afford to  pay. We have not yet developed a strategy or  targets to reduce the resource consumption or  environmental impacts of our buildings. We are  developing a framework for reducing energy  consumption, which will inform a strategy and we  are moving towards a more structured approach  of implementing resource-saving initiatives and  monitoring and measuring changes. We aim to  initially install real-time energy consumption  measurement of three buildings in each region.  Load profiling will also be undertaken and areas  of high energy use will be identified. These  measurements will assist us in identifying relevant  initiatives to be implemented. Monitoring will be  included for all initiatives going forward. While  we still need to do more, we have significantly  reduced energy usage in the buildings that we  manage. Energy management  Our focus for reducing energy use has been on  the big resource users, such as Cavendish Square,  where we test certain technologies and systems  before rolling these out. The focus of initiatives  has been on air-conditioning controls, which  use the largest amount of energy and lighting  retrofits. We have also focused on the installation  of automatic switch-off and intelligent technology  to control energy use in the most efficient way. In  the next phase, we plan to engage with tenants to  identify essential equipment and lighting so that  we can install systems to switch off non-essential  equipment and lighting when not required.  Two significant energy efficiency initiatives  have resulted in savings. A DSM initiative in the  Western Cape (detailed overleaf) has resulted in  an average saving of 864 368 kWh each month  across five buildings; and an air-conditioning  controls initiative run at Menlyn Park Shopping  Centre in Gauteng is saving an average of   875 992 kWh each month. (The	figures	above	are	the	totals	combined	from	all	buildings	under	 the	management	of	OMIGPI.	Where	a	property	has	been	sold	or	 acquired, the data has been included only for the period that the  building was under our management) Resource consumption by OMIGPI-managed  buildings Consumption Electricity 552 364 472 kWh Water 4 100 604 m3 Waste: Non-recyclable  4 698 320 kg Waste: Recycled total 2 549 065 kg Glass 229 093 kg Paper and cardboard  1 962 396 kg Plastic (all types)  312 306 kg Metal and cans  45 270 kg >> The first environmental rehabilitation  deal was made in June 2009. Old Mutual  Corporate developed a specialised financial  model to help mines and other companies  that disturb the environment to ensure  that they are financially prepared to cover  the costs of rehabilitation incurred when  the operations have run their natural  course.  60 Case study: Energy efficiency  savings in retail centres In February 2008, Old Mutual Properties  implemented an energy efficiency and load  shifting project at five commercial buildings  in Cape Town (Cavendish, Absa on Grove,  Cavendish Connect, Triangle House and  Mutual Park), which was initially funded  through grants from Eskoms demand side  management programme. The project focused on the installation of  variable speed drives on several pumps  and fans to improve the energy efficiency  and to shift a large portion of the energy  demand out of the evening peak. From the start of the project in February  2008 to September 2009, 16 420 MWh  have been saved, with a consequent  financial saving of R4.4 million and a  reduction of 16 182 tons of CO2. With the  cost of electricity set to rise, the savings  made will increase significantly.  All reductions in energy usage and  environmental impacts have been  externally measured and monitored by the  Energy Research Centre at the University  of Cape Town.  Based on the success of this project, we  have initiated similar projects at Menlyn  and Gateway shopping centres with good  results. These were not Eskom DSM  projects, but we do track consumption  figures from meter readings. Water recycling After discovering that two million litres of water  per month were being lost through evaporation  from the water towers at Cavendish, we ran  a pilot project in which we redirected a large  proportion of this water to be used instead for  cleaning the 150 wheelie bins of the centre,  parking areas and escalators. In the past, we had  been using potable water for these functions.  Waste recycling  We recycle in all regions. Regional (and super- regional) retail centres and major commercial  sites like Mutualpark have on-site recycling depots  that separate out cardboard, plastic, tins, glass  and metal. Our recycling at Mutualpark creates  jobs for 13 disabled persons who are employed  full time via the Oasis recycling centre but located  on campus. We should possibly explore recycling  at source at these major sites. We are currently  working to improve recycling at our smaller sites.  We recycled a total of 35% of waste in 2009.  The income generated from the recycled material  usually funds the recycling operations. Minimising impact of development OMIGPI was the founding member of the Green  Building Council of South Africa (GBCSA) in  February 2008 and is currently a platinum  member, having donated approximately R0.5  million towards the development of new rating  tools. OMIGPI also provides guidance and advice  in the development of green rating tools, with  representatives being involved in various tool  development teams. While the GBCSA has  developed green star rating tools for offices and  retail, we are still awaiting the development of a  mixed-use tool and tool for existing buildings and  operations, which will assist us in rating many of  our developments.  We have adopted the green star system,  incorporating environmental criteria into our  development principles from the design stage,  through construction and to use of the building.  We are aiming for a four-star rating for our new  property developments, focusing on all aspects of  sustainability including energy, water, waste and  biodiversity. A number of green building features  have already been incorporated into various  infrastructure projects undertaken as part of our  social responsible investment funds (see page 27). Our challenges in moving towards reducing  the environmental impacts of our buildings  are numerous. While we have control over  the building design, we also have to influence  Minimising and managing our impact on the environment (continued) >> >> Reductions CO2 16 182 ton SO2 141 876 kg NOx 71 174 kg Particulate matter 3 616 kg Water 23 146 kl Coal 9 020 ton Environmental impact reductions:  February 2008 to end September 2009  61 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 investors to move towards green buildings. The  key challenge is motivating increased capital  expenditure – a four-star building currently  results in a 10% cost premium – in order to  achieve reduced operating expenditure. In order  to prove and realise the economic viability of  aiming for a four-star rating, we need to educate  asset managers and developers, encourage cross- over of technology and take heed of industrys  move towards life-cycle costing. Further challenges include the lack of expertise  in South Africa (green building principles,  techniques, detailed modelling), leading us to  learn largely from trial and error; balancing the  pressing and at times potentially conflicting  needs for BEE and sustainability, the supply of  green products, the trade-off between buying  local products that are uncertified versus certified  products that are imported; the acceptance  of life cycle costing and premiums, renewable  energy still being regarded as too expensive and  retailers becoming more demanding for green  developments but not willing to pay premiums.  OMIGPI has set up Project Chameleon, a strategic  project reporting into Exco and driving the move  to sustainable building and property practices  within the portfolio. To ensure that we achieve  our green building goals, ten percent of the  key performance indicators (KPIs) for OMIGPI  individual managers and teams is assigned to the  implementation of green building philosophies and  minimum standards. Case study:   Old Mutual South Africa crche  (Greens cool) The OMSA crche was built in 2008 to  provide a service to employees of OMSA.  The crche was constructed along green  building principles, with the following key  features:   Grey water flushing mechanism where  water from wash basins is filtered and  used to flush toilets,    Limited water use flushing mechanisms,   Positioning of the building to maximise  the use of natural light and heat,   Tinted glazing to reduce direct sunlight  and heat transmission,   Natural air convection,   Building materials that maximise  insulation, promoting heat retention in  winter and cooling in summer,   Solar water heaters,   Compact fluorescent lights (CFLs),  automatic (non-essential) light switch- offs out of hours, daylight sensor  controls on external lighting and  area-specific lighting to reduce energy  usage,   All timber used is from sustainably  managed pine forests in South Africa,   All internal surfaces and finishes are  hard wearing and easily washable, to  minimise maintenance requirements,   All vegetation used in the outside areas  is indigenous to the Cape,   The crche is adjacent to Mutualpark,  which itself is next to a train station,  minimising transport of OMSA  employees utilising the crche.   62 Overview In addition to having operated in South Africa  for 160 years, Old Mutual has been operational  in other African countries for over 100 years.  We currently have operations in Kenya, Malawi,  Namibia, Swaziland and Zimbabwe with total  funds under management of R33.5 billion and  just over 2 000 employees. Future expansion is  being considered in both East and West Africa.  A dedicated African Operations Central Unit was  established in 2006 to develop and grow Old  Mutuals business in Africa. African Operations  reports into the CEO of OMSA and Emerging  Markets and governance processes have been  aligned accordingly. The rapidly growing middle class across  Africa, low financial services penetration and  demonstrated need for financial solutions  presents a viable investment opportunity for Old  Mutual to expand on the continent. We aim to  use our experience on the continent to provide  access to financial service to clients across  Africa, particularly the mass market and small  enterprises.  Through these businesses, Old Mutual continues  to contribute towards its long-term commitment  to invest in economic growth and sustainable  development across the continent. We have  played leadership roles in industry and policy  issues such as:   Acting as a legislation task force member  on retirement funds, financial services and  insurance in Malawi.   Facilitating Namibias largest economic  empowerment transaction in the financial  sector.   Representation on a committee that is  reviewing the Insurance Act in Kenya   Providing leadership of the Namibian Financial  Services Charter development.   Investing in good governance in Zimbabwe,  recognised by receiving the Director of the  Year Award.   Providing advisory input into Zimbabwes  economic recovery. In addition, we support and run corporate  social investment programmes that focus on  the areas of education, health and welfare,  community development, financial education  and staff volunteerism. In each country, our  approach is to develop products and distribution  channels that are appropriate to the needs of the  local communities markets. Taking the time to  understand the needs of our existing and potential  clients enables us to be relevant to them in terms  of the products and services we provide. Our  operations work with the governments of each  country to understand product-related legislation  in order to guide product development. In some  cases, we support the development of relevant  legislation where countries have not previously  had access to lending and investment products  due to the lack of a legislative framework. An  example of this is the work that we have done  African Operations Improved governance including democratic reforms, fewer political conflicts  and macro-economic stability has improved perceptions of Africa as a viable  investment destination for local and global capital.  Johannes	Gawaxab,	Managing	Director	of	Old	Mutual	African	Operations. Country Assets under management No. of employees Date of establishment Kenya R7 billion 700 > 80 yrs Malawi R2 billion 100 >80 yrs Namibia R17 billion 535 1930 Swaziland R52 million 20 2008 Zimbabwe R7 billion 837 >100 yrs Total Approx R33.5 billion 2 192 Breakdown of African Operations  63 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 in certain countries to support the entry of unit  trusts. Old Mutuals African Operations leverage off  OMSAs products, platforms and intellectual  capital. We leverage off the products available  from the South African operations to maximize  the value that we can provide to clients.  Furthermore by providing African Operations  with an integrated back office capability to  support existing operations as well as future  growth of new products and in new countries, we  reduce costs and risks and share learning across  countries.   We screen all our investments using OMIGSAs  screening and our local partners and work closely  with the governments of the country to ensure  that our efforts are aligned with the economic  growth imperatives of the country. Country overviews Kenya Old Mutual pioneered unit trusts and offshore  investments in Kenya and continues to lead  in both asset management and unit trusts.  Old Mutual Kenya offers a diverse product set,  servicing 25 000 retail clients and 230 corporate  clients, with assets under management of some  R7 billion.  In 2009, the business launched a low-cost  mass market risk product – Rafiki Halisi – which  provides for the needs of the uninsured populace,  with life cover, education and investment plans  and is being distributed through alternative  channels such as post offices with money  collection utilizing mobile phone capabilities.  Malawi Old Mutual Malawi is the countrys market leader  in asset management, life assurance, 3rd party  asset management, pension fund administration,  and management and property investment. The  business currently has 12 613 clients on its books,  of which 208 are pension funds with a total of  65,000 members and funds under management of  just under R2 billion. Old Mutual Malawi is in the process of setting  up the countrys first unit trust business. While  Malawians have been employed to help develop  the business, OMSAs advanced back office  systems are being utilised to reduce costs and  allow products to reach market more quickly,  ultimately increasing the value provided to clients. Namibia Old Mutual Namibia is the countrys leading  financial services company, with funds under  management of R17 billion and a total of   137 000 clients. It dominates both the life  assurance and asset management industries, is  a leader in pension fund administration and is  developing the property investment side of the  business. The asset management company in  Namibia has established a sound track-record  in the management of alternative investments,  enabling it to contribute to Namibias economic  success, particularly through the funding of crucial  economic infrastructure in the country. In addition to providing financial education aligned  with Old Mutual South Africas programmes, this  business operates a mobile client service unit in  areas with no bricks and mortar structures within  a 50 kilometre radius.  In 2009, Johannes Gawaxab, Managing  Director of Old Mutual African Operations,  received the Lazarus Shinyemba Ipangelwa  Foundation Award for Business Leadership  and Excellence. This award recognises  exemplary business leaders for their ability  to engage and inspire others in their  workplace. The Foundation confers the  award to business leaders on an annual  basis. Old	Mutual	Namibia	offices	built	using	Green	 Building Principles  64 In order to reduce the negative environmental  impact of our buildings, they have adopted  green principles in the recent construction of  their headquarters in Windhoek. This building is  cooled using natural coolant water in a two stage  evaporative cooling process, which provides 100%  fresh air to the office space; water consumption  is supplemented by utilising ground water for  restrooms and for irrigation of plants in and  around the building; only energy efficient light  fittings are used and all light fittings are operated  by motion detectors. We ensure that very strict  environmental pollution control measures are  adhered to by all contractors. Swaziland Old Mutual launched its Swaziland business mid  2008 in an effort to provide better service to Old  Mutual clients within the country and to comply  with localisation legislation. With assets under  management of R52 million and 10 656 clients on  its books, the business strives to be the leader in  asset management, life assurance and property  investment by providing relevant advice and  value-for-money products. While the business  launched with a focus on the retail segment of the  Swaziland market, risk and savings solutions for  the corporate market were added to the portfolio  towards the end of 2009. Zimbabwe Old Mutual Zimbabwe is the largest financial  services company in the country and is the largest  single investor on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange.  The business has assets under management  of R7 billion and a total of 515 365 clients on  the book across the business operated by the  Group in Zimbabwe. This business has endured  unprecedented and significant challenges by  creatively managing their infrastructure, products,  employees and operations.  A number of business lessons were learned as a  result of the experience in Zimbabwe:   Always look after your customers. Consumers  flock to the safety of strong brands.    Real assets and capital are key in a  Hyperinflation environment.   A good business control environment is vital  for survival.   Continuous business re-scaling and re-design  is essential.    Taking care of employees during crises pays  off.    Always maintain sound ethics and good  governance.   Always look after your customers as they will  be there after the crisis is over. Whilst there are still a number of business  challenges our view of the future in Zimbabwe is  positive. As the leading financial services group  in the country, Old Mutual Zimbabwe has a  conscious strategy to continue operating in order  for us to add value to our clients and staff and is  now playing an active role in the rebuilding of the  Zimbabwean economy.  African Operations (continued)  65 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 BEE  Element Weigh- ting Indicators Indicator  Weighting Target  (Years   0 – 5) Actual  % Score Total  Score Equity  Ownership 20 Exercisable Voting Rights in the Enterprise in the hands of black people 3 25% 23.2% 2.79 13.40 Exercisable Voting Rights in the Enterprise in the hands of black women 2 10% 7.3% 1.45 Economic interest of black people in the Enterprise 4 25% 23.2% 3.71 Economic Interest of black women in the Enterprise 2 10% 7.3% 1.45 Economic Interest of the following black natural people in the Enterprise:   Black designated groups   Black participants in Employee Ownership Schemes   Black beneficiaries of Broad based Ownership Schemes   Black Participants in Co-operatives 1 2.5% 17.3% 1.00 Ownership Fulfilment 1 Yes No 0.00 Current Equity Interest  7 40% of  target   (Yr 3 & 4) 0.00 Bonus Point: Involvement in the ownership of the Enterprise of black new  entrants. 2 10% 17.3% 2.00 Bonus Points: Involvement in the ownership of the Enterprise of black  participants in Employee Ownership Schemes; black beneficiaries of  Public or General Benefit Schemes; or black participants in Co-operatives 1 10% 17.3% 1.00 Management  Control 10 Exercisable Voting Rights of black Board members using the Adjusted  Recognition for Gender 3 50% 36.7% 2.20 6.21 Black Executive Directors using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 2 50% 16.7% 0.67 Black Senior Top Management using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 5 40% 18.8% 2.34 Black Other Top Management using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 0 40% 0.0% 0.00 Bonus Points: Black Independent Non-Executive Board Members using  the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 1 40% 50% 1.00 Employment  Equity 14 Black Disabled employees as a percentage of all employees using the  Adjusted Recognition for Gender 2 2% 0.9% 0.93 9.04 Black employees in Senior Management as a percentage of all such  employees using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 5 43% 20.5% 2.38 Black employees in Middle Management as a percentage of all such  employees using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 4 63% 36.1% 2.29 Black employees in Junior Management as a percentage of all such  employees using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender 4 68% 58.6% 3.44 Bonus points for meeting or exceeding the EAP targets in each category 3 Exceeds  targets,  Min  40% in  categories 0.0 Skills  development 15 Skills Development for black employees as a percentage of Leviable  amount using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender. 6 3% 1.4% 2.85 4.90 Skills Development for black employees with disabilities as a percentage  of Leviable amount using the Adjusted Recognition for Gender. 3 0.3% 0.0% 0.07 Number of black employees participating in In-Service Training  Programmes as a percentage of total employees using the Adjusted  Recognition for Gender. 6 5% 1.6% 1.98 Preferential  Procurement  20 BBBEE Procurement Spend from all Suppliers based on the BEE  Procurement Recognition Levels as a percentage of Total Measured  Procurement Spend. 12 50% 66.5% 12.00 17.92 BBBEE Procurement Spend from Qualifying Small Enterprises or from  Exempted Micro Enterprises based on the applicable BEE Procurement  cognition Levels as a percentage of Total Measured Procurement Spend. 3 10% 20.4% 3.00 BBBEE Procurement Spend from any of the following suppliers as a  percentage of Total Measured Procurement Spend. Suppliers that are more than 50% black owned Suppliers that are more than 30% black women owned 3 2 9% 6% 5.6% 3.2% 1.87 1.05 Enterprise  development 15 Average annual value of all Enterprise Development Contributions  and Sector Specific Programmes made by the Measured Entity as a  percentage of the Net profit after Tax or Turnover target. 15 3.00% of  NPAT 69.64% 15 15 Socio- economic  Development 5 Average annual value of all Socio-Economic Development Contributions  made by the Measured Entity as a percentage of Net profit after Tax or  Turnover.  5 1.00% of  NPAT 0.57% 2.83 2.83 Old Mutual South Africa dti scorecard  66 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Index In preparing this years report, we have drawn on the GRIs G3 reporting guidelines. The table below  provides an indication of where information for each set of GRI indicators can be found in the print  report. A review of Old Mutual South Africas status against each of the GRI G3 and GRI Financial  Services Sector Supplement reporting criteria as covered in the 2009 sustainability report is provided in  the full web report. GRI indicator Source Page STRATEGY AND PROFILE 1.1 Statement by the CEO Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc; and Chairman,   Old Mutual South Africa 6 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer of OMSA and Emerging Markets 8 1.2 Material issues 2 Framework for Managing Sustainability 10 2.1-2.4, 2.6, 2.8 & 2.9 About Old Mutual South Africa 4 www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/company-profile/old-mutual-south-africa Old Mutual plc Annual Report 2.5 African Operations 62 2.7 Serving our Customers 16 2.8 Ensuring our status as an employer of choice 50 2.10 Throughout the report 3.1-3.4 & 3.6-3.13 About this report 0 3.5 Material issues 2 Framework for Managing Sustainability 10 4.1 – 4.7 Old Mutual South Africa Annual Report Old Mutual plc Annual Report Full GRI table in web report 4.8 - 4.9 Ensuring ethical behaviour 37 About this report 0 Framework for managing sustainability 10 4.10-4.13 Full GRI table in web report 4.14-4.17 Framework for managing sustainability: Stakeholder engagement 12 MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic EC1 Group Highlights; Old Mutual South Africa value-added statement 3 FSSS addition: Supporting our communities 44 EC2-EC5 & EC9 Full GRI table in web report EC6 Continuing our commitment to transformation 38 EC7 African Operations and full GRI table in web report 62 EC8 Investing responsibly 26 Supporting our communities 44 Environmental EN3, EN9, EN19, EN23, EN24, EN24 &  EN27 These are not regarded as material for OMSA EN1-EN2, EN4-EN5; EN7-EN8, EN10- EN11, EN13-EN14, EN16-EN18, EN20-22,  EN26 Minimising and managing our impact on the environment 58 EN6, EN12, EN15, EN26 Investing responsibly 26 EN28-EN30 Full GRI table in web report  67 Old Mutual South Africa   Sustainability Report 2009 GRI indicator Chapter in report Page Social LA1-LA5, LA8-LA12, LA14 Ensuring our status as employer of choice 50 Full GRI table in web report LA6 & LA7 These are not regarded as material for OMSA HR1-HR9 These are largely unreported. Full GRI table in web report SO1 Supporting our communities 44 FS13-FS14 Serving our Customers 16 SO2-SO4 Ensuring Ethical Behaviour SO5 Framework for managing sustainability: Stakeholder engagement 12 SO6-SO8 Full GRI table in web report FS1 African operations 62 FS1-6 & FS8 Full GRI table in web report FS7 Serving our Customers: Product Access 20 FS9 Continuing our commitment to transformation 38 Framework for managing sustainability: Approach to risk assessment 11 FS10-FS12 These are largely unreported. Full GRI table in web report PR1-PR2 These are not regarded as material for OMSA FS15, PR3, PR5, FS16, PR6 & PR8 Serving our Customers 16 PR4, PR7 PR9 Full GRI table in web report GRI G3 application level requirements In applying the GRI G3 indicators to our material issues in this report, Old Mutual South Africa is self-declaring at a   C level application. The following table provides a summary of the GRIs requirements for different levels of compliance. Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on:  1.1  2.1 – 2.10  3.1 – 3.8  3.10 – 3.12  4.1 – 4.4,  4.14 – 4.15 Report on all criteria listed for  level C plus:  1.2  3.9, 3.13  4.5 – 4.13,  4.16 – 4.17 Same as requirement for  Level B Not required Management Approach  Disclosures for each Indicator  Category Management Approach  Disclosures for each Indicator  Category Report on a  minimum of ten  Performance  Indicators,  including at least  one from each of:  social, economic,  and environment  areas Report on a minimum of 20  Performance Indicators, including  at least one from each of:  economic, environment, human  rights, labour, society, and  product responsibility areas Respond to each Core G3 and  Sector Supplement indicator  with due regard to the  Materiality Principle by either:   a) reporting on the indicator or   b) explaining the reason for its  omission Standard disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured G3 Profile  disclosures G3 Management  Approach  Disclosures G3 Performance  Indicators  and Sector  Supplement  Performance  Indicators  68 Glossary ABASA  Association for Black Accountants in SA ABSIP  Association for Black Securities and  Investment Professionals AIIF  African Infrastructure Investment Fund AIIM  African Infrastructure Investment  Managers AOP  Adjusted operating profit ASISA  Association for Savings and Investments  SA BASA  Business and Arts South Africa BBBEE  Broad-based Black Economic  Empowerment BDT  Black Distributors Trust BEE  Black Economic Empowerment BLSA  Business Leadership SA BMF  Black Management Forum BPCC  Bakwena Platinum Corridor Concession BPeSA  Business Process enabling South Africa BUSA  Business Unity South Africa BWA  Businesswomens Association CBD  Central Business District CEO  Chief Executive Officer CR  Corporate Responsibility CRO  Chief Risk Officer CSI  Corporate Social Investment dti  Department of Trade and Industry ESG  Environmental, social and corporate  governance EWP  Employee Well-being Programme Exco  Executive Committee FAIS  Financial Advisory and Intermediary  Services FGD  Financial Groups Directive FSB  Financial Services Board FSC  Financial Sector Charter GFS  Group Forensic Services GRI  Global Reporting Index IDEAS  Infrastructural, Development and  Environmental Assets IFRS  International Financial Reporting      Standards ILO  International Labour Organisation JSE SRI   JSE Socially Responsible Investment  Index  Index JV  Joint Venture KIEF  Kagiso Infrastructure Empowerment Fund King III  King Report on Governance KPI  Key Performance Indicator NAFCOC  National African Federated Chamber of  Commerce NBI  National Business Initiative NCCF  Net Client Cash Flows NLPI  New Limpopo Project Investment NOCCI  Northern Cape Chamber of Commerce  and Industries NPAT  Net profit after tax NQF  National Qualifications Framework OMBUS  Old Mutual Business School OMF  Old Mutual Fund 0MIGPI  Old Mutual Investment Group Property  Investments OMIGSA  Old Mutual Investment Group South  Africa OMK  Old Mutual Kenya OMLACSA  Old Mutual Life Assurance Company of  South Africa OMM  Old Mutual Malawi OMN  Old Mutual Namibia OMS  Old Mutual Swaziland OMSA  Old Mutual South Africa OMSTA  Old Mutual Service Technology and  Administration OMZ  Old Mutual Zimbabwe PERCCI  Port Elizabeth Chamber of Commerce and  Industries PIC  Public Investment Corporation SABCOHA  SA Business Coalition on HIV/Aids SACCI  South African Chamber of Commerce and  Industries SADC  Southern African Development  Community SAIBBP  South African Institute of Black Property  Professionals SA-NCC  South Africa - Nigeria Chamber of  Commerce SEF  Small Enterprise Foundation SETA  Sector Education and Training Authority SMME  Small, Medium and Micro Enterprise SRI  Socially Responsible Investment UCT  University of Cape Town UNGC  United Nations Global Compact UNPRI  United Nations Principles for Responsible  Investing VCR  Voluntary Counselling and Testing WCCCI  Western Cape Chamber of Commerce  and Industries WDB  Womens Development Businesses WSSA  The Wildlife Society of SA WWF SA  The World Wide Fund for Nature SA  Compiled by Trialogue  Design by: GroundPepper  Photography by: Clare Louise Thomas with special thanks to Old Mutual staff, Ina Oosthuizen (cover image),   John Makgae, Justin Lee, Louise Jean Fourie and Thami Mngumi and the Old Mutual archives. Contact details Benji Norman: Chief Transformation Officer  Old Mutual Transformation Office Phone: 021 509 6800 or 021 509 3377  E-mail: sustainabilityreportfeedback@oldmutual.com