NeuroSearch Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) 2010  In December 2009, NeuroSearch decided to join  the UN Global Compact network and thereby  agrees to observe the ten principles defined by the  UN. For NeuroSearch staff and management, joining  the network reflected more than ever a decision  to systematise and document our corporate social  responsibility values and activities. In some cases,  it meant that we had to define our policies and,  in others, that we had to describe what we had  always done. What is most important to all of us  at NeuroSearch is that we, as an organisation, are  socially responsible in all respects.  For this reason, we are very pleased to support  the Global Compact and all the CSR initiatives  we have embarked upon since 2009. Through  our core business and our CSR strategy, we  wish to motivate our employees and attract  new colleagues. We want to make a positive  impression on the world around us through more  dialogue and by creating innovation through the  strategic alliances with our collaborative partners  and stakeholders.  We support the ten principles of the Global  Compact, but NeuroSearch has taken a step further and  is assigning a very high priority to animal welfare, which  plays an important role in our core business and in our CSR  approach.   I hope you will be inspired by our CSR strategy, which  contains clear policies and innovative activities implemented  by NeuroSearch staff in 2010. I look forward to many  exciting CSR challenges in the future.  Patrik Dahlen CEO CEO Statement  In 2010, NeuroSearch set up a CSR steering group  consisting of representatives from the following  departments: Finance, Legal, Corporate Affairs, Animal  Care, Property Services, Purchasing, and Occupational  Health and Safety.  The task of the steering group was to develop and  implement a CSR strategy for NeuroSearch. The  steering group elected to work with existing initiatives  but also identified certain business areas – such as  animal welfare – which the steering group felt should be  given special focus and be included in companys CSR  strategy. The following areas of priority were selected: 1. Occupational health and safety and employee  relations 2. Supplier management 3. Environmental impact 4. Anti-corruption, including pharma ethics 5. Animal welfare 6. Local community 7. Philanthropy, including sponsorships The main weight will be on anti-corruption, environmental  impact, occupational health and safety, supplier  management and animal welfare.  As a pharmaceutical company, NeuroSearch already has  many procedures in place, so it was decided to establish  three levels of policy development: Level 1: NeuroSearch policies Level 2: The NeuroSearch manual Level 3: NeuroSearch procedures Description of policies and  goals In the following, the companys policies will be described  as they relate to the Global Compact principles. In addition  to these policies, NeuroSearch is currently drafting a  code of conduct designed to promote the Global Compact  principles and encourage supplier partnerships.  To ensure that this is anchored throughout the  organisation, the steering group initiated a plan to make  employees aware of CSR initiatives at NeuroSearch.  The plan includes anchoring of initiatives such as  the Advertisement Billboard, where advertisements  addressed to NeuroSearch are gathered and posted in the  reception area for a month, and employees were given the  opportunity to say no to advertising mail. This campaign  ran in November 2010, and NeuroSearch collected 55 kilos  of unsolicited advertising material during that time.  NeuroSearch has planned a number of activities for 2011  that focus on selected CSR areas of priority, i.e. anti- corruption, the environment, animal welfare, occupational  health and safety, and supplier management.   NeuroSearch also wants to tell its stakeholders about the  CSR principles it observes. To this end, we are currently  restructuring our website and annual report so that our  external communications platform includes information on  our corporate social responsibility.   The Global Compact principles on human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Occupational health and safety Goals for 2011 Implement an occupational health and safety management system Prepare a SWOT analysis in connection with future implementation of OHSAS 18001 certification Karina Borup  Daily Work Environment Manager NeuroSearch will constantly work to ensure a safe and  healthy work environment for its employees and ensure  that these considerations are not disregarded for the  purpose of financial and research gain. The organisation  complies and will continue to comply with current law in the  field of occupational health and safety and environment.  We are working determinedly to promote a good physical  and psychological work environment through visible  management support, local anchoring of occupational  health and safety activities in the companys departments,  and a day-to-day focus on health and safety. We focus  on significant health and safety issues and increase our  preventive efforts in the field by optimising our procedures,  e.g. in connection with handling chemicals and waste from  our daily operations. NeuroSearch employees are one of the companys  strongest assets. For this reason, NeuroSearch intends to  continually aim for a strong corporate profile, both in house  and externally, with a culture based on job satisfaction,  innovation, openness and confidence in each employee  showing responsibility towards his or her colleagues and the  company as a whole. NeuroSearch wants its employees to  be satisfied with their jobs and makes every effort to prevent  illness and help staff on sick leave keep their job.  NeuroSearch is making targeted and systematic efforts to  constantly improve relevant areas in the field of occupational  health and safety. We have set ambitious goals, and work  environment considerations form part of our corporate  strategy. We use a health and safety management and  documentation system that enables us to constantly check  and improve our efforts in this field.  It is the responsibility of each employee to always make  his or her best effort for NeuroSearch (its more than just  a job), to feel responsibility for his or her work (its our  company) and to contribute to a dynamic and pleasant  working environment (work should be fun).  The purpose of our procurement policy is to ensure that  all necessary goods and services are purchased in the  most efficient and financially most favourable way for  NeuroSearch and to ensure that the purchases comply with  applicable working environment standards and have a high  standard in the field of environmental impact and energy.  Procurement policy Goals for 2011 Communicate the corporate code of conduct and procurement policy internally and externally to all  NeuroSearch stakeholders  Follow-up on/audit our code of conduct and identify ten supplier partnerships Environmental and climate policy The Global Compact principles on the environment 7.  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8.  Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9.  Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Goals for 2011 Map our emissions of greenhouse gases and total climate impact, and set targets for our reduction of CO2  emissions by the end of 2011 Review our infrastructure and optimise our data centre, including a review of our server ventilation systems  and implementation of power management at individual workplaces We also intend to use our procurement policy to ensure that  our suppliers are aware that we have signed onto the ten  principles of the UN Global Compact. In our procurement  policy, we will strive to reduce our consumption of resources  and help minimise our environmental impact. NeuroSearch  will act according to the principle best product for the right  purpose at the lowest price.  NeuroSearch will work strategically with the environment  and climate by further developing our existing working  methods and incorporating innovation in the way we  consume CO2. Our climate efforts must be documented  systematically, and we will use the ISO 14001 standard as  a guideline for optimising and increasing our efficiency with  respect to environmental and climate impact.   NeuroSearch began an analysis project in 2011 regarding  our climate and CO2 footprint, and we will use the results of  the project to define our goals, plans and strategies for 2012.  In recent years, the use of laboratory animals has attracted  increasing focus among companies working with animals  as well as in the population in general. In Denmark, there  is currently a broad understanding that animal life should  not stand in the way of achieving better therapies for life- threatening and disabling diseases in humans.  At NeuroSearch we have a need to establish clarity with  respect to our handling of laboratory animals in order to  be able to meet the outside world with transparency and  dialogue in the future. This requires us to map and describe  our animal ethics policies and to create a full overview of  how we handle our laboratory animals today. This process  began in 2010, and we expect to complete it in 2011.  Animal welfare policy Goals for 2011 Incorporate the Ministry of Justice RRR definition in the companys animal welfare policy and in  our day-to-day handling of experimental animals  Replacement: Replace living, conscious and more highly developed animals possessing the  ability to perceive external impact with materials without the ability to perceive such impact Reduction : Reduce the number of animals used to achieve a certain amount of knowledge with  the necessary precision  Refinement : Every and any possible reduction in the number of or level of severity of inhumane  procedures carried out on the animals which are still considered necessary Since 2009, we have only imported animals from  internationally recognised suppliers. NeuroSearch requires  documentation from its suppliers of valid accreditation to ISO  9001 or the US Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory  Animal Care International (AAALAC).  The use of zebra fish in animal trials seems to be a promising way to  identify drug candidates in the future. Fish belong to the same animal  phylum as the mammals. They have a spinal column and their central  nervous system have many similarities with those of the mammals,  including human beings. The fish larvae have a number of anatomic  and physiological characteristics, which can be used to generate  knowledge of how potential drugs are expected to have an impact  on a full and coherent organism. Besides, fish and fish larvae are  primitive animal species and may therefore advantageously be used  in screening assays to identify the effect of several test substances  in a short time. These properties make zebra fish and their larvae an  efficient drug discovery selection tool and at the same time ensure  that the number of mammals used in animal trials can be kept at an  absolute minimum.     The Global Compact principle on anti-corruption 10.  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption policy Goals for 2011 To work towards a world free of corruption To create a zero tolerance initiative in business areas that are particularly exposed to corruption through  increased communication and anchoring initiatives aimed at ensuring that the companys anti-corruption  policy is understood Transparency is the most important means to fight  corruption. Openness and transparency are those of our  core values that ensure that we show social responsibility  in all parts of our business.  At NeuroSearch we disapprove  of corruption, and it is essential that NeuroSearch not be  involved in any kind of corruption, including extortion and  bribery.  Our basis for operating our business is integrity, reliability,  honesty and transparency. Thus employees at all levels  must ensure that their financial and personal interests do not  affect or cannot be suspected of affecting their work-related  arrangements and decisions or come into conflict with the  companys interests.  We comply with the UN conventions against corruption and  will strive to maintain high ethical standards and protect  our reputation. NeuroSearch has defined guidelines for  sponsorships to ensure that its interactions with health  authorities, physicians, patient associations and other  stakeholders are ethically unassailable and are perceived as  such by its surroundings. Our goal is to work towards a world free of corruption.  To achieve our goal: NeuroSearch will constantly meet corruption with zero  tolerance as   NeuroSearch does not accept and or receive any kind of  bribe   NeuroSearch does not accept any kind of extortion or  blackmail     Due to our openness and honest communication and  information, our employees are particularly good at  resisting possible corruption situations in their interaction  with the outside world    NeuroSearch continually makes risk assessments of the  areas of our organisation where corruption could occur.   In the potential areas of risk, NeuroSearch pays  particular attention to and communicates its corporate  zero tolerance corruption policy    Gifts received or given by NeuroSearch are not  permitted to exceed local triviality thresholds   Our Guidelines on sponsorships form an integral part  of our organisation