Global  Responsibility Sustainability Report 2010  On the cover: For Stora Enso, Global Responsibility means working together with all the people around us, everywhere in the world. This photograph was taken at our trial plantations in Laos in October 2010. These farmers grow rice in between the plantations eucalyptus trees.  Stora Enso  Sustainability Report 2010 Stora Enso is a global paper, packaging and wood products company  producing newsprint and book paper, magazine paper, fine paper,  consumer board, industrial packaging and wood products. The Group has some 26 000 employees and 85 production units  worldwide, and is a publicly traded company listed in Helsinki and  Stockholm. Our customers include publishers, printing houses and  paper merchants, as well as the packaging, joinery and construction  industries. Our annual production capacity is 11.8 million tonnes of paper and  board, 1.3 billion square metres of corrugated packaging and 6.4  million cubic metres of sawn wood products, including 3.2 million  cubic metres of value-added products. Our sales in 2010 were EUR  10.3 billion, with an operating profit excluding non-recurring items and  fair valuations of EUR 754.1 million. Sustainability map  2 Targets and performance  4 Message from the CEO  6 Governance and management  8 Stakeholder relations  10 Products  12 People  16 Wood and fibre sources  24 Supply chain and transport  30 Mills and environment  32 Climate and energy  38 Sustainability data by unit  42 GRI table  44 GRI statement  47 Assurance statement  48 Contents  The focuses of our work vary  according to local conditions and  priorities. This map gives an overview  of our main sustainability issues in   different geographical locations. Europe Most of Stora Ensos production capacity is located in Europe.  Minimising the environmental impact of our mills is therefore a top  priority in this area. We have especially focused on minimising CO2  emissions, and on responsible water use. Read more about our  mills environmental work on pages 32–37 and 38–41. Stora Enso sources most of its main raw material, wood, in Northern  Europe. Promoting forest certification and sustainable forestry is  therefore a vital part of our sustainability work in this region. Read  more about how we source our wood and fibre on pages 24–29. As most of Stora Ensos employees are located in Europe, occu- pational health and safety (OHS) is another important focus of our  work. Read more about our OHS efforts on pages 20–21. As in recent years, we have reduced production capacity in certain  locations in Europe during 2010. We have been actively supporting  the people and communities affected by job losses. Read more on  pages 16–17 and 23.  Brazil Stora Enso owns a state-of-the-art pulp mill and large-scale euca- lyptus plantations through its join venture Veracel, whose opera- tions are located in Baha, Northeast Brazil. Stora Enso also runs  tree plantations in Rio Grande do Sul and a magazine paper mill at  Arapoti, both in the South of Brazil.  In the areas around Veracels plantations we work to protect local  biodiversity by restoring natural Atlantic Rainforest habitats. Stora  Enso and Veracel control large areas of land, and to support land  reform in Brazil we engage with landless people to find sustainable  land use solutions. To help local communities benefit from our pres- ence in the area, we have also initiated tree-farming programmes  and other forms of cooperation that promote socio-economic devel- opment. Read more on pages 26–28. 2   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   Russia Our operations in Russia consist of wood sourcing and  forestry operations, as well as three packaging mills and  two sawmills. In Russia we particularily focus on ensuring  the legality and acceptability of wood, and on improving  occupational health and safety practices. Read more on  pages 20–21 and 24–27. Uruguay Through our joint venture Montes del Plata, Stora Enso  owns large land areas in Uruguay. We have introduced  plantation forestry in areas previously used for cattle graz- ing. We engage with local communities and form partner- ships with local farmers who earn their livelihoods through  wood production, cattle grazing and bee-keeping. Read  more on pages 17 and 27–28. China Stora Enso owns two paper mills and two core plants in  China. We are also establishing tree plantations in Guangxi,  Southern China. Respecting local peoples land use rights  and working to prevent land use disputes are important  parts of our work in connection to these plantations. We  are actively striving to improve the working and living condi- tions of our contract workers, and to train local contractors  to meet our sustainability standards. Read more about our  operations in Guangxi on pages 19 and 26–28. Sustainability map   3  Targets and performance Our sustainability targets ensure effective sustainability management.  We report annually on our sustainability performance against these  specific targets. We also continuously review our sustainability targets  and proactively set new targets where necessary.  All Stora Ensos sustainability targets for 2010 and 2011 are listed  in the table below, with notes on the status of each target and refer- ences to the sections of this report where progress towards them is  described in more detail.  Targets for 2010 Performance Targets for 2011 Read more PeOPle All of our employees to complete the Code of  Conduct training by mid 2010 81%  pages 18–19 To conduct a compliance survey for the Code of  Conduct done pages 18–19 Zero lost-time accidents (LTA) LTA rate 13.2 Zero lost-time accidents pages 20–21 Attendance rate above 97%  96.2% Attendance rate above 97% pages 20–21 WOOd and fibRe sOuRces To increase the share of certified fibre in our  wood supply to 69% by 2010  67% To increase the share of certified fibre in our  wood supply to 70% by 2012 pages 24–25 suPPly chain To conduct 5 spot check supplier audits 6 audits conducted To train all Stora Enso purchasing personnel on  managing sustainability in the supply chain pages 30–31 Mills and enviROnMenT Reduce SO2 emissions by 30% by 2013 from  2007 levels  -26% Reduce SO2 emissions by 30% by 2013 from  2007 levels pages 32–35 Reduce waste to landfill by 5% by 2013 from  2007 levels   +51% Reduce waste to landfill by 5% by 2013 from  2007 levels  pages 32–35 Reduce Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) by  10% by 2013 from 2007 levels  -2% Reduce Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) by  10% by 2013 from 2007 levels pages 32–35 Reduce process water discharge by 10% by  2013 from 2005 levels  -5% Reduce process water discharge by 10% by  2013 from 2005 levels pages 32–35 To conduct an in-depth water balance  assessment during 2010 done pages 32–35 cliMaTe and eneRgy Reduce Group-level CO2 intensity from pulp,  paper and board mills by 20% by 2020 from  2006 levels -20% To establish a new CO2 reduction target by the  end of 2011 pages 38–41 Increasing trend in power-to-heat ratio of internal  energy production 22% pages 38–41 Reduce energy consumption at pulp, paper and  board mills by between 1% and 2% (depending  on the Business Area) from 2009 levels done pages 38–41 4   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   external recognition Carbon Disclosure and Performance Leadership Index   Stora Enso was ranked the best Nordic company by the Carbon Dis- closure Project (CDP) for its reporting on carbon emissions, receiving  the highest scores in the CDPs Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index  (CDLI). Stora Enso was also one of just five companies included in  CDPs Carbon Performance Leadership Index (CPLI), which focuses  on actual reductions in carbon emissions and companies commit- ment to their climate strategies The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an independent non-profit  organisation backed by over 534 institutional investors with a com- bined USD 64 trillion of assets under management. The CDP gathers  information on corporations greenhouse gas emissions, climate  change related risks and opportunities, and sets standards for carbon  disclosure methodology and processes.  Dow Jones Sustainability Index In 2010, Stora Enso was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index  (DJSI) for the 10th year running. Stora Enso was ranked the best  sustainability performer among forestry and paper companies in the  Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index, and was also included in  the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. The DJSI assesses the  economic, environmental and social aspects of some of the worlds  largest companies. FTSE4Good Index Stora Enso continued to be included in the FTSE4Good Index Series,  where we have been listed since 2001. The FTSE4Good Index Series  has been designed to measure the performance of companies that  meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, and to  help investors identify such companies. The index focuses on envi- ronmental management, human and labour rights, supply chain labour  standards and efforts to counter bribery.  Worlds Most Ethical Companies Stora Enso was named as one of the Ethisphere Institutes Worlds  Most Ethical Companies for 2010. The Worlds Most Ethical Compa- nies are selected by the Ethisphere Institute, which is dedicated to the  research, creation and sharing of best practices in ethics, compliance,  and corporate governance. un global compact principles huMan RighTs Read MORe Principle 1: Businesses should support and  respect the protection of internationally  proclaimed human rights. pages 18–19 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that  they are not complicit in human rights abuses. pages 18–19 labOuR sTandaRds Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the  freedom of association and the effective  recognition of the right to collective  bargaining. pages 18–19 22–23 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the  elimination of all forms of forced and  compulsory labour. pages 18–19 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the  effective abolition of child labour. pages 18–19 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the  elimination of discrimination in respect of  employment and occupation. pages 18–19 22–23 enviROnMenT Principle 7: Businesses should support a  precautionary approach to environmental  challenges. pages 16–17 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake  initiatives to promote greater environmental  responsibility. pages 24–29 32–37 38–41 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the  development and diffusion of environmentally  friendly technologies. pages 32–37 38–41 anTi-cORRuPTiOn Principle 10: Businesses should work against  corruption in all its forms, including extortion  and bribery. pages 18–19 un global compact Stora Enso supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and  respects and promotes these principles in its operations. The table  below states the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and where  information on how Stora Enso addresses these issues is included  in our report.  Targets and performance   5  This report has been given the title Global Responsibility for good  reason. At Stora Enso we are building a significant part of our future  in new growth markets far from our traditional home. This means  we face new challenges. We must overcome these challenges to  make our future a long-term success, and to ensure we become a  welcomed part of local societies and communities. This is why we  need to rethink our roles and responsibilities – and build on the good  and globally recognised work we have already been doing to protect  the environment, enhance social inclusion and create a business  model that makes tomorrow better not only for Stora Enso, but for  the people and communities around us.   One of the highlights of the past year was when out of close to 200  candidates Stora Enso was ranked the best Nordic company in the  Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We received the highest scores in  the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, which recognises companies  with the most complete and professional approach to reporting on  carbon management. The CDP also ranked Stora Enso as the only company in our industry  among the five best performing companies in terms of the actual  reduction of our CO2 footprint. This clearly demonstrates that we have  embarked on this journey with serious intent, even in the most chal- lenging business environment. I am delighted to note that the target  we set in 2006 for a 20% reduction in our CO2 emissions by 2020  has already been achieved. This spirit of making constant improve- ments with decisive speed and focus is increasingly becoming part of  Stora Ensos DNA. Although we should celebrate every success, we  must never accept that things are now good enough – and we must  continue to make improvements throughout our journey. Water resources are going to be the next major challenge for our planet.  By 2050, when this Spaceship Earth will be home to more than 9 billion  people, 50% more than today, the time for action will have passed. We  must act now. At Stora Enso we have a significant role to play, not only  in terms of our own use of water, but also working together with other  stakeholders. As an active member of the World Business Councils  Water Group, we are developing new methodology for measuring water  footprints in our industry. We are also building up a firm understanding of  our own water balance and how we can improve water management. In the field of social responsibility, Stora Enso is committed to the  United Nations Global Compact and its principles on human rights,  labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Our efforts are  based on these principles, which we are striving to implement in our  everyday work. We are proud to be the first company in our industry  Message from the CEO 6   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   to join the UN Global Compacts CEO Water Mandate, an initiative in  which Stora Enso has already been active for two years.   One of our most rewarding achievements for 2010 has been that no  fatal accidents occurred in our operations. We are also gratified that  the attendance rate in 2010 was our highest ever and that the number  of occupational health and safety incidents remained stable. Arapoti  Mill in Brazil has set a great example for the whole Group by reaching  two million working hours with zero accidents. This proves what is  possible with focus and commitment, and defines a new benchmark  for all of us at Stora Enso.   Mill closures in several countries in Europe have been a difficult reality  for us and our employees over the three past years. In 2010 we closed  down newsprint production in Varkaus, Finland and in Maxau, Germany.  While I am still convinced that these actions to strengthen our competi- tive position have been taken in the interests not only of the company  and our shareholders, but also of the majority of our employees, I also  understand that this is of little comfort to the people affected by the  lay-offs, many of whom have given years of service to Stora Enso. To  support these loyal employees, we have continued to try to find them  new employment within Stora Enso, or work with the authorities to  provide retraining and outplacement services and financial support to  enable them to start new careers or businesses. Although not every- body has found their new beginning yet, I have been encouraged by  reports from Varkaus that more than half of the people made redundant  have now found solutions for their futures. This indicates how effective  collaboration between Stora Enso and the authorities can be – and also  demonstrates the resourcefulness of our employees in the most difficult  situations. This is the spirit in which we need to continue our efforts to  find solutions for people affected by lay-offs.   Have we then been doing a good job in terms of meeting our Global  Responsibility? I believe the above examples would give us sufficient  reason to say yes. However, I would reiterate that regardless of such  positive developments, we must never feel that such achievements  are good enough.  One area where we need to continue to improve is highlighted in a  report published in October by the Rights and Resources Initiative  (RRI) concerning Stora Ensos plantations in Guangxi. This report  stated that despite Stora Ensos good intentions and responsibility  principles, some local land acquisitions had been made through  contracts that endanger local peoples livelihoods and land use  rights. These problems are due to the unclearness of the contracts  and the unfair distribution of the funds that Stora Enso pays as rent  for its plantations. This situation is unacceptable to us. I would like  to point out that we had already recognised some of these prob- lems more than a year before the RRI report was published, and  had already been using significant additional resources in Guangxi to  review thousands of local rental agreements. Our better awareness of  these problems has enabled us to start working to rectify contracts  and ensure that they are based on the free choices of villagers who  receive fair compensation.     The RRI report has nevertheless given us another reminder about the  challenges we will face as a pathfinder. This is why we need to be on  the ground locally, with our ears, eyes and minds wide open. Rather  than setting out to teach others and defend ourselves, we must be  humble, courageous, and ready to learn and improve.   To help us deal with such issues in the future, we have now set up  a new Global Responsibility function, particularly aiming to take our  work on stakeholder dialogues up to the next level.   The way I see it, dialogues are about being open, and not being  afraid of tough conversations. Last year we launched a new Global  Responsibility website (www.storaenso.com/globalresponsibility) and  a Facebook page for discussing difficult issues. These sites have  received enthusiastic feedback, and I am pleased to report that in  December our Global Responsibility web pages were granted the  European Excellence Award 2010 out of more than 1 450 entries. I  would like to invite you to take a look at them, and also contribute to  our work by telling us what you expect from us. Stora Enso is ready  for straight talk. That is what global responsibility is all about. Let me finish with a positive story before you start looking through  our report. This story shows how all of us as consumers can make  a difference every day. Whenever we buy milk or juice packed in  recyclable liquid carton board made of renewable fibre, we make a  good choice for the planet, since the CO2 emissions related to such  packages are 33% lower than for plastic containers. At Stora Enso  we are now also devising innovative fibre-based food packaging to  replace plastic products. Remember this next time you buy your gro- ceries – and you can contribute to the well-being of our planet. Such  stories relevant to our everyday lives encourage us at Stora Enso to  continue our journey building up our global responsibility. I wish you  welcome to join our journey.   Jouko Karvinen CEO of Stora Enso Message from the CEO   7  Our sustainability governance and management practices ensure that  we integrate environmental and social responsibility into our daily  operations. We use a wide range of tools to do this in practice:     	 sustainability governance 	 policies and principles 	 group-level sustainability targets 	 management systems 	 supply chain management  	 sustainability impact and risk assessments for investment   decisions 	 sustainability reporting and third party assurance sustainability governance  In 2010 we expanded our approach to sustainability by forming a  new corporate function named Global Responsibility (read more on  page 10). The Stora Enso Group Executive Team (GET) is responsible  for all policy issues relating to sustainability. Everyday sustainability  issues are handled by Stora Ensos Global Responsibility function  together with the Business Areas, which are responsible for the opera- tional management of sustainability issues. The role of the Global  Responsibility function is to develop, support and follow up on Stora  Ensos sustainability strategy, so as to ensure that policies, targets  and priorities are duly realised. Policies and principles Stora Ensos sustainability policy forms the cornerstone of the Groups  social and environmental work, and is the basis for our sustainability  management. The policy encompasses the three pillars of sustain- ability: economic, environmental and social responsibility.  To support our sustainability policy, Stora Enso has also established  a set of related  principles to guide our employees in their everyday  work: 	 Principles for Social Responsibility 	 Principles for Occupational Health and Safety 	 Principles for Sustainable Wood and Fibre Procurement and Land  Management 	 Principles for the Development of Forest Certification 	 Principles for the Implementation of Environmental Management  Systems 	 Energy Principles 	 Transport Environmental Principles 	 Principle on Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) We have also established a Code of Conduct which summarises the  key elements of our policies, principles and guidelines, and provides  guidance on what they mean in practice (see page 18).  Stora Enso has clearly defined its position on vital issues such as  climate change, forest certification, illegal logging and water use. Our  sustainability policy, all the principles listed above and the position  papers are available at: www.storaenso.com/sustainabilitypolicies. group-level targets We set group-level sustainability targets to help us efficiently manage  sustainability performance across our operations. These targets are  continuously reviewed, and we proactively set new targets where  necessary. We also report annually on our performance against these  targets. For more information about our sustainability targets and  performance, see page 4.   Management systems  Stora Ensos policies and principles are translated into practice  through management systems that help our units to recognise any  sustainability issues that need to be addressed. These systems are  used to set targets and schedules, to assign responsibilities, and to  follow up on our performance with regard to environmental impacts,  occupational health and safety, product safety and hygiene, as well  as forest and plantation operations.  Most of these management systems are third-party-certified. This  means that an external party has verified that the management sys- tems are in line with a relevant nationally or internationally recognised  standard. More details of these systems are included in the respective  Governance and management 8   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   sections of this report and a full list of units certified management  systems can be found on page 42.  supply chain management Suppliers are organisations who provide materials, products or  services to Stora Enso, including wood, chemicals and other raw  materials, as well as contracted services. Our wood suppliers and the  whole wood supply chain are covered by regular controls and audits.  A detailed description of these processes is given in the wood and  fibre sourcing section of this report (see pages 24–29).  For other suppliers and contractors, Stora Enso has set sustainability  requirements which are included in purchasing agreements. For a  more detailed description of sustainability management along the  supply chain, see pages 30–31. Responsible investment decisions Stora Enso strives to identify risks related to sustainability in good  time, in order to guide decision-making in our investment processes.  Tools such as sustainability due diligence and Environmental and  Social Impact Assessments (ESIA) help us to ensure that no unsus- tainable projects are initiated, and that we fully understand all the  related risks and opportunities. They also enable us to adapt project  plans to suit local circumstances. For more details, see pages 16–17.  sustainability reporting and assurance Our sustainability reporting is an important tool for managing environ- mental and social responsibility issues. We use third party assurance  to add transparency to our sustainability reporting. We have been  using external verification since 1998. The full assurance statement  for this report can be found on page 48.   Verified reporting in line with  the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) This report follows the sustainability reporting guidelines  defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) network. The  GRI has established a common framework for sustainability  reporting, in order to help stakeholders to review and com- pare the sustainability performance and practices of different  companies. We believe that following the GRIs G3 guidelines is the best  way to show our stakeholders that we are doing our best to  offer transparent and reliable information about our efforts on  all the vital aspects of sustainability.      This GRI report has also been verified in detail by an independ- ent third party, the corporate responsibility specialists Tofu- ture. This kind of external verification involves evaluating the  relevance of the reports content with regard to stakeholders  needs, and fully ensuring the reliability of all the information  it contains by checking the reporting process step by step.  Tofuture have paid special attention to Stora Ensos work on  stakeholder engagement, our responsiveness on issues of  importance to stakeholders, and the ways vital data has been  collected and consolidated.  This report meets the GRI application level B+ on a scale of A  to C. Level B indicates that the report covers all main reporting  areas, but has some room for improvement when it comes to  the number of performance indicators disclosed. The plus des- ignation signifies that the report has been externally assured.  A table covering GRI content can be found on pages 44–46.  An extended version of the GRI table, including detailed  descriptions of the scope of the report and data measurement  techniques can be found at  www.storaenso.com/sustainabilityreport. Governance and management   9  Our operations affect many different stakeholders, ranging from our  customers, employees, investors and suppliers to governments and non- governmental organisations as well as communities living close to our  operations. In 2010 we recognised the need to find new approaches to  corporate responsibility and understanding of our stakeholders. We must  put a lot more emphasis on dialogue with all our stakeholders around the  world, and we need to increase our understanding of the societies we  work within and the ways our operations affect them.  To this end, Stora Enso established in 2010 a new function named Global  Responsibility, which gives stakeholder engagement a stronger role in  our corporate responsibility work. During 2011 we will develop a more  systematic and comprehensive approach to stakeholder engagement.  In 2010 as a first step towards improved communications with stake- holders we launched a Global Responsibility website and a Facebook  page where anyone may post comments and openly discuss any issues  relating to our corporate responsibility with us.  Key stakeholder groups We have defined our main stakeholder groups from a global perspec- tive as follows: customers: All companies and individuals who currently choose or  may in future choose Stora Enso to provide goods or services.   employees: All employees of the Group and operations under its  control. investors: All current and potential owners of the companys equity  and debt. Partners: All of our suppliers, co-investors and other stakeholders  who work with Stora Enso in mutually beneficial activities, including  trade and business associations of which Stora Enso is a member. civil society: Individual citizens in neighbouring communities and  public organisations engaged in civic and charitable work, as well as  non-governmental organisations. governmental bodies and authorities: Local and national govern- mental bodies, authorities, politicians and elected officials, as well as  transnational bodies such as the UN. defining material issues To improve our understanding of our stakeholders expectations and  to better align our sustainability efforts and reporting with their priori- ties we conducted a materiality review during 2010, following up on  a previous review carried out in 2009.  A total of 93 external stakeholders were invited to participate in the  materiality review through an online survey. These selected stakehold- ers represented customers, suppliers, employees, non-governmental  organisations and investors reflecting the entire geographical and  business scope of Stora Ensos operations. We received 27 external  responses, with most of the respondents representing customers. To  assess the impact of different sustainability topics on Stora Ensos  business, the same survey was also sent to key internal stakeholders,  26 of whom replied, including representatives from all of our business  areas and main group functions. This report strives to focus on the  topics which proved to be material to our stakeholders and are also  important for our business.  Materiality review results The materiality review showed that our mills environmental perfor- mance, the origin of wood and forest certification continue to be  the most important sustainability topics for our stakeholders. The  review also confirmed that the environmental and social impacts of  tree plantations are increasingly important. Additionally, it is clear that  water use and managing sustainability along the supply chain remain  priorities among our stakeholders.  Major stakeholder concerns in 2010   In 2010 the Rights and Resources Initiative (RRI) published a critical  report relating to Stora Ensos plantation operations in Guangxi, China.  The full RRI report and our response are available on our Global  Responsibility website: www.storaenso.com/globalresponsibility/  comment. For more details, see page 28. Some Swedish environmental NGOs continued to criticise Stora Ensos  harvesting practices during 2010. For more information, see page 26.  An anonymous organisation filed a complaint to the Forest Steward- ship Council (FSC) about the FSC certification of Veracel in 2010. At  the same time a group of NGOs who campaign against unsustainable  forest management have been criticising current forest certification  processes, and especially the FSC scheme, in the Belgian media. For  more information, see page 28. Stakeholder relations 10   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   Memberships in associations World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 	 WBCSD is a coalition of international companies united by a  shared commitment to sustainable development. Stora Enso has  representatives in the WBCSDs water working group and sustain- able forest products industry working group. The Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) 	 CEPI represents the interests of the European pulp and paper  industry in dealings with European institutions. Stora Enso employ- ees participate in CEPIs environmental working groups and serve  as representatives on CEPIs board. National industry federations  	 Stora Enso has representatives on committees and working  groups dealing with environmental issues, climate policy and emis- sions trading within the Finnish Forest Industry Federation, the  Swedish Forest Industry Federation, the German Paper Industry  Association, the Federation of German Industries (BDI) and the  Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK).   Forest certification bodies 	 Stora Enso participates in the development and revision of forest  certification standards through membership in the national and  international associations of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)  and Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). UN Global Compact Nordic Network  	 This network promotes the implementation of the principles of  the UN Global Compact by sharing information among Nordic  companies who participate in the UN Global Compact.    The Forest Dialogue (TFD) 	 TFD is a group of various stakeholders from different regions who  are committed to the conservation and sustainable use of forests.  Stora Enso actively participates in TFD and has a representative  on its steering committee. Water Footprint Network (WFN) 	 WFN promotes the transition towards the sustainable, fair and effi- cient use of fresh water resources worldwide. Stora Enso became  a member of WFN in 2009.  ISO 26000 Working Group 	 Stora Enso has chaired the Finnish ISO 26000 working group and  actively participated in the development of the new standards  guidance document on social responsibility, which was published  in 2010.   ISO Environmental Management Committee 	 Stora Enso is active in the ISOs standardisation work for product  specific carbon footprints through its membership in the Finnish  ISO Environmental Management Committee. stakeholder group examples of engagement methods specific projects during 2010 Customers Customer satisfaction surveys  Interviews Feedback  Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Employees Employee satisfaction surveys Training and introduction programmes Internal communications channels Support for performance development Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Code of Conduct compliance survey (p. 18) Our promise training programme (p. 22) European Works Council meeting (p. 22) Investors Annual General Meeting Road shows and one-to-one meetings Annual Capital Markets Day Quarterly telephone and web conferences Questionnaire responses Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Partners Supplier evaluation and auditing Partnership projects Participation in industry organisations Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Sustainability audits (p. 30) Civil society  Public hearings Local information contacts and hotlines  Issue-specific dialogues and co-operation with NGOs Public reporting Open House events at production units Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Issue-specific collaboration with WWF (p. 14 and  26) Governmental bodies and authorities  Co-operation with intergovernmental organisations Issue-specific dialogues with authorities Public reporting Materiality review for sustainability report (p. 10) Continuing collaboration with UNDP in China (p. 17)  Collaboration with Finlands Ministry of Employment  and the Economy on managing restructuring (p. 16) engagement with key stakeholders Stakeholder relations   11  Stora Enso is constantly looking to develop its product range by find- ing new applications for materials based on renewable fibre. In 2010  0.7% of our sales, equalling EUR 75 million, was reinvested into R&D  activities, especially focusing on developing products with environ- mental benefits such as reduced material use and minimised carbon  and water footprints. Health and safety aspects are also important,  especially for packaging materials that will end up in direct contact  with foodstuffs. Product development During the year many new products were launched, providing markets  with fibre-based packaging solutions for new uses. Such products  can typically be recycled or composted, and are more material effi- cient. Examples include fibre-based packaging for cold cuts (replacing  plastics), microwaveable and ovenproof food packages (replacing alu- minium trays), biodegradable packing boards for use in cups, plates,  trays and folding cartons, as well as lighter liquid packaging board.  In the building and construction sector, Stora Enso has developed  a wood element solution known as Cross Laminated Timber (CLT),  which can be used in single family houses and multi-storey build- ings instead of concrete and steel elements. Stora Enso has also  continued to develop its wood pellet supply base. Wood pellets can  be used instead of fossil fuels to heat individual homes or in district  heating plants. Pellet production is a natural business extension for  sawmills, as sawdust and the wood shaving residues from the saw- milling process form the raw material for compressed wood pellets.  Products 12   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   Why Nokia have opted   for fibre-based packaging   At Nokia we produce nearly half a billion products every year in mul- tiple locations around the world. This means that 15 of our products  are packed every second, for delivery to every corner of the world. These 500 000 000 packages are a very powerful branding tool.  Over the last year we have further strengthened the brand impact  of this tool by changing to an all blue look, unifying packaging  sizes, and updating our material selection by switching to a matt,  non-coated, less processed paper grade. Now our packaging feels  warmer to the touch and has a unified appearance.  Sustainability is a core element of our approach to packaging, and  this further enhances Nokias reputation as a sustainable company.  Nokias packaging solutions are 100% recyclable, and over 95%  of our packaging is paper-based, with an average recycled fibre  content of 50%. Basic plastics account for less than 5% of the  material used in our packaging. Where plastics are used, we are  increasing the amount of recycled plastics, and introducing design  details that help to minimize material use.  Over the last few years we have been systematically increasing our  use of fibre-based packaging, to ensure that our packaging materi- als can be reused or recycled anywhere in the world. The fact that  our products are used in all parts of the world means that conditions  for the end-of-life treatment of our packaging vary greatly. The most  challenging conditions are in rural areas with little or no infrastruc- ture for recycling. From this perspective paper is a great material, as  a natural material that comes from renewable sources and is highly  recyclable. The necessary materials and technologies are available  everywhere, so we can avoid long transportation distances.  Awareness of the sustainability of products is becoming an increas- ingly important part of a delightful product experience, together with  product quality. To enhance consumers experiences of their brand,  product manufacturers like Nokia must therefore strive to minimise  their environmental impacts. In packaging we are particularly focusing on minimising the amounts  of material used, while enhancing quality and design to give end- users high levels of satisfaction. Over the five years since 2005 we  have halved the sizes of all our packaging. This has  saved 240 000 tonnes of paper in the category  of compact packaging alone. The consequent  benefits are both ecological and economical,  showing that sustainability is also good busi- ness sense.   Ulla Uimonen Head of Packaging Design Nokia Renewable diesel in the pipeline Beyond our traditional product offering we are also using our  expertise in wood to develop completely new products. Together  with Neste Oil, Stora Enso is testing the commercial production of  renewable transport fuels based on forestry residues. In 2010 the joint  venture between the two companies, NSE Biofuels Oy, initiated an  environmental impact assessment for a commercial-scale bio refinery  to be located in Porvoo or Imatra in Finland. Another important  research area concerns microscale materials, which could result in  entirely new applications for wood fibre, such as bio-based lubricants. Products and the environment  To identify and minimise the environmental impacts of our paper and  board products, we conduct product life cycle analyses (LCAs). LCAs  usually cover the various life cycle stages of a product, extending  from the procurement of raw materials through energy use and trans- portation to the generation of emissions and waste, and impacts on  water. LCAs serve as the basis for environmental labels and declara- tions, carbon footprint information, responses to customers inquiries,  and product marketing. LCAs have been conducted for all of Stora  Ensos main paper and board product groups, and for one wood  product group.   Paper Profiles Stora Enso provides product-specific information on the environ- mental performance of its paper products through Paper Profiles, a  voluntary environmental product declaration scheme developed by  leading paper producers. Paper Profiles enable paper buyers to make  well-informed product choices, by presenting environmental figures in  a standardised way. Paper Profiles cover the environmental impacts  of pulp and paper production, including product composition and  emissions, wood procurement and environmental management. Paper  Profiles are available on request for all of Stora Ensos paper and  graphical packaging products.  Eco-labels Several of Stora Ensos paper products are covered by recognised  eco-labels such as the EU Flower, the Nordic Swan and the Blue  Angel (Blauer Engel). The criteria used by these labelling schemes  typically cover the whole life cycle of a product, from its raw materi- als to energy use and waste. To meet customer demand we have  increased the application of the Nordic Swan criteria, which now  cover all of our copy and graphical paper products as well as some  graphical board products.  Many Stora Enso products are also covered by forest certification  labels, showing that they have been produced using wood from certi- fied forests and controlled sources. The two most common forest  certification systems are FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) and PEFC  (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes). A  forest certification label on the final product means that the journey  Products   13  of the wood from a certified forest all the way to the mill and onwards  to the store shelf has been documented and verified by an external  party. For more details, see pages 24–29. Carbon footprints All of Stora Ensos business areas have calculated the carbon foot- prints for their main products or product groups based on existing  guidance, and we willingly make this information available to our cus- tomers. Stora Enso is also actively participating in the development of  methodologies for calculating and communicating carbon footprints,  particularly through the ISOs standardisation work.   Stora Enso has made a decision not to claim that we offer carbon- neutral paper. Describing paper as carbon-neutral would mean that  either no fossil CO2 emissions are emitted during the entire production  process, or that the amounts of fossil CO2 emission emitted are offset.  As no internationally accepted method for offsetting CO2 emissions  exists, Stora Enso has decided to refrain from marketing its paper  as carbon-neutral. Instead we focus on minimising CO2 emissions  throughout our own value chain. For more details, see pages 38–41.  Water footprints  Stora Enso is also in the process of defining water footprints for its  products. To properly reflect the true impact of our operations on the  availability and quality of water, we need to analyse local conditions  such as water scarcity and the status of water bodies, as well as  the volumes of water used. No commonly accepted methodology for  calculating and communicating water footprints exists yet, although  many current initiatives aim to develop such methodologies. Stora  Enso is participating in many of these initiatives, including the ISOs  standardisation work on water footprints.  During 2010 Stora Enso tested the water accounting methodology  developed by the Water Footprint Network (WFN) at Stora Ensos  Skoghall Mill in Sweden together with WFN, WWF and the Alliance for  Beverage Cartons (ACE). One key finding indicated that 99% of the  overall water consumption is related to the rainwater that feeds grow- ing forests, and only 1% is derived from our production processes  and processes along the supply chain. A weakness of this meth- odology is that it does not take water scarcity issues into account,  but treats water use the same way in all geographical areas. Other  aspects that should still be further developed concern the role of for- ests in water accounting, and how to include waste water discharges  in the water footprint. Recyclability of products  All of Stora Ensos paper and board products are safely recyclable  and recoverable. Stora Enso is one of Europes largest users of recov- ered fibre. For more information, see page 29.  We are also working to enhance and promote the recyclability of our  products in various ways. We strive to further increase the European  paper recycling rate, which is already 72%, through our own actions  and collaboration with the Confederation of European Paper Industries  (CEPI). Stora Ensos Barcelona Mill, for instance, has invested in an advanced  beverage carton recycling process that enables the recycling of the  cartons plastics and aluminium content, as well as their constituent  fibres. In Spain Stora Enso is also collaborating with other users of  recovered fibre and the Spanish Paper Association on a programme  that aims to educate consumers and increase recycling rates. Langer- brugge Mill in Belgium, which produces 100% recycled newsprint  and magazine paper, asks all mill visitors to bring 2–3 kg of used  paper with them, to spotlight the importance of everyday recycling.  In Poland, Stora Enso currently runs around 20 collection points for  recovered paper, and is looking to increase this number. In Eastern  Germany we are helping private collectors to obtain increasing vol- umes of recovered paper which they can then supply directly to our  Sachsen Mill. Product safety  Ensuring product safety is fundamental for products that are used  in food contact or human contact applications. In 2010 Stora Ensos  Packaging business area produced 1.8 million tonnes of packaging  materials that will come into direct contact with food or pharmaceuti- cal products, or be used for other hygiene-sensitive purposes.   Responsible chemical use   Ensuring the safety of products starts with the purchasing of chemi- cals. In the production of food contact materials, only chemicals  specifically approved for such purposes are used. Stora Enso is also  working with suppliers to ensure that we only use chemicals that are  registered in accordance with the European Unions REACH legisla- tion. The REACH legislation aims to improve the protection of human  health and the environment by comprehensively identifying chemical  substances safety properties. Stora Enso also works to ensure that  no chemical substances listed by REACH as substances of very high  concern appear in our products.  Safety and hygiene systems To guarantee that consumer and food safety demands and regulations  are met, all Stora Enso units producing food contact materials and  other sensitive packaging materials follow Good Manufacturing Prac- tice (GMP). This set of internationally recognised guidelines, which  is also incorporated into EU regulations, aims to ensure safety and  product quality in foods and pharmaceutical products. GMP covers  the whole manufacturing process from the procurement of raw materi- als, through production processes, to the delivery of the end products. Stora Enso provides customers with information on products hygiene  and safety aspects through compliance declarations, and has effective  processes in place for testing product safety, dealing with complaints,  and organising product recalls if necessary. All Stora Enso mills pro- ducing direct food contact materials and materials for other hygiene- sensitive purposes are certified according to the hygiene management  standards ISO 22000 or BRC/IoP (British Retail Consortium and The  Institute of Packaging). Stora Enso mills that produce indirect food  contact materials are also in the process of building up certified hygiene  management systems. Such certification shows that mills have ana- lysed and eliminated any possible safety risks, to ensure the maximum  safety of their products. For a full list of certified mills, see page 42. 14   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   The growth of the digital media has been projected as one way  towards a more sustainable society, offering lower resource and  energy consumption than paper. This is a topical issue for the paper  industry, as digital applications are spreading through a number of  areas where paper has traditionally been used, including e-commerce,  e-mails, e-books and digital photography.   This raises the question – will information and communications tech- nology (ICT) really replace paper? We can distinguish three different  types of impact ICT applications may have on paper consumption:  Substitution, Complementary use and Generation.  The idea of the paperless office is often discussed in this context.  The prediction that computers would replace all paper in offices has  so far proved to be wrong. During the period 1991–2004, when com- puters became commonplace in offices, paper consumption actually  increased by 40%. Over the period 2000–2005, paper consumption  in some 600 Swiss companies increased by more than 20%, mainly  due to the printing of digital documents. This trend is known as re- materialization. It is clear that substitution is not the only effect in offices: both com- plementary use and generation are prevailing, and the consequent  increase in paper use apparently exceeds the substitution effect. But  new trends are emerging. One example concerns letters. Postal services around the globe  are handling decreasing volumes of letters. Britains Royal Mail has  reported that the number of letters sent in the UK increased from 16  billion in 1993 to a peak of 22 billion in 2005/2006, but since then  the figures has declined and a further drop in volumes is predicted.  The use of e-mail has correspondingly increased across the UK: in  2000, only 9% of the population used email, but by 2007, the figure  was 54%.  If e-mails are starting to replace traditional letters, what does this  mean for the environment? The CO2 emissions associated with  sending a traditional letter amount to about 20–25 grams. Sending a  legitimate e-mail generates about 4–9 grams, and each spam e-mail  only results in emissions of about 0.3 grams.   This means that sending a letter via the post office generates 2–6  times more carbon dioxide than sending an e-mail.   But we must also consider the volume factor. Some 430 billion tra- ditional mail items were delivered globally in 2008. This should be  compared to an estimated 15–20 trillion non-spam e-mails and more  than 60 trillion spam e-mails sent annually.      This means that the total CO2 emissions from e-mails add up to 7–20  times those of traditional mail. Moreover, about one out of every ten  e-mails gets printed, adding to the impact of the e-mail alternative.  The substitution effect of ICT is apparently starting to curb paper  consumption. But going digital does not automatically mean that the  overall environmental impact will decrease. ICT products and services  come with their own environmental costs, which are often smaller  than those of the traditional services they can replace. But if we take  volumes into account, the accumulated impacts may become even  larger than those of the traditional service, as is the case for the sub- stitution of e-mails for letters.  In striving for a more sustainable path, I believe that the question is  not just choosing between paper and digital media; it is more of find- ing a healthy co-existence, and keeping overall consumption levels  sustainable. This goes for paper as well as ICT.  Peter arnfalk  Associate Professor  The International Institute for  Industrial Environmental Economics at Lund University Paper v digital media – which is greenest? Products   15  Our operations have wide-ranging impacts on different groups of  stakeholders locally, regionally and globally. In addition to minimising  any adverse impacts that our activities may have, we also aim to enrich  economic and social conditions in the communities where we operate.   economic impacts Our operations contribute to local, regional and national economies  on a large scale. Our sales and purchases boost our customers and  suppliers businesses. Our employees, our shareholders and local and  national governments gain income through the salaries, dividends and  taxes we pay. Stora Enso also engages in many community projects  and events in the localities where we operate. The related direct  monetary flows for 2010 indicate the extent of Stora Ensos economic  impacts on different stakeholders. customers: Stora Enso mainly serves business-to-business custom- ers. Stora Ensos total sales amounted to EUR 10 296.9 million (EUR  8  945.1 million in 2009).   suppliers: Stora Enso provides a reliable source of income for many  companies working as contractors and suppliers. Stora Enso acquired  materials and services valued at EUR 6 391.4 million (EUR 5 668.1  million). employees: Wages and benefits received by employees totalled EUR  1 375.3 million (EUR 1 349.6 million).  shareholders: At the end of 2010, Stora Enso had approximately 75  600 shareholders. The total sum distributed to shareholders was EUR  157.7 million (EUR 157.7 million). Interest payments to loan providers  amounted to EUR 90.3 million (EUR 100.7 million). government bodies: Corporate taxes are a major source of income  for governments. Net taxes paid by Stora Enso to governments  around the world totalled EUR 62.0 million (EUR 3.0 million). communities: Many Stora Enso units have long traditions of co-oper- ation with their surrounding communities, supporting local schools,  sports associations and cultural events. Stora Ensos charitable dona- tions amounted to 393 900 EUR (240 118 EUR). impacts on local communities Our operations often play a major role in the communities where we  operate. Many of our mills are located in provincial regions where  they are major employers, tax-payers and business partners for local  entrepreneurs.  To remain competitive in the rapidly globalising economy Stora Enso  has undergone profound restructuring. This has meant that communi- ties in some localities where we have traditionally operated have suf- fered as we have closed down production lines or entire production  units. At the same time, we are investing considerably in Latin America  and China, where our operations are generating new job opportunities  and socio-economic development.  Structural change in Finland Discontinuing operations and closing mills creates problems not only  for our employees, but also for the affected communities as a whole.  We proactively help such communities to deal with regional structural  changes, and also help to find new alternative employment for the  people affected. We have particularly taken such measures in certain  localities in Finland which have been most affected by the companys  restructuring programme.  In 2009 Stora Enso initiated a joint project with Finlands Ministry of  Employment and the Economy to anticipate structural change and find  new business opportunities for the communities around Varkaus and  Sunila Mills. One important outcome of this project was the devel- opment of an operational model that Finnish public authorities and  companies will also be able to apply in response to sudden structural  changes occurring in other areas and industries. When significant  capacity closures were announced at Varkaus Mill in 2010, Stora Enso  and the local authorities continued work that had been initiated in 2009,  with the aim of attracting new businesses and employment opportuni- ties to the area. In addition to these measures, Stora Enso assists affected employees  by providing support packages and other forms of compensation. For  more details, see page 23. Stora Enso also works to minimise the  environmental impacts of mill closures (see page 36).   Establishing operations in new settings   When we plan operations in new areas, it is vital that we understand the  environmental and social impacts of the projected operations on local  communities. We conduct Environmental and Social Impact Assess- ments (ESIA) for all new projects that could cause significant changes  in local conditions. Such projects include all green-field pulp, paper  or board mills, large green-field sawmills, industrial-scale plantation  projects, and any large-scale expansions of existing facilities.  Stora Enso has developed common guidelines for conducting ESIAs  as part of the Groups Investment Guidelines. One vital element of any  ESIA involves establishing dialogues with local residents, members of  People Community impacts 16   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   local organisations, expert researchers and other stakeholders, through  interviews, meetings, workshops and public hearings. The results of ESIAs for example give Stora Enso valuable information  on how local communities will be affected by changes in their socio- economic structure, impacts on cultural heritage, and developments  in community health, safety and security. This information can then be  used as a basis for sustainability agendas for planned projects.  Based on the outcomes of the ESIA conducted for our plantations in  Uruguay, for instance, Stora Enso has taken action to ensure that our  operations truly benefit local communities. Similarly, in our plantations  in Guangxi, China, we have hired social engagement officers to improve  our relations with local villagers, and worked to improve biodiversity  protection in the area. UNDP China is currently conducting a new ESIA  for a possible combined mill and plantation site in Guangxi. Sales by region   Europe 95.0%   Asia 3.2%   South America 1.3%    North America 0.4% Personnel expenses by region   Europe 96.1%   Asia 1.7%   South America 1.4%   North America 0.9% Purchases by region   Europe 93.9%   Asia 4.1%   South America 1.6%   North America 0.3% Benefits for local farmers in  Uruguay The landholdings of Montes del Plata, the Uruguayan joint ven- ture of Stora Enso and Arauco, include areas designated by the  local authorities as suitable for cattle grazing. These pastures  are rented out to local farmers, who use them to graze their beef  and dairy cattle. So far such rental contracts have been agreed  with around 200 producers covering over 100 000 hectares.  Instead of maximising rent revenues, Montes del Plata makes  these lands available at reasonable prices, and limits the areas  rented out to individual farmers to give as many farmers as pos- sible access to land. The idea behind this scheme is to ensure  that the local communities gain from opportunities to use the  companys lands. The company has truly understood that  it will also benefit when the surrounding society is doing well,  says Professor Oscar D. Licandro of the Catholic University in  Montevideo. Professor Licandro is currently leading a corporate  social responsibility research project examining how small-scale  dairy farmers are faring in the Department of Durazno in Central  Uruguay.  Some farmers have managed to quadruple their milk produc- tion thanks to the availability of new grazing grounds and other  forms of assistance from the local authorities and Montes del  Plata, such as the provision of sanitation, veterinary and technical  services, and training. Grazing cattle often benefit from the pres- ence of trees, which provide shelter on windy winter days and  cool shade on hot summer days. The trees also benefit, since the  cows help to limit competing undergrowth.  Cattle ranching is the most important livelihood in Uruguay, where  Montes del Plata is applying a traditional local practice by plant- ing trees and enabling cattle grazing in the same lands. People – Community impacts   17  We want to make sure that we are fair, transparent and responsible  in our everyday dealings with our employees, our business partners  and the communities around us.  At Stora Enso we are actively committed to the United Nations Uni- versal Declaration of Human Rights and we fully observe the Interna- tional Labour Organisations Core Conventions defining labour rights.  This gives internationally recognised human and labour rights to all  Stora Enso employees. These international agreements especially  define minimum standards and guide our operations in areas where  local legislation is weak or non-existent. code of conduct Our Code of Conduct defines common rules for all our employees,  and provides the basis for Stora Ensos approach to human and  labour rights, ethical business practices and the safeguarding of  company assets. The Code of Conduct sets out what Stora Enso  expects from its employees, what our employees can expect from  Stora Enso, and how we must act in business when it comes to ethi- cal and compliance issues. It aims to ensure that every one of our  employees has an equal right to a workplace that is safe, healthy and  free of discrimination, and that as a global organisation we always  take responsibility for our actions and comply with local laws and  regulations everywhere we operate.  Training our employees  To ensure that all Stora Enso employees understand and follow the  rules set out in the Code of Conduct, we have set a target that every  Stora Enso employee should receive related training, either through  our established e-learning tool or face-to-face training. By the end  of June 2010, an estimated 81% of our employees had undergone  such training, including 77% of our management and 81% of all other  employees. We are continuing this training where employees have not  been trained yet, and also working to ensure that all new employees  are trained. Grievance mechanism In 2010, Stora Ensos Senior Vice President, Internal Audit, received  several complaints through our Code of Conduct grievance channel,  which enables employees to report anonymously and in confidentiality  on concerns or breaches against the Code of Conduct. All reported  cases were duly handled and reported to Stora Ensos Financial and  Audit Committee. The complaints were all related to ethical business  practices such as the misuse of company assets or poor management  culture. Half of the complaints were considered to be serious, and thus  resulted in further actions. Of the complaints that were investigated,  50% resulted in disciplinary actions. Measuring compliance In 2010 we conducted a compliance survey for the Code of Conduct  to find out how well the Code of Conduct has been internalised within  the Group. In addition to assessing the effectiveness of the Code of  Conduct training, this compliance measurement also aims to drive  and improve our company culture and further promote a positive  ethical atmosphere.  The compliance measurement involved a survey and targeted man- agement interviews. The survey, which was sent to 2 500 randomly  selected Stora Enso employees, covered the three main themes of the  Code of Conduct: human and labour rights; business practices; and  safeguarding of assets. The survey was anonymous, and responses  remained confidential.  The survey results show that our Code of Conduct training has  effectively introduced the Code of Conduct to our employees and  familiarised them with our guidelines on compliance. Respondents  clearly recognised the importance of the Code of Conduct to them  as individual employees. However, the survey indicated that further  actions are still needed to make the Code of Conduct a more integral  part of our everyday operations. human rights compliance assessment To gain an improved understanding of how well human rights issues  are acknowledged and embedded in our day-to-day operations, we  conducted a human rights compliance assessment in 2010. This  assessment was aimed to identify possible human rights risks in our  business operations, while at the same time raising awareness of  these issues and promoting internal learning. The assessment covered  our operations in Brazil, Uruguay, China, Laos and Russia. Where nec- essary, its results will be used to help define action plans to ensure  compliance with human rights in these locations.  The assessment applied the Human Rights Compliance Assess- ment (HRCA) quick check tool developed by the Danish Institute for  Human Rights. This comprehensive tool has been designed to help  corporations detect human rights risks in their operations. It covers  all internationally recognised human rights and their impacts on a  wide range of stakeholders, including employees, local communities,  suppliers and contractors.  People Social compliance 18   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   The assessment showed that the most significant human and labour  rights risks in our operations are related to contract labour and the  supply chain. In Guangxi, China local peoples land use rights are also  an important issue.  We also learned that we need to further enhance our internal aware- ness, and have resolved to organise special human rights training for  employees in key positions. We also need to improve collaboration with  contractors to ensure that human rights are fully observed throughout  their operations. For instance, training was provided for contractors in  our plantation project in Guangxi in 2008 and 2009 on topics including  labour laws and health and safety management through an initiative  launched by Stora Enso together with the International Finance Cor- poration (IFC). We aim to continue to provide such training in 2011. Stora Ensos sustainability requirements for suppliers and contrac- tors, which cover human and labour rights, help to ensure that our  commitment to human rights extends through the operations of our  suppliers and contractors. Our target for 2011 is to have all purchas- ing agreements covered by these requirements, including locally  managed agreements. We are also in the process of stepping up  monitoring procedures to ensure that the requirements are fulfilled in  practice, which will particularly involve sustainability self-assesments  and conducting sustainability audits. For more details, see page 30.  In response to disputes related to land use rights in Guangxi, China,  we have taken specific measures to improve the land leasing process  and to guarantee that land use rights are respected. For more infor- mation, see page 28.  People – Social compliance   19  Improving our overall health and safety performance and building  an effective safety culture remained priorities in 2010. In this work  the special focus on our Finnish mills has continued, due to their  comparatively poor safety performance. Preventive safety measures in focus  In 2010 we widened our approach to measuring safety performance  by assessing preventive actions and safety work in addition to  accident rates. To this end, two new targets were introduced for full  implementation during 2011. These targets are that the number of  near miss reports submitted per person per year should be at least  two, and that the processing rate for accidents and near misses  should be at least 80%. By spotlighting and more widely reporting on  near misses we can raise awareness and prevent future accidents.  From a learning perspective it is also vital to investigate and take  corrective actions relating to accidents and near misses, so we want  to maximise the proper processing of any accidents and near misses  that occur.    In 2010 we also continued to put a special focus on attendance rates  and promoting work ability especially in Finland where performance  in this area is comparatively poor. health and safety performance 2010 By the end of 2010, a total of 68 production units, equalling 87% of  employees, were covered by Occupational Health and Safety (OHS)  management certificates in line with OHSAS 18001 or equivalent  national standards. In 2010, 92% of Stora Ensos employees were  represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety  committees. These safety committees act at unit-level to plan and  monitor OHS actions and performance. They also serve as co- ordination bodies between management and employees. No fatal accidents No fatal accidents occurred in Stora Ensos own operations or our  contractors operations in 2010.  Accident rates Our average lost-time accident rate remained stable at 13.2 accidents  per million hours worked compared to 13.1 in 2009. As in previous  years, there are still significant differences in safety performance  between countries and units within Stora Enso. This reflects variations  in safety culture and management commitment to safety issues. In  both Sweden and Germany the accident rates increased, to 11.2 and  17.5 respectively. In Finland the accident rate dropped and is now  21.8 (for more details for Finland see page 21). Attendance rates  In 2010 the Group-wide attendance rate (actual working time as a  percentage of total theoretical working time, considering all absen- teeism related to sickness and accidents) remained fairly stable at  96.2% (compared to 96.1% in 2009). As with accident rates there  are significant differences between countries, with Finland at 93.9%,  still clearly below the corporate average rate, and Sweden slightly  above the average, at 96.8%. Sweden was able to make a slight  improvement in the countrys overall attendance rate, while Germany  experienced a worsening trend. The best performing countries with  the highest attendance rates were China and Brazil, mainly due to  national legislation and local practices related to absenteeism. Top performers All in all six units reached the Group-level target of zero lost-time acci- dents in 2010 (Arapoti Mill, Wood Supply Sweden, Arzamas Mill, Bala- banovo Mill, Lukhovitsy Mill and Hungary packaging mills). The best  performing unit continues to be Arapoti Mill in Brazil, which reached 2  million working hours without lost-time accidents in November 2010,  since there have been no accidents since 2007. The second and third  best units on safety performance were Wood Supply Sweden with  1  135 280 accident-free working hours and Balabanovo Mill in Russia  reaching 739 256 hours without lost-time accidents.  Arapoti Mill has a long tradition of building a safety culture due  to local managements strong commitment to safety. Arapoti Mill  rethought its approach to safety in 2004 when two new tools were  introduced to highlight safety on a daily basis. Firstly, all employees  take part in compulsory 5–10 minute discussions on safety before  beginning work every day. Secondly, one-on-one safety consulting  sessions are organised periodically for all employees, to help them  take individual responsibility for creating a safe workplace.  The best units in terms of near miss reporting were Oulu Mill, with a  total of 1 439 reported cases, which is 2.0 reported near misses per  employee, and Corenso Finnish units with 407 reported cases, which  is also 2.0 reported near misses per employee. The other top perform- ers in this area were Enocell Mill and Varkaus Mill, both reaching a  level of 1.9 near miss reports per employee. In terms of attendance rates, the best units in 2010 were Wood  Supply Guangxi, Corenso Hualun and Dawang Mill, all in China. This  is partly due to differences in national legislation and health services,  which result in differing levels of absenteeism due to sickness or  accidents. People Occupational health and safety 20   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   building safety culture in finland In 2009 our Finnish units were targeted with a special safety pro- gramme due to their comparatively poor safety performance. The  Finnish units continued to implement the actions defined in this  programme throughout 2010. In Finland, management participation in everyday safety work has  been improved by obliging the head of each unit to participate in all  accident investigations and a set number of safety rounds. All line  managers and supervisors were also required to conduct monthly  safety discussions with their staff, and to participate in a certain  number of safety rounds.  The lost-time accident rate for Stora Ensos units in Finland dropped  from 23.1 accidents per million hours worked in 2009 to 21.8 in 2010  (a decrease of 5.6%). The main reasons for this progress were greater  management involvement and the raised awareness of safety issues  at all organisational levels.  Extraordinary measures were also taken in Finland to increase attend- ance rates and promote work ability. A programme named Early Care  was devised to highlight and clarify line managers responsibilities in  terms of being aware of and promoting their workers capabilities to  work. Specific responsibilities include keeping contact with employ- ees during long periods of absenteeism, and taking action together  with occupational health services if an employees work ability is at  risk. The implementation of the Early Care programme will continue  throughout 2011. actions planned for 2011 In 2011 we will continue to focus increasingly on actions that prevent  accidents and absenteeism. We will improve and unify our definitions  and data collection systems for safety issues, and shift our focus from  the current key indicator of lost-time accident rate to all accidents  and near misses as the main indicators of safety performance. To  this end we will also continue to seek further indicators for measuring  safety culture and organisational commitment. Accident severity rates  and near miss severity rates will at the same time receive increased  attention, to ensure that we prioritise preventive actions that target  the highest risks. The year 2011 will also see a continued and strengthened focus on  boosting attendance and work ability. The implementation of the Early  Care model will continue in our Finnish units, and partnerships with  occupational health services, insurance companies and other key  actors will be strengthened. Group 06 07 08 09 10 18.1 17.7 16.5 13.1 13.2 95.2 95.3 95.7 96.1 96.2 LTA rate Attendance 40 30 20 10 0 100.0 97.5 95.0 92.5 90.0 Sweden 06 07 08 09 10 9.8 8.4 10.3 7.8 11.2 95.5 95.8 96.4 96.6 96.8 40 30 20 10 0 100.0 97.5 95.0 92.5 90.0 LTA rate Attendance Germany 06 07 08 09 10 15.5 16.3 12.9 16.3 17.5 95.7 95.7 95.7 95.7 94.9 40 30 20 10 0 100.0 97.5 95.0 92.5 90.0 LTA rate Attendance Finland 06 07 08 09 10 30.4 31.0 28.3 23.1 21.8 93.3 93.3 93.5 93.9 93.9 40 30 20 10 0 100.0 97.5 95.0 92.5 90.0 LTA rate Attendance lost-time accident rate and attendance 1,  2) 1)  Lost-time accident rate (LTA) as number of accidents per one million hour worked. 2)  Attendance, in % of theoretical working hours. People – Occupational health and safety    21  By the end of 2010 Stora Enso had 26 379 employees. In 2010 the  restructuring of the company continued, with the numbers of employ- ees in various locations reduced. The average number of employees  decreased by 4.6% compared to 2009. This was mainly due to produc- tion line closures and efficiency improvements in administrative functions.  Our employees are still largely concentrated in Finland, Sweden and  Germany, where 59% of all Stora Enso employees work (61% in 2009).  In these countries our workforce decreased the most during the year, by  8%. In other regions our workforce levels remained stable. Due to our  strong focus on new growth markets, we expect further expansions in  the future in Latin America and China. Our personnel turnover in 2010 was 4%, compared to 3.7% in 2009.  There are marked differences in turnover between countries and units,  with the highest turnover among employees in Russia (14%), and the  lowest in Poland (1.6%). employee diversity Our workforce is ageing in many of the countries where we operate.  In 2010, 27% of our employees were over 51 years old. Employee  age structures vary significantly between different countries, with the  ageing workforce concentrated in Finland, Sweden and Germany, and  operations in new growth markets characterised by lower average  ages.  Women account for 20% of our workforce, with no change from 2009.  The share of women recruited for permanent positions was 25%. The  number of women on the Board of Directors remained the same as in  2010. The Group Executive Team currently has no female members. Personnel development To align individual targets with company targets, all Stora Enso  employees are covered by our Performance Management process,  which sets priorities for each employees work and professional  development. To identify potential talents, Stora Enso also annually  conducts a Management Audit process covering all employees. This  helps us to map skills and further develop our people and their com- petences to match our business needs. In 2010 our employees spent  an average of 2.6 days in training, with no change from 2009.  We continued our efforts to train managers and supervisors in all of  our Finnish units through the Our Promise programme, which was  initiated in 2009. This programme aims to develop leadership skills,  to support cultural change, and to create a more people-oriented  working environment through a series of workshops and the special  coaching of change agents. During 2010 unit-specific workshops  were organised for supervisors and managers at all of our Finnish  units, and similar workshops will also be held during 2011. employee representation and labour organisation The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agree- ments is the most direct way to demonstrate a companys practices  in relation to freedom of association. In the units that report this  figure 77% of employees were covered by collective bargaining  agreements, mainly through union membership. We do not collect  or report figures on union membership due to differences in national  legislations. Stora Enso has employee representation committees at the Group,  business area and unit levels. Employee relations, including collec- tive agreements, are mainly managed on a national level. Our annual  European Works Council meeting was held in June, with 26 employee  representatives present delegated from the 10 European countries  where Stora Enso has operations that qualify for representation.  Similar meetings were also held for each of our four business areas.  The meetings examined the companys current business situation,  market outlook, ongoing restructuring measures and capacity reduc- People Human resources Employee distribution by country   Finland 26%   Sweden 23%   Germany 10%   Poland 8%   Russia 5%   Other Europe 19%   China 7%   Other countries 2% Age distribution   < 20 1%   21–30 16%   31–40 25%    41–50 31%   51–60 24%   > 61 3% 22   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   tions, as well as Stora Ensos approach to corporate responsibility and  developments in health and safety issues.  In China, the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining  is expressly stipulated by law, and the practical enforcement of such  rights is ongoing. In accordance with the relevant laws and regula-  tions, most of our Chinese operations have formed unions that form  part of the state-authorised China Labour Union. We have also formed  worker councils at most of our units in China to serve as channels for  direct feedback and dialogue between employees and management. support for employees affected by redundancies Our total staff was reduced by 1 011 employees in 2010, due to  continued company restructuring, efficiency improvements and  a weakened market outlook. Stora Enso actively supports those  affected by offering solutions such as redeployment, retirement plan- ning, outplacement, supported moves to other locations, retraining,  coaching, and additional payment upon termination. In October Stora Enso closed down two newsprint machines at Var- kaus Mill in Finland, making 175 persons redundant. Stora Enso has  actively provided support for those affected, for instance by providing  financial support to former employees who would like to start their  own businesses. These measures have proven successful, and by the  end of 2010 as many as 106 of the affected employees had already  found a solution. In November Stora Enso permanently closed down one newsprint  machine at Maxau Mill in Germany, affecting some 180 employees.  Stora Enso is implementing a social plan to support the employees  affected by these restructuring measures. For more information about measures taken to ease the regional  impacts of company restructuring, see pages 16–17.  Region europe south america asia 3.8% 5.4% 6.8% gender female Male 5.4% 3.7% 2010 2009 2008 Average number of employees 27 383 28 696 33 815 Number of employees at year-end 26 379 27 390 31 667 Personnel turnover % 4.0 3.7 6.3 Training days/employee 2.6 2.6 3.1 Share of women among all  employees % 20 20 20 Women in the Group Executive  Team 0 out of 8 1 out of 8 1 out of 11 Women in the Board of Directors 2 out of 8 2 out of 9 2 out of 9 Key human resources indicators Personnel turnover % People – Human resources    23  Wood is Stora Ensos most important raw material. We procure most of  our wood from private forest-owners, state forests and companies in  Finland, Sweden, the Baltic countries, Continental Europe and Russia.  Some 6% (7% in 2009) of our wood is sourced from tree plantations in  the Southern Hemisphere, including pulp produced by our joint venture  Veracel in Brazil. Although this is still a small share, plantation sources  are becoming increasingly important for Stora Enso. In 2010, we con- tinued developing our plantations in Brazil, Uruguay, China and Laos,  and also maintained our trial plantation in Thailand. In 2010, the total  amount of wood (including roundwood, chips and sawdust) delivered  to our mills was 35.5 million cubic metres of wood (solid under bark)  (30.0 million).  For reasons related to logistics and quality, we bought 6% (8%) of  the pulp we used from external suppliers in 2010. The importance of  recovered fibre as raw material continues to increase. In 2010 recov- ered fibre accounted for 26% (25%) of the fibre used in our paper and  board production.  Our global wood procurement and land management principles, robust  traceability systems and our active promotion of forest certification all  help to ensure that no wood or fibre from unacceptable sources enters  our supply chain. In addition, when sourcing logging residues and other  forest biomass for energy use, which is an expanding business for us,  we follow the specific guidelines developed for the harvesting of forest  energy, which include strict environmental considerations. sustainable forestry  Economically, socially and environmentally sustainable forest and  tree plantation management is the foundation for our operations.  From an economic perspective our priority is to ensure that our busi- ness operations remain viable. Our social priorities include respect  for human and labour rights, health and safety issues, the equitable  sharing of economic benefits, the multiple uses of forests, and the  protection of sites of historical, social or cultural importance. Key  environmental priorities include the conservation and sustainable use  of forests, biodiversity issues, soil protection, and the quality and  quantity of water resources. The right balance between these priorities  varies from region to region. Promoting forest certification  We promote independent forest certification to demonstrate sustain- able forest management. The two major forest certification systems  recognised by Stora Enso are the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)  and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification  schemes (PEFC). To meet our customers demand for certified prod- ucts, we aim continuously to increase the amounts of certified fibre.  Despite a steady increase in forest certification, the proportion of the  worlds forests certified for sustainable management is still below  10%. Most of the certified forests are located in North America and  Europe. We have managed to increase the share of certified wood in  our wood supply to 67% in 2010, from 49% in 2005. Our target is to  further increase this share to 70% by 2012. The lack of a widely accepted FSC forest management standard in  Finland has been a major challenge for Stora Enso. As a member of  the Finnish FSC Association, Stora Enso has actively participated  in the related negotiations, which finally achieved a breakthrough in  2010 creating consensus on a new FSC forest management standard  for Finland. The standard was approved by FSC International in early  2011. Stora Enso has also actively participated in the revision of the  Finnish PEFC standard, which was endorsed by the PEFC Council in  2010 and will be implemented in 2011. We have been working for several years within FSC Sweden to review  the national FSC standard. A new standard for Sweden was approved  by FSC International in 2010. The new Finnish and Swedish FSC stand- ards both include special criteria for small and low intensity managed  forests (SLIMF) that can be applied by private forest-owners who own  less than a thousand hectares of forest in Sweden and less than five  hundred hectares in Finland. Social responsibility criteria for certification  have particularly been strengthened through the SLIMF criteria. In 2010, we also continued to participate in the development of forest  management certification standards in China through the FSC National  Initiative and the Chinese National Forest Certification System (NFCS).  Stora Ensos plantations earlier served as a pilot site for the NFCS. Wood and fibre sources *   Total amount of wood (roundwood, chips and sawdust) delivered to own mills in  these areas (million m, solid under bark). Wood procurement by region *   Finland 13.1   Sweden 10.6   Russia 2.5   Baltic countries  2.5   Continental Europe 6.4   Brazil 0.1   Other countries 0.1 24   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   Working together with forest-owners  Both FSC and PEFC offer opportunities for group certification, which  allows forest-owners to apply for certification collectively with assis- tance from a certification group manager. The FSC certification groups established by Stora Enso in Sweden,  Estonia and Lithuania continued operating through 2010. In Finland,  we set up our first FSC group certification in 2005, and we will restart  the group certification process now that the new Finnish FSC forest  management standard has been approved. In Estonia, Stora Enso maintained the SmartLogging certificate (a  standard established by the Rainforest Alliance for logging opera- tions) received in 2009 for its forestry services operations. The Smart- Logging certification of forestry contractors helps forest-owners to  comply with FSC group certification requirements. Group certifications can also support larger-scale forest-owners.  During 2010, two logging companies in Russia, Ljubinsky and Buisky,  joined our certification group. After extensive preparation and the  training of managers and employees the companies achieved certi- fication in early 2011. More wood suppliers will be invited to join our  FSC certification group in the future. In Brazil, Stora Ensos joint venture Veracel continued to work towards  the FSC and CERFLOR (Brazilian national certification system  endorsed by PEFC) group certifications of some 20 000 hectares of  local tree farmers plantations. The first group certification is expected  to be finalised in 2011. Tracing the origins of wood   Whether the wood we reprocess comes from certified forests or not,  we want our stakeholders to be able to trust that it has sustainable  origins. We use our own traceability systems to check that all wood  has been harvested in compliance with national legislation and accord- ing to our own Wood Procurement Principles. Our traceability systems  covering all roundwood, chips, sawdust and externally purchased pulp  are regularly controlled through internal and external audits. Wood and fibre sources   25  Moreover, 100% of our purchased wood and pulp is also covered by  third party verifications and certifications, such as Chain of Custody,  Controlled Wood and ISO 14001. Arapoti Mill in Brazil received FSC  chain-of-custody certification in 2010. Arapoti had previously been  our only mill with no third party verified traceability system in place. Conserving biodiversity  Our forest and plantation management planning involves ecological  landscape planning and biodiversity assessments conducted to iden- tify valuable habitats and guide forestry operations. Stora Ensos employees and forestry contractors have continued  receiving in-work training on nature management. In Sweden, for  example, training has concentrated on the protection of watercourses  and sensitive aquatic ecosystems in logging operations. Around 1 000  employees and contractors took part in such training during 2009  and 2010.  In 2010, some Swedish environmental NGOs continued criticising  Stora Enso and other forest companies for not respecting key bio- topes in logging operations and the Swedish Society for Nature Con- servation (SSNC) published a report on the topic. In uncertain cases,  we always consult the Swedish Forest Agency for an independent  assessment before harvesting. In collaboration with the Swedish For- estry County Board, more advanced nature management training was  also provided to 50 employees on key biotopes and 120 employees  on nature value assessment during 2010.  In Finland, Stora Enso continued to require employees and forestry  contractors to conduct Nature Management Examination. Stora  Enso also continued to promote the METSO Forest Biodiversity  Programme, a voluntary Finnish forest protection scheme, by helping  forest owners to identify areas suitable for protection. In 2010, Stora  Enso proposed a total of 15 areas for protection under the METSO  programme. Protecting biodiversity is a major element of responsible tree plan- tation operations. We only establish plantations on lands with low  biodiversity value, such as former pasturelands, and we never convert  natural forests or protected areas into plantations. We work to identify  and protect any ecologically important areas under our management.  Our operations and their impacts on biodiversity are monitored to  make sure that we do not harm soil and water resources, and that we  safeguard ecosystem functions. Veracel continued to actively protect and restore Atlantic rainforest  habitats in Brazil during 2010. As in previous years, the company  planted native trees on 400 hectares of former pastureland. This  work is part of a government scheme that aims to connect remaining  native coastal forests with ecological forest corridors. By the end of  2010 Veracel had restored a total of more than 3 900 ha of rainforest.   Veracel has also been funding and participating in a new study initi- ated in 2010 to assess changes in native forest cover between 1970  and 2010 in the state of Bahia.  In China, Stora Enso and Fauna and Flora International launched a  seven-year programme to monitor bird species in and around euca- lyptus plantations. This programme forms part of biodiversity monitor- ing work in tree plantations in Guangxi province. A baseline survey of  residential and migrant birds was conducted in 2010. By applying innovative approaches tree plantation projects ben- efit both the local economy and biodiversity. The New Generation  Plantation Project, coordinated by WWF, is actively promoting such  approaches around the world.  The project is an initiative that aims to build up a common vision  shared by industry, governments and civil society, says Luis Neves  Silva, WWFs New Generation Project Manager. The plantations associated with Veracel pulp mill in Brazil, a joint venture  between Stora Enso and Fibria, are recognised as setting a good exam- ple of favourable plantation practices. Veracel has unique landscape  planning methods that preserve and restore Atlantic rainforest habitats. The New Generation Plantations Project defines a framework for  favourable plantation practices around the globe, explains Silva. The  projects website features cases from three continents alongside a wide- ranging report. Partners in the project include government agencies  such as the State Forest Administration of China and the UK Forestry  Commission as well as Stora Enso and several other forest companies. The underlying challenges relating to plantation investments vary  in different continents, adds Silva. In Africa the greatest challenge  is still poverty, while in Latin America there is the social history of  land ownership concentration, and in Asia land use pressures are  severe due to large populations. New generation plantations respect lands and resources that are  important for local people, while contributing to the local economy  and employment. The best plantation models also support the res- toration of natural forest habitats, the conservation of biodiversity  and the integrity of wider ecosystems. The second phase of work, with a major report due to be published at  the end of 2011, will integrate additional issues  into the new genera- tion plantation concept, including bioenergy, water management, forest  carbon markets, and responsible financing and consumer markets.   For more information, visit  www.newgenerationplantations.com. New Generation Plantations show the way 26   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   unit** hectares certification broader landscape and protected areas Montes del Plata plantations and lands,   Uruguay (joint venture with Arauco) 238 622 ha, of which  125 642 ha planted FSC on 120 966 ha, of  which 69 822 ha  planted The landscape consists mainly of pasture and  agricultural fields. Remnants of native ecosystems, such  as grasslands and riparian forests, have been protected  within the companys lands. Veracel plantations and lands,   Baha, Brazil (joint venture with Fibria) 211 676, of which   90 599 planted CERFLOR (PEFC), FSC The landscape is dominated by pasture converted from  the Atlantic rainforest between the 1950s and 1980s.  105 368 ha of Veracels areas are protected, including  6  000 ha Private Natural Heritage Reserve. The  protected areas mostly consist of native forest remnants  at different stages of regeneration (see page 26). Plantations and lands,   Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil 45 161, of which   20 850 planted The landscape resembles that in Uruguay. 14 000 ha of  the total area is protected including native grasslands,  riparian forests and other habitats. Trial plantations, Thailand 1 350, of which   1 280 planted The plantations are located within an agricultural  landscape with no protected areas in or near the  plantations. Wood Supply Baltic, Lithuania  453  70 ha of nature reserves, e.g. buffer zones, and part of a  national park. Wood Supply Baltic, Estonia 92 of which 85 forests No protected areas within this area. *   In addition to the forest and plantation areas listed above Stora Enso owns 43% of Bergvik Skog (www.bergvikskog.com), which owns 2.3 million hectares  of land in Sweden, and 41% of Tornator (www.tornator.fi), which owns 600 000 hectares of forestland in Finland. ** Including units where Stora Ensos shareholding is at least 50%. forests, plantations and lands owned by stora enso* As of 31 December 2010 forests and plantations leased and managed by stora enso As of 31 December 2010 unit* hectares certification broader landscape and protected areas Olonetsles, Russia 222 500 FSC group certificate In Russia protected areas are generally excluded from  lease agreements. Areas amounting to 2 362 ha are  protected as natural monuments (mainly marshlands). Ladenso, Russia 153 900 FSC group certificate 409 ha protected as natural monuments, including  genetic pine reserves and water courses. Plantations and lands, Guangxi, China 90 347, of which   74 779 planted with  eucalyptus and 8 765  ha with other species The landscape consists of a mosaic of agricultural  crops, forest plantations and settlements. Native  ecosystems are not found in the leased lands. Areas  totalling around 800 ha are protected, consisting of  steep slopes, buffer zones and other important areas for  watershed protection.  Terminal, Russia 42 800 FSC group certificate No protected areas within this area.  Wood Supply Continental Europe, Czech  Republic 21 700 PEFC 7 084 ha within a landscape protection area, including  1  895 ha of a bird protection area under the Natura 2000  programme. Other small-scale nature reserves totalling  892 ha.  Montes del Plata plantations and lands,  Uruguay (joint venture with Arauco) 15 846 ha, of which   10 099 ha planted FSC on 5 947 ha, of  which 5 870 ha planted The landscape consists mainly of pasture and  agricultural fields. Protected and sensitive areas are  excluded from lease agreements.  Trial plantations, Laos 1 200, of which   400 planted The plantations are located within a mosaic of intensive  shifting cultivation areas and traditionally protected  remnants of native forests. One plantation area is  located close to a National Biodiversity Conservation  Area. *  Including units where Stora Ensos shareholding is at least 50%. Wood and fibre sources   27  Tree plantations and neighbouring communities Veracel in Baha, Brazil   Veracel pulp mill and plantations is a joint venture involving Stora Enso  and Fibria in Southern Baha in Northeast Brazil. In 2010 Veracel con- tinued working on income generation programmes initiated in previous  years. Some of these programmes provide development and marketing  support for handicraft manufacturing and beekeeping in local commu- nities. In 2010 Veracel donated 300 hectares of land to neighbourhood  associations for crop production also providing the associations with  support on farming techniques and crop sales. Veracel has also estab- lished a tree farming programme with the aim of sourcing around 20%  of its wood from local farmers. The programme involves 104 farmers  and some 20 000 hectares of plantation land. Veracel is working with  the tree farmers to achieve forest management certification for the  farmers tree plantations (for more details see page 25).  Veracel maintains good relationships with the areas 17 indigenous  communities, and supports educational schemes and other initiatives  designed to strengthen the cultural identity of the Patax and Tupi- nambs communities. By the end of 2010, Brazilian social movements including the Land- less Workers Movement (MST), the Fight for Land Movement (MLT)  and the Federation of Agricultural Workers of Bahia (FETAG) continued  to be involved in 12 land invasions on Veracels lands. Veracel has  actively continued dialogues with these movements and the govern- ment of Bahia, with the aim of finding common ground for coopera- tion. The company takes every possible effort to ensure that such  invasions are always handled peaceably. All cases have so far been  resolved peacefully. In 2010, FSC received a complaint about the FSC certification of  Veracel and Veracels certificate provider. The complaint was filed  by an anonymous organisation, and FSC decided to investigate the  complaint by interviewing local stakeholder groups and auditing  Veracel and the certifier. According to the audit Veracels certification  continues to be valid, but the status of the certifier is still pending. Plantations in Southern Brazil Stora Ensos tree plantation project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul  in Brazil was launched in 2005. In 2010, we continued to integrate  tree plantations with other land use forms and strengthen our relations  with neighbouring communities and other stakeholders. We initiated  a project with a local technical school aiming to take advantage of  synergies between tree plantations and traditional cattle grazing. We  also established a new system for monitoring the hydrological effects  of tree plantations, as part of a water monitoring network run by a  local university. To enhance stakeholder dialogue in Rio Grande do  Sul we are participating actively in the regional process of The Forest  Dialogue. Montes del Plata in Uruguay During 2010, Montes del Plata, a joint venture of Stora Enso and  Arauco in Uruguay, conducted a comprehensive environmental and  social impact assessment to identify the main impacts of a possible  future pulp mill and the existing plantation operations. In early 2011  the decision to build a pulp mill in Punta Pereira was taken. An FSC Forest Management audit and a Chain of Custody certificate  follow-up audit were also realised and approved for large part of the  plantations managed by Montes del Plata. The company continued to rent out land for cattle grazing, with over  100  000 hectares of company land now under rent. The company  supports the equitable sharing of land and benefits by limiting land  rental agreements to 1 500 hectares per tenant. Local partners include  individual local landowners as well as sheep and honey production  cooperatives and associations of dairy and beef producers. For more  information, see page 17. A Good Neighbour Programme was implemented in areas newly  planted in 2010. This programme aims to promote open stakeholder  dialogues. Its measures include a grievance mechanism and the provi- sion of information for neighbouring communities about company  operations such as planting and harvesting. In addition to company-owned land, Montes del Plata has rented  15  622 hectares of land from local landowners for tree farming. These  wood production partnerships involved 56 landowners by the end of  2010. Plantations in Guangxi, China  We started establishing plantations in the south of Guangxi prov- ince, China, in 2002. The land use plan for the plantation areas has  provided an overall framework for planting, harvesting and conserva- tion activities. During 2010 we continued to develop our integrated  sustainability and quality, environmental and occupational health and  safety management systems. In October, the international coalition Rights and Resources Initiative  (RRI) published a report accusing Stora Enso of irregularities related  to acquisitions of collectively owned lands in the Beihai area. We  are aware of the issues raised in this report and since last year we  have taken concrete measures to improve the land leasing process.  In 2009, we started to systematically review all our land leasing  contracts. The review showed that a number of contracts did not  fulfil our standards. In 2010, we finished the reviewing work (which  covered almost 2 300 contracts) and the work to modify the contracts  to satisfy all parties is underway.  Two violent incidents occurred in Stora Ensos plantations in Guangxi  in 2010. In July, villagers took three Stora Enso employees captive,  blaming them for the accidental drowning of a villager. One Stora  Enso employee was beaten during this incident. In August, some  100 villagers came to a site where the company was establishing tree  plantations, questioning the land use rights over the Qinlian forest  farm, which had been leased to Stora Enso. The villagers damaged a  forestry contractors property and seven people were injured during  the incident. Stora Enso has withdrawn from the site until a peaceful  solution acceptable to all parties is found. Trial plantations in Laos and Thailand Stora Enso continued to run pilot tree plantation projects in Laos and  Thailand. In Laos, an environmental impact assessment was finalised  in 2009 and a social impact assessment conducted by UNDP Laos  28   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   will be completed in 2011. In Laos Stora Enso has developed a planta- tion concept that combines wood production with food production.  This agro-forestry model involves villagers growing agricultural crops  in between rows of trees. In 2010 villagers planted rice in 125 newly  established hectares of plantation. The local conditions are challenging  as the area was bombed during the Vietnam War. Before establishing  plantations Stora Enso clears the lands of unexploded bombs. Market pulp and recovered fibre Pulp procurement We produce most of the pulp we use ourselves in connection to our  paper and board mills. However, for reasons related to quality and  logistics some 6% of the chemical pulp used by the company was  purchased from external suppliers (8% in 2009). Only a small amount  of mechanical pulp was purchased from external suppliers. Pulp  deliveries from Veracel to Stora Enso totalled 0.54 million tonnes in  2010. Pulp from Veracel was mainly shipped to Oulu, Uetersen and  Suzhou mills. Purchased pulp must meet the same sustainability requirements as  purchased wood. Pulp is included in Stora Ensos traceability system,  so the origins of all the fibre used in purchased pulp must be known  and suitably documented. Stora Enso also encourages all pulp sup- pliers to establish chain-of-custody certification. In 2010 88% of the  purchased pulp (including Veracel pulp) was covered by either FSC  or PEFC chain-of-custody certification. Using recovered fibre The importance of recovered (recycled) fibre as a raw material con- tinued to increase in 2010. Recovered fibre accounted for 26% of our  total fibre use in 2010 (25%). This corresponds to nearly 2.8 million  tonnes of recovered paper, making Stora Enso one Europes leading  users of recovered fibre.  We use recovered paper as raw material at ten of our paper and  board mills. We seek to cooperate with municipalities in the vicinity of  our mills to optimise the benefits of paper recycling for both parties.  The mills that consume the largest quantities of recovered fibre are  located in densely populated areas close to major sources of recov- ered paper and board. One example is Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium,  which produces 100% recycled newsprint and magazine paper at a  location where 80 million people live within a radius of 300 kilometres.  In 2010 we launched a new sorting plant at Langerbrugge Mill with the  capacity to receive 240 000 tonnes of recovered paper per year. The  scheme also enables local communities to deliver recovered paper  from their household collections directly to the mill. Five questions about recycled fibre How much recycled fibre does Stora Enso use? We use about 2.8 million tonnes of recycled paper every year. It  accounts for about a quarter of all the fibre we use. Stora Enso is  one of the largest consumers of recycled paper in Europe. If you put  your newspaper or milk carton in a recycling bin in Sweden, Germany,  Netherlands, Belgium or Spain, there is a very good chance that it will  end up being used at one of our mills to make new paper. What are the advantages of using so much recycled  fibre? Recycled paper is a highly suitable and valuable raw material for many  forms of paper production. But of course its also a question of using  materials responsibly. Recycling is an excellent way to reduce the  need for new fibre from the forests – while also saving energy. This is  particularly sustainable and worthwhile when our mills can use recy- cled paper collected from households nearby. Our mills in densely  populated areas of Germany, Belgium and Spain are doing just this. Which of your products contain recycled fibre? Newsprint for newspapers is perhaps the best example, but we also  use recycled fibre to make magazine paper and packaging board. Its  quite possible that the breakfast cereal box you held in your hands  this morning and the box containing the perfume you were given  for Christmas are our products. Both of these products are made of  recycled fibres. How many times can paper be recycled? We can recycle fibres between four and six times. After that, fibres  become weak and start to disintegrate. This means that some fresh  fibre is always needed eventually. We hope everyone will take the  trouble to recycle all the paper and packages they use, because this  is always worthwhile! What happens after I put an old newspaper or a used  milk carton in a recycling bin? After it is collected, it will be sorted. Different kinds of recovered paper  and board are sent to different production lines, where they will be  used to make different kinds of new paper and carton products. If  you throw your old newspaper into a recycling bin today, you could in  theory be holding the same paper in your hands again in 4-6 weeks,  printed with up-to-date news. Rickard arnqvist  Senior Vice President  Stora Enso  Publication Paper Wood and fibre sources   29  Supply chain and transport In 2010 Stora Enso sourced goods and services worth some EUR 6.4  billion. This figure includes wood, other raw materials such as chemi- cals and fillers for production processes, and various other materials  and services, such as spare parts, clothing and maintenance, as well  as purchased pulp, energy and logistics services. Some 94% of these  purchases by value was sourced in Europe, 4% in Asia and 2% in  South America. Through our supply chain we have considerable influ- ence over many communities, societies and environments in different  parts of the world.  supplier requirements Our wood suppliers and the whole wood supply-chain are covered  by regular sustainability controls and audits through chain-of-custody  certification schemes. A detailed description of our wood and fibre  sourcing is given in the wood and fibre sourcing section of this report  on pages 24–29. For other suppliers and contractors Stora Enso has developed a set  of sustainability requirements covering environmental management,  health and safety issues, human and labour rights, and business prac- tices. These requirements are included in our purchasing agreements.  In 2010 these requirements covered 99% of material purchases and  91% of the transportation services purchased at Group level. Our  target is to have all purchasing agreements covered by the require- ments, including also purchases made at local level. Ensuring compliance During 2010 we developed a monitoring procedure to ensure that our  sustainability requirements are followed in practice. The implementation  of this monitoring procedure will continue during 2011. The follow up  mechanisms include the following elements:  	 Sustainability self-assessments  	 Sustainability audits  A format for sustainability self-assessments for suppliers was tested  in 2010 and will be adopted for wider use in 2011 when self-assess- ments will become a requirement for all Group-level-coordinated  material suppliers and logistics service providers.  Sustainability audits are also conducted at selected suppliers. In 2010  we conducted six sustainability audits to pilot our auditing approach.  Based on the experiences gained through these pilot audits, we are  developing our auditing approach and resources further.  To improve the implementation of our sustainability requirements  along the supply chain we also need to increase awareness of sus- tainability issues, especially among our purchasers. During 2011 we  will train all our purchasers on managing sustainability in the supply  chain.  Transportation and the environment Stora Enso transported 49 million tonnes of wood raw material and  products in 2010. Nearly three-fourths of this total consisted of wood  transportation. Roughly 50% of this wood was transported by truck, and  some 40% by rail and 10% by sea. For the transportation of products,  transportation by sea accounts for approximately 95%, by truck 3%,  and by rail 2%.   One of the most significant environmental impacts of transportation  concerns CO2 emissions. In 2010 transportation accounted for an esti- mated 13% of Stora Ensos total carbon emissions (see pages 40–41).  In Sweden we have taken special measures to reduce CO2 emissions  related to wood transportation by shifting away from road transporta- tion and moving greater volumes of wood by rail. In 2010 a third major  roundwood terminal came into operation enabling more wood to be  transported from forests to mills by train instead of truck. We estimate  that this long-term logistics programme could keep as many as 100 000  trucks off Swedens roads annually, leading to significant reductions in  CO2 emissions. * % of variable costs. Composition of raw material and service costs *   Fibre 53%   Chemicals and fillers 14%   Energy 14%   Production services     and materials 4%   Logistics and commissions 15% 30   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   When I say that I work in purchasing, you will most probably be thinking  about goods and their prices. But there is much more to purchasing than  comparing prices. For a company like Stora Enso that purchases goods  and services worth some six billion Euros every year, responsibility is a  key factor in all of our purchasing. It is not only a question of following  the company rules; irresponsible purchasing is a real business risk. My  job is to make sure that everybody in purchasing understands this. Stora Ensos business is absolutely dependent on very many suppliers  and service providers all around the world – from global chemical sup- pliers to local trucking companies. This means it is vital for us to make  sure that they play by the same rules as we do. People increasingly judge how responsible we are as a company by  what happens along the whole supply chain. This is why we have to  make sure that our suppliers, be they big or small, near or far, are  environmentally and socially responsible and comply with our policies.  If we dont do this, we put our reputation at risk. Purchasing these days is truly global. Unsustainable practices in a  faraway country can easily end up in the headlines close to home. If  something goes wrong along our supply chain, the blame can easily  be attached to us. Our responsibility and our reputation are at stake,  much more than the suppliers. Responsibility is not something you  can outsource.  Sometimes there doesnt even need to be a real case of irresponsible  behaviour. Even a suspicion of wrongdoing may be enough to generate  headlines, especially if the company cannot show that it has a strong  grip on its supply chain.  Since the beginning of 2010 Stora Enso has conducted thorough on- site audits at suppliers in India, China, and Brazil, where we wanted  to be sure of their reliability. These audits resulted in lists of actions  required from suppliers, which are being closely followed-up. Any non- conformances must be promptly remedied by suppliers. If this does not  happen, they will no longer be contracted to provide goods or services  for us. We hope that such steps will not be necessary, but this stance  shows the extent of our determination!  To finish, I would like to destroy a myth by stressing that responsible  purchasing does not cost us more. There is no extra price tag for Stora  Enso when it comes to insisting that our suppliers respect social and  environmental standards! heinz felder  Head of Purchasing Stora Enso Purchasing matters Stora Enso produces pulp in Brazil through its joint venture company  Veracel. The pulp produced by Veracel is shipped to Stora Ensos  paper and board mills in Europe. Most of the pulp from Veracel ends  up in coated fine paper sold in Europe. But what are the climate impacts of shipping pulp long distances?  The idea of producing pulp so far away from where it will be used  might sound environmentally problematic, but the facts reveal a more  complex reality. Stora Enso has conducted an in-depth analysis of the  carbon footprint of Veracel pulp, and the findings reveal that trans- portation does indeed play a vital role in the carbon footprint of the  pulp – but not in the way one might expect.  Veracel comprises a state-of-the-art pulp mill as well as extensive  eucalyptus plantations. The company sources its main raw material  – wood – from its own nearby plantations. Wood is transported for  an average distance from the plantations to the mill of 44 km. This  is a comparatively short distance, since in Finland, for instance, the  average transportation distance from harvesting sites to mills is 200  km. Wood transportation thus only adds some 5 kg of CO2 per tonne  of pulp to the total carbon footprint of Veracel pulp. But wood is not  the only factor. Another important raw material for pulp production is  chemicals. Most of the chemicals used by Veracel are produced on  site, meaning that no transportation is needed.  Once the pulp is ready, it is dried and packed in bales. Shipping pulp  in dry form means that it weighs less. The pulp travels from Veracels  harbour through the Brazilian port of Portocel to Brake in Germany  or Zeebrugge in Belgium. This is a long journey, but as the ships are  modern and have low emissions their climate impacts are relatively  small. This stage of the transportation adds 54 kg of CO2 per tonne  of pulp. From the European ports the pulp is transported to its final  destination. This results in additional CO2 emissions ranging between  8 and 40 kg per tonne of pulp, depending on the location of the  receiving mill. Interestingly enough, after adding up all the elements including the  transportation of trees to the mill, all the production processes, and  the transportation of the pulp to its final destination, the carbon foot- print of Veracels eucalyptus pulp turns out to be on average 248 kg  CO2 per tonne compared to an average of 253 kg CO2 per tonne for  hardwood pulp produced in Europe.  The climate impacts of shipping Brazilian pulp to Europe Supply chain and transport   31  At Stora Enso, our environmental work focuses on two main issues.  Firstly, we work to minimise the environmental impacts of our mills.  This is a top priority for Stora Enso, and the basis of our everyday  work. Secondly, we strive to use raw materials as efficiently as pos- sible. This ensures that we do not waste valuable natural resources  or financial resources.  We are committed to continuous improvement in environmental pro- tection. We have set strict targets for emissions to air, process water  discharges and waste. Our environmental targets are normalised for  production and apply to our pulp, paper and board mills. We monitor  our progress towards these targets on quarterly basis, and report our  results transparently every year.   Stora Enso has management systems in place to ensure that all our  units follow the best environmental practices and improve their work  continuously. All Stora Ensos pulp, paper and board production units  are certified according to the ISO 14001 management system. using water responsibly Since 2009, our sustainability work has had a special focus on water.  Water scarcity is a growing global concern, and this particularly puts  pressure on industries that use water intensively.  Water is essential for Stora Ensos production processes. The  structure of paper is dependent on water, as hydrogen bonds are  needed to keep the wood fibres together. The Group also uses water  for cooling, for cleaning, and to make steam for producing energy.  Water is also needed as a medium to carry fibres through production  processes. Stora Enso is committed to the responsible use of water, and we  actively participate in various international initiatives related to water.  These initiatives include the CEO Water Mandate of the UN Global  Compact, and the work of the World Business Council for Sustainable  Development developing tools for measuring water use. Stora Enso is  also involved in the development of an international ISO standard for  water accounting, and in the Water Footprint Network, whose water  accounting methodology has been tested by Stora Enso at Skoghall  Mill in Sweden. See page 14 for more details.  To better understand our water use, we initiated an in-depth water  study in 2009, covering all of our pulp, paper and board mills, and this  study was completed in 2010. The study examined both direct water  use at mills, and our indirect water use related to the water present in  fibre and chemicals. The results showed that the greatest water inputs  consist of process and cooling water, and as expected only a minor  contribution comes from different raw materials, including 2% from  wood and bark, and 0.3% from recovered fibre, purchased pulp and  chemicals. The study also examined water outputs, and concluded  that around 4% of our total water intake ends up being released as  steam from processes, 0.3% ends up in our products, residuals and  wastes, and the rest is treated and discharged back into the water  bodies from which it was extracted. These results will help us focus  our continued efforts to improve water measurement and reporting  and to reduce water use in the right areas at each mill.  Water sources In 2010, we used a total of 318 million cubic metres of process water  and 365 million cubic metres of cooling water in our production pro- cesses. Most of this water (99%) was taken from lakes and rivers,  and less than 1% was withdrawn from municipal water supplies or  extracted from groundwater. All of our water intakes are regulated by the authorities, and we follow  local laws and regulations everywhere. In five localities local water  sources are significantly affected by our water use. This means that  we either use more than 5% of the average total volume of the water  body, or that the water body has been recognised by authorities as  a sensitive area. For more details, see the extended GRI table at  www.storaenso.com/sustainabilityreport. In these localities our water  use is particularly strictly regulated and supervised by the relevant  authorities. Water discharges After water is used in production, it is carefully treated and then  released back into the natural environment. Treating water is impor- tant, as impurities in water discharges can harm ecosystems in lakes,  rivers and other natural water bodies. Stora Enso uses top class  waste water treatment systems to ensure that the water we release  is purified, ecologically safe, and meets all regulatory requirements.  About 99% of our releases of purified water are discharged into sur- face water bodies. Some of Stora Ensos mills discharge waste water  into municipal or private treatment plants. Stora Ensos target is to reduce process water discharges by 10% of  their 2005 levels by 2013. During 2010 the Group made slight pro- gress towards this target. We have reduced our normalised discharges  of process water by 5% since 2005. Mills and environment 32   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   Another target that we have set for water discharges is to reduce  average Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) in our water releases by  10% from 2007 levels by the end of 2013. During 2010 normalised  COD discharges declined slightly and are currently 2% lower than  in 2007. In 2010 our normalised discharges of Adsorbable Organic Halogen  Compounds (AOX) increased, but their present level is still 3% below  their level in 2006. AOX is a collective term for the amounts of chlorine  or other halogens bound to organic matter in waste water. Over the  last five years our discharges of AOX have fluctuated within a range  that represents good performance. This is due to the fact that Stora  Enso has not used elemental chlorine in its bleaching processes for  over 20 years.  During 2010 our normalised discharges of nitrogen decreased, while  phosphorus discharges increased. Compounds of both nitrogen and  phosphorus are used to provide nutrient sources for the micro-organ- isms that are vital to our biological waste water treatment processes.  In natural water bodies excessive amounts of nitrogen and phospho- rus can lead to increased biological activity through eutrophication.  Over the past five years our normalised discharges of both nitrogen  and phosphorus have declined considerably, by 13% for nitrogen and  17% for phosphorus. emissions to air Minimising emissions to air continues to be a priority for Stora Enso.  Our atmospheric emissions result mainly from the combustion of  fuels used in production processes. These emissions include carbon  dioxide (CO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Stora  Enso has taken action to reduce its CO2 emissions and total carbon  footprint (see pages 40–41). SO2 and NOx affect air quality and cause  acid rain and soil acidification. We are working to reduce our emissions to air by using more renew- able energy and by increasing our energy efficiency (see pages  38–40). SO2 and NOx emissions are also controlled through advanced  technologies such as scrubbers and boiler process control systems.  In 2010 our SO2 emissions increased slightly. Our target has been to  reduce our SO2 emissions by 30% from 2007 levels by 2013. In 2010  our normalised SO2 emissions were 26% below the 2007 level. Over the  five year period 2006–2010 we have reduced our normalised emissions  for both SO2 and nitrogen oxides (NOX), by 33% and 2%, respectively.  Mills and environment   33  Residuals and waste Stora Ensos production processes generate various residuals and  wastes, the vast majority of which are beneficially reused. Such  materi als include ash from energy production, lime solids from pulping  processes, and waste water treatment sludge. Many of these materi- als can be used for bioenergy production, for agricultural purposes,  or for brick manufacturing and road construction. We are constantly  looking for new and innovative ways to reuse materials that would  otherwise end up as wastes. Across the Group we have achieved a  waste use rate of 96% (96% in 2009).   Waste to landfill  Residual materials that cannot be reused end up in landfills. In 2010  our total waste to landfill rate increased to 17 kg/tonne of board and  paper produced (16 kg/tonne in 2009). This means that no progress  was made towards our target to reduce normalised waste to landfill by  5% from 2007 levels by the end of 2013. In 2010, 51% more waste to  landfill was generated (in terms of kg/product tonne) than in our target  base line year 2007. One major reason for this is our increased use  of biomass fuels, which generate more ash than other fuels, coupled  with the reduced demand for residual ash for beneficial uses.    Hazardous wastes Hazardous wastes from our production include used oils, solvents,  paints, laboratory chemicals and batteries. In 2010 Stora Ensos pulp,  paper and board production units created 2 895 tonnes of hazardous  waste, down from 2 955 tonnes in 2009. We dispose of hazardous  wastes by either burning them to generate energy, or ensuring that  they are safely processed at hazardous waste facilities or incinerators.  We report on our disposal of hazardous wastes in line with definitions  set out in respective national regulations. No significant spills, releases  or leakages of hazardous wastes occurred in 2010. Beneficial use of residuals and waste to landfill   Energy generation 44%   Pulp manufacturing 27%   Pellet and chipboard     manufacturing 7%   Landscaping, landfill and     road construction 5%   Waste to landfill 4%   Agricultural use 2%   Other 11% Sold electricity 0.62 TWh Heat and steam 0.48 PJ Wood 35.6 million m Pulp & recovered fibre 2.9 million tonnes Water 683 million m Pigments, fillers & starch 2.1 million tonnes Fossil fuels 44.8 PJ External biomass 17.1 PJ Paper and board 10.7 million tonnes Wood products 5.9 m Residuals for reuse 2.5 million tonnes Market pulp 1.1 million tonnes Material use in 2010 34   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   Nitrogen  1) 1.80 1.65 1.50 1.35 1.20 1.05 0.90 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.09 0.08 0.07 0.06 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  1.62 1.36 1.20 1.10 1.19 -27% 0.112 0.096 0.090 0.101 0.097 -13% 1 000 tonnes kg/tonne Phosphorus  1) 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 0.018 0.016 0.014 0.012 0.010 0.008 0.006 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  181 151 141 99 120 -34% 0.012 0.011 0.011 0.009 0.010 -17% tonnes kg/tonne Process water discharge  1) 390 370 350 330 310 290 270 26.4 26.0 25.6 25.2 24.8 24.4 24.0 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  367 363 331 274 304 -17% 25.4 25.5 24.8 25.0 24.6 -3% million m m/tonne Waste to landfill  1) 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 20 18 16 14 12 10 8 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  150 160 160 173 210 +40% 10.4 11.3 12.0 15.8 17.0 +63% 1 000 tonnes kg/tonne 1) From pulp, paper and board production facilities. Normalised figures are reported per unit sales production. 2) From bleached chemical pulp facilities only. Normalised figures are reported per unit bleached chemical pulp production. Total sulphur as SO2  1) 8.5 7.5 6.5 5.5 4.5 3.5 2.5 0.85 0.75 0.65 0.55 0.45 0.35 0.25 06 07 08 09 10 06–10 7.5 6.7 4.6 3.6 4.3 -43% 0.52 0.47 0.35 0.33 0.35 -33% 1 000 tonnes kg/tonne AOX  2) 700 625 550 475 400 325 250 0.26 0.23 0.20 0.17 0.14 0.11 0.08 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  680 650 557 391 530 -22% 0.159 0.163 0.156 0.144 0.155 -3% tonnes kg/tonne NOX  1) 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 1.10 1.05 1.00 0.95 0.90 0.85 0.80 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  12.8 12.2 11.3 8.9 10.7 -16% 0.89 0.86 0.85 0.82 0.87 -2% 1 000 tonnes kg/tonne COD  1) 145 135 125 115 105 95 85 17 15 13 11 9 7 5 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  137 128 116 98 108 -21% 9.5 9.0 8.7 8.9 8.8 -7% 1 000 tonnes kg/tonne Mills and environment   35  environmental investments In 2010, Stora Ensos environmental investments amounted to EUR 37  million (EUR 21 million in 2009). These investments were mainly directed  to improve the quality of air and water, to enhance resource efficiency  and energy self-sufficiency, and to minimise the risk of accidental spills.  Several significant environmental investments were completed in 2010.  New multifuel boilers started operating at Maxau Mill and Langerbrugge  Mill (see page 40). A new recycling facility at Barcelona Mill now enables  beverage cartons plastics and aluminium content to be recycled, as  well as their constituent fibres. A new gas turbine at Sachsen Mill is  considerably reducing the mills NOx and CO2 emissions.  Stora Ensos environmental costs in 2010 excluding interest and  including depreciation totalled EUR 152 million (EUR 147 million).  These costs include taxes, fees, refunds, permit-related costs, and  repair and maintenance costs, as well as the prices paid for chemicals  and certain materials. Estimates indicate that a total of EUR 122 mil- lion (EUR 145 million) will be needed to cover future environmental  liabilities, such as removing mercury and other contaminants from  Stora Enso mill sites. There are currently no active or pending legal  claims concerning environmental issues which could have material  adverse effect on Stora Ensos financial position. complying with environmental permits  Each of our mills is regulated by environmental permits based on  the national, regional and local legislation applicable to each loca- tion. Our mills continuously monitor their own compliance with these  permits, as do the appropriate environmental authorities. All of the  environmental incidents at Stora Enso mills in 2010 that resulted in  major permit violations, claims, compensations or significant media  coverage are detailed in the table above. environmental impacts of mill closures When closing down a mill, Stora Enso always ensures that the mill site  and surrounding area is properly cleaned and restored. This is done  in accordance with local laws, regulations, and environmental permits  granted by the relevant authorities. In April 2010, Kemijrvi Mill in Finland received an environmental  permit related to its closure in 2008. Stora Enso subsequently sub- mitted an appeal concerning the permit to the Vaasa Administrative  Court. Between June and November 2010 Stora Enso carried out  remediation work on the mill site in line with an environmental permit  granted in 2009 for the necessary soil cleaning work. unit incidents corrective actions Fors Mill, Sweden The mill exceeded limits for phosphorus and  suspended solids due to problems with its waste  water treatment plant. Resolved. The cases have been reported to the authorities. Stora  Enso decided to rebuild the waste water treatment plant. The new  plant is expected to be running during the first quarter of 2011. Skoghall Mill, Sweden A leaking pipe resulted in chlorine dioxide  discharges. The discharges were channelled to  the mills waste water treatment plant and the  incident had no environmental impacts. Resolved. The incident was reported to authorities and preventive  actions, including the repair of the pipe, have been taken.  Skoghall Mill, Sweden A leak in the mills white liquor pipe was  detected. All resulting discharged were  channelled to the mills waste water treatment  pant and no environmental impacts ensued. Resolved. The incident was reported to the authorities and corrective  actions, including the repair of the pipe, have been taken. Kvarnsveden Mill, Sweden Phosphorus guideline value exceeded due to  faulty dosage of ferrous sulphate in the waste  water treatment plant and high summer  temperatures.  Resolved. The incident was reported to authorities and dosage of  ferrous sulphate has been adjusted. Hylte Mill, Sweden The mill exceeded the air limit value for dioxins  and furans due to emissions from one of the  boilers. Pending. The incident was reported to the authorities. The cause of  the incident is being investigated internally so that preventive actions  can be taken. Varkaus Mill, Finland Plastic waste from the mills recycling plant  entered the lake and was borne downstream by  water currents. Resolved. The mill cleaned the areas of the lake where plastic waste  was noticed. The incident was investigated by the environmental  authorities who concluded that no further actions are needed.  Enocell Mill, Finland The permit limit for phosphorus was temporarily  exceeded due to technical problems. Resolved. The incident was reported to the authorities, and preventive  actions have been taken. Corbehem Mill, France The legal limit for suspended solids in waste  water discharges was exceeded. Pending. The cause of the incident is being internally investigated so  that preventive actions can be taken. In accordance with the French  authorities requirements a study to evaluate the efficiency of the  waste water treatment plant will also be conducted. Maxau Mill, Germany Small amounts of oil leaked into the cooling  water circuit, resulting in discharges into the  Rhine river, due to a defect in the heat exchanger. Resolved. As soon as the spill was discovered the discharged water  was channelled to the waste water treatment plant. The defected heat  exchanger has been replaced.  Ostroe ka Mill, Poland Water containing small amounts of light oil  entered River Narew during the start-up  operations of a new power plant on the site. Resolved. The spilled oil was successfully retained through several  measures. Preventive actions including changes to construction,  automation and the organisational processes as well as internal  training have been taken. environmental incidents 36   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   In July 2007, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon presented a chal- lenge to the global business community: to embrace the concept of  water stewardship as a key corporate priority. Issues related to water availability, quality and sanitation had previ- ously not figured very high on the general business agenda. Compa- nies typically viewed water management as an ancillary environmental  concern, devoting some resources to water recycling and waste  water treatment, perhaps, but not seeing water as a material risk or  a possible opportunity – and certainly not taking a holistic view. The  same could be said  of many other global actors and stakeholders  – including governments, civil society organizations, and investors.  International attention remained largely focused on climate change as  the headline issue of the day, even though global warming is known  to have major implications for water resources.  Much of this changed in 2006 following the publication of the UN  Development Programmes Human Development Report 2006:  Power, Poverty and the Global Water Crisis. This landmark report  presented a comprehensive overview of the escalating global crisis in  water and sanitation – and highlighted the crucial correlation between  water availability and economic development.  The UN Secretary-General subsequently issued his challenge and  launched the UN Global Compacts CEO Water Mandate. In just over three years, the CEO Water Mandate has established  itself as a pre-eminent business platform for water stewardship and  sustainability. The Mandate today involves more than 70 companies  from industries ranging from footwear to forest products. The CEO Water Mandate entails commitments by Chief Executive  Officers on six areas: direct operations, supply chain and watershed  management, collective action, public policy, community engagement  and transparency. Endorsing CEOs and their companies pledge to implement these six  aspects, and submit annual Communication on Progress – Water  reports, which are posted on the public CEO Water Mandate website.  These reports form a growing repository of best and emerging prac- tices for learning and benchmarking.  The CEO Water Mandate seeks to bring about a transformational  change in the minds of business leaders with respect to sustainability  and water, and encourage them to see industry as a critical user and  therefore steward of water resources. The Mandate has also brought  companies together with public-sector entities, NGOs, UN agencies,  investors, and other stakeholders to help find solutions to water chal- lenges – particularly at the level of the catchment area or watershed.  This approach helps companies participating in the Mandate to go  beyond the fence line of their operations and recognise that their  direct operations and their suppliers have broader responsibilities to  the surrounding communities and ecosystems.   Mandate endorsers are pursuing a range of inspiration actions, includ- ing working with suppliers to improve water efficiencies, collaborating  with NGOs on watershed restoration, and working with the public  water authorities to improve water governance. To address understandable concerns about the role of businesses in  shaping water policies, the Mandate has recently released a Guide to  Responsible Business Engagement with Water Policy, developed with  the Pacific Institute and WWF. The CEO Water Mandate recognises that by mobilizing a critical mass  of committed companies dedicated to working in partnership with  other stakeholders, progress can be made towards the achievement  of the vital Millennium Development Goals. Important connections are  also being made between water sustainability and other key issues  such as food and energy. Indeed, growing numbers of corporate leaders see their critical and  important role in the broader development and sustainability agenda  of the 21st century, recognising the fundamental truth that healthy  societies and healthy markets go hand-in-hand. gavin Power  Deputy Director of the UN  Global Compact and Head of the  CEO Water Mandate Companies embrace water stewardship Mills and environment   37  We work to eliminate and reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions  all along our value chain. This includes promoting sustainable forest  management, creating innovative products based on renewable mate- rials, and developing cleaner and more energy efficient production  processes.  forests and the climate  As trees grow they absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and  store it as carbon. Trees are a renewable resource. If forests and  plantations are managed in a sustainable way, after trees are logged  a new generation of trees will grow back absorbing CO2 from the  atmosphere once again. Sustainable forest and plantation manage- ment therefore plays a vital role in mitigating global warming.  We promote third party forest certification and chain-of-custody  certification to guarantee that all our wood originates from sustain- ably managed forests and tree plantations. We also actively combat  illegal logging, which is a major cause of global deforestation. Our tree  plantations sequester more carbon than the previous land uses, since  they have been almost entirely planted on formerly unused grasslands  or areas used for grazing cattle. We restore and conserve Atlantic  rainforest in and around the tree plantations we own through our joint  venture Veracel in Brazil, and these forests and tree plantations are a  significant carbon sink. For more details see pages 24–28. Products from renewable materials As our main raw material – wood – is a renewable resource, our  products have a much smaller carbon footprint than competing  products made of non-renewable materials. Stora Enso is constantly  developing its product range by finding new applications for wood  and wood-based materials. During 2010 Stora Enso has launched  many new packaging applications which are more material efficient  and can be recycled or composted. Examples include fibre-based  packaging for cold cuts replacing plastic trays, and microwaveable  and ovenproof packaging replacing aluminium trays. Stora Enso has  invested in developing and testing biomass-based transport fuels  together with Neste Oil in Finland. We are also actively building up  our expertise in biofuels through our expanding wood pellet business  and our subsidiary Stora Enso Bioenergi, which is already the big- gest supplier of logging residues and certain other biomass fuels in  Sweden. Read more about our products and product development  on pages 12–14. Our production processes  Most of our greenhouse gas emissions come from the energy we pur- chase and produce to operate our mills and manufacturing processes.  To reduce costs and reach our environmental goals, we are continu- ously working to improve the energy efficiency of our production. We  also focus on enhancing energy self-sufficiency and promote the use  of low carbon energy alternatives, both in our own power generation  and in external procurement. In addition, we want to continue the  long-term supply of district heating for local communities wherever  this is technically and economically feasible.   Energy use  We purchase fuel, electricity and heat from external suppliers and  generate steam and electricity internally for use at our production  facilities. Our energy procurement and generation strategy focuses  on our long-term needs. Existing contracts and our internal electricity  generation are estimated to cover around 87% of our electricity needs  for the next 5 years.  In 2010 we consumed 16.2 TWh of electricity and 127.7 PJ of heat  at our mills. Our total energy self-sufficiency figure in 2010 was 56%,  compared to 54% in 2009. The share of renewable energy in our total  energy use was approximately 63% in 2010. Energy procurement and partnerships Stora Enso is increasingly focusing on securing and enhancing access  to cleaner energy through strategic partnerships with external energy  suppliers. In 2010, 81% of our purchased electricity was generated  from low carbon sources including nuclear energy and renewable  energy sources. At Skutskr Mill in Sweden, the wind park built by  VindIn AB of which Stora Enso owns about 15%, generated 29.5 GWh  during 2010. Stora Enso has also decided to participate in VindIns  Climate and energy  38   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   Our total annual fuel consumption was 159 295 (130 389) terajoules (TJ) in 2010. 1 TJ = 10 joules Fuels   Biomass 73%   Gas 14%   Coal 3%   Oil 3%   Peat 5%   Other fossil 2% We generated and purchased 16.8 terawatt hours (TWh) of electricity in 2010 and  consumed 16.2 TWh. 0.6 TWh was sold.  TWh (terawatt hour) = 109 kilowatt hours  Electricity   Internally generated 36%   Purchased: nuclear 40%   Purchased: fossil 12%   Purchased: hydro 9%   Purchased: other renewable 3% Electricity consumption 1) 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 1.50 1.45 1.40 1.35 1.30 1.25 1.20 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  19.6 19.2 17.7 15 16.2 -17% 1.35 1.35 1.33 1.37 1.31 -3% TWh MWh/tonne Heat consumption 1, 2) 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 12.0 11.5 11.0 10.5 10.0 9.5 9.0 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  147.4 141.9 129.6 107.6 127.7 -13% 10.18 9.96 9.73 9.82 10.32 +1% PJ GJ/tonne Due to the intensifying global focus on climate change, investors  today are increasingly attracted to companies who are clearly work- ing to improve their environmental performance, and developing and  applying technologies towards this end.   Nordea is one of the leading financial providers in the Nordic region,  and we see responsible investments as an integral part of our product  offering. One key factor behind such investment decisions is how  companies are addressing climate change. When we see that a  company is reporting its CO2 emissions transparently, this has a real  impact on an investment decision.  We use the emissions data we receive from our investee companies  to steer our investments so that they contribute towards the goal of  a low-carbon economy. Information about companies other efforts  to tackle climate change, such as improvements in energy efficiency,  are also useful in this context.   In response to growing climate awareness we are improving the prod- ucts that we offer investors by encouraging our portfolio companies to  measure and report their emissions transparently. We also aim to use  such data to create new responsible investment products. At Nordea, we encourage our portfolio companies to develop new  business ideas and generate sustainable profits through operations  that are also socially and environmentally responsible.  Sustainability cannot just be a buzzword companies have to use in  their reports to attract responsible investments; it must be a genuine  and active choice, reflected in responsible and transparent reporting.  We aim to invest in companies that make such active choices to help  build a sustainable future.  sasja beslik  Head of Responsible  Investments & Governance Nordea Investment Funds  Investors looking for transparent sustainability reporting  energy consumption energy efficiency 1)  From pulp, paper and board production facilites. Normalised figures are reported per unit sales production.  2)  Excluding heat for electricity generation. Climate and energy   39  second wind farm project in Sweden which is expected to generate  213 GWh annually from the end of 2012. Internal energy generation In 2010 our electricity self-sufficiency was 37%, compared to 33%  in 2009. This increase was mainly due to the new multifuel power  plants that started up at Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium and Maxau  Mill in Germany. We expect that this figure will increase further in  2011 when these two plants, and another power plant completed  at the end of 2010 at Ostroe  ka Mill in Poland, will be operational for  the whole year. With their combined capacity of 127 MW, these three  power plants should alone increase our electricity self-sufficiency by  approximately 5%.  Pulp and paper production results in by-products such as black liquor,  bark and de-inking and bio-sludge that we use to produce bioenergy.  Harvesting residues and recovered wood are also important biomass  sources in our internal energy generation. In 2010 our use of biomass  for internal energy production remained stable at 73% (73%). In addition to improving our energy self-sufficiency, the new multifuel  power plants at Langerbrugge, Maxau and Ostroe ka mills will enable  us to increase our use of biofuels. Multifuel boilers can use various  types of biomass fuels including forest residues and recovered wood,  as well as various sorted wastes, coal and gas. These plants will  also help us to improve our overall energy efficiency, and they should  reduce our annual CO2 emissions by an estimated 205 000 tonnes  per year. Improving energy efficiency The best way to cut costs and work towards our environmental goals  is to reduce our energy use. In 2010 our overall electricity efficiency  improved by 3% from 2009. In 2009 we had set individual targets for  each of our business areas to further improve energy efficiency. Fine  Paper and Packaging Business Areas reached their targets of reducing  specific energy consumption by at least 2%. Publication Paper reached  its target of reducing electricity consumption by 1%. The baseline year  for these targets was 2009. These business areas have kept the same  percentage improvement targets for 2011, with their energy consump- tion levels for 2010 as the new baseline. Better use of the combined heat and power (CHP) potential of our mills  can increase the power-to-heat ratio of our internal energy production.  This means that for each MWh of heat that we produce we also aim  to maximise the amounts of electricity generated. The Groups overall  power-to-heat ratio improved from 21% in 2009 to 22% in 2010.  Our centralised energy efficiency fund, which was set up in 2008 to  support our mills energy efficiency projects, supported 22 projects in  2010. We will continue to support such energy efficiency projects and  have already selected 34 projects that will receive support during 2011. To further promote smart and efficient energy use we started a new  training programme focusing on energy saving in 2010. Six of our  European mills were selected for this scheme, with one member of  personnel at each mill trained to act as an internal energy saving agent.  Our goal is to establish a network of energy saving experts covering all  Stora Enso mills by the end of 2011, to share experiences and spread  best practices. Our special energy saving efforts initiated in 2009 continued in 2010.  Potential energy savings were identified through audits at Hylte,  Skoghall, Langerbrugge, Veitsiluoto, Imatra and Anjalankoski mills.  This information will be used in the planning and implementation of  energy efficiency investments and improvements at these mills. During  2011 similar audits are planned to be conducted at Nymlla, Sunila,  Corbehem, Uetersen, Imatra, Kabel and Maxau mills. following our carbon footprint Since 2007 we have estimated our Group-wide carbon footprint on  an annual basis, with the aim of identifying the main sources of CO2  emissions across our operations. We base our carbon footprint accounting and calculations on guide- lines established and provided by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the  World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for  Sustainable Development (WBCSD). In our accounting we concentrate  on CO2 which is the dominant greenhouse gas in our carbon footprint,  but emissions of other greenhouse gases, such as methane (CH4) and  nitrogen dioxide (N2O) are also included where data exists. We report on emissions in three areas: 	 Scope 1: Emissions from sources we directly own or control, including  on-site energy generation and processes, power boilers, lime kilns,  paper-drying processes, vehicles, engines and harvesting equipment. 	 Scope 2: Emissions related to the purchased electricity and heat  consumed in our operations. 	 Scope 3: Emissions from other indirect sources including the harvest- ing and transportation of wood raw materials and finished products,  and emissions generated by raw material and fuel suppliers. Figures  have been calculated based on estimates of CO2 per unit production  in 2010. In 2009 we improved the methodology and the accuracy for calculating  our Scope 3 emissions. Based on this improvement we also recalcu- lated our Scope 3 estimates for 2006, 2007 and 2008 and we have  used the same methodology in 2010.  Our total estimated carbon footprint (including Scopes 1, 2 and 3)  has increased by 12% from 8.54 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in  2009 to 9.58 million tonnes in 2010. This was largely due to production  increases and consequent increases in energy use in 2010, following  a year with extensive production curtailments in 2009. In 2010, direct  40   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   emissions from production (Scope 1) made up 34% of our total carbon  footprint, indirect emissions related to production (Scope 2) made up  24%, and emissions from outsourced activities (Scope 3) accounted  for 42%.  CO2 reduction target We are actively working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our  production, and we have set a target to reduce fossil CO2 emissions per  saleable tonne of pulp, paper and board by 20% from 2006 levels by  the end of 2020. This target covers both emissions generated directly  by our own facilities (Scope 1), and indirect emissions produced during  the generation of the electricity and heat we purchase (Scope 2). By the end of 2010 we had reduced our CO2 emissions per tonne of  product from our pulp, paper and board mills by 20% compared to  our baseline year 2006. Since this means we have already reached  our target, we have made a commitment to set a new, tougher target  during 2011. This significant reduction has been achieved mainly through improved  productivity, the use of more efficient equipment and streamlined  processes, the reduced use of fossil fuels, and improved efficiency  in our power and heat generation. Another significant reason for the  CO2 reductions achieved has been increased purchases of electricity  generated from low carbon energy sources. Direct and indirect CO2 emissions In 2010 we increased our direct fossil CO2 emissions both in absolute  terms and per unit of sales production compared with 2009. Since  2006 we have reduced our direct CO2 emissions from stationary  combustion sources at our pulp, paper and board mills by 6% per  unit of sales production. Our indirect CO2 emissions are significantly influenced by the energy  mix used in the national grids of the countries where we operate. By  the end of 2010 our fossil CO2 emissions from energy purchased for  electricity and heat had decreased to a level 35% lower per unit of  sales production than in 2006. Recognised by the carbon disclosure Project In 2010 Stora Enso was ranked the best company in the Nordic region  by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) when it comes to reporting  on carbon emissions. The CDP also recognised our achievements in  reducing carbon emissions. For more information, see page 5. 9.58 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents Our carbon footprint 2010   Scope 1: Direct emissions from    production 34%   Scope 2: Indirect emissions related    to production (purchased electricity    and heat) 24%   Scope 3: Indirect emissions from    outsourced activities 42% Performance against CO2 target 1) 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 525 500 475 450 425 400 375 06 07 08 09 10 06–10  7.36 6.66 5.68 4.52 5.01 -32% 508 468 426 412 405 -20% Million tonnes kg/tonne Target level group level carbon footprint 2006–20101) Fossil CO2 equivalent ** emission source Scope 2010  2009 2008 2007 2006 Stationary and mobile combustion sources (direct) Scope 1 3.25 2.61 * 3.26 * 3.60 * 4.01 * Purchased electricity and heat (indirect) Scope 2 2.27 2.33 * 2.91 * 3.50 * 3.91 * Other sources (indirect)* Scope 3 4.06 3.60 * 4.37 * 4.67 * 4.75 * Total   9.58 8.54 10.54 11.77 12.67 1)  Covers all Stora Ensos production units.  *  Figures have been recalculated due to changes in baseline and reporting errors. ** million tonnes 1)  Covering direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from  pulp, paper and board production facilities. Normalised figures are  reported per unit sales production. Climate and energy   41  Sustainability data   by unit unit number of  emplyees a) Products Production b) Recovered  fibre c) landfill * hazardous waste d) * belgium LangerbruggeMill 383  528 117 x x x x x x 24 710 42 brazil ArapotiMill 350  155 000 x x x x x 2 764 5 china DawangMill 216  137 495 x x x x x x 200 0 SuzhouMill 545  219 972 x x x x x 0 7 estonia TallinnMill 34  9 403 x 13 finland AnjalankoskiMill 355   555 431 x x x x x x 14 305 385 EnocellMill 167  457 172 x x x x x 422 36 HeinolaFlutingMill 193  258 100 x x x x x x 11 407 79 HeinolaMill 147  39 933 x x x x x 21 ImatraMills  1 242 i)    1 049 854 x x x x x x x 6 793 184 LahtiMill 259  30 668 x x x x x 23 OuluMill 681   1 168 193 x x x x x 32 296 133 RuovesiMill 90  5 561 x x x x x 15   Sunila Mill 246  336 144 x x x x x 11 994 85 TiukkaMill 56  6 680 x x x x x 13 VarkausMill   308 i)    425 634 x x x x x 12 393 304 VeitsiluotoMill 792 i)    850 855 x x x x x 2 936 42 france CorbehemMill 351  270 567 x x x x 1 937 182 germany KabelMill 631  384 958 x x x x x 81 MaxauMill  634  531 320 x x x x x x 5 769 322 SachsenMill 338   318 275 x x x x x x 0 73 UetersenMill 442   267 898 x x x x x 42 hungary   Pty and Komrom Mills  187  15 524 x x x 56 75 latvia RigaMill 116  39 534 x 45 lithuania KaunasMill 46  6 044 x 11 Poland odzMill 238  47 309 x x x x 107 4 MosinaMill 90  7 220 x x x x 40 17 Ostroe kaMill 1 187   323 068 x x x x x 5 366 83 TychyMill 188  43 260 x x x x 25 5 Russia ArzamasMill 210  52 647 x 263 BalabanovoMill 386  55 068 x 336   Lukhovitsy Mill 126  30 810 x 282 spain BarcelonaMill 265  162 925 x x x x x x x 16 972 47 sweden FaluRdfrg h)  721 x x x 9 ForsMill 675  349 849 x x x x x x 522 92 HylteMill 803  835 139 x x x x x x 50 021 147 JnkpingMill 220  25 577 x x x 24 5 KvarnsvedenMill 828  883 287 x x x x x 51 194 NymllaMill 780   458 870 x x x x x 110 65 SkeneMill 171  40 448 x x x 28 0 SkoghallMill 879  717 499 x x x x x x 2 038 237 SkoghallMillForshaga 111  97 212 x x x x x 3 2 SkutskrMill 391  512 859 x x x x x 172 15 VikingstadMill 63  19 719 x x x 9 6 corenso   CorensoPoriCoreboardMill 108   112 660 x x x x x 45 10   CorensoSoustreCoreboardMill 88  89 270 x x x x x 3 194 3   WisconsinRapidsCoreboardMill 66  66 307 x x x x x 3 717   Corenso, core factories  780  198 664 j) j) j) j) j) j) 358 14 storaensoWood Products  Sawmills 3 762  5 866 343 j) j) j) j) j) 7 254 482 Total pulp, paper, board and  converted products, tonnes 13 198 720 211 806 3 032 Total wood products, m3 5 866 343 7 254 482 grandTotal 219 060 3 514   isO 14001 isO9001 Ohsas 18001 isO 22000 bRc/ioP/fda fsc c-o-c Pefc c-o-c * tonnes   ** 1 000m3 footnotes a)=Year average. Source: financial accounting database. b)=Sales production. Sawn timber is reported in m3, other products in metric tonnes.  c)=Mills using recovered fibre as raw material (fully or partly). d)=Reported on the basis of country-specific definitions applied in national regulations. e)=Total  sulphur is reported as SO2 (sulphur dioxide) and includes all sulphurous compounds. f)=All CO2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD greenhouse gas  protocol. Direct emissions from internal transport are excluded. g)=Indirect emissions from purchased heat and electricity. h)=Does not have personnel but buys  this as a service from Stora Enso Ab. i)=The figure does not include service company personnel. j)=See www.storaenso.com/certificates.  certificates 42   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   sO2  e) * nOX as nO2 * direct  cO2fossil f) * direct  cO2biomass f) * indirect cO2  g) * cOd * aOX * Phosphorus * nitrogen * Process  water  discharge ** 10 259 94 666 330 854 234 930 1 068 1.2 6.3 33.6 6 715 0 75 28 776 85 305 98 312 507 2 826 0 0 0 153 770 131 17.4 0.6 1.3 1 919 290 293 154 526 97 200 77 0.4 4.0 1 698 3 747 5 1 320 336 240 64 341 52 564 4 502 4.3 136.4 10 640 250 783 64 595 1 527 504 9 439 103.3 2.4 39.1 22 688 530 477 209 585 194 595 7 646 1 260 2.4 17.8 4 063 31 13 5 132 733 105 193 1 662 178 336 2 441 732 67 719 17 228 174.0 13.6 203.6 63 306 2 718 18 601 1 200 355 314 1 269 649 31 652 8 781 54.0 12.7 70.1 18 903 448 204 3 56 846 50 105 860 814 6 733 79.7 10.2 20.8 16 464 81 76 1 291 844 92 080 704 133 56 713 4 720 15.2 6.8 94.5 14 125 916 1 227 369 534 1 111 818 53 815 12 663 38.7 11.1 127.8 13 100 1 30 57 102 24 418 853 0.6 3.9 6 127 15 17 281 356 816 846 0.2 3.1 19.3 6 440 2 111 238 753 124 010 280 629 1 830 0.8 1.7 14.6 6 551 0 150 169 480 63 651 2 016 738 0.5 0.8 4.5 3 586 0 31 78 273 62 552 40 0.1 0.0 0.2 1 016 1 639 2 814 5 2 3 644 10 1 360 2 0 3 76 219 5 115 15 393 1 599 2 97 38 74 343 175 676 304 266 809 2.0 22.0 5 727 2 392 3 315 8 1 3 4 017 14 430 33 1 3 4 939 21 208 38 0 3 2 254 11 945 44 127 181 914 0 184 786 0 757 160 8 112 3 047 281 983 5 885 2 462 1 2.0 29 4 038 3 197 25 366 447 910 17 500 1 485 0 2.7 31 7 578 1 331 526 86 146 31 849 312 296 33 803 3 078 2 3.3 75 12 531 499 586 -3 658 770 285 5 162 11 138 0 7.7 63 27 544 0 6 19 201 489 96 109 906 791 10 572 7 621 12 5.9 81 23 326 339 299 711 26 162 1 553 587 226 8 850 53 15.8 100 20 398 3 1 492 11 1 1 709 28 203 571 0.2 5.9 667  19 349 1 363 93 503 0 0 43 142 587 982 4 543 12 344 23 25 698 20 079 308 733 157 775 145 2.9 310 4 372 10 755 3 054 481 13 226 934 2 117 181 108 294 554 120 1 195 304 559 25 698 20 079 308 733 157 775 145 2.9 310 4 397 11 453 3 074 561 13 535 667 2 274 956 108 439 554.2 122.9 1 195.5 304 869 Products:  newsprint and magazine paper  fine paper  board and packaging paper  market pulp    converted products (e.g. cores, inpregnated laminating paper, corrugated board)  wood products  red paint pigment Sustainability data by unit   43  location level PROfile 1. sTRaTegy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO SP pages 6–7  1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities SP pages 2–3, 6–7  2. ORganisaTiOnal PROfile 2.1 Name of the organisation SP page 1  2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services SP page 1  2.3 Operational structure of the organisation SP page 1, FP page 50  2.4 Location of headquarters SP back cover  2.5 Countries in which the organisation's operations are located SP pages 1, 2–3  2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form SP page 1  2.7 Markets served SP pages 1, 16–17  2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation SP page 1, FP page 35  2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period SP page 23. Kotka Mill was sold in 2009.  2.10 Awards received during the reporting period SP pages 5, 6–7  3. RePORT PaRaMeTeRs Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 1 January 2010–31 December 2010  3.2 Date of most recent previous report 25 February 2010  3.3 Reporting cycle SP page 9 (annual)  3.4 Contact point for questions SP back cover  Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content SP page 10  3.6 Boundary of the report Extended GRI table  3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary Extended GRI table  3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc Extended GRI table  3.9 Data measurement techniques Extended GRI table  3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Extended GRI table  3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied Extended GRI table  assurance 3.13 Policy and practice with regard to external assurance SP pages 9, 48  4. gOveRnance, cOMMiTMenTs and engageMenT governance 4.1 Governance structure CG page 2  4.2 Position of the chair of the board of directors CG page 2, Extended GRI table   4.3 Independent, non-executive directors on the board of directors CG page 4  4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to  the board of directors CG page 3, Extended GRI table  4.5 Executive compensation CG pages 4, 6, 7, 9–13, Extended GRI table  4.6 Avoiding conflicts of interest CG pages 4, 14  SP = Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010 FP = Stora Enso Financial Performance Report 2010 CG = Stora Enso Corporate Governance Report 2010   Fully reported    Partially reported This report follows the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) G3  guidelines and meets the GRI B+ level standard. The table  below shows how and where the GRI indicators are adressed.  An extended version of the GRI table can be found at   www.storaenso.com/sustainabilityreport. GRI table 44   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   location level 4.7 Determining the qualifications and expertise board members need for guiding  strategy on sustainability Extended GRI table  4.8 Mission or values statements, codes of conduct, sustainability principles SP page 8  4.9 Board-level procedures overseeing sustainability performance SP page 8, Extended GRI table  4.10 Evaluating board performance with respect to sustainability performance CG pages 4, 5, Extended GRI table  commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Addressing the precautionary approach or principle SP pages 9, 17  4.12 External charters, principles or initiatives endorsed SP pages 5, 6–7, 9  4.13 Memberships in associations SP page 11  stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged SP pages 10–11  4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders SP pages 10–11, Extended GRI table  4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SP pages 10–11, Extended GRI table  4.17 Responding to key topics resulting from stakeholder engagements SP pages 10–11  5. PeRfORMance indicaTORs ecOnOMic indicaTORs economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SP pages 16–17, Extended GRI table  EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change SP pages 38–41, FP page 30 EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations FP pages 89–93  EC4 Significant financial assistance from government FP pages 3, 60 enviROnMenTal indicaTORs Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SP page 34  EN2 Recycled materials used SP pages 24, 29  energy EN3 Direct energy consumption SP pages 38–40  EN4 Indirect energy consumption SP pages 38–40  EN5 Energy saved through conservation and efficiency improvements SP pages 38–40  EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products SP pages 38–40  EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption SP pages 38–40 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal SP page 32  EN9 Water sources significantly affected SP page 32, Extended GRI table  EN10 Total recycling and reuse of water SP page 32 biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land holdings in biodiversity-rich habitats SP page 27  EN13 Habitats protected or restored SP pages 26–28 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity SP pages 26–28 emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SP pages 40–41  EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions SP pages 40–41  EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions SP pages 33, 35 EN21 Total water discharge SP pages 33, 42–43  EN22 Total amount of waste SP page 34 EN23 Significant spills SP page 34  EN24 Transported, imported, exported or treated hazardous waste  SP page 34   Products and services EN26 Mitigating environmental impacts of products and services SP pages 12–15 compliance EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations SP page 36  Transport EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation SP pages 30–31 Overall EN30 Environmental expenditures SP page 36  GRI table   45  location level sOcial indicaTORs labOuR PRacTices and decenT WORK employment LA1 Breakdown of workforce SP pages 22–23 LA2 Breakdown of employee turnover SP pages 22–23 LA3 Employee benefits SP pages 16–17 labour/management relations LA4 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements SP page 22  Occupational health and safety LA6 Workforce representation in joint health and safety committees SP page 20  LA7 Injuries, lost days, absentee rates and fatalities SP pages 20–21. We have not identified significant  absenteeism due to occupational disease.  Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee SP pages 22–23 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning to support continued  employability and manage career endings SP pages 22–23 LA12 Employees receiving performance and career development reviews SP page 22  diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employee breakdown SP pages 22–23, CG pages 16–19  huMan RighTs investment and procurement practices HR1 Human rights screening or clauses included in significant investment  agreements SP pages 9, 16–17 HR2 Screening suppliers and contractors on human rights and actions taken SP page 30 HR3 Employee training on human rights SP page 18 (Code of Conduct training, which takes  aproximately 45 minutes to complete)  non-discrimination HR4 Actions taken in incidents of discrimination SP page 18 (Code of Conduct grievance mechanism)  freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Supporting right to freedom of association and   collective bargaining in risk areas SP pages 22–23  child labour HR6 Measures taken to eliminate child labour in risk areas SP page 19 forced and compulsory labour HR7 Measures taken to eliminate forced and compulsory labour in risk areas SP page 19 indigenous rights HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples rights and actions taken SP page 28. No violations have ocurred.  sOcieTy community SO1 Management of impacts on communities in areas affected by activities SP pages 16–17  corruption SO3 Anti-corruption training SP page 18 (Code of Conduct training)  Public policy SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians and institutions Extended GRI table  anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Anti-trust and monopoly court cases Extended GRI table  compliance SO8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Extended GRI table  PROducT ResPOnsibiliTy customer health and safety PR1 Assessment of health and safety impacts of products SP page 14  Product and service labelling PR3 Product information required by procedures SP page 15 (Paper profiles)  46   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   GRI statement   47  Scope and Objectives The Management of Stora Enso has commissioned us to perform a limited  assurance engagement on the Sustainability Performance Report 2010  (Report). The assurance engagement was conducted in accordance with  the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). We have performed a limited  assurance engagement, the objective of which was to evaluate: Stora Ensos adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles of  	 inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness, Reliability of performance information presented in the Report according  	 to	the	Quality	of	Information	Principles	defined	in	the	Global	Reporting	 Initiative	Guidelines,	and GRI	application	level	of	the	Report.	 	 Responsibilities of the Management of Stora Enso  and Assurance Providers Stora Ensos Management is responsible for the preparation of the Report,  the presented performance data including statements expressed within  the Report; and has approved them. The reporting criteria used for our  assessment	are	the	Global	Reporting	Initiative	Guidelines	and	Stora	Ensos	 internal responsibility reporting guidelines. Our responsibility is to express  a conclusion on the information disclosed in the Report based on our work  performed.  Assurance Providers Independence and Competence  An assurance provider is required to be independent and impartial from  the reporting organization. We were not involved in the preparation of the  Report, and have no other engagement with Stora Enso during the reporting  year.	In	2007-2008	we	have	assisted	Stora	Enso	to	implement	a	Group	 level data consolidation system (SDM) for environmental performance data.  As a part of this assurance engagement the SDM system was reviewed  by	an	independent	Certified	Information	System	Auditor.	Our	assurance	 team consists of competent and experienced responsibility reporting and  assurance experts, who have necessary skills to perform an assurance  process. Further information, including a statement of competencies related  to the team can be found at: www.tofuture.eu. Basis of Our Opinion and Limitations An assurance process is required to be planned and performed in a way in  which the assurance provider collects adequate evidence for the conclusion.  The procedures selected depend on the assurance providers judgement;  including the assessment of the risk of material misstatement adhere to the  reporting criteria. We have performed the following procedures: Assessment of Stora Ensos procedures in place to adhere to principles  	 of stakeholder inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. Evaluation of performance information presented in the Report against  	 stakeholder expectations. For this purpose we have conducted a materiality  test and collected 27 external and 26 internal experts views on material  stakeholder expectations for Stora Enso.  Interviews with managers responsible for performance data collection at  	 Group	level	and	in	selected	sites.	 Review	of	Group	level	systems	and	procedures	to	generate,	collect	and	 	 report performance data for the Report. Evaluation	of	Group	level	calculations	and	data	consolidation	procedures	 	 and internal controls to ensure data accuracy. Review of data sources, data generation and reporting processes at  	 Veitsiluoto Mills in Finland and Wood Supply in Sweden. Conclusions Adherence to AA1000 Accountability Principles Inclusivity: Stora Enso was found to have systems in place for stakeholder  	 involvement, and the company has made a commitment to stakeholder  dialogue Materiality:	Stora	Enso	has	defined	material	sustainability	reporting	issues	 	 as a part of the Stora Enso sustainability governance and management Responsiveness: Stora Enso has adequate policies, guidelines and  	 procedures in place to respond to stakeholders expectations Reliability of Performance Information We have reviewed the basis of the sustainability information in the report.  Based on the review, nothing has come to our attention that would suggest,  that the report does not give, in all material issues, a fair and balanced view of  Stora Ensos sustainability performance, and that the information presented  is not, in all material issues, reliable based on the reporting criteria. GRI Application Level The	Report	corresponds	to	the	GRI	application	level	B+	 Observations and Recommendations Based on our limited level assurance engagement, we present the following  observations and recommendations, which do not affect our conclusion  presented above. Stora Enso has systems and controls in place to collect and consolidate  	 Group	 level	 sustainability	 data.	 Data	 collection	 is	 based	 on	 distinct	 processes, which could be better integrated for sustainability management  purposes. We recommend integrating all the sustainability data gathering  processes into a common, streamlined process, which is completely  documented in order to confront reporting risk management and change  management issues. Furthermore systematic data gathering and analysing  procedures,	improved	documentation	on	Group	level	occupational	health	 and safety (OHS) and human resources (HR) data can be developed. Based on materiality analysis there are several business critical  	 sustainability issues in which Stora Enso has responded. Primary concerns  to Stora Ensos stakeholders are the environmental performance of mills,  origin	of	wood,	forest	certification,	environmental	and	social	impacts	of	 plantations. We encourage Stora Enso to progress intensively with the  new	Global	Responsibility	approach	to	global	stakeholder	engagement	 including	forest	certification,	plantation	and	land	ownership	issues.	 Sustainability	 governance	 and	 management	 in	 Stora	 Enso	 is	 firmly	 	 established. Stora Ensos sustainability reporting has been developed  incrementally. We encourage Stora Enso to establish even more challenging  targets for environmental performance and further increasing efforts to  meet the targets regarding OHS performance.  Independent Assurance Statement  to the Management and Stakeholders  of Stora Enso Jani Alenius Senior Assurance Practitioner Mikael Niskala  Director of Assurance Practice  Espoo, 4th February 2011 Tofuture Oy | Sustainability Assurance 48   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   Does recycling do any good? Does recycling do any good? Concept and design: Miltton Oy  Photography:   Petri Artturi Asikainen (Cover), Visuamo/Jenni-Justiina Niemi, Gabriel Pereya, Nordea, Nokia, Teemu Kuusimurto, Markus Bullik, Potkastudios/Katri Pyynnen,     The United Nations, Mikael Risedal/The International Institute for Industrial Environmental Economics at Lund University, cultura/Corbis, Kai Skytt, Stora Enso It should be noted that certain statements herein which are not historical facts, including, without limitation those regarding expectations for market growth and developments; expectations for  growth and profitability; and statements preceded by believes, expects, anticipates, foresees, or similar expressions, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United  States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Since these statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, they involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause  actual results to materially differ from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (1) operating factors such as continued success of  manufacturing activities and the achievement of efficiencies therein, continued success of product development, acceptance of new products or services by the Groups targeted customers,  success of the existing and future collaboration arrangements, changes in business strategy or development plans or targets, changes in the degree of protection created by the Groups  patents and other intellectual property rights, the availability of capital on acceptable terms; (2) industry conditions, such as strength of product demand, intensity of competition, prevailing and  future global market prices for the Groups products and the pricing pressures thereto, price fluctuations in raw materials, financial condition of the customers and the competitors of the  Group, the potential introduction of competing products and technologies by competitors; and (3) general economic conditions, such as rates of economic growth in the Groups principal  geographic markets or fluctuations in exchange and interest rates. www.storaenso.com/globalresponsibility Please help us be part of the solution by recycling this publication if you do not need it anymore!  stora enso Oyj P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Visiting address: Kanavaranta 1 Tel. +358 2046 131 Fax +358 2046 21471 Terhi Koipijrvi Head of Global Responsibility Stora Enso Oyj P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 2046 21347 Read more at: www.storaenso.com www.storaenso.com/globalresponsibility  Send your feedback to: sustainability@storaenso.com facts & figures –  stora enso 2010    Offers basic information for the  shareholder about Stora Enso's financial  performance and proposed dividend, as  well as gives Annual General Meeting,  publication and other important dates. financial Performance –   stora enso financial report 2010   Contains in-depth information about Stora  Enso's financial performance, corporate  governance as well as the capital markets.  Includes consolidated financial statements  and notes, and the report of the Board of  Directors.   Stora Enso Oyj P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Visiting address: Kanavaranta 1 Tel. +358 2046 131 Stora Enso AB P.O. Box 70395 SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: World Trade Center Klarabergsviadukten 70 Tel. +46 1046 46 000 www.storaenso.com group.communications@storaenso.com Global  Responsibility Sustainability Report 2010 Global Responsibility –   Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2010   Describes Stora Ensos sustainability   activities relating to the companys mills,  products, stakeholders, wood and fibre  sourcing, climate and energy, the environ- ment, and social responsibility. The report  follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  guidelines. Facts & Figures –  Stora Enso 2010    Offers basic information for the shareholder  about Stora Enso's financial performance  and proposed dividend, as well as gives  Annual General Meeting, publication and  other important dates.  Financial  Performance Financial Report 2010 Stora Enso – Financial Performance 2010 Stora Ensos Year 2010 2   Information for shareholders 3   Map 5   Stora Enso in brief 6  Business Areas 8   Board of Directors and Group Executive Team 10   Calculation of key figures 11   Key figures 12   Extract of the consolidated financial statements 16   Auditors report Facts  & Figures Stora Ensos Year 2010 2   Information for shareholders 3   Map 5   Stora Enso in brief 6  Business Areas 8   Board of Directors and Group Executive Team 10   Calculation of key figures 11   Key figures 12   Extract of the consolidated financial statements 16   Auditors report Facts  & Figures