2010  UN GLOBAL  COMPACT   COMMUNICATION   ON PROGRESS Kinross Gold Corporation became a participant in the UN Global Compact in March 2010.  This Communication on Progress is Kinross first opportunity to report against   the principles and standards of the UN Global Compact. Kinross also publishes a  comprehensive GRI-based corporate responsibility report every two years, which  documents our commitments, corporate responsibility strategy and performance at our  operations and development projects across a broader range of areas including social,  workplace, community, human rights and environmental performance. Our most recent  report was published online in 2010 at www.takingresponsibility2009.kinross.com   Dear Mr. Secretary General, In 2010, Kinross became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, and  formalized its commitment to furthering the UNGC principles. I am pleased to  submit our first Communication on Progress.  Corporate responsibility is explicit in Kinross core purpose — to lead the world   in generating value through responsible mining — and in the four values that  guide our conduct: putting people first; outstanding corporate citizenship; high  performance culture; and rigorous financial discipline. Our Ten Guiding Principles  for Corporate Responsibility provide a set of clear, non-negotiable standards  defining our relationships with employees, partners, governments and the  communities affected by our operations.  In 2010, we took important steps towards advancing our commitment to the  UN Global Compact principles at a corporate level and across our global  operations. We were proud to have been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability  Index North America for the first time, and to continue to be listed on the  Jantzi Social Index.  As we expanded our operations into the new region of West Africa with our  acquisition of Red Back Mining in 2010, we also took on new challenges — and  opportunities — in the area of corporate responsibility. This will be a major focus  for Kinross going forward.  In 2010 we issued our first online Corporate Responsibility report at   http://takingresponsibility2009.kinross.com, reporting to a GRI A level.   We suggest that the Communication on Progress be read in conjunction with   this report.  We will be continuing our efforts to advance the UNGC Principles in 2011, and   look forward to reporting on our progress again next year.  Sincerely,  Tye W. Burt  President and Chief Executive Officer KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2010 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS  PRINCIPLE 1:   Businesses should support and respect the protection  of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2:   Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human  rights abuses.  Kinross is committed to the protection of human rights in the community and  in the workplace in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.   This commitment is enshrined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and   in Kinross Ten Guiding Principles for Corporate Responsibility, which states   that We conduct all of our activities in accordance with accepted standards  in the protection and promotion of human rights and We respect the culture  and historical perspectives and rights of those affected by our operations,   in particular indigenous peoples. Our Whistleblower Policy also provides employees and the public with a confidential  mechanism to report any human rights concerns. Kinross also supports the Voluntary  Principles on Security and Human Rights.  Rolled out a Human Rights Adherence and Verification Program (HRA & VP)  that aligns directly with the objectives of the United Nations Human Rights Council  and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.   Completed HRA & VP training at all Kinross sites.  Developed a corporate policy on Indigenous People that recognizes the unique  histories, languages, cultures, knowledge, traditions and values and their contribution  to cultural and social diversity in countries in which they have a presence.   Developed Supplier Guidelines articulating Kinross expectations for supplier conduct  with respect to human rights in accordance with the principles of the UNGC.  KINROSS   FRAMEWORK ACTIONS AND   ACHIEVEMENTS HUMAN RIGHTS  2 KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2010 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS  PRINCIPLE 3:    Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective  recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  PRINCIPLE 4:    Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced  and compulsory labour.  PRINCIPLE 5:    Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour.  PRINCIPLE 6:   Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination  in respect of employment and occupation.  Putting people first is one of Kinross four core values. Our commitment to high workplace standards is enshrined in Kinross Ten Principles for Corporate  Responsibility, which states that We put people first and our number one priority  is the safety of every employee and We provide a rewarding and meaningful  livelihood to our employees and strive to be an employer of choice. Kinross honours  these commitments with policies and programs that promote a safe, healthy and  engaged workforce. Kinross Health and Safety Policy (H&S Policy) and Kinross  Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (EHS) modelled on ISO 14001  OHSAS 18001 provide a foundation of policies and guidance to ensure a safe and  healthy workplace at our operations and projects. Kinross supports international labour standards. At our operations and development  projects, we operate in a manner that is consistent with the core standards of the  International Labour Organization. We uphold the principle of freedom of association  whereby our employees have the right to choose whether or not they want to belong  to a union. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics enshrines the principles of  fairness and non-discrimination for the Company, its directors, officers and employees  and contractors (Kinross personnel). Kinross developed Supplier Guidelines  articulating Kinross expectations for supplier conduct with respect to human rights  in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Our Whistleblower Policy  provides Kinross personnel and the public with a confidential mechanism to report,  among other things, any human rights concerns.  KINROSS  FRAMEWORK LABOUR STANDARDS  cont. 3 KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2010 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS    Supported employee and worker organizations at our operations and honoured  collective agreements where they exist at our operations. Successfully negotiated   a new four year labour agreement at our Maricunga mine in Chile.  Ensured freedom from discrimination and equal opportunity for employees,  prospective employees and contractors at our operations and development projects.   In the workplace and community, continued to uphold the principles of non-discrimination  on the basis of race, colour, gender, religion, political opinion, sexual orientation,  nationality or social origin.  Reviewed and updated corporate Health and Safety Policy, further integrating   health and safety as part of Kinross Corporate Responsibility Management System  and articulating Kinross commitment to achieving excellence in health and   safety performance.   Achieved 4,000,000 hours worked or four consecutive years without a lost-time  incident at Kinross Fort Knox mine located in Alaska, United States.   Kinross Chirano Gold Mine, located in Ghana, received the National Safety and   First Aid Competition Award.  Completed annual acknowledgement and certification of compliance with the   Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by employees and an annual and quarterly  acknowledgement and certification of compliance with the Code of Business Conduct  and Ethics, Whistleblower Policy and Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading  Policy by senior management.   Developed Supplier Guidelines articulating Kinross expectations for supplier conduct  in accordance with the labour standards of the UN Global Compact.   Did not employ children under the age of 18 any Kinross operations or development  projects. Apprenticeship programs are offered for youth ages 16 to 18 in Brazil as part  of a legislated training program.  ACTIONS AND  ACHIEVEMENTS LABOUR STANDARDS (CONT) 4 KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2010 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS  PRINCIPLE 7:    Businesses should support the precautionary approach  to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8:   Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater  environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9:    Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion  of environmentally friendly technologies.  At Kinross, maintaining high standards of environmental accountability is a  cornerstone of our commitment to corporate responsibility. This commitment is  enshrined in our Ten Guiding Principles for Corporate Responsibility, which state   that We exercise utmost vigilance in protecting the environment and seek ways to  minimize our environmental footprint wherever we operate. We will always meet, and  where possible exceed, regulatory requirements in our environmental performance  and We consider all aspects of an operation or new project—including social,  environmental, and post-closure issues—in making our investment decisions. Our  Environmental Policy sets the standards for our environmental commitment. Kinross  Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (EHS) is modelled on ISO  14001, OHSAS 18001 and other internationally accepted standards. It provides a  foundation of policies and guidance to protect the environment and worker health  and safety. Through the EHS Management System we set targets and performance  standards that our operations and development projects worldwide are expected to  meet. Kinross is also committed to 100% certification of all of our operations under  the International Cyanide Management Code.  Reviewed and updated corporate Environmental Policy further integrating  environmental performance as part of Kinross Corporate Responsibility   Management System and articulating Kinross commitment to excellence in  environmental performance.  Completed independent technical reviews of tailings storage facilities at Paracatu,  Kettle-River Buckhorn, U.S.A., Round Mountain, U.S.A. and Crixs, Brazil to assure  management of performance, hazard management and corrective action verification.  KINROSS  FRAMEWORK ACTIONS AND  ACHIEVEMENTS ENVIRONMENT cont. 5 KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2010 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS   Completed an engineering risk assessment of process solution systems at  Fort Knox, U.S.A. to reduce systems failure risks.   Expanded the EHS Management System to provide our sites with additional   guidance in the area of air emissions controls.  La Coipa was audited for Cyanide Code certification — certification is anticipated   in 2011.   Recertified Round Mountain to the Cyanide Code. Six out of nine Kinross managed  operations are now certified.   Received a GE Ecomagination Leadership Award at the La Coipa, Chile operation   for reduced water use, benefitting one of the most water-stressed areas of Chile.   Announced the Kinross Gold Chair in Environmental Governance at the   University of Guelph, funded by a $1 million contribution to the University   of Guelphs BetterPlanet Project.  Continued to support the Kinross Professorship in Mining and Sustainability   in partnership with the Department of Mining Engineering at Queens University   in Kingston, Ontario.  Published A level 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report providing a transparent,   GRI-compliant account of Kinross corporate responsibility performance for   2008 and 2009.  Developed and implemented improved environmental standards in   tailings management.  Advanced the consideration of a Kinross-wide climate change strategy   and program.   Assessed alternative, renewable and energy generation projects at all sites   including wind energy monitoring at Kupol, alternative energy projects at   our reclamation sites, and micro-hydro projects at operations in Chile and   Round Mountain in the United States.   Continued to support and participate in the International Network for   Acid Prevention, the International Cyanide Management Code and   the Carbon Disclosure Project. ACTIONS AND  ACHIEVEMENTS ENVIRONMENT (CONT) 6 KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2010 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS  PRINCIPLE 10:    Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms,  including extortion and bribery. Kinross Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides a framework for its directors,  officers, employees and contractors outlining the companys expectations pertaining  to bribery and anti-corruption. Kinross Whistleblower Policy provides employees and  non-employees with a mechanism to confidentially report any concerns relating to,  among other things, bribery and corruption. Kinross Ten Guiding Principles for  Corporate Responsibility also underscore Kinross commitment to the highest  standards of ethics and honesty and state We maintain the highest standards of  corporate governance, ethics and honesty in all of our dealings, and operate in  compliance with the law wherever we work. Under the terms of Kinross Corporate  Donation and Sponsorship Policy political contributions are permitted in accordance  with national laws where Kinross has operations and development projects.   Completed annual employee acknowledgement and certification of compliance with  the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.   Completed annual and quarterly acknowledgement and certification of compliance   with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Whistleblower Policy and Disclosure,  Confidentiality and Insider Trader Policy, by the Senior Leadership Team and their  direct reports, including the corporate legal team and regional General Counsels.   Developed Supplier Guidelines articulating Kinross expectations for supplier   conduct in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and the principles of   the UN Global Compact.   Approved a new Corporate Donations and Sponsorship policy outlining the  requirements and restrictions regarding political contributions.  In early 2011, applied to become a participant in the Extractive Industries  Transparency Initiative to promote revenue transparency at the local level in  countries where we operate.  KINROSS  FRAMEWORK ACTIONS AND  ACHIEVEMENTS ANTI-CORRUPTION 7 KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2010 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS