Annual Report 2010 Controlling the flow of liquids and gases worldwide.  About  Rotork... We design and build actuators.  Actuators are used in many  applications all over the world  and are an important part of the  control equipment that keeps  liquids and gases flowing across  the industrial landscape.  In our daily lives, when we turn on a tap for a  drink of water, switch on the lights, boil a kettle  or put fuel in the car, an actuator will have been  used somewhere in the process of delivering that  service. We are the only UK listed company with  a global presence that is dedicated to this and  nothing else. Rotork p.l.c. Rotork Management Board Site Services Rotork Controls is Rotorks  electric valve actuator  division, offering an  electrical solution to  industrial valve control  and actuation applications  of virtually any size,  description and complexity. Controls Rotork Fluid Systems is  dedicated to the design,  manufacture, sale and  support of powerful and  dependable fluid power  valve actuators on a   global scale. Fluid Systems Rotork Gears offers an  unrivalled service for valve  gearboxes and accessories,  completing Rotorks status  as the one-stop-shop for  valve actuation and control  equipment for applications  of all sizes and complexity. Gears Below: GP actuators,  LNG facility, Chile. Bottom: GP actuator  upgrade to improve  partial stroke testing  capability, Raffieria  Miazzo, Sicily.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  1 Group Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information IFC About Rotork 01 Highlights 02 Global Opportunities 04 Chairmans Statement 06 Business Review 12 Rotork Controls 14 Rotork Fluid Systems 16 Rotork Gears 18 Financial Review 20 Key Performance Indicators 22 Statement of Principal Risks  and Uncertainties 24 Corporate Social Responsibility 29 Rotork Management Board 30 Board of Directors 32 Corporate Governance 37 Remuneration Report 43 Report of the Directors 45 Independent Auditors Report  46 Consolidated Income Statement 46 Consolidated Statement of  Comprehensive Income 47 Consolidated Balance Sheet 48 Consolidated Statement of  Changes in Equity 49 Consolidated Statement of  Cash Flows 50 Notes to the Group Financial  Statements 84 Rotork Company Balance Sheet 85 Notes to the Company Financial  Statements 90 Ten Year Trading History 91 Share Register Information 92 Corporate Directory 93 Directory Revenue (m) +7.6% 0 400 100 200 300 2010 380.6 2009 2008 2007 2006 +7.6% 0 100 25 50 75 2010 97.9 2009 2008 2007 2006 Operating profit (m) +6.8% 0 100 25 50 75 2010 97.7 2009 2008 2007 2006 +8.4% 0 80 20 40 60 2010 80.5 2009 2008 2007 2006 Profit before tax (m) Basic earnings per share (p)  Establishment of Rotork Innovation, Design and  Engineering Centre (RIDEC)   Acquisition of Ralph A. Hiller   Increased investment in people and facilities  Positive material cost management  Production commenced in new Bangalore factory  in India Operational Highlights Financial Highlights  2  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Global Opportunities Rotork is the only UK listed company committed  to developing, selling and supporting market  leading valve actuators to rapidly growing  markets across the globe. Latin America Our recent acquisition in Mexico and our  direct presence in Brazil and Venezuela,  combined with a strong network of agents  across the whole of Latin America provides  us with total coverage of this huge and  varied market. Industrial growth and issues  of water scarcity are driving market growth  in the power and water sectors whilst recent  offshore discoveries provide future business  potential for all divisions.  North America We have four assembly plants in the  US and eight distribution and marketing  locations in this large, complex and  sophisticated market. Our business   here supports the Groups three main  sectors of water, oil & gas, and power.  The acquisition of Hiller provides a nuclear  qualified product range to complement   the existing product portfolio. Rotork   currently has  2,100  employees in  30  countries.   Global Revenue (m)   Americas  Europe  ROW  Total Revenue 2010  110.5 145.9 124.2 380.6 Revenue 2009  98.4 146.4 108.7 353.5 Key     Manufacturing Plant     Customer Service Centre   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  3 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information UK We have three assembly plants in the   UK which support both our UK and  worldwide operations. We continue to  maintain and defend our strong position  in the water and waste water industry and  oil and petrochemical industries. We are  actively working on the future of the new  nuclear programme. Middle East Oil & gas revenue has driven high levels  of investment in the region. In 2011, a  new subsidiary in the United Arab Emirates  will complement our other offices and  service centres in the region to provide  comprehensive support to local customers. Africa This is a diverse market with some  significant project development  programmes. Investment in the power  industry as well as in oil & gas is supported  through our direct presence, local agents  and distributors as well as regionally from  our European production units. Europe Rotork has a well established presence  in Mainland Europe with five assembly  locations across the region, supported   by six direct customer support centres.  Europe continues to have a strong  valvemaker base with a powerful  engineering and production heritage that  is integral to the major infrastructure  development projects that are active  across the world. Australia and New Zealand Australia is supported by five customer  support centres, one specifically dedicated  to the Fluid Systems products, and one to  the Rotork Controls products. Australia has  a well developed hydrocarbons market, a  strong power industry and complex water  and irrigation systems across its landmass. Asia Rotork has traditionally been strong  throughout Asia and now counts mainland  China as the biggest market for Rotork  electric valve actuators. India is core  to Rotorks strategy and this has been  underlined by the opening of the new  factory in Bangalore and the Rotork  Innovation, Design and Engineering Centre  which will be located in the new Chennai  factory being built this year. This, and  further development of our sales and  service networks, strengthens our position  to take advantage of the forecast growth in  this region.  4  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Jan 06 Through the year we have continued to  invest in our facilities, our people and our  products to enable the Group to capitalise  on the long-term growth prospects in the  markets we currently serve. At the same  time, investment in product development  and potential acquisitions will widen what  we define as our addressable market so  that we continue to create value for our  shareholders.  Financial Highlights Revenue of 380.6m was 7.6% higher  than the previous year and with profit  before tax up 7.6% to 97.9m, Group  return on sales was in line with last year  at 25.7%. Currency was a less significant  factor this year than it has been for many  years but remained a tailwind, with the  majority of the impact arising in the second  half of the year. Cash balances of 97.9m  at the end of the year reflected strong cash  generation throughout the year. Divisional Highlights Rotork Controls, the division which  manufactures and sells our range of  market-leading electric actuators and  includes the Rotork Process Control  products, reported revenue growth  of 7.0% to 243.4m. This division  contributed 63.9% of Group revenue.  Operating profit rose to 78.8m, up  8.5% and the division achieved a 32.4%  operating margin compared with 31.9% in  the prior year. Some of the larger projects  which were delayed through 2009  returned in 2010 and this was seen in a  number of countries and market sectors.  Quotation levels remained positive as  did the number of active projects we are  tracking globally, with the medium-term  prospects in each of the oil & gas, power  and water markets encouraging. In India,  an important growth market for us, we  opened a new factory in Bangalore and  also started work to rebuild our existing  factory in Chennai. This will increase  our manufacturing capacity and provide  a platform to address the increasing  demand from India. Once completed in  2011, it will also house our innovation,  design and engineering centre (RIDEC)  that was announced in August 2010  and which is currently operating from  temporary offices. Rotork Fluid Systems, which manufactures  and sells pneumatic and hydraulic  actuators, and is more focused on the oil  & gas market than the other parts of the  Group, was the division most affected by  the slowdown in 2009 and, accordingly,  saw the most significant rebound in order  input, up 35.1%. Revenue grew 7.1% to  106.8m but operating profit fell 6.8%  to 13.3m as operating margins reduced  from 14.3% last year to 12.4% in 2010.  Margins improved in the second half,  as a result of higher volumes and the  return of competitive price pressures to  more normal levels, but over the year  as a whole this did not offset lower first  half margins which were affected by  the continuation of the difficult trading  environment in 2009, the slightly dilutive  effect of an acquisition and the higher  amortisation charge. The divisions  continued organic growth was augmented  by Ralph A. Hiller (Hiller), purchased in  May as part of our strategy of developing  our sales coverage and increasing our  presence in the important nuclear power  market. The business has a distribution  arm as well as the nuclear actuator  manufacturing arm and, whilst further  investment is needed to maximize the  potential of the acquisition, the addition  of its nuclear-certified hydraulic actuators  I am pleased to report that 2010 was another  year in which Rotork delivered record revenue  and profit, with progress being made by all three  divisions. Market conditions improved compared  with the previous year and this was reflected  in the record order intake. The broad base of  our business and the level of emerging market  focus ensured that, whilst not all our geographic  markets grew in the year, each end-market,  division, and the Group as a whole, did.  Chairmans Statement ROTORK p.l.c. FTSE Industrial Engineering Sector Dec 10 Dec 09 Dec 08 Dec 07 Dec 06 350 300 50 100 200 150 250 0 130 Total Shareholder Return  (rebased to 100, 1 Jan 06) Roger Lockwood Chairman The current order   book and market   activity support the  Boards expectation   of making further  progress in 2011 155 131 321 203   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  5 has broadened Rotorks nuclear product  offering. Integration of Hiller is progressing  well and its understanding of the nuclear  industry is already benefiting other parts  of the Group. Rotork Gears, which manufactures and  sells manual and motorized gearboxes,  grew revenue by 6.5% to 39.2m. As  a result of these higher revenues and  a continued focus on costs, operating  margins improved to 23.2%, reversing  most of the reduction seen in 2009.  Operating profit was 9.1m, 13.4%  higher than the prior year. Rotork Gears  remains the consolidator in what is a very  fragmented market and has built on its  leading position in the year with the launch  of new products and by targeting new  customers in countries with the greatest  potential for growth. Cash Generation Cash balances have increased to 97.9m  in the year as a result of strong operating  cash flows. The main outflows were tax  and dividends, as well as the 5.5m  acquisition of Hiller. We remain focused on  working capital management but higher  levels of revenue towards the end of  2010 meant net working capital absorbed  14.0m of cash during the year. Despite  this, our cash generation key performance  indicator, which measures conversion of  operating profit into cash, was 96.5%.  Going forward, we intend to use this cash  to generate incremental shareholder value,  either through our continued strategy to  augment our business with acquisitions or  via special dividends. Dividend The Board recommends a final dividend of  19.75p per share which, taken together  with the interim dividend, gives a payment  of 32.5p per share (2009: 28.4p),  representing a 14.4% increase. This  dividend will be payable on 6 May 2011  to shareholders on the register on 8 April  2011. As a result of this increase, dividend  cover will reduce to 2.5 times (2009: 2.6).  In addition, the directors intend to pay a  special dividend of 11.5p per share on 24  June 2011 to shareholders on the register  on 27 May 2011. This represents a further  cash distribution of 10.0m. Board Composition I am pleased to welcome Gary Bullard to  the Board as a non-executive director.  Gary previously held sales director and  managing director roles at IBM and BT  Group and now provides management  consultancy services to large IT and  telecommunications companies. He is  a member of the Audit and Nomination  Committees and Chairman of the  Remuneration Committee.   Corporate Governance High standards of corporate governance  are rightly expected of the Board and we  remain committed to those principles  which ensure we run our business in a  responsible way. Following publication  of the UK Corporate Governance Code  June 2010 by the Financial Reporting  Council, we intend to introduce annual  re-election for the Chairman and all the  other Directors. We have always believed  that good governance stems from a quality  Board with a breadth of experience and  skills and non-executives who are able to  provide the necessary level of question and  debate in the boardroom. The purpose of  our annual appraisal of Board effectiveness  is to ensure that our Board is able to  participate meaningfully in discussion and  make objective and informed decisions.  Following the latest review, I am satisfied  the composition of the Board enables it to  fulfil its expected role. Outlook The long-term growth prospects continue  to be positive for Rotork as we benefit from  infrastructure investment in both new and  existing plant. The need for automation  is increasing as our customers drive  plant safety improvements through their  organisations and seek greater operating  efficiencies.  Our wide geographic presence, especially  in the countries experiencing the greatest  growth in demand, the breadth of our  product portfolio and strength of our  customer relationships, puts us in a strong  position to benefit from a continued  increase in business activity. Following several years of favourable  movements in foreign exchange, currency  may provide a headwind in the current year.  However, the current order book and market  activity support the Boards expectation of  making further progress in 2011. Roger Lockwood Chairman 28 February 2011 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Dividend History 3.3 3.7 4.3 4.8 5.4 8.0 10.9 12.2 12.2 13.0 13.9 14.8 15.8 9.3 5.9 15.1 18.2 11.6 9.3 21.7 28.4 32.5 26.0 11.5 Core Dividend Additional Dividend 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 11.5  6  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Our customers are located throughout  the world and in order to provide the local  support our customers require, so are  we. Rotork has 105 offices across 30  countries, which are supplemented by  a further 254 sales outlets, bringing the  total number of countries with a Rotork  presence to 87. From its foundation,  Rotork has brought new technology to  actuators and continues to set new  standards in developing innovative,  functionally-advanced, high quality  products within each of its divisions. The final component of Rotorks business  model is the method of manufacture.  We outsource component manufacture,  so most of our manufacturing plants buy  components in a relatively finished form.  These are then assembled to meet the  requirements of a particular customer  order. This provides the necessary flexibility  in the sourcing of components that  supports our 17 worldwide manufacturing  operations and ensures we maintain a high  return on capital employed. Year under review In the same way that some parts of  the world were more severely affected  than others by the economic disruption  of 2009, the start of the year saw a  wide variation in the rate at which they  rebounded. In the first quarter, Rotork saw  order intake return to near the previous  peak. However, the pattern of demand was  uneven and customers kept their budgets  under tight control, this particularly  affected Rotork Fluid Systems where our  competitors were pricing most aggressively  in order to rebuild their order books. The  fact that we continued to make progress  is testament to the tremendous hard  work of our employees, and customers  appreciating the benefits of Rotorks  products and services. Although the cost  of an actuator can be insignificant in the  total cost of a project, our customers  understand the importance of actuators to  the overall running of their operations, and  recognise the need to use products that  perform reliably, and most of all safely. Overall, order intake was 381.9m, up  17.0% compared with 2009. Particularly  strong improvements were reported by our  businesses in the Netherlands (+123%),  Italy (+32%) and China (+27%), with all  regions showing growth. Removing the  positive impacts of currency and the Hiller  acquisition, order intake was 12.9% ahead  of the prior year.  The revenue split between half years  returned to a more customary weighting  in favour of the second half as the  improvement in orders took effect. In total,  revenue advanced 7.6% to 380.6m  which, excluding the effects of currency  and Hiller represented a 4.6% increase.  The closing order book was 138.9m,  up 9.9m from the start of the year,  including the 5.1m order book acquired  with Hiller. Operating margins reduced by  0.2 percentage points to 25.7%, mainly  as a result of higher amortisation costs.  Return on sales, as defined in our key  performance indicators, was maintained  at 25.7% and profit before taxation rose  7.6% to 97.9m. The establishment of the Rotork Innovation  Design and Engineering Centre (RIDEC),  based in India, supplements our already- growing divisional engineering teams  and provides the opportunity to improve  the capacity and speed of our product  development. India has also benefited  from one new factory during 2010, in  Bangalore, and we are now in the process  of building another in Chennai. The  Bangalore plant has provided space for  the Gears division to start assembly in  India. The factory in Chennai will replace  an ageing facility which has been making  electric actuators for over 30 years.  Rotork actuators are used to control the flow of  liquids and gases in many different applications  across many different end-user markets. Rotorks  markets are often described as oil & gas, power   and water as these are the sectors with the greatest  requirement for actuators. However, our products can  also be found in many other industrial applications  – including food and beverage manufacturing,  chemicals, mining and shipboard systems.  Business Review Top: GP pneumatic  actuators, LNG marine  import jetty, Chile. Bottom Left: CVA- control valve actuator, tar  distillation plant, Australia. Bottom Right: Profibus- enabled IQ actuators, UK  sewage treatment works. Peter France Chief Executive   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  7 Through these two world-class facilities,  our Indian operations will be even better  placed to tackle this large and still-growing  market. Elsewhere, in China, we have  enlarged our factory in Shanghai and,  in the US, will shortly relocate to larger  premises in Houston. Both businesses  have outgrown their existing sites. We have  also expanded our operations in the Middle  East, moving to a new facility in Saudi  Arabia and increasing Rotorks presence  in the region. We will look to develop this  further in 2011. Looking at our main markets, and the  underlying factors supporting investment in  oil & gas, power and water infrastructure,  there is reason to be confident in the  prospects of each – both in the medium  and long-term. Through our broad  geographic coverage and product portfolio  we remain focused on meeting our  customers growing needs. However, we  still see opportunities to expand our direct  presence in new territories – whether  through acquisition, as we recently have in  Mexico, or organically as in Brazil. Similarly,  we continue to seek suitable opportunities  to expand our product offering, both  organically and through acquisition.  Rotork Controls Rotork Controls, which manufactures and  sells the electric actuators on which Rotork  originally built its name, still accounts for  63.9% of the Groups sales and remains  the highest margin division. In the year,  order intake increased by 9.1% and  revenue grew by 7.0% to 243.4m. The  closing order book was 85.8m, up 1.2%.  Controls has the widest end-market  exposure and improved activity levels were  seen across all sectors. Within oil & gas,  electric actuators are found in greater  numbers on downstream and transmission  applications, and tank storage was  particularly strong in the year. We also saw  an improving trend in the water market,  reversing the position at the half year. Operating profit increased by 8.5% to  78.8m with margins fractionally higher  at 32.4%. This division was less affected  by the pricing pressure felt earlier in the  year and has been able to use the benefit  of operational gearing to offset the costs  of investing in new facilities and people.  These investments position the division  for further growth. At the same time, our  outsourced manufacturing model has  meant that modest cost increases from  commodity price rises have been mostly  offset by sourcing initiatives. Rotork Fluid Systems Since its formation as a stand-alone  division in 2001, revenue in Rotork Fluid  Systems (RFS) has risen to 106.8m,  up 7.1% in the year. Although this growth  has been assisted by acquisitions, the  more significant benefits have been  derived from the integration of each  acquired business into the Group, and  their use of our existing sales channels.  RFS supplies pneumatic and hydraulic  powered actuators and control systems  from its seven factories and through  a further seven Centres of Excellence,  where added value services can be  provided to the local customer.  RFS is the division most focused on  the oil & gas market, and having felt  the biggest decline in orders in 2009,  it has now seen the biggest rebound,  with order intake up 35.1% in 2010 and  the order book increasing to 45.9m.  We have continued to strengthen our  engineering and R&D infrastructure and  at the same time invest in improving  our facilities. When the cost of these  initiatives are combined with the pricing  pressure experienced earlier in the year,  they outweighed the benefits gained  through operational gearing and material  cost control, resulting in a reduction  in operating margins to 12.4%, down  1.9 percentage points. RFS is now  better placed to capitalise on project  opportunities and operational gearing  remains a key determinant of the  divisions margins. Rotork Gears Rotork Gears supplies manual and  motorized gearboxes and ancillaries to the  valve industry. Unlike the Controls and RFS  divisions, where sales are project-focused,  this division sells direct to valvemakers  through long-term supply agreements,  and with deliveries at regular intervals.  These customers buy from Rotork due to  the guarantee of quality and reliability of  supply, as the alternative is often their own  small-scale gearbox production or local  independent vendors. We can also typically  provide cost savings due to the scale of  our operations and worldwide delivery from  the six Gears factories. Revenue from third party sales rose 14.8%  in the year to 30.4m as a result of an  increased sales effort in a number of  developing markets and the successful  launch of new products. Total revenue for  this division increased at a lesser rate, up  6.5% to 39.2m, reflecting lower sales to  other Rotork divisions. Operating margins  had been under pressure in 2009 but  Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Controls   Strong results from  BRIC countries   Production  commenced in new  Bangalore factory    Active downstream  oil & gas market Fluid Systems   Revenue breaks  100million for the   first time   Strong recovery in  order intake  Strengthened  engineering and   R&D infrastructure  Acquisition of  Ralph A. Hiller  Gears   Positive material  cost management  Margin recovery on  higher revenue  Growth of third party  order intake  8  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business Review Top: IQT modulating  actuator, water treatment  plant, UK. Below: IQ with thrust  compensators, chemical  plant, Japan. Bottom: GP pneumatic  actuators, offshore gas  platform, South America. the combination of higher revenue and  the drive to reduce material costs, even  against a commodity cost headwind, saw  margins improve to 23.2%. Rotork Site Services Our after sales and service business, Rotork  Site Services (RSS) operates through  each of the three divisions and is reported  within their results. Growing this business  forms a key part of the Groups strategy  and during the year we have opened service  centres in six new locations, from New  Zealand to Southern France, although many  of the activities RSS performs are carried  out on customers sites. Our continued  investment in RSS will ensure that we are  able to respond to customers requirements  promptly, and underlines our commitment  to supporting our products in the field from  a local base.  RSS activities are divided into a number  of revenue streams and, whilst we do not  report the financial results of these, we are  able to monitor other metrics to assess  growth. During the year we have increased  the number of service engineers by 8%  – perhaps the best indication of overall  activity levels. These service engineers have  responded to 33% more service calls, fitted  18% more actuators to valves at customers  plants and 17% more actuators to new  valves in our workshops. We also have 4%  more actuators on preventative maintenance  contracts, where customers have outsourced  their maintenance requirements to Rotork.  Strategy Rotorks vision is to be the recognised  global leader in electric, fluid power,  manual valve actuation and associated  products and services. We focus on valve  actuation and associated products and  services, principally wherever there is a  need to control the movement of fluids  or gases. As world market leader, our  aim is to provide high quality, technically  advanced, innovative products and services  that support our customers activities  around the world through our extensive   and continually expanding network of  offices and manufacturing plants.  We operate an asset-light business model  which is highly cash generative. We seek   to deliver quality margins, consistent year  on year growth in revenues, profit and   core dividends through organic growth   and acquisitions. We develop and train our people to deliver  our strategy and satisfy our customers  requirements, while maintaining high  ethical and safety standards across  the Group and acting as a responsible  international corporate entity. To provide short-term focus, we agree  a set of key objectives, the broad areas  of which are the same for 2011 as they  were for 2010 although all parts relating  to corporate and social responsibility  have now been grouped together under  one objective. In addition, the initiatives  within each area have progressed. The key  objectives are: 1. Sales growth – The drive for organic  growth requires subsidiaries to sell all the  products available to them and target all  end-markets within their geographies. 	 2010	–	New	Middle	East	sales	 subsidiary, new Bangalore factory,  establishment of RFS China, growth   of sales force worldwide. 	 2011	–	Move	to	larger	premises	in	 Houston, restructuring of US sales  offices, new Chennai factory, expansion  of China factory. 2. Product development – This  investment will continue in 2011 and will  result in enhancements to existing products  and new products entering the market. 	 2010	–	Expansion	of	wireless	 capabilities, new gearbox ranges, start  up of Rotork Innovation Design and  Engineering Centre (RIDEC), nuclear  qualification of products. 	 2011	–	Growth	of	RIDEC,	expansion	 of RPC ranges, investment in nuclear  products and other projects that will  benefit Rotork in 2012 and beyond. 3. Acquisitions – These are a core  part of our growth strategy and we  continue to seek suitable opportunities.  We require an acquisition to bring  Rotork either a new product, a new  geographical market or a new market  sector. Often the target will satisfy two  or even three of these criteria. The size  of the acquisitions we are prepared  to undertake is limited by opportunity,  rather than by our financial capacity  but we retain a rigorous and disciplined  approach to acquisition pricing. 	 2010	–	Acquisition	of	Hiller. 	 2011	–	Acquisition	of	Rotork	Mexico. 4. Manufacturing and facilities – Rotork  has invested in a number of factories  and sales offices to develop world  class facilities from which to work. The  investment programme will continue  into 2011. 	 2010	–	New	factory	in	Bangalore,	 investment in Bath factory.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  9 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 	 2011	–	New	factory	in	Chennai,	 expansion of Shanghai factory, new  Houston sales and service facility, new  offices in Saudi Arabia. 5. Material cost management – Rotorks  outsourced manufacturing model  means that material costs are the most  significant component of direct costs.  We have always sought to control these  costs and wherever possible leverage  our global presence to source materials.  	 2010	–	Gross	margin	increased	in	the	 year as rising commodity costs were  mitigated through a combination of  sourcing initiatives and passing through  the increases. 	 2011	–	Continue	to	look	for	 opportunities to take costs out of  our products through sourcing or  product development. This will include  expanding our sourcing network through  teams based in each of our factories. 6. Development of Rotork Site  Services (RSS) – RSS has grown over  the last few years to become a revenue  generator as well as a key differentiator  for Rotork. 	 2010	–	Increased	the	number	of	 service engineers by 8%, invested in  service workshops in six locations, three  of which are new facilities. 	 2011	–	Continue	to	expand	the	service	 team and establish new workshops  where there is customer demand. 7. IT – Develop a global system for the  sales and service offices. 	 2010	–	Commenced	the	design	  of the solution. 	 2011	–	Finalise	the	design	and	  begin roll-out. 8. Nuclear – Expand our nuclear-certified  product offering and ensure we are  positioned to take advantage of  increased activity in this market.  	 2010	–	The	acquisition	of	Hiller	was	 central to achieving this objective.  Re-qualification of our nuclear electric  actuators was also achieved during   the year. 	 2011	–	We	will	continue	to	develop	our	 traditional products for use in nuclear  applications as well as working with  Hiller to enhance their products. 9. Corporate and Social Responsibility  – Our consideration of Corporate  and Social Responsibility (CSR) and  objectives cover three distinct areas.  The Rotork approach to health and  safety is to disseminate best practice  around the Group, training those  responsible and then verify adoption  through auditing each subsidiary.  	 2010	–	The	improvement	in	audit	 scores and reduction in the Accident  Frequency Rate KPI show we are  making progress. 	 2011	–	Continue	the	initiatives	which	 have already delivered improvements. Controls + RSS Sales Product development Manufacturing and   Facilities Procurement Acquisitions Group Strategy HR Systems CSR Risk   Management Processes and Strategies common across all divisions Fluid Systems + RSS Sales Product development Manufacturing and   Facilities Procurement Acquisitions Gears Sales Product development Manufacturing and   Facilities Procurement Acquisitions Mission Vision Objectives Financial People development – Throughout the  Group we look to develop internal talent  and promote from within where possible.  Encouraging people to build their career  within Rotork and helping them identify  their training needs allows each individual  to reach their full potential. Feedback on  our success in this is obtained through   our Employee Satisfaction Survey. Processes and ethics – We continue  to embed a high-performance culture  and the delivery of our Corporate Social  Responsibility agenda. Communication of  Rotorks Ethics and Values is now part of  the induction process for new employees  and new agents and takes due account of  the Bribery Act 2010 and the associated  draft guidelines. These core ethical values  will ensure each individual employee acts  at all times with integrity, honesty and  fairness towards those whom they engage.  2010 saw greater employee participation  in supporting local charities, as well as  WaterAid, the nominated Group charity.   10  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business Review Research & Development A major initiative during 2010 has been  the setting up of the Rotork Innovation  and Design Engineering Centre (RIDEC)  in Chennai, India. This facility became  operational in the last quarter and is  intended to provide a multi-disciplinary  technical resource to all business units  within the Group. RIDEC will help with both  the engineering integration of acquired  businesses that may employ different  CAD systems and processes, and the  development of new and enhanced  products across the Group. It will continue  to recruit through the year, aiming to be at  full strength by the end of 2011. The key differentiating features of an  electric actuator are motor control,  robust communications links, and  sensor technology, and our Bath- based engineers remain active in all of  these areas. At the end of the year we  commenced production of a variant of  our IQ series using a novel valve position  sensor. This represents the conclusion  of several years research into position  measurement techniques and the search  for a cost-effective alternative to our  existing technology. In addition, we have  continued the development of our wireless  network and are now ready to move from  pilot installations to deployment within an  operational environment. There are still  challenges ahead but this represents an  exciting step forward. As in previous years we have continued  our efforts to gain leverage by applying  our IQ technology to other products within  the Group. Products scheduled for release  by the RFS division during 2011 mark  the culmination of this activity. Work has  continued on the control valve actuator  (CVA) to increase the range of options  available and to extend the torque and thrust  capability of the family. A larger size is now  planned for introduction in 2011. Throughout  2010, the Process Controls division (RPC)  has been working on the development of  a new family of linear, rotary and quarter- turn actuators that will complement the  CVA range and replace some of its older  products. The first sizes of this new family are  due for release during 2011. In tandem with the acquisition of Hiller,  we have substantially increased our  resources committed to the development  of our nuclear product portfolio. We have  completed re-qualification of the existing  nuclear electric actuator range to IEEE382  1996, together with seismic qualification  of the 90NA/ISN19 actuator / gearbox  combination; the 90NA/ISN19 being the  largest combination that we produce. We  are also actively engaged in the design  and qualification of electric and fluid  power actuators suitable for use within  Westinghouse-designed AP1000 and Areva  EPR nuclear power stations. Quality Commitment to product excellence and  exceeding customer expectations is a  fundamental part of Rotorks strategy. A  quality-driven focus is embedded in all our  business processes, from procurement and  vendor approval, through to manufacture  and delivery, and extends into our site service  activities. All Rotork manufacturing sites  are required to be registered with a Quality  Management Approval System to ISO 9000  standards, and are required to adopt Rotork  systems and working practices. Our divisional structure and decentralised  procurement & manufacturing hubs allow  us to disseminate best practice between  our businesses, and foster a culture of  continuous improvement at all levels,  which is reviewed in quality audits. KPIs  allow us to target, monitor and improve our  performance and instil an approach that  is focused on the customer. Techniques  such as six sigma and lean manufacturing  principles are used extensively and allow  us to leverage world-class standards and  place ourselves at the leading edge of  product quality and performance. Our people As well as investing in our facilities and  product, we have continued to invest in  our employees. We now have 2,100 staff  and their commitment makes possible  the delivery of our promises, obligations  and ambitions. We seek to develop their  talent, through new and innovative ways of  enhancing their capabilities and leadership  skills. We also strive to ensure Rotork will  continue to attract new talent and be seen  as a good employer. Good communication  with our employees is an essential part of  this and is particularly important in a global  business. This is one of the areas assessed  in our employee satisfaction survey, and  after initiatives to circulate a regular Chief  Executives newsletter, site briefings at  many of our facilities and other magazines  and communiqus the score has improved.  The total score on the employee satisfaction  survey has been maintained this year with  a record number of employees taking part.  This is evidence that the survey is seen as  a valuable method for driving change within  the Group.   Top: RC200 pneumatic  actuators, biomass power  generation, Sweden. Middle: IQT actuators  at a UK power station. Bottom: IQT actuator  on a sewage treatment  aeration control valve,  UK.    ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  11 An Equal Opportunities policy is applied  throughout the Group and in almost all  cases, it is nationals from countries in which  the Company operates who manage those  companies locally. Financial support for  training and learning programmes directly  related to employees working roles are  provided. We have permanent full-time  training officers in many of our facilities who  co-ordinate product training for employees  and customers. Our commitment to  staff development over the long-term  is evidenced by initiatives on four-year  apprenticeship programmes, our extended  graduate recruitment programme and other  training initiatives across the Group. Corporate Social Responsibility At Rotork we take our responsibilities to  employees, customers, suppliers and all  our stakeholders seriously and our strategy  includes specific objectives in respect of  this. More information on the framework  and methodology for addressing our CSR  agenda is set out on pages 24 to 28.  Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information IQ actuators, strategic underground  gas storage, Latvia.  2010 has been the first year Rotork has  adopted a global charity, WaterAid, and  it has been particularly pleasing to see  the great variety of ways in which our  employees around the world have found  ways to raise money for this charity. We  also continue to monitor our impact on  the environment, reviewing greenhouse  gas emissions, waste management and  recycling and water use, working with  employees and other interested parties   to reduce this impact.   12  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Rotork Controls has made further progress  this year reporting record revenue and  operating profit, continuing the track  record for growth which was maintained  throughout the last economic cycle.  Positive results were seen across most  operating regions, with the UK lower due  to reduced spend in the water industry.  Rotork Process Controls had a difficult  2009 but has seen an improving market  in 2010. New products such as the  CVA have benefited this business and  we look forward to further progress as  more products come on line in 2011. In  water, the transition between the AMP4  and AMP5 spending cycles in the UK  has delayed order placement here, but  spend in other parts of the world has been  sufficient to offset the lower UK activity.  We continue to look for new markets and  develop our products to service these as  we become aware of them. In the year we  have been successful in a number of non- traditional areas, however the traditional  markets of oil & gas, power and water have  continued to be active.  Revenue grew 7.0% to 243.4m during  the year and with order intake up 9.1%,  the order book increased 1.2%. Restated  at 2009 exchange rates, the revenue  increase is 5.1%. Controls has a greater  exposure to currencies other than euro  and US dollar than the other divisions and  bears the most significant element of the  currency adjustment. Over the year as a  whole the impact of the weaker euro has  been more than offset by the strength  of the basket of other currencies, with  US dollar being neutral. Operating profit  has increased 8.5% to 78.8m with the  operating margin increasing to 32.4%. Considering the regions, the Far East  delivered the highest growth in revenue  with our businesses in China, India and  Australia the biggest contributors. Many  of the businesses in this region delivered  double digit growth but having delivered  large projects in the prior year, Japan and  Singapore reported lower revenues this  year. China saw the next phases of the  transmission pipeline projects which had  started in 2009 and made progress in  selling into the water market in greater  quantities using our locally manufactured  IQ actuators. The Chinese power market,  despite a reduction in the number of new  power stations being announced in China,  remained a growth market for us including  successes with Chinese contractors on  export projects and nuclear power stations.  In India, power is our major market and  this drove the revenue growth again  and judging by the build programme  announced this year will continue to do so.  In Australia, the focus was on desalination  plants, an alumina refinery and power  station projects. Within the Americas, Canada and Brazil  were the best performers although our  presence in these two countries is at very  different stages of their evolution. Canada  has been an established subsidiary for  many years and this year the growth came  from an increase in sales for domestic  water and waste water projects rather than  Business Review Controls Rotork Controls has  made further progress  this year reporting  record revenue and   operating profit Top: Non-intrusive  programming of  market-leading IQ   valve actuator. Bottom Left: IQT  actuator, solar power  plant, Spain. Bottom Right: CVL  actuators in oil recovery  plant, USA. Financial Performance 0 80 20 40 60 2010 78.8 2009 2008 2007 2006 0 280 70 140 210 2010 243.4 2009 2008 2007 2006 +8.5% Operating Profit (m) +7.0% Revenue (m) Peter France MD Rotork Controls   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  13 supporting Canadian valvemakers on export  projects. In contrast, our first office in Brazil  was established in 2009 to supplement  the sales effort which in the past had been  coordinated from the USA. Brazil not only  offers a huge potential oil & gas market but  also presents opportunities in water and  other natural resource related markets. In Europe we saw an increase in oil & gas  expenditure, both in tank storage and in  transmission pipelines. These two areas  particularly benefited our offices in the  Netherlands and Russia. In Spain the  traditional oil & gas markets were quieter  but we were still able to grow revenue with  orders in solar power and ships. Since my appointment as Chief Executive,  I have also acted as the Controls Division  Managing Director. Now, given the growth  of this division and the growth of the  Group as a whole, the time is right to  appoint a full-time Managing Director and  for me to focus exclusively on my Group  role. I am therefore pleased to announce  that Grant Wood has been appointed  Managing Director of Rotork Controls and  he joins the Rotork Management Board  in March 2011. Grant joined Rotork in  2006 as the director of Rotork Site Service  (RSS) following a career in management  consultancy and the utility industry and has  been responsible for driving RSS forward  over the last four years. Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Business Opportunities   Brazil, Russia,  India, China and   the Middle East  Nuclear market  Mexico  Rotork Process Controls  including CVA Operating margin  32.4%  up from  31.9%  in 2009. IQT actuators, membrane filtration  sewage treatment plant, UK.  14  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 This year Rotork Fluid Systems (RFS) has  succeeded in widening both the end-market  and geographic areas it serves through a  combination of new product development,  acquisitions and establishing new sales  channels. RFS is the division, which more  than any other part of Rotork, has grown  through acquisition. In the last three years,  the acquisitions of Remote Control, Flow-Quip  and Ralph A. Hiller (Hiller) have all brought  new products into the RFS portfolio, each in  very different markets and yet each capable  of being sold through the existing RFS Centres  of Excellence worldwide. The latest of these,  Hiller, acquired in May 2010, brought a  strong brand, good industry contacts, a range  of nuclear certified hydraulic actuators and  provided a step change in RFSs capabilities  in this field. Integration of acquisitions is key  to ensuring they deliver value to the Group.  This integration takes place on many levels  but with Hiller one of the key areas has been  within engineering and product development.  The combination of Rotorks greater resources  and expertise in actuation, with Hillers nuclear  industry knowledge and contacts, has already  created an enhanced product development  plan as well as led to new sales leads for  traditional Rotork products. The majority of RFS sales are still oil & gas  related projects, with a focus particularly  on upstream although this concentration  is diminishing with each acquisition and  through product development. The range  of high pressure gas and gas-over-oil  actuators has expanded allowing RFS  to take a share of the LNG and gas  transmission markets, whilst the Flow-Quip  products give access to the US liquids  pipelines market and a stronger presence  in Latin America. Hiller, as mentioned  above, provides nuclear certified products  and the expertise and contacts to gain  access to this expanding market for other  RFS products in development. In order to  deliver the product development plan for  RFS, which now includes work in Hiller  where new opportunities have already been  identified, we have continued to invest in  the engineering resources of the division.  This has included adding engineers and  aligning the tools used by the engineers  across the division. Order intake has increased 35.1% but  to some extent this reflects the weaker  comparatives. Even with Hiller removed,  orders were 27.1% ahead of the prior year  with a number of markets seeing significant  growth. The Centres of Excellence in the  UK and Canada both reported double  digit increases in order input as did the  factories in Sweden and Italy. Integration  of acquisitions is an important source of  growth for RFS and the actuators produced  in Sweden are now sold by more than half  of our sales companies. 2010 saw RFS revenue break through the  one hundred million pounds mark, posting  a 7.1% increase to 106.8m. Removing  the impact of currency and the Hiller  acquisition, revenue growth would have  been a more modest 1% but given the  heightened competition earlier in the year  this represents a solid result.  Business Review Fluid Systems In the last three years  the acquisitions have all  brought new products  into the RFS portfolio. Top: RC200 pneumatic  actuators at EuroLoop,  the Netherlands. Below: GP pneumatic  actuators on Emergency  Shutdown valves at  natural gas plant, Bolivia. Bottom: HPG actuators  on CO2 gas pipeline,  Denver USA. Alex Busby MD Rotork Fluid Systems Financial Performance 0 16 4 8 12 2010 13.3 106.8 2009 2008 2007 2006 0 120 30 60 90 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 – 6.8% Operating Profit (m) +7.1% Revenue (m)   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  15 Operating margins in RFS have been  affected by a number of factors, the net  result of which is a reduction to 12.4%  but when adjusted to remove the higher  amortisation costs this year, operating  margin is 14.0% compared with 15.4%  in 2009. The continued investment in  the infrastructure of the division; building  the Chinese sales team, increasing the  engineering resources and continuing  to develop the Lucca factory, lays the  foundation for future growth but the  benefits from operational gearing in 2010  were not sufficient to cover this additional  cost. The acquisition also had a negative  impact on margins. RFS has demonstrated that the  commitment to product development,  supplemented by acquisitions, and  providing customers with local support is a  successful strategy. The Middle East is an  important market for Rotork and especially  for the RFS division, with many of the  projects sold in Europe ending up in the  region. We have therefore strengthened  our local support in the region and this will  remain a focus in 2011. Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Business Opportunities   Increased investments  announced by oil  majors  New products and  broader market focus  Safety and information  diagnostics  Site services  Nuclear CP & GP pneumatic actuators, process  heating plant at Asian refinery. Operating margin  12.4%  down from  14.3%  in 2009.  16  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Rotork Gears manufactures and sells  manual and motorised gearboxes from its  factories in the UK, the Netherlands, Italy,  China and since mid-2010, India. These  gearboxes are sold to provide mechanical  advantage when operating industrial valves,  whether by hand or using an actuator. The  largest customers for Rotork Gears are the  two other Rotork divisions, as both electric  and pneumatic / hydraulic actuators can  operate in conjunction with a gearbox, but  they are also sold direct to valvemakers.  The relationship with valvemakers is one  of long-term partner, as the gearbox is an  essential component in the sale of many  manually operated valves. With the majority  of valves sold still manually operated, every  valvemaker needs a high quality, reliable  gearbox supplier. The gearbox market is  nearly as fragmented as the valve industry  though, with Rotork being the largest  participant and the main consolidator of  the market. By operating on a larger scale  and using our global sourcing expertise  to control costs, we are able to offer  competitively priced gearboxes. This allows  us to compete against small local vendors  or in-house gearbox manufacture at the  larger valvemakers.  This year saw a far more active valvemaker  market for Gears after a slower 2009. We  started the year with a variety of initiatives  underway to deliver revenue growth and  improve margins. A number of new products  were in development and to be brought to  market in 2010, the manufacturing centre  in the new Bangalore factory in India offered  an opportunity to make greater progress with  the numerous domestic Indian valvemakers,  and work was underway to gain greater  penetration in a number of other countries.  As a result of this work, revenue grew 6.5%  in the year to 39.2m, a record for the  division, with a more rapid growth in sales  to valvemakers offsetting a decline in sales  to Controls and RFS. Operating margins  improved to 23.2% of sales, with operating  profit up 13.4% to 9.1m, again a record. The revenue growth was derived from a  combination of new products and new  markets. Investment in the Gears R&D  team has meant new products have been  launched to meet applications in the  American water market and the European  and USA fire safety market. The countries  where additional sales resource was  directed were the ones with large domestic  valvemakers and therefore greatest  potential. This has led to significant progress  in China and Russia in the year, whilst a  focus on valve distributors in Australia has  led to growth in sales there. India remains  a market of huge potential but the process  of converting the valvemakers to using the  output from our Indian factory will take time. We have sourced components from  the Far East since before the factory  was established in China, so controlling  component costs through managing a  global supplier base is a well established  technique in Gears. This year, part of the  success in improving margins has been as  result of controlling the component costs  and reducing the average material content.  Business Review Gears The relationship with  valvemakers is one of  long-term partner. Right: IQ actuator with  IW gearbox, reverse  osmosis desalination  plant, Spain. Below: IQ actuators  with IW gearboxes  at EuroLoop, the  Netherlands. David Littlejohns MD Rotork Gears Financial Performance 0 12 3 6 9 2010 9.1 2009 2008 2007 2006 0 40 10 20 30 2010 39.2 2009 2008 2007 2006 +13.4% Operating Profit (m) +6.5% Revenue (m)   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  17 The factories in Leeds, the Netherlands, Italy  and China have all achieved lower material  costs despite rising transport and commodity  costs. The search for new suppliers is an  ongoing process and next year will see the  qualification of new suppliers in India. The current year has seen the successful  launch of a number of new products which  will continue to provide growth opportunities  into next year. We are also expanding our  capabilities in the important US market by  incorporating a small production cell in the  new Houston facility. This will allow standard  gearboxes to be tailored locally to meet  customers requirements. Meanwhile, the  drive to expand the customer base in China  and Russia has provided growth this year  and opened up new markets. Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information We have achieved lower material costs   despite rising transport and commodity costs. Business Opportunities   USA  Manufacturing in India  Development of  new markets  Supply chain  management Subsea declutch-able gearbox and  hydraulic actuator. Operating margin  23.2%  up from  21.8%  in 2009.  18  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 In a business with subsidiaries operating  with 18 different home currencies and  transactions taking place in many more,  currency movements will always have the  potential to significantly influence both  the competitive position of Rotork and the  reported results. We have seen a different  dynamic in the currency markets this year  with the movements in US dollar and euro  having a less pronounced impact on our  results than the other currencies in which  we trade. Looking at the impact on the  income statement, these other currencies  appreciated 13% on average this year  compared with a 3% weakening of the  euro and virtually static US dollar. Currency  has remained a tailwind in 2010 but is far  less significant than for the past few years. Revenue grew 7.6% as reported but  restated at constant currency and to  remove Hiller, the growth rate is 4.6%.  The currency restatement reflects a  combination of both the translation and  transaction effects so is influenced by  where our subsidiaries are located as  well as the direction of net flows in each  currency pairing. So whilst the currency  adjustment to revenue is 4.0m, at  operating profit the adjustment is 3.8m  (see table opposite). Adjusted operating  profit, which is stated before intangible  amortisation and any property disposals,  has grown 8.0% in the year but after  removing the acquisition and currency this  increase is 2.9%. Operating margin based  on this adjusted profit is 26.1% both for  2010 and 2009 but removing the dilutive  effect of Hiller offsets some of the currency  gains giving a restated organic return  on sales of 25.6%. Earnings per share  growth is 8.4%, with this KPI showing  higher growth than reported profit before  tax of 7.6% due to a 0.6 percentage point  reduction in the Group effective tax rate. To better understand the impact of  currency on our results, it is possible to  consider the impact of currency in terms   of the impact of a 1 cent movement. As  we have increased our revenue in US dollar  and dollar related currencies the effect of  a 1 US dollar cent movement has grown  to around 300,000 whilst a 1 euro cent  movement remains around 250,000. Our asset-light business model has always  meant that Rotork generates a high return  on capital employed (ROCE). This year  ROCE is 82.4%, which although lower than  the 90.1% reported last year, is still a good  result. Capital employed, as defined in our  KPI calculation, has increased 16.7% as  a result of the growth in working capital,  predominantly trade receivables. This is  due to the phasing of sales, with fourth  quarter revenue 31.5% higher this year  than 2009. Despite this increase in the  value of trade receivables, debtor days  have fallen from 60 to 56 days.   Acquisitions This year we completed the acquisition of  Ralph A. Hiller (Hiller) in May for 5.5m.  Hiller manufactures a range of hydraulic  actuators, certified for use in the nuclear  industry, and is on the approved vendor list  to supply the main steam isolation valves  in the latest design of nuclear plants.  Upon acquisition, the fair value of tangible  and intangible net asset was assessed and  as a result intangible assets of 1.6m and  goodwill of 2.5m has been recognised in  the Group accounts. The intangible assets  will be amortised over their estimated  useful lives and this has resulted in a  charge to the income statement of 0.4m  in the year. Taken with the amortisation  of intangible assets from previous  acquisitions, the total charge to the  income statement in the year is 1.7m.  Further details regarding the accounting   for the acquisition are shown in note 3. Cash generation The cash balance at the end of the year  was 97.9m with 19.2m added during  the year. Our cash generation KPI has  averaged more than 100% over the last  five years and this year was close to this  Rotork has reported another year of growth with  record order intake, revenue and profit and has  maintained operating margins during a year which  saw periods of pricing pressure. Over the last ten  years we have delivered compound annual growth  rates for revenue of 13.4% and for operating profit  of 17.3%. Financial Review Jonathan Davis Finance Director Our asset-light  business model has  always meant that  Rotork generates   a high return on   capital employed.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  19 level at 96.5%. Our usually modest capital  expenditure requirements have increased  marginally this year to 5.0m, with  investment in the new facility in Bangalore,  improvements to the Bath site and the  sales and marketing IT system. Working  capital still has the largest influence on our  cash generation and viewed as a function  of sales was 23.2% at the year end, up  from a record low of 21.0% at December  2009. Whilst inventory levels have only  increased by 1.5m, despite the additional  Hiller inventory, trade receivables have  risen by 16.6m to 70.4m, due to the   phasing of revenue as explained above.  The two major cash outflows in the  year were tax (26.2m) and dividends  (35.9m) which this year were boosted   by the additional dividend. Credit management The Groups credit risk is primarily  attributable to trade receivables with  the risk spread over a large number of  countries and customers, and with no  significant concentration of risk. Credit  worthiness checks are undertaken before  entering into contracts or commencing  trade with new customers. The majority  of our trade receivables are insured,  so the authorisation process operates  in conjunction with the insurer, taking  advantage of their market intelligence.  Where appropriate, we will use trade  finance instruments such as letters of  credit to mitigate any identified risk. Taxation As a result of operating subsidiary  companies in 22 countries, the Groups  effective tax rate is always a blend of these  different national rates applied to the  locally generated profits. During the year  the Group tax rate has reduced to 29.0%  from 29.6% last year. The main influences  on this change were the growth of our  Chinese businesses specifically and the  mix of profits in favour of lower tax rate  jurisdictions in general. After initially having  a tax holiday, our Chinese factory now  benefits from a transitional tax rate which  started in 2009 and remains in force until  the end of 2011. Our philosophy with tax  is to operate on the basis of full disclosure  and co-operation with all tax authorities  and, where possible, in a responsible  manner mitigate the burden of tax within  the local jurisdictions. Treasury The Group operates a centralised treasury  function. Actions subsidiaries can take  are limited by procedures contained in  the Subsidiary Treasury Policy. The Group  Treasurer monitors compliance with this  policy and is responsible for overseeing   all the Groups banking relationships.  The Treasury Committee, comprising the  Chief Executive, Group Finance Director,  Group Legal Director, Group Financial  Controller and Group Treasurer, meet  regularly to consider foreign currency  exposure, control over deposits and cash  management. The Group uses financial  instruments where appropriate to hedge  significant currency transactions, principally  forward exchange contracts and swaps.  These financial instruments are used  to reduce volatility, which might affect  the Groups cash or income statement.  In assessing the level of cash flows to  hedge with forward exchange contracts,  the maximum cover taken is 75% of  forecast flows. The Board receives  monthly treasury reports which summarise  the Groups foreign currency hedging  position, distribution of cash balances  and significant changes to any banking  relationships. Dividends The directors are proposing a final dividend  of 19.75p per share which is a 14.5%  increase. Taken together with the interim  dividend of 12.75p per share paid in  Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information September, this represents a 14.4%  increase over the prior year. Excluding the  additional dividend paid last July, this gives  dividend cover of 2.5 times compared with  2.6 times last year. Our dividend policy  is to grow the core dividends generally in  line with earnings and supplement core  dividends with additional dividends when  projected cash requirements show we are  able to do so. Following an assessment   of cash requirements, the directors intend  to pay an additional dividend of 11.5p per  share in June 2011. Retirement benefits The Group accounts for post-retirement  benefits in accordance with IAS19,  Employee Benefits. The balance sheet  reflects the net deficit on these schemes  at 31 December based on the market  value of the assets at that date, and the  valuation of liabilities using year end AA  corporate bond rates. We have closed   both the main defined benefit pension  schemes to new entrants; the UK scheme  in 2002 and the US one in 2009, in   order to reduce the Groups liabilities.   The funding position of the schemes  improved in the year from 82% funded  last year to 85% this year. Whilst discount  rates have reduced, which increases the  current value of future liabilities, this has  been more than offset by better returns  on assets and a change to the mortality  assumption. The mortality tables are  based on the latest available data from  occupational pension schemes and give   a shorter life expectancy than the previous  tables which were based on data from  insurance companies. Organic Business Growth     Constant    Remove  Organic business   2010 Group  currency  Group at 2009  Hiller  at 2009  2009 Group m  as reported  adjustment  exchange rates  acquisition  exchange rates  as reported Revenue  380.6    (4.0)  376.6    (6.6)  370.0    353.5 Cost of sales  (199.8)    (0.9)  (200.7)    4.3  (196.4)    (187.6) Gross profit  180.8  47.5%  (4.9)  175.9  46.7%  (2.3)  173.6  46.9%  165.9  46.9% Overheads  (81.4)    1.1  (80.3)    1.5  (78.8)    (73.8) Adjusted operating profit*  99.4  26.1%  (3.8)  95.6  25.4%  (0.8)  94.8  25.6%  92.1  26.1% * Adjusted operating profit is before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and profit on disposal of property  20  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Key Performance Indicators Growth of the business, market penetration and quality of earnings are crucial target areas for Rotork and we have  a number of measures of performance used throughout the Rotork organisation aimed at this. The KPIs used to  monitor the financial performance of the business are set out below: Financial KPIs Sales Revenue  Growth (%) 0 40 10 20 30 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sales Revenue  Growth of 7.6% Return on  Sales (%) 0 10 20 30 Return on Sales consistent at 25.7% Cash  Generation (%) 0 120 30 60 90 Cash Generation   good at 96.5% Return on Capital  Employed (%) 0 100 25 50 75 Return on Capital  Employed high at 82.4% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 7.6 25.7 96.5 82.4 Reason for choice This is reported in detail for  operating segments and is  a key driver in the business.  These measures enable us to  track our success in specific  project activity and our progress  in increasing our market share  by product and region. Comments on results We grew revenue by 7.6%  against the backdrop of a  global economy emerging  from recession. How we calculate Increase in sales revenue year  on year divided by the earlier  year sales revenue. Reason for choice This measure brings together  the combined effects of  procurement costs and pricing  as well as the leverage of our  operating assets. It is also  a check on the quality of  revenue growth. Comments on results Margin remained at last years  record levels as the impact of  operational gearing offset the  investment in developing the  infrastructure of the Group to  position us for further growth. How we calculate Profit before tax (after  financing and interest)   shown as a percentage   of sales revenue. Reason for choice This is used as a measure of  performance where a target  of 85% is regarded as a  base level of achievement.  This also forms one of the  constituent parts of the senior  management reward system. Comments on results Cash generation remains  above target but the strong  last quarter output resulted   in an increase in the cash   held in working capital. How we calculate Cash flow from operating  activities before tax   outflows as a percentage   of operating profit. Reason for choice Rotork has an asset-light  business model by design and  reporting this ratio internally  helps management at Group  level monitor our adherence   to this philosophy. How we calculate Operating profit as a  percentage of capital employed.  Capital employed is defined as  shareholders funds less net  cash held, with the pension  fund deficit net of related  deferred tax asset added back. Comments on results Increased activity levels in  the last quarter have led to  higher working capital. This has  resulted in capital employed  growing faster than operating  profit in the year.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  21 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information We monitor non-financial areas in our businesses particularly in the environmental,  health & safety and quality control areas and put strong emphasis within our  organisation on improving our performance here. Non-financial KPIs EPS Growth (%) 0 40 10 20 30 A good rate of  EPS Growth 8.4% Accident  Frequency Rate 0 0.12 0.3 0.6 0.9 Accident Frequency  Rate improved to 0.38 Waste  Recycling (%) 0 80 20 40 60 Waste Recycling  consistent at 62.0% Employee  Satisfaction 0 4 1 2 3 Employee Satisfaction  consistent at 3.5 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0.38 62.0 8.4 3.5 Reason for choice The measurement of earnings  per share (eps) reflects all  aspects of the income statement  including management of the  Groups tax rate. Comments on results Basic eps has increased  slightly ahead of profit before  tax due to a reduced effective  tax rate arising from lower tax  rates in some jurisdictions and  the international mix of where  our profits were generated. How we calculate Increase in basic eps year  on year divided by the earlier  year eps. Reason for choice The Accident Frequency Rate  (AFR) is used as one measure  of the effectiveness of our  health & safety procedures. Comments on results The focus on health & safety,  investment in training and  the review and audit process  across our facilities all help  raise awareness of safe working  practices and have contributed  to this improved score.  How we calculate The formula we have used  for calculating our AFR is the  number of reportable injuries  divided by the number of hours  worked multiplied by 100,000. Reason for choice This KPI measures the  proportion of total waste  produced which is recycled. Comments on results With the higher output this  year and more facilities from  which we operate, we have  succeeded in maintaining the  percentage of waste recycled. How we calculate This information is collected  through regular submissions  into our main UK site in Bath. Reason for choice The survey as a whole enabled  the Group to get feedback from  across the businesses on how  we relate to our staff and what  we can do better. Comments on results The overall score has been  maintained with the response  rate improved to 75% and  increasing total employee  numbers. Initiatives in  communication and in our  global charity activities resulted  in better scores in those areas. How we calculate Employees scored their  responses directly into a  prepared survey with 1 being  very dissatisfied and 5 being  very satisfied.  22  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties The assessment and management of  risk is the responsibility of the Board,  and the development and execution of a  comprehensive and robust system of risk  management has a high priority in Rotork.  This is based on an established enterprise  wide process for the identification and  management of risk, first at divisional  business level, and then in terms of the  Group as a whole, working within the  governance framework set out in our  corporate governance statement, see  page 32. The Boards role in risk management  involves promoting a culture that  emphasises integrity at all levels of  business operations. This includes  ensuring that risk management is  embedded within the core processes  of the Group, determining the principle  risks, (and ensuring that these are  communicated effectively across the  businesses) and setting the overall  policies for risk management and control.  The Group Finance Director is specifically  tasked with risk management for the  Group, and chairs a committee made up of  functional heads at divisional director level  to manage this process, each of whom  has access to all officers across the Group  tasked with risk management. The Board  approves appetite for risk at both Group  and Divisional level and the consequential  actions in terms of mitigation where  possible and appropriate. These processes of risk management  within the businesses involve: 	 Identification	and	regular	assessment	  of individual risks at both subsidiary   and divisional level 	 Reviewing	previously	identified	risks	  and the effectiveness of mitigation  where appropriate 	 Design	of	controls	to	mitigate	  identified risks  	 Testing	the	controls	through	 management review and internal audit 	 Forming	a	conclusion	on	the	 effectiveness of the control environment  in place The major risks affecting the Group are  identified by senior management in  association with the full Board of Directors  and the external Auditor is invited into  the process in a support role. This is an  ongoing process involving regular risk  assessment, with clear and consistent  procedures for monitoring, updating  and implementing appropriate controls  to manage the identified risks. We are  therefore confident that we have a  methodology for ensuring that the   Groups approach to dealing with   individual risks is robust and timely.  Identified risks are categorised by  likelihood and potential impact on the  business, and once the assessment matrix  is complete the risks are then re-evaluated  in relation to the Group overall. Each risk  once identified is allocated to one of the  directors of the divisional businesses to  ensure the risk is appropriately considered  and managed. Identified risks are  discussed, and the progress reviewed  at both Rotork Management Board and  divisional board meetings during the year.  We identify three main risk areas: 	 Strategic – risks that potentially  could affect the strategic aims of the  business, or those issues that could  affect the strategic objectives that the  Group is addressing 	 Financial – issues that could affect the  finances of the business both externally  from matters initially outside of our  control, and from the perspective of  internal controls and processes  	 Operational – risks arising out of the  operational activities of the Group  relating to areas such as logistics,  procurement, product development and  interaction with commercial partners The top ten risks identified in the risk  management process are listed in the  table opposite. These are categorised by  the three main risk areas identified above  and listed in order of severity as identified  in the risk assessment process. Mitigation,  where possible, is shown by each identified  risk area. The Board promotes   a culture that  emphasises integrity   at all levels of   business operations.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  23 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Strategic Risks Description Competition on price as a result of an existing competitor moving to  manufacture in a lower cost area of the world. Appropriateness of our products, both in terms of cost and features.  Lower investment in Rotorks traditional market sectors. Loss of technological leadership.   Mitigation Rotork has a direct presence, in terms of production, sales & service  support in the major low cost locations. Constant drive to maintain  differentiation from our competition.  Take cost out and differentiate Rotork products from competitors.  Ongoing development of products to meet required specification  and pricing. Development of business into new markets. Continued product  development and innovation. Increased investment in Research and Development across the  Group. Setting aside time for innovation and sharing of ideas.  Continual development of our team through training and recruiting  talented engineers.  Operational Risks Description Quality and applications failures in a hazardous area and / or causing  an environmental impact. Major in-field product failure. Risk of product recall due to component  defect or warranty issue.  Failure of a key supplier or tooling failure at a supplier causing  disruption to planned manufacturing.   Mitigation Quality control procedures including supplier visits and checks. Product  design and development supported by life / performance tests.  Good quality control procedures including supplier audit and  scorecard to monitor performance.  Dual sourcing for key components wherever possible and regular  monitoring and replacement of tooling at all suppliers. Financial Risks Description Volatility of exchange rates. Failure of a major bank where deposits are held. Losses arising from complex and extended scope contracts where risks  could be assumed which are beyond the terms covered by insurance.   Mitigation A clear treasury hedging policy addresses short-term risk and this  works together with the natural hedging provided by the geographical  spread of operations, sourcing and customers. Group Treasury Committee regularly reviews bank credit ratings   and adjusts the banking policy accordingly. Group policy in place for the authorisation of significant contracts.  Regular training on Group policies and insurance conditions.  24  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility The diagram sets out the Groups Corporate  Social Responsibility structure. The Group  Chief Executive chairs the CSR Committee  which reports to the Rotork Management  Board and through the Group Chief  Executive to the Board of Rotork p.l.c. The committees act as a focal point for  further development of the subject matter  within their remit. Underlying all their work  is a determination to embed the Groups  Corporate Social Responsibility values  within all its activities.  These values are contained in our vision  and mission statement which can be  accessed at www.rotork.com under  Investors – Strategy. The Company has considered the  guidelines on Social Responsibility  published by the Association of British  Insurers. It takes full account of the  significance of environmental and ethical  matters in the conduct of its business and  in its risk assessment processes. Rotork  remains committed to the principles laid  down for its inclusion in the FTSE4Good  Index and the ten Principles of the UN  Global Compact of which it is a signatory.   Environmental The Groups Environmental Policy applies  to the Company and all its subsidiaries  worldwide. The policy includes commitments  to the prevention of pollution, compliance  with all relevant legal and regulatory  requirements and to the continuous  improvement of environmental performance. The Group environmental policy can  be found at www.rotork.com in the  investors section under Corporate  Responsibility – Environment.  In support of the above policy, Rotorks  Environmental Management System, which  is a system of procedures developed to  minimize the impact of our operations on  the environment, will:  Allocate formal environmental  responsibilities to ensure compliance  with legislation;  Support a culture of consultation with  employees, key stakeholders and other  interested parties;  Provide environmental information,  guidance and training that meets   best practice;  Monitor, measure, audit and seek  continuous improvement in its  environmental performance; The Board of Directors is committed to   ensuring high levels of ethical practice and  conduct by all Rotork employees.   Environmental Committee Chaired by the Group Operations Director, meetings are formally held at least once   a year. The Environmental Committee has responsibility for: 	 The	Environmental	Management	System 	 Review	of	all	incident	reports 	 Review	of	Environment	Audit	Report 	 Reviewing	legislative	change The committee uses Resource Futures as the Groups Environmental Consultant.   Social Issues Committee Chaired by the Group HR Director, the Social Issues Committee has   responsibility for: 	 Social	issue	policies 	 HR	policies   Ethics Committee Chaired by the Group Legal Director, the Ethics Committee has responsibility   for the development of Group ethics policies and procedures.   Health & Safety Committee Chaired by the Group Operations Director, meetings are formally held four times   a year. The Health & Safety Committee has responsibility for: 	 Reviewing	all	accident	and	incident	reports 	 Management	of	Group	health	&	safety 	 Reviewing	legislative	change The Committee includes a qualified health & safety professional. Chaired by the Group Chief Executive, the CSR Committee has the following sub-committees covering  health & safety, the environment, ethics and social issues. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSR)   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  25 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information  Work with external agencies and bodies  to ensure continued adoption of best  practice solutions in environmental  management;  Communicate best practice and publish  internal and external information  detailing its aims and achievements;  Foster open communication with  employees, customers, suppliers and  other stakeholders via both electronic  publishing and face-to-face discussion. Environmental performance Environmental data is collected across the  Rotork Group of Companies via a purpose  built web based data collection tool. This  tool delivered significant improvements  in on time reporting, completeness and  accuracy of data collected. Carbon Emissions The Groups greenhouse gas emissions  derive from the use of energy, electricity,  gas, LPG, oil, coal and wood. We record  our emissions of greenhouse gases in  accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol  (GHG Protocol) developed jointly by the  World Business Council for Sustainable  Development and the World Resource  Institute. All scope 1 & 2 emissions  are calculated in accordance with GHG  Protocol using conversion factors from the   US Environmental Protection Agency, the  Department for Environment, Food and  Rural Affairs, and the International Energy  Agency (IEA). All scope 2 emissions  have been calculated using the relevant  conversion factor for the part of the world  the energy was consumed based on the  mix of coal, oil, gas, hydroelectric or  nuclear energy used. In 2010 Rotork published its scope   1 & 2 emissions via the Carbon Disclosure  Project (CDP). Rotork has made a  commitment to the disclosure of its Scope  3 emissions via CDP starting with business  travel in 2012. The carbon emissions for  our products will follow on a progressive  basis from 2013. In order to achieve this, Rotork has  commenced research into raw materials,  and base materials including percentage  of recycled materials, location of suppliers  and transport of raw materials. Research  is also being conducted into packaging,  transport of components and assemblies,  assembly of finished product and business  travel and the associated emissions.  Waste management Waste recycling is one of the Groups non- financial key performance indicators (KPI),  which is measured as a percentage of total  waste generated by the Group, as Rotork  has identified waste as its most significant  environmental impact. Rotork is therefore  working with its suppliers to improve its waste  recycling systems and increase the rate at  which generated waste is recycled. There  is a cost benefit to reduce waste going to  landfill and increase the amount of waste  recycled. Last year there was a 17% increase  in total waste generated, the amount of  waste recycled also increased by 17%. The  increase in generated waste was entirely due  to an increase in our overseas supply chain  activity (see page 21 for more details of this  KPI (62%)). All hazardous waste is identified  and sent for treatment via licensed waste  carriers to licensed treatment facilities.  Water use Water consumption has been measured by  the Group throughout the year to monitor  water efficiency. For the majority of sites,  water consumption derives from normal  operational and sanitary water use. The  Groups water is supplied by local utility  providers, except in Rotorks facilities in Lucca,  Italy and Chennai, India, where water is  metered and extracted direct from boreholes. In 2010, water consumption fell 22%;   as Rotork does not operate any process  that consumes large amounts of water this   is seen as a result of fluctuations in   normal use. Ethics and values The Board of Directors is committed to  ensuring high levels of ethical practice   and conduct by all Rotork employees   in all their dealings. Rotorks ethics and values policies  which are applicable to all employees  worldwide can be accessed at  Rotorks website www.rotork.com in  the Investors section under Corporate  Responsibility – Ethics & Values.    Roartork, decorated by artist  Jane Veveris Callan.  Photograph courtesy of Andrew Padfield  26  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Top: Rotork Bath sponsor  local team tracksuits. Left: RTS Jiuzhaigou  visit during which funds   were raised for WaterAid. Right: Mark Neilson,  running the Great  Scottish Run for Breast  Cancer Care. Corporate Social Responsibility Rotork aims to provide a safe working  environment for all employees and visitors   to its premises. Rights at Work. Rotork supports all United  Nations efforts to ensure the effective  abolition of child forced compulsory labour  and will never use any such labour in any  of its operations worldwide. At Rotork the  rights of every employee are respected.  The Company acts in ways that ensure  all employees are treated with openness,  mutual trust, dignity and respect. Everyone  working at Rotork will be treated fairly and  without discrimination on the basis of race,  gender, language or religion. The Groups Whistleblowing Policy was  further reviewed during the year by the  Audit Committee. This policy can be viewed on our website  www.rotork.com in the Investors  section under Corporate Responsibility –  Workplace & Community.  Suppliers Business integrity and fair dealing is key to  the Groups relationships with its suppliers  and contractors. The Group is committed to  long-term relationships with its supply base.  These relationships are reinforced through  procurement and supplier quality visits. Rotorks outsourced model of manufacture  places a high emphasis on supplier  selection and evaluation. Values such as  integrity, working conditions and non use  of child labour are core to our principles  and we actively search for these same  values within our supply base. Rotork is  committed to long-term partnerships with  its suppliers and these relationships are  reinforced through regular visits, robust  audits and an active supplier development  and risk reduction focus. A typical audit  would involve a review of safe working  methods, waste reduction initiatives and  working conditions appraisal. Our aim is  to procure components from the very best  suppliers who have a sustainable business  model that will reduce their impact on their  employees and their environment. Supplier site visits involve observations of  The Ethics and Values policies specifically  state that Rotork will never offer, pay,  solicit or accept bribes in any form.  Group internal audits include Ethics policy  compliance monitoring and these are  reported to the Audit Committee. The Ethics Committee is a sub-committee  of the CSR Committee and its members  include the Group Finance Director and  Group Legal Director. The Committees  remit includes review of the Group  Ethics Policy and further development of  systems and procedures for appropriate  monitoring of the policies together  with provision of suitable training for  employees. The Ethics Committee  reports into the CSR Committee whose  Chair, the Chief Executive, reports into  the RMB and Board on ethical matters.  Senior Managers worldwide regularly  receive presentations and training on the  Groups ethical policies to enable them  to ensure their staff are fully aware of  and understand Rotorks ethics practices.  These presentations make it clear that   the Board of Rotork p.l.c. fully support  and endorse the Group Ethics Policy. The Committee has during the year  undertaken a risk assessment of the  nature and extent of the risks relating to  bribery to which the Company is exposed.  Communication of Rotorks Ethics and  Values is now part of the induction process  for new employees and new agents and  takes due account of the Bribery Act  2010 and the associated draft guidelines.  These core ethical values will ensure each  individual employee acts at all times with  integrity, honesty and fairness towards  those whom they engage.   Rotork is a signatory to the United Nations  Global Compact and its ten Universal  Principles. These Principles are derived  from the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights (UDHR) and incorporate human  rights, labour, environment, bribery and  corruption. The Group supports the UDHR  and the International Labour Organisations  Declaration of Fundamental Principles and    ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  27 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Photograph courtesy of WaterAid/Marco Betti Genet Weldegerite, Mahilet Solomon, and Seliman Mehamed Suhar at the tapstand,  Hiwane elementary school, Ethiopia.  safe working practice, ages of employees,  correct handling procedures and the correct  use of hazardous materials. Any irregularities  observed are pointed out to suppliers and  corrective action is taken. Supplier audits  are distributed internally within the Group.  Assurance is also sought that suppliers  uphold all local laws generally applicable  to their locality and operations. Most key  suppliers are registered to ISO 9000. Supplier development is ongoing and  involves elements developed in the motor  industry of the QS 9000 system which is  part of ISO 9000.   Health & safety Rotork aims to provide a safe working  environment for all visitors to our premises  and also for our employees wherever they  work. The Group Health & Safety Policy,  endorsed by the Chief Executive, sets  out the Groups requirement to meet or  exceed legislation and other requirements  in the countries in which Rotork operates. The policy can be viewed on our website  www.rotork.com in the investors section  under Corporate Responsibility –  Workplace & Community.  Effective management of our Health &  Safety Programme enables us to:  Minimise the risk of injury to our  employees, customers and suppliers  and damage to property  Reduce costs associated with employee  illness, injury and loss of physical assets  Reduce the risk of legislative breaches The Group operates a behaviour-based  safety programme. This requires managers  and supervisors to encourage safe working  practices by:  Promoting regular safety observations  Regularly asking employees for their  suggestions for improving safety at   their facility  Holding employees accountable for  observing these practices  Providing managing safety courses  for line management  Regular health & safety training on  subjects such as manual handling and  confined spaces In all our sites, the safety of people and  property is paramount. Rotork employees  are engaged in activities which include  manual handling of heavy objects,  mechanical lifting, operating machinery  and driving to suppliers and customers  locations. In addition to working in the  Groups facilities, Rotorks Site Service  Engineers work on customer sites, which  are often inherently more hazardous. Three key measures are monitored  across the Group: accident frequency  rate, lost time rate and incident  frequency rate. By monitoring the results  of these measures we are able to identify  areas of strong performance which can  then be shared across the Group and  areas of weakness and consequently  activities that may benefit from additional  resources and training.  The Groups target is to achieve lower  than industry averages in health & safety  performance for our sector. A peer group  benchmark is used for comparative  purposes. In 2010 the rate at which  industrial accidents occurred across  all of our facilities was 0.38 injuries  per 100,000 hours worked. The Group  undertakes to keep the number of  working hours lost through health & safety  incidents to a minimum. For the second  consecutive year the number of accidents  has fallen while the number of near misses  reported remains high, indicating that  safety awareness continues to be positive.  The Accident Frequency Rate over the last  five years is shown on page 21.  28  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Right: Charity casual  day, Rotork South Africa. Below: RPC Milwaukee  employee, Doug Landers,  100 mile cycle ride for  Missing Children Charity. Bottom: Cupcakes at  Flow-Quips Oklahoma  Catfish Fry for WaterAid. Shareholders Information on our relationship with  shareholders, a key stakeholder group,   is contained in the Corporate Governance  section on page 36.   Community involvement Rotork considers it important to contribute  to and engage positively with stakeholders  in the communities in which it operates.  As a global Group, Rotork is committed  to charitable engagement on a worldwide  scale. During 2010, Rotork launched its  Global Charity Initiative where each site was  encouraged to organise fundraising events  to generate funds for the 2010 selected  global charity WaterAid and in particular  their Project based in the Mysore District of  Karnataka state, Southern India. Employees  enthusiastically engaged in fundraising  in a wide range of activities including an  Oklahoma Catfish Fry and silent auctions  in the USA, a water melon party in Korea,  a family fun day in China and in Spain  designing and selling air fresheners for  the cause. The Group and its staff made a  combined contribution of 90,000 to the  Project. Employees from Rotork India visited  the Mysore project meeting Project leaders  and leaders of the benefitting communities  and were pleased to see the successful  provision of water and sanitation in this  remote area of Karnataka. Over the three  years of the Project, approximately 7,000  people in small remote villages have gained  access to safe sanitation and 10,000  people have gained access to safe water. For 2011 Rotork has chosen to continue  to support WaterAid and will sponsor its  Jeldu Woreda Solar Powered water project  in Ethiopia. This project aims to develop  water schemes, mainly through capping  springs which then distribute water through  water points at locations selected by the  local benefitting communities who live in  remote villages. Rotork also believes it is important to  be a good community neighbour. The  Group regards this as part of its ongoing  responsibilities as a corporate entity. We  seek to be regarded as a good corporate  citizen. This links into the Groups  corporate values which include producing a  positive and beneficial impact in the areas  in which we operate. One of the ways  Rotork does this is by having local charity  committees at each of its sites who donate  to local charities and this empowers local  employees to decide how to distribute  the funds in their local communities.  During 2010, employees have volunteered  in a variety of ways including painting  community centres, donating time to  participate in a day of caring and repairing  fences in an animal sanctuary which  provides therapy for sick children.  Individual employees or groups of  employees also engage in community  activities and the Charity Committees will  normally match monies raised by employees  who undertake charitable events personally.  This year the sponsored charity events  employees participated in included   a 100 mile cycle ride and a 26 mile walk.  Rotork was a sponsor of a public art  event in Bath where local artists were  commissioned to decorate Lion sculptures  which were then auctioned off for charity.  The Rotork sponsored lion, Roartork,  was decorated in an interpretative way to  represent the important role of actuators.  Rotork Bath purchased the lion at  auction and it now resides in the Group  headquarters. Rotork in Bath has also  sponsored local sporting teams and   events throughout the year.  The Group has forged links with local  universities, colleges and schools in a  number of the locations where it operates  and sponsors students to go into higher  education in India in addition to sponsoring  a school there. Rotork is the industry  member of the Bath Education Trust,  which has as its objectives educational  advancement in local schools and the  promotion of community cohesion. Bath  Education Trust has provided the Group  with an opportunity to further develop links  with Bath. Rotork staff held sessions for  students providing experience of working  in industry and ran courses intended  to develop skills such as negotiating,  presenting and project management. A Company representative is a member  of the Industrial Advisory Board for the  Mechanical Engineering Department of Bath  University. Rotork is also a member of an  initiative of the Engineering Development  Trust and sponsors a science project  currently being undertaken by pupils   in the sixth form of a local Bath school.  Peter France Chief Executive 28 February 2011   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  29 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Rotork Management Board The Rotork Management Board (RMB) is the executive committee of Rotork directors  responsible for ensuring the development, implementation and execution of Group strategy.  The RMB meets at least quarterly during the year. Alex Busby  MD Rotork Fluid Systems Alex (51) joined in 1985 and spent  four years at Rotork. He then went to a  major competitor where he held various  management roles in Asia and Europe.  On rejoining Rotork in 2003 he became  Business Development Manager, then  Business Development Director, before  taking on the role of Managing Director   at Rotork Fluid Systems. Number of years in industry  26 Number of years at Rotork   12 David Littlejohns  MD Rotork Gears David (42) joined Rotork in 1985 working  in the engineering design department. He  moved to the USA in 1996 as an engineer  in our plant in Rochester, New York from  where he moved into a sales role, initially  on the east coast and latterly as Sales  Manager in California. In 2006 he returned  to the UK as Managing Director of the  Rotork Gears Division.  Number of years in industry  26 Number of years at Rotork   26 Stephen Jones  Group Legal Director Stephen (52) joined Rotork in 1999.   He is Group Legal Director and Company  Secretary. He is a Solicitor and has   held previous positions in industry   and private practice. Number of years in industry  23 Number of years at Rotork   12 Alastair Spurr  Group Operations Director Alastair (42) joined Rotork in 2005 as  Operations Director of the Rotork Controls  Division and is a member of the Rotork  Management Board. He is a Chartered  Engineer and has previously held positions  within the engineering, construction and  retail industries. Number of years in industry  24 Number of years at Rotork   6 Carlos Elvira  Group Sales & Marketing Director Carlos (54) joined Rotork in 1981 as an  engineering graduate, becoming our first  Graduate Trainee in International Sales.  He became Middle East and European  International Area Manager in 1984 and  later International Sales Manager in 1989.  He has been Sales and Marketing Director  since September 1999. Number of years in industry  29 Number of years at Rotork   29 Grant Wood  MD Rotork Controls Grant (44) has been appointed Managing  Director of Rotork Controls and he joins the  Rotork Management Board in March 2011.  Grant joined Rotork in 2006 as director  of Rotork Site Service (RSS) following  a career in management consultancy  and the utility industry. He has been  responsible for driving RSS forward over  the last four years. Number of years in industry  5 Number of years at Rotork   5 Peter France Chief Executive  Jonathan Davis Finance Director Bob Arnold President, Rotork Controls Inc  Graham Ogden Group R&D Director Biographies for the following RMB  members appear on page 30  30  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Board of Directors The Board of Directors  comprises the Chairman,  the three independent  non-executive directors  and the four executive  directors. Executive Peter France p  Chief Executive Peter (42) joined Rotork in 1989 and in  2008 was appointed Chief Executive of  Rotork p.l.c. Prior to that appointment  Peter has had roles within Rotork as Chief  Operating Officer, Managing Director of  Rotork Fluid Systems, Director of Rotorks  Singapore Company, with responsibility for  South East Asia, and in International Sales. Bob Arnold  President of Rotork Controls Inc. Bob (59), who was appointed to the  Rotork p.l.c. Board in 2001, is a Graduate  Engineer. Previously with Westinghouse  in the USA, he joined Rotork Controls  Inc. in 1978 as Engineering Manager  subsequently becoming Vice President,  Engineering and since 1988 President of  Rotork Controls Inc. Bob has responsibility  for all Rotorks interests in the Americas. Graham Ogden Research & Development Director Graham (54) holds a PhD and 1st class  honours degree in electronic engineering  from Bristol University and has been with  Rotork since 1985. Graham has been  closely involved in product development  including our award winning IQ series.  He was appointed to the Rotork Controls  Divisional board in 1997 as Research &  Development Director and joined the Board  of Rotork p.l.c. in January 2005. Jonathan Davis  Finance Director Jonathan (44) is a Chartered Accountant  and joined Rotork in 2002 after holding  a number of finance positions in listed  companies. Jonathan gained experience  of the Rotork business initially as Group  Financial Controller and then as Finance  Director of the Rotork Controls Division  before being appointed Group Finance  Director in April 2010.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  31 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Non-executive Roger Lockwood p Chairman Roger (65) has been a non-executive  director of Rotork since joining the Board  in 1988 and became non-executive  Chairman in November 1998. He is  Chairman of the Nomination Committee.  He is Chairman of Colston Engineering  Services Limited and Hydro International  plc and has previously held CEO roles in  automotive and engineering businesses. Ian King lpt Non-executive Director Ian (54) joined the Board in February  2005 as a non-executive director. He is  Chief Executive of BAE Systems plc having  held other senior general management  positions at BAE Systems and previously  at Marconi. He is a member of the Audit,  Remuneration and Nomination Committees  and is the senior independent non- executive director. John Nicholas lpt Non-executive Director John (54) was appointed to the Board in  2008 as a non-executive director. He was  previously Group Finance Director of Tate  & Lyle plc and Kidde plc. He is also a non- executive director of Mondi plc, Hunting  plc and Ceres Power Holdings plc and is a  member of the Financial Reporting Review  Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.  He is Chairman of the Audit Committee  and a member of the Remuneration and  Nomination Committees. Gary Bullard lpt Non-executive Director Gary (53) joined the Board in June 2010  as a non-executive director. He is the  Founder and CEO of Catquin, a company  which supports senior female executives  in furthering or diversifying their careers.  He previously held senior management  positions, including sales and marketing  roles, at IBM and BT Group plc and was   a non-executive director of Chloride Group  plc. He is Chairman of the Remuneration  Committee and a member of the Audit   and Nomination Committees. Key l Audit Committee JE Nicholas (Chairman), G Bullard, IG King p Nomination Committee RC Lockwood (Chairman), G Bullard,  IG King, JE Nicholas, PI France t Remuneration Committee G Bullard (Chairman), IG King, JE Nicholas  32  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 This section of the report deals with how the Board  and its Committees discharge their duties and how  we applied the principles in the UKs Combined  Code on Corporate Governance June 2008 edition  (the Code). Here you will find detailed statements  concerning our compliance with the provisions of the  Code. Following the publication of the UK Corporate  Governance Code June 2010 (the 2010 Code)  the Board reviewed its implications. Consequential  changes made to Board procedures following that  review are also referred to in this section. The role that Board Committees play in UK corporate   governance is very significant and certain  responsibilities need to be overseen by directors  who are independent of the activities they are  required to oversee.  Set out below is a commentary on how the Company  applies the main and supporting principles of the  Code applicable to the accounting period applying  to this Report and Accounts. Specific disclosures  required within the provisions of the Code are also  made within this section. Corporate Governance Code compliance statement The Board currently comprises the  Chairman, four executive directors and  three non-executive directors (Code  provision A.3.1). As Rotork p.l.c. is  considered a large company by the Code  it is recognised that full compliance  (A.3.2) currently would require one  further independent non-executive to  be appointed so that half the Board,  excluding the Chairman comprise  independent non-executive directors. The  Board has considered whether changes  to the composition of the Board should  be made and has concluded that as  each of the non-executive directors  are very strong and senior individuals  with experience of International FTSE  100 Boards, sufficient non-executive  director strength exists on the Board.  The Board intends over time to move  towards full compliance with respect to  Board composition. Subject to the matter  of the number of independent non- executives referred to in this paragraph  the Company considers that it complies  with the provisions of the Code. Internal control Board members recognise their  responsibilities to ensure that the  statutory requirements to deliver balanced  and understandable assessments of  the Companys position are achieved.  The Board is satisfied that these  responsibilities are met by using the  financial systems and applying the  procedures described below, supported   by our system of internal control: 	 using	an	appropriate	system	of	 accounting records, capable of  operating with reasonable accuracy  and in compliance with local and  international financial and legal  reporting requirements. The basis  used to prepare our Group financial  statements is International Financial  Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted  by the European Union. The Company  financial statements and Directors  Remuneration Report are prepared in  accordance with applicable law and  United Kingdom Generally Accepted  Accounting Standards; 	 using	IFRSs	to	ensure	a	true	and	fair	 view of the state of affairs of the Group  is given, including our profit or loss   for the period; 	 deploying	appropriate	accounting	 policies within the framework of   IFRS and ensuring these are  consistently applied; 	 making	judgements	and	preparing	 estimates that are reasonable and  prudent; 	 operating	within	the	guidelines	of	all	  the disclosure advice provided by UK  and international statute; 	 considering	whether	adoption	of	the	 going concern basis is appropriate; 	 maintaining	robust	assurance	  processes and controls over our  financial reporting procedures; 	 extending	these	principles	to	  half-yearly reports and other reports   in the public domain. The Board reviews the effectiveness of  the system of internal control and risk  management annually (C.2.1). The review  covers financial, operational, compliance  and risk management controls. The role  of management is to implement and  maintain the internal control and risk    ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  33 	 The	Board	reviews	the	role	of	 insurances in managing risk across  the Group; 	 The	Board	regularly	receives	written	 and oral reports from management on  all aspects of production, operations,  financial and risk management matters. Prior to the year end the full Board,  following detailed consideration by the  Audit Committee, formally reviews the  effectiveness of the Groups system of  internal control. Risk management A continuous process for identifying,  evaluating and managing the significant  risks faced by the Group continued to be  applied and developed during the year  under review and operated up to the   date of approval of the Annual Report   and Accounts. Senior managers with responsibility  across all functions participate in the  risk management process on a regular  basis. During this process key risks  already identified are re-evaluated  and new key risks facing the Groups  businesses are identified and evaluated.  Their deliberations are reported to the  Audit Committee and Board by the Group  Finance Director who is responsible for  the risk management matrix. The process  is based on senior managers detailed  knowledge and understanding of key risks  Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information management systems. The system of  internal control is designed to reduce but  cannot eliminate the risks of failure to  meet business objectives. Internal control  therefore can only provide reasonable but  not absolute assurance in meeting such  business objectives or against material  misstatement or loss. The processes that are used by the Board  to review the effectiveness of this system of  internal control include the following (C.2.1): During the year the Audit Committee: 	 Monitored	and	reviewed	the	 effectiveness of internal audit activities; 	 Reviewed	and	monitored	external	auditor	 independence and objectivity and the  effectiveness of the audit process; 	 Considered	reports	from	management,	 internal and external audit on the  system of internal financial control and  any material control weaknesses; 	 Received	reports	on	health	&	safety; 	 Discussed	with	management	the	range	 of actions taken on problem areas  for the business identified by Board  members or in the internal and external  audit reports. Additionally: 	 The	Board	receives	copies	of	the	 minutes of all Audit Committee  meetings and a briefing on all   Audit Committee meetings by the  Committee Chairman; within and external to the business, based  on formal management information and  reports and their interaction and daily  dealings with those reporting directly  to them, their colleagues and external  parties. The process includes separate  exercises to identify and evaluate key risks  at divisional level by each Divisional Board.  These divisional key risks are then collated  and considered for Group materiality. They  are then evaluated formally at a Group  risk review exercise attended by members  of the Divisional Boards and the Rotork  Management Board. The non-executive  directors are also invited to attend. The  output of that meeting identifies risks with  weightings for likelihood and Group impact.  The principal risks and uncertainties facing  the Group are commented on in the  Business Review section of this Annual  Report & Accounts. Internal financial audits are undertaken  on a regular basis by a selected group  of accountants drawn from head office  and across the divisional businesses and  geographic centres. All these accountants  participate in a training programme which  covers internal audit, best practice and  control procedures. Work will continue to further embed internal  control and risk management in the  operations of the business and to further  enhance and add to the relevant processes. The Board The Board currently has eight members  comprising: the Chairman, the three  independent non-executive directors   as accepted by the Code, and four  executive directors. The Companys Articles of Association  provide that one third of the directors  shall retire from office by rotation at  each Annual General Meeting (AGM).  New directors are subject to election by  shareholders at the first opportunity after  their appointment (A.7.1). Additionally  from the 2011 AGM the Board has  decided that all directors will be subject  to annual re-election which is a new  provision of the 2010 Code for FTSE350  companies. In line with the Code guidance,  non-executive directors are normally  appointed for an initial term of three years,  which is then reviewed and extended for  up to a further two three year periods  (A.7.2). On appointment directors receive  a suitable and tailored induction (A.5.1).  There is a clear division of responsibility  approved by the Board in writing between  the Chairman, RC Lockwood, and the   Directors Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings (A.1.2)   Board   Audit  Remuneration  Nomination   Meeting  Committee  Committee  Committee No. of meetings  8  3  2  1 Bob Arnold  8  n/a  n/a  n/a Jonathan Davis  82  31  n/a  n/a Peter France  8  31  21  1 Graham Ogden  8  n/a  n/a  n/a Bob Slater3  1  11  n/a  n/a Gary Bullard4  5  2  1  n/a Ian King  8  3  2  1 Roger Lockwood  8  31  21  1 John Nicholas  8  3  2  1 Alex Walker3  2  1  1  n/a 1 By Invitation. 2 Jonathan Davis was appointed to the Board in April 2010 and attended the February 2010 board  meeting by Invitation. 3 Bob Slater retired in March 2010 and Alex Walker resigned in April 2010.  4 Gary Bullard joined the board of Rotork p.l.c. as a Non-Executive Director in June 2010 and attended all  board and committee meetings following his appointment.  34  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Chief Executive, PI France, that ensures  that there is a balance of power and  authority between the running of the Board  and the executive responsibility for the  running of the Companys business (A.2.1).  IG King is the current senior independent  non-executive director (A.3.3).  There are usually at least eight meetings   of the Board which take place throughout  the year (A.1.1). During the year Board meetings are  scheduled at manufacturing sites other  than the Companys headquarters in Bath.  This allows, in particular, non-executive  directors to meet management at these  sites and receive presentations from them.  During the year under review the Board  visited and held Board meetings at its  manufacturing site in Lucca, Italy. The Chairman ensures through the  Company Secretary, that the Board  Agenda and all relevant information  is provided to the Board sufficiently in  advance of meetings. The Chairman and  Company Secretary discuss the Agenda  ahead of every meeting. At meetings the  Chairman ensures that all directors are  able to make an effective contribution  throughout meetings and every director  is encouraged to participate and provide  opinions for each Agenda item. The  Chairman always seeks to achieve  unanimous decisions of the Board  following due discussion of Agenda items.  The Schedule of Reserved Matters details  those matters specifically reserved for  Board decision. The types of decision  which are reserved for Board decision  relate to matters which cannot, or the  Board considers should not, be delegated  to the Chief Executive and executive  management. They include approval  of Group commercial strategy and  succession planning, approval of Group  annual operating and capital expenditure  budgets, recommendations for payment   of the final proposed dividend and  decisions for interim dividends and  dividend policy, approval of the Annual  Report & Accounts and announcements   of final and interim results, ensuring  sound internal control and risk  management, executive director  remuneration, corporate governance  matters including Board and Committee  performance appraisals and Board and  Committee membership. The directors  also have powers to issue and buy back  the Companys shares conferred annually  by the shareholders at the AGM. The  Board regularly considers and discusses  future strategy, following submissions   by management, at Board meetings and,  on occasion, separate strategy meetings.  The non-executive directors constructively  challenge and help develop proposals  on strategy at those meetings. The  decisions which are left to management  are all those related to the successful  operation and management of the  Companys business and in implementing  the commercial strategy within the  limits set by the Board annually for  overall operational budgets and capital  expenditure (A.1.1). The Chairman ensures that meetings   of non-executives without the executives  present are held (A.1.3). All directors   have access to the advice and services   of the Company Secretary and through   him they can request and obtain  independent professional advice at the  Companys expense where they judge it  necessary to discharge their responsibilities  as directors (A.5.2 and A.5.3). The  Company maintains appropriate directors  and officers insurance cover (A.1.5). Share capital Information on the Companys share  capital is provided on page 43 of the  Directors Report.  Performance evaluation A formal process for performance  evaluation of the Board, its Committees  and individual directors takes place  annually. For 2010, the evaluation took  the form of an initial questionnaire  prepared in conjunction with external  consultants covering a wide range of  Board related matters. The responses  to the questionnaire were then  considered by the Chairman, who then  conducted individual interviews with  the directors taking account of trends  in the questionnaire responses as well  as individual points. This questionnaire  was developed and enhanced following  feedback in previous evaluations to focus  on those matters that the Chairman  considered were of most interest to Board  members following previous comment.  The results and analysis including  the main findings of the evaluation  were, following the questionnaire and  interviews, reported to the Board by the  Chairman. Appropriate action will be  taken on the findings during the following  year and then re-evaluated at the next  annual evaluation. The evaluation to be  conducted in 2011 will use an external  facilitator complying with the 2010 Code. Nomination Committee Responsibilities 	 Reviewing	regularly	the	composition	 of the Board and making  recommendations to the Board   on any desired changes; 	 Planning	for	the	orderly	succession	  of new directors to the Board including,  identifying and nominating for the  Boards approval suitable candidates   to fill non-executive vacancies; 	 Recommending	to	the	Board	the	 membership of Board Committees. Composition The Nomination Committees members  during the year under review were   RC Lockwood (who chairs the Committee),  A Walker, IG King, JE Nicholas, G Bullard  and PI France. A Walker retired from the  Committee during the year and G Bullard  was appointed to the Committee. The  Nomination Committee comprises three  independent directors, the Chief Executive  and the Chairman. A majority of the  members of the Nomination Committee  are therefore independent non-executive  directors as accepted by the Code  (A.4.1).  The Terms of Reference of the  Nomination Committee can be  accessed on the Companys website  www.rotork.com in the Investors  section under Corporate Governance  Committees (A.4.1). Activities during the year A major part of the work of the Committee  during the year involved the appointment  of a new Group Finance Director to take  effect from 1 April 2010. Having identified  Jonathan Davis as a suitable internal  candidate the Nomination Committee  arranged appropriate external assessments  to be undertaken of his suitability for the  post as well as face-to-face meetings with  all members of the Nomination Committee.  During the year the Committee also  recommended the appointment of Gary  Bullard as a non-executive director and  Chairman of Remuneration Committee.   An external consultant was engaged to  search for suitable candidates.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  35 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Audit Committee Main Responsibilities 	 Reviewing	the	effectiveness	of	the	 Companys financial reporting, internal  control policies and procedures for the  identification, assessment and reporting  of risk; 	 Monitoring	the	role	and	effectiveness	of	 the internal audit function; 	 Keeping	the	relationship	with	the	 auditors under review, including the  Terms of Engagement and fees, and  their independence; 	 Monitoring	the	integrity	of	the	 Companys financial statements; 	 Reviewing	significant	financial	reporting	 issues and judgements. Composition The Audit Committee (the Committee)   of the Board is currently comprised of  three non-executive directors,   JE Nicholas, IG King and G Bullard.   During the year under review A Walker  retired as a member of the Committee  and G Bullard was subsequently  appointed. JE Nicholas was Chairman of  the Committee throughout the year. There  were therefore at all times throughout  the year three independent non-executive  directors who were members of the  Audit Committee (C.3.1). The Board is  satisfied that at least one member of  the Committee, JE Nicholas, has recent  and relevant financial experience having  recently served as a Finance Director  of a large listed company. He is also a  member of the Financial Reporting Review  Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.  The Finance Director, Chief Executive,  Chairman and the external auditors  normally attend meetings and there is a  meeting at least once a year between the  Committee and the external auditors at  which management is not present. Activities during the year The Committee met three times during the  year. An annual Rolling Audit Committee  Agenda is reviewed at each meeting and  ensures that all matters within the Audit  Committees Terms of Reference are  appropriately covered. The Committees responsibilities include  monitoring the integrity of the Groups  financial statements and reviewing the  results announcements. In fulfilling this  responsibility the Committee considers  significant financial reporting judgements  made by management, taking into  account the reports received from the  Group Finance Director and the external  auditors and considers the compliance of  the financial statements with International  Financial Reporting Standards. It also  has responsibility for reviewing the  effectiveness of the Groups system of  internal controls and risk management  systems, details of which can be found  on page 33 of this Annual Report. At  least once during each financial year  the Committee meets with the external  auditors, separately, without executive  management present. This provides  an additional opportunity for an open  exchange of views and feedback. The Committee operates under formal  Terms of Reference and these are reviewed  annually. The Committee considers that  it has discharged its responsibilities as  set out in its Terms of Reference to the  extent appropriate during the year. Specific  matters reviewed by the Committee during  2010 included: 	 Reviewing	the	integrity	of	the	Rotork	 Group full-year results and half-yearly  results, including reports from the  Group Finance Director and the external  auditors on those results; 	 Reviewing	the	preliminary	and	half-year	 announcements; 	 Consideration,	and	recommendation	  to the Board, of the implementation   of significant accounting policies for   the 2010 financial year; 	 Reviewing	the	Annual	Report; 	 Reviewing	external	audit	findings; 	 Reviewing	and	approving	the	external	 audit plan, the proposed fees for the  2010 year end and the engagement  letters; 	 Reviewing	the	effectiveness,	 independence and objectivity of the  external auditors and considering their  reappointment; 	 Monitoring	the	effectiveness	of	the	 risk management process, including  an annual review of all key Group risks  identified and mitigating controls; 	 Monitoring	the	effectiveness	of	the	 Groups system of internal controls  including reviewing significant internal  audit reports and findings; 	 Reviewing	the	non-audit	services	policy	 and the services approved; 	 Monitoring	and	reviewing	the	 effectiveness of internal audit activities,  which included: a review of the internal  audit charter; audits carried out, the  results thereof and managements  response and the programmes and  resourcing for 2010 and 2011; 	 Monitoring	health	&	safety	performance	 data and receiving reports from the  Rotork Management Board member  responsible for health & safety practice  and procedures; 	 A	review	of	new	regulations	and	 governance regarding the operation and  responsibilities of audit committees; and 	 A	review	of	the	Terms	of	Reference	  of the Committee, its performance  against those terms and the 2011   work programme for the Committee. The Committee oversees the relationship  with the external auditors; is responsible  for their appointment, reappointment and  remuneration; reviews the effectiveness  of the external audit process; and ensures  that the objectivity and independence  of the external auditors is maintained.  Representatives from the auditor report to  the Committee on their independence and  objectivity and the mechanisms employed  to ensure this is maintained. There are  also Group policies in place regarding  the employment of ex-audit staff and the  provision of non-audit services. During the review of the auditors  independence, the Committee considered  whether KPMG had met the agreed audit  plan including any work undertaken to  address any changes in perceived risks;  the robustness and perceptiveness of  the auditors handling of key accounting  judgements; responses to questions from  the Committee and feedback about the  conduct of the audit from key finance  personnel within the Company. The Committee, having considered all  relevant matters, has concluded that it  is satisfied that auditor independence  and objectivity have been maintained.  As such, the Committee does not  consider that it would be appropriate at  this time to put the audit out to tender  but will continue to keep this under  review. Following these considerations  the Committee made a recommendation  which was accepted by the Board that  resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc  be proposed at the 2011 AGM. A policy that formalises the arrangements  regarding the provision of non-audit  services provided by the auditors of  Rotork sets out the procedures for the  pre-approval of such services. All non- audit services provided by the auditors are  pre-approved by either the Group Finance  Director or the Committee Chairman under   36  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance delegated approval authorities from the  Committee. The breakdown of the fees  paid to the external auditors, including   the split between audit and non-audit   fees, is included in note 8 to the   financial statements.  The internal audit function is undertaken  by members of the Groups finance  departments who all have other distinct  posts. Further detail is provided in the  Internal Control section. The Group Finance  Director is also Head of Internal Audit.  This method of internal audit is reviewed  annually by the Committee. The Committee  remains satisfied with the arrangements  which ensure a comprehensive internal  audit programme is undertaken across  the Groups extensive function at each  meeting. The internal audit reports include  details of audits carried out, the results and  managements response to matters raised  during the audits. The Terms of Reference of the Audit  Committee which are reviewed at  least annually by the Committee are  available to view on the Companys  website www.rotork.com in the Investors  section under Corporate Governance –  Committees (C.3.2 and C.3.3).  There were no changes to the Terms of  Reference in the year under review. The  Committee considers the appointment of  the Auditor (C.3.6) and recommends to  the Board, the audit fees for shareholder  approval at the AGM. The work undertaken by the Committee  in discharging its internal control  responsibilities is described under the  Internal Control section above. Remuneration Committee The work of the Remuneration Committee  is described in the Remuneration Report on  pages 37 to 42. The Chairman and Chief  Executive were invited to and did attend all  meetings but both were not in attendance  when their own remuneration and fees  respectively were considered (B.2). Relations with Shareholders  Communication with shareholders is given  high priority. All members of the Board  receive copies of all analysts reports of  which the Company is made aware. The  Board receives non-attributable comments  from analyst meetings and shareholder  meetings after both interim and final  results (D.1.1) and other updates from its  corporate advisers. The Chief Executive  reports at each Board meeting upon his  meetings with analysts, fund managers  and shareholders (D.1.2). The Company  Secretary has written on behalf of the  Board to the Companys major shareholders  offering meetings with the non-executive  directors and requesting shareholders  to confirm they are content with current  Board level contact with the Company  and communication to non-executives.  The Chairman attends the preliminary and  interim announcements in London with the  Chief Executive and Finance Director and  is available to meet fund managers and  analysts on those days. Individual shareholders have an opportunity  to put questions to the Chairman at the  AGM and individual shareholder enquiries  are dealt with throughout the year by the  Company Secretarys department. At the AGM all proxy votes are counted  and (except in the event of a poll being  called) the balance for and against the  resolution and the number of votes  withheld is displayed for shareholders,  after it has been dealt with on a show   of hands. Prior to the AGM the Company  Secretary reports to the Board on the  results of the proxy returns and on the  comments and analysis undertaken by  voting agencies. A separate resolution   is prepared on each substantially  separate issue (D.2.1). The Chairman of  the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination  Committees are available to answer  questions at the AGM and all directors  attend (D.2.3). The Notice of AGM and  related papers are sent to shareholders  at least 20 working days before the  meeting (D.2.4).   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  37 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Remuneration Report Responsibilities 	 Formulating	a	policy	for	remuneration	of	 the Chairman and executive directors;  	 Within	the	agreed	policy,	determining	 individual remuneration packages for  the Chairman and executive directors  and reviewing the level of remuneration  for other Rotork Management Board  members; 	 Agreeing	the	terms	and	conditions	 to be included in service agreements  for executive directors, including  termination payments. The full Terms of Reference of the  Remuneration Committee can be   found on the Companys website,    www.rotork.com in the Investors  Section under Corporate Governance   – Committees (B.2.1) This Report is presented to shareholders  by the Board and sets out the Boards  remuneration policy and details of the  remuneration of each director. The Auditor  is required to report on the information  concerning directors emoluments, long  term incentive plan and other share awards  and pension disclosures. Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee (the  Committee) of the Board is currently  comprised of three independent non- executive directors, G Bullard, IG King  and JE Nicholas (Code provision B.2.1).  During the year under review A Walker  retired as Chairman and a member of the  Committee. G Bullard was subsequently  appointed a member of and Chairman  of the Committee. The Chairman and  Chief Executive are invited to attend  the meetings of the Committee, other  than when their own remuneration is  considered. The Committee makes  recommendations as required to the Board  on the Companys framework of executive  remuneration and its costs and determines  on the Boards behalf the individual  salaries and other terms and conditions  of employment for the executive directors  and the Chairman (B.2.2). The Committee  determines the terms of any discretionary  share schemes in which executive directors  may be invited to participate.  Remuneration Policy The Committee reviews remuneration  policy annually. For the year under review,  the Board continued to consider that  it was critical that the Company had  remuneration policies that enabled it  to motivate, retain and, when required,  recruit high quality management. Levels  of remuneration should be sufficient to  meet these objectives but should not be  excessive. In recommending the level  of remuneration for executive directors,  the Committee took account of the size  and nature of the Company, including,  in particular, its market capitalisation,  as well as its international scope and  revenue and made use of proprietary and  other data supplied by its independent  remuneration consultant and advisor  PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). Non-Executive Directors     Effective date  Notice period  Notice period from      of letter   from Company  non-executive    of appointment    director G Bullard    24/6/2010  3 months  3 months IG King    31/1/2011  3 months  3 months RC Lockwood    1/1/2011  3 months  3 months JE Nicholas    19/2/2011  3 months  3 months PwCs other connections with the Company  are limited to the provision of actuarial  advice for the Long Term Incentive Plan  (LTIP) calculations, associated LTIP  accounting advice and a limited amount   of other corporate advice. The Committee considers it important  that a significant proportion of executive  directors potential total remuneration  is performance related (B.1.1). This is  demonstrated by the percentage of basic  salary potentially payable as cash or share  awards under the annual cash bonus  scheme and LTIP respectively. Non-Executive Directors Non-executive directors are offered  engagement agreements of usually  three years duration, subject to earlier  termination by either party on three  months notice, with no provision for any  compensation payment on termination. The fees of the non-executive directors,  other than the Chairman, are determined  by a Board Committee of the Chief  Executive and Chairman. The fees   of the Chairman are determined by   the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating the  Companys remuneration policy as it applies to senior executives.  A core aim of this policy is to ensure pay practice for senior  management at Rotork is appropriate for the Company and its  shareholders. Below are set out the key responsibilities of the  Remuneration Committee. s Audited Information  38  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report The Committee recommended and   the Board approved an executive share  retention policy which supports the  accumulation of significant shareholdings  in the Company by executive directors and  other senior executives. The policy requires  executive directors to achieve a minimum  holding of ordinary shares in the Company  equivalent to 150% of basic salary for  executive directors. Executive directors are  required to make use of vesting LTIP shares  to meet this minimum target. Executive Bonus The executive annual cash bonus plan  applying in 2010 rewards increases in  profit, when compared with the average  profit over the three immediately preceding  years. The plan additionally rewards high  levels of free cash generation and growth  in earnings per share together with the  achievement of budgeted targets. During  the year under review the bonus payment  for directors other than the Chief Executive  was limited to 80% of basic salary. The  Chief Executives bonus was limited to  100% of basic salary by applying the  fraction 100/80 to the amount of bonus  percentage of basic salary calculated for  other executive directors in the year.  For 2011, following recommendations by  PwC that maximum executive level bonus  opportunities had fallen behind peers, the  Committee approved an increase of the  maximum bonus payable to the CEO of  125% of basic salary and 100% of salary  for other executive directors. In 2011, the  profit element of bonus will be calculated  in two parts. One half of the profit element  remains on the three year average basis  used in the prior scheme and the other  half will be based on performance against  an annual profit target. There will also  continue to be targets related to high  levels of free cash generation and growth  in earnings per share. The final element  of bonus payable will be based on non- financial targets where objectives will be  set annually. The scheme provides the  Remuneration Committee with a discretion  to withhold bonus where, in exceptional  circumstances, there is evidence of   mis-statement or misconduct. Rotork Long Term Incentive Plan  (2000 to 2009 Awards) s From 2000 to 2009 LTIP awards were  made under the Rotork Long Term Incentive  Plan (the 2000 Plan). The 2000 Plan is a  performance, share or cash unit plan under  which shares or cash units are conditionally  allocated to selected members of senior  management at the discretion of the  Committee on an annual basis. No shares  or cash units will normally be released  to participants unless they are still in the  Groups service following completion of  the relevant full performance period and  the Companys relative Total Shareholder  Return (TSR) against a comparator group  of companies places it in at least the 50th  percentile position in the comparator group  at the end of the relevant performance  period. TSR measures the change in value  of a share and reinvested dividends over  the period of measurement. The actual  number of shares or cash units transferred  will be determined by the number of shares  or cash units initially allocated multiplied  by a vesting percentage which for Awards  granted from 2006 is 30% at the 50th  percentile rising to 100% at the 75th  percentile with each percentile position  above the 50th adding 2.8% to the vesting  percentage. Under the 2000 Plan the Companys  earnings per share (EPS) is also  monitored during the relevant performance  period to ensure it meets a minimum  average annual growth equal to the rise  in the Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 2%  per annum. Failure to meet this RPI plus  2% per annum requirement will result  in nil vesting. The relative TSR against a  comparator group performance measure  was chosen as it enabled the Committee  to select a comparator group considered to  be sufficiently challenging given the historic  performance of the Company. A three year  performance period applies to awards  granted from 2006. Executive Directors Contracts of Employment   Effective date of  Notice period  Notice period  Contractual   service contract  from Company  from director retirement date            RH Arnold  28/5/2002  1 year  1 year  18/8/2016 JM Davis  1/4/2010  1 year  1 year  8/3/2031 PI France  2/5/2008  1 year  1 year  6/4/2033 GM Ogden  1/1/2005  1 year  1 year  9/1/2017 Executive Directors Contracts  of Employment PI France, RH Arnold, GM Ogden and JM  Davis all have rolling service contracts with  a one year notice period (B.1.6). The most recent executive director service  contracts contain provisions which limit  payments on termination to basic salary  with employer rights to require phased  payments. For future executive director  appointments, the Boards intention will   be to continue to limit service contracts   to one year on a rolling basis. None of the executive directors has any  external directorships with the exception of   PI France who is a director of Bath Education  Trust for which he receives no fee. Executive Remuneration The remuneration packages of each  individual director currently include basic  salary, an annual cash bonus, benefits  in kind (car and fuel, or car and fuel  allowance, and private medical insurance  for employee only), membership of the  all employee Rotork Share Incentive Plan  (SIP) or Overseas Profit-Linked Share  Scheme (OPLSS), discretionary Rotork  LTIP and the offer of participation in a  Rotork Group pension scheme. Further  details of all elements of each individual  directors remuneration package are set out  elsewhere in this report. Salary and benefits  including pension, car and fuel, or car and  fuel allowance, constitute fixed pay. In the year under review shareholders  approved the Rotork Long Term Share  Incentive Plan 2010 (the 2010 Plan)  and awards of 100% of basic salary were  made to the directors. The maximum  award under the 2010 Plan is 150% of  basic salary per annum. This maximum  was introduced taking account of current  market practice and the ten year life of   the Plan.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  39 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Rotork Long Term Share   Incentive Plan 2010 s In 2010 shareholders approved the Rotork  Long Term Share Incentive Plan (2010)  (the 2010 Plan). The first awards under  the 2010 Plan were made in 2010 and are  subject to a three year performance period. One half of the 2010 award (comprising  shares to a maximum initial value of 50%  of basic salary) is subject to a relative total  shareholder return (TSR) performance  condition measured against a designated  peer group as the table shows: There would be proportionate vesting  for performance which falls between  the 50th and 75th percentile TSR  rankings shown above. Prior to any  vesting, however, the Committee will  need to be satisfied that the recorded  TSR performance is a genuine reflection  of the Companys overall underlying  financial performance. The peer   group will be comprised of 19  comparable companies. The remaining one half of the award  (currently comprising shares to a maximum  initial value of 50% of basic annual salary)  will be subject to an EPS growth condition  which will be in addition to any increase in  inflation over the same three year period as  measured by reference to the Retail Prices  Index (RPI) as the table shows: There would be proportionate vesting for  performance which falls between the RPI  + 10% and RPI + 25% EPS growth targets  shown above. It is the intention of the Committee,  when considering whether to make  awards under the 2010 Plan each year,  to review both the size of awards and  the performance conditions to ensure  that, at the time of an award, they  are appropriate and challenging taking  into account any guidelines issued by  organizations representing the interests  of institutional shareholders or any other  relevant guidelines issued from time to  time. The maximum award permitted  is 150% of the basic annual salary,  however there is currently no intention   to exceed 100% of basic annual salary  for any participant.  LTIP Awards still outstanding at the time   of publication of this report made to  executive directors under the Plan are   set out in the table.  Rotork Long Term Share Incentive Plan 2010  Ranking of the Companys TSR in the peer group  % of award vesting Below 50th percentile  Nil 50th percentile  25% 75th percentile or above  100%  Comparator group of companies for LTIP awards in 2008, 2009 and 2010  Bodycote plc  Brammer plc  BSS plc Charter plc Cookson plc  Halma plc IMI plc Invensys plc  Laird plc Meggitt plc Morgan Crucible plc Renishaw plc Senior plc Smith Group plc  Spectris plc Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc TT Electronics plc Volex plc Weir Group plc Rotork Long Term Share Incentive Plan 2010 EPS growth  % of award vesting Below RPI + 10%  Nil RPI + 10%  15% RPI + 25%  100% Rotork Long Term Incentive Awards Outstanding s   Outstanding  Share or  Share or  Lapsed in  Outstanding   share or cash  cash unit  cash unit  2010  share or   unit Awards  Awards  Awards    cash unit   made to  made during  vesting in    Awards at   1 January  2010  20102   31 December   2010         2010 RH Arnold   67,494  16,170  (19,756)  0  63,908 JM Davis  9,501  14,418  (1,766)  0  22,153 PI France   92,855  25,738  (17,925)  0  100,668 GM Ogden   58,383  12,870  (19,206)  0  52,047 RE Slater4   73,766  0  (39,667)  (34,099)  0 1 All awards were granted on 23 April 2010. The market price of shares in the Company used to calculate  the award was 13.57. 2 The 2007 LTIP Awards vested at 100%. 3 RH Arnold, a United States citizen and resident, was awarded shares in the 2009 and 2010 awards  and cash units of a monetary value equivalent to share awards under the LTIP in previous awards. 4 RE Slater received as a leaver a discretionary award of 15,340 shares under the Rules of the Plan.  40  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report Interests in Shares The interests of the directors in the  ordinary share capital of the Company,   at 31 December 2010 are set out in   the table. All interests were beneficial and include  directors directly held and family share  interests and in total represent less than  1% (2009: less than 1%) of voting shares  of the Company. Directors emoluments (000) for directors in office at 31/12/10 s   Salary  Bonus  Benefits*  Pension  2010  2009*   and fees      Supplement  Total  Total Executive directors            RH Arnold   219  161  17  -  397  392 JM Davis2,3  150  110  14  10  284  - PI France2  357  328  17  53  755  766 GM Ogden   179  131  17  -  327  331 RE Slater4  56  41  4  -  101  412 Non-executive directors            IG King  43  -  -  -  43  40 RC Lockwood   100  -  -  -  100  100 JE Nicholas  41  -  -  -  41  38 A Walker   19  -  -  -  19  38 G Bullard   15  -  -  -  15  -   1,179  771  69  63  2,082  2,117 1 RH Arnold is paid in US dollars. 2 PI France and JM Davis are subject to the Rotork p.l.c. Pension and Life Assurance Scheme specific salary cap. In consideration of this limitation on their benefits  under the Scheme they receive a monthly cash sum equal to 22.5% and 18% respectively of that part of their basic salary above the Schemes specific cap on  an annualised basis.  3 Remuneration stated is that received by JM Davis since appointment as an executive director on 1 April 2010. 4 On leaving the Companys employment on 31 March 2010 RE Slater received a separate payment of 224,400 in addition to the basic salary remuneration  stated above together with continuation of other contractual benefits for 12 months from leaving date including pension benefits details of which are on page 42. 5 Remuneration stated is that received in fees by G Bullard since appointment as a non-executive director on 24 June 2010. 6 A Walker retired as a director on 23 April 2010. * These columns include the cash value on allocation of SIP and OPLSS share Awards as appropriate. Interests in Shares   2010  2009   Number  Number RH Arnold  18,886  18,659 JM Davis  11,298  - PI France  43,616  34,635 GM Ogden  28,789  17,249 G Bullard  2,790  - IG King  5,000  5,000 RC Lockwood  1,000  - JE Nicholas  500  -   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  41 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Share Awards to Executive  Directors s  In common with all eligible employees,  UK based executive directors receive an  entitlement to ordinary shares under The  Rotork Share Incentive Plan (SIP) which  is approved by Her Majestys Revenue  and Customs (HMRC). Under the SIP  and Rotork Overseas Profit-Linked Share  Scheme (OPLSS) an aggregate total  of up to 5% of profits are distributed  to employees each year in the form  of ordinary shares. The distribution is  calculated by reference to years of service  and basic salary. The beneficial interests  of the executive directors at 31 December  included ordinary shares held under the  SIP and the OPLSS in trust as shown in  the table opposite. Details of total free  share Awards under the SIP and OPLSS  and Awards made to executive directors in  2010 and the prior year are set out in the  table above. Free shares awarded to all  three UK executive directors under the   SIP are subject to the HMRC upper limit  of 3,000 by value. Additionally, JM Davis  has purchased partnership shares under  the SIP. His SIP partnership holdings   at 31 December 2010 were 470   ordinary shares. RH Arnold, in common with other eligible  overseas employees, participates in the  OPLSS. This scheme is also limited to  awards of up to 3,000 per employee.   The scheme trustee is based in Jersey,  Channel Islands. The figure shown for   RH Arnold relates solely to OPLSS. UK based executive directors, in common  with other eligible UK employees, have  the opportunity to invest in the HMRC  approved Rotork Sharesave Scheme. GM  Ogden, PI France and JM Davis participate  in the Scheme. PI France was granted  3,484 share options on 5 October 2005  at an option price of 4.62 which he  exercised on 1 December 2010. On 5  October 2010 PI France was granted  1,179 shares at an option price of  13.10. On 1 December 2007 GM Ogden  was granted 2,071 share options under  the Rotork Sharesave Scheme at an  option price of 8.11. On 6 October 2008  JM Davis was granted 1,301 shares at  an option price of 7.72. These options  are all exercisable five years from grant.  The exercise period is six months duration  after which the options lapse. The only other changes in the directors  interest post year end relate to shares  purchased by the UK based directors  monthly under the Rotork SIP partnership  plan to a maximum 125 per month. Save as disclosed, no director or his   family had any interest in the shares   of the Company at 31 December 2010. Total Shareholder Return The graph shows the value, to 31  December 2010, of 100 invested  in Rotork p.l.c. on 1 January 2006  compared with the value of 100  invested in the FTSE Industrial  Engineering Sector Index. The other  points plotted show values at intervening  financial year ends. The graph measures  the Companys performance against  other companies in the FTSE Industrial  Engineering sector by showing the TSR  on a holding of ordinary shares in the  Company compared with the average  total shareholder return of other  companies in its sector being the sector  within which the Company is quoted  on the London Stock Exchange and  which is therefore considered the most  appropriate index over the five   year period to 31 December 2010. Free SIP and OPLSS Share Awards to Executive Directors s   Awards in  Total Awards held   2010  2009  2010  2009 RH Arnold  209  350  583  1,161 JM Davis  209  350  2,034  1,825 PI France  209  350  3,800  3,591 GM Ogden  209  350  3,980  3,771 Jan 06 ROTORK p.l.c. FTSE Industrial Engineering Sector Dec 10 Dec 09 Dec 08 Dec 07 Dec 06 350 300 50 100 200 150 250 0 130 155 131 321 203  42  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report Pension disclosures required  under the Listing Rules of the  Financial Services Authority The following table shows the executive  directors entitlements earned during the  year (net of inflation) and the accumulated  entitlement at the year end. Pension disclosures required under the Companies Act 2006 s     Age at  Increase in  Accumulated     31.12.2010   accrued pension  accrued pension       over the year  at 31.12.2010       (Note 1)  (Note 2)          RH Arnold    59  7,799  108,918 JM Davis    44  1,699  11,592 PI France    42  1,923  44,769 GM Ogden    53  4,735  81,611 RE Slater    59  8,795  146,197 Notes: 1. The figures shown for the increase in accrued pension over the year exclude any increase for inflation. 2. The accumulated accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement from normal  pension age, based on service to 31 December 2010. 3. A lump sum death benefit of four times basic annual salary is payable on death in service. 4. A dependants pension of one-half of prospective pension is payable on death in service, and of one- half of pre-commutation pension on death in retirement. 5. Post-retirement increases are applied at the rate of increase of the Index of Retail Prices up to a  maximum of 5% per annum, except that for pension benefits in respect of pensionable service up to  15 May 2000 the minimum inflationary increase is 4.5% per annum. 6. PI Frances and JM Davis Pensionable Salaries used to calculate benefits in the defined benefit  scheme is restricted to a Scheme specific earnings cap which is currently 123,600. 7. RE Slater retired from the Board of Directors on 31 March 2010. 8. JM Davis joined the Board of Directors on 1 April 2010. 9. The figures shown for RH Arnold are in respect of his membership of the Rotork Controls Inc. pension  scheme and a supplemental executive retirement plan so that, in aggregate, the pension arrangements  for RH Arnold will provide a pension of at least 60% of uncapped basic salary at age 65. Pension disclosures required  under the Directors   Remuneration Report   Regulations 2002 The following table shows the executive  directors entitlements earned during the  year and their value at the start and end   of the year. Notes: 1. The figures shown for the increase in accrued pension over the year incorporate the increase for  inflation. 2. The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Actuarial Guidance Note GN 11  published by the Board for Actuarial Standards.  3. The increase in accrued pension and the increase in transfer value over the year for RH Arnold are due  to movements in the US dollar relative to sterling. In US dollars, the accrued pension for RH Arnold  increased from $155,975 pa at 31 December 2009 to $168,344 pa at 31 December 2010 and the  transfer value increased from $1,999,000 at 31 December 2009 to $2,198,000 at 31 December  2010. The transfer value of accrued pension for RH Arnold reflects the benefits provided by the US  scheme together with a US valuation of these benefits and is therefore not directly comparable with  the transfer values for directors in the UK scheme. 4. RE Slater retired from the Scheme on 31 March 2010. The increase in accrued pension for RE Slater  is based on his pension entitlement at retirement. The transfer value at 31 December 2010 for RE  Slater is based on his pension entitlement at retirement and market conditions at retirement. Pension disclosures required under the Companies Act 2006 s   Increase in  Transfer value  Transfer value  Increase in   accrued pension  of accrued  of accrued  transfer value      during the year  pension at  pension at  over the year   (Note 1)  31.12.09  31.12.10     000  000  000 RH Arnold  12,338  1,238  1,422  184 JM Davis  2,143  113  158  45 PI France  3,846  616  776  160 GM Ogden  8,186  1,672  2,057  385 RE Slater  14,963  3,543  4,294  751   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  43 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Report of the Directors The directors submit their report which  incorporates the management report  required under the Disclosure and  Transparency rules for listed companies  and the audited accounts for the year  ended 31 December 2010 as set out on  pages 46 to 89. In compiling this report,  the directors have consulted with the  management of the Group. Principal Activities Rotork p.l.c. is a holding company  (registered no. 578327). The principal  activities of the Rotork Group are the  design, manufacture and support of  actuators, systems and related   products worldwide. The Rotork Group provides a range of  products, systems and services for the  motorisation and manual operation of  and adaption to industrial valves and  dampers for isolation duty and process  control applications. It does this through its  Controls, Gears and Fluid Systems divisions.  Actuated valves are major control elements  in refineries, pipelines, power stations, water  distribution systems and effluent treatment  plants and in all industries in which liquids   or gases are transported through pipes.   A summary of the principal subsidiaries and  branch offices of the Group are set out on  pages 93 to 95. The Business Review of the Group is  set out on pages 6 to 28. It provides a  balanced and comprehensive analysis  of the development and performance  of the business during the year under  review and the position at the end of the  year, including the future development  of the business and information about  environmental matters, the Companys  employees and social and community  issues. The review contains analysis  using financial and non-financial key  performance indicators. In May 2010, the Group acquired all the  issued share capital of Ralph A. Hiller  (Hiller). Details of the transaction are  provided in note 3 to the Accounts. On 23 February 2011 the Group signed  a contract to acquire all the outstanding  issued share capital of Rotork Servo  Controles de Mexico S.A. de C.V. (RSCM),  its Mexican sales and service agent.  Formal completion will take place following  certain share transfer formalities being  finalised. Gross assets acquired are  approximately 1.6 million. The principal risks and uncertainties facing the  Group and the Groups approach to mitigating  those risks are set out on pages 22 and 23. Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend  of 17,120,000 for the year, payable on 6  May 2011 to shareholders on the register  on 8 April 2011. This represents 19.75p  per ordinary share (2009:17.25p). An  additional dividend of 11.5p was paid on  23 July 2010 and an interim dividend for  2010 of 12.75p per ordinary share (2009:  11.15p) was paid on 24 September 2010. Share Capital Details of the Companys share capital  including rights and obligations attached  to each class of share and the ordinary  shares issued during 2010 are set out in  note 16 of the financial statements. 5p  ordinary shares represent over 99.9% of  the Companys total share capital and  1 preference shares represent less than  0.1% of the Companys total share capital. The Companys Articles of Association  contain customary restrictions on the transfer  of shares as applicable only in certain limited  circumstances (e.g. in relation to transfers  to a minor). Save for those provisions  there are no restrictions on the transfer of  ordinary shares in the capital of the Company  other than certain restrictions which may  be required from time to time by law, for  example, insider trading law. In accordance  with the Model Code which forms part of  the Listing Rules of the Financial Services  Authority (as adopted by the Company)  certain directors and other senior employees  are required to seek the prior approval of the  Company to deal in its shares. The Company is not aware of any agreements  between shareholders that may result in  restrictions on the transfer of securities   and / or voting rights. The Companys Articles  of Association contain limited restrictions on  the exercise of voting rights (e.g. in relation to  disenfranchised shares following the issue of  a notice to shareholders under section 793  Companies Act 2006). The Companys Articles of Association may  only be amended by special resolution at a  general meeting of shareholders. The Company is not aware of any  significant agreements to which it is party  that take effect, alter or terminate upon   a change of control of the Company  following a takeover. Employee Share Schemes Shares in the Companys share schemes  all contain provisions providing voting rights  to the scheme Trustee. Notification of Major Interest  in Shares  Since the 2009 Directors Report the  Company has been notified of major  interests and voting rights (held directly  and / or indirectly) by the following: % of Voting Rights William Blair Company LLC  4 Aegon UK Group of Companies  5 AXA S.A.  5 Research & Development Total Group expenditure on research &  development in the year was 4,319,000  (2009: 3,557,000) further details of  which are contained in the Business  Review on page 10. Donations The Company made charitable donations  of 87,000 (2009: 77,000) which are  part of the total Group contribution of  144,000 (2009: 87,000). There were no political donations made   in the year or the prior year. Directors The names of the directors in office during  the year end and their biographical and  other details including the other significant  commitments of the Chairman are as  shown on pages 30 and 31. The interests  of the directors in office at the end of the  financial year in the shares of the Company  are as shown in the Remuneration Report  on pages 37 to 42. JM Davis, RH Arnold, GM Ogden and  PI France have service agreements and  details of these are contained in the  Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42. The Companys procedure with regard  to the appointment and replacement of  directors and those powers reserved for  the Board are described in the Corporate  Governance Report on pages 32 to 36. At the Annual General Meeting (AGM),   all the directors currently in office being   RC Lockwood, PI France, JM Davis,   IG King, JE Nicholas, GM Ogden, RH Arnold  and G Bullard will offer themselves for   re-election or election, it being the   first opportunity for G Bullard to do so  following his appointment as a director   on 24 June 2010.  44  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors RE Slater resigned as a director on   31 March 2010. A Walker resigned as   a director on 23 April 2010. Financial Instruments An explanation of the Group policies on   the use of financial instruments and financial  risk management objectives are contained in  note 25 to the financial statements. Statement of Directors  Responsibility for Preparing  the Annual Report and The  Financial Statements The following statement, which should be read  in conjunction with the auditors Statement of  Auditors Responsibilities, included in the audit  report, is made with a view to distinguishing for  shareholders the respective responsibilities of  the directors and of the auditors in relation to  the financial statements. The directors are responsible for preparing   the Annual Report and the Group and  Company financial statements in accordance  with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the directors to prepare   Group and Company financial statements for  each financial year. Under that law they are  required to prepare the Group financial   statements in accordance with IFRSs as  adopted by the EU and applicable law  and have elected to prepare the Company  financial statements in accordance with UK  Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK  Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Under company law the directors must not  approve the financial statements unless  they are satisfied that they give a true and  fair view of the state of affairs of the Group  and Company and of their profit or loss for  that period. In preparing each of the Group  and Company financial statements, the  directors are required to: 	 select	suitable	accounting	policies	  and then apply them consistently; 	 make	judgments	and	estimates	that	  are reasonable and prudent; 	 for	the	Group	financial	statements,	  state whether they have been prepared  in accordance with IFRSs as adopted   by the EU; 	 for	the	Company	financial	statements,	 state whether applicable UK Accounting  Standards have been followed, subject  to any material departures disclosed  and explained in the Company financial  statements; and 	 prepare	the	financial	statements	on	 the going concern basis unless it is  inappropriate to presume that the Group  and the Company will continue in business. The directors are responsible for keeping  adequate accounting records that  are sufficient to show and explain the  Companys transactions and disclose  with reasonable accuracy at any time the  financial position of the Company and  enable them to ensure that its financial  statements comply with the Companies  Act 2006. They have general responsibility  for taking such steps as are reasonably  open to them to safeguard the assets of  the Group and to prevent and detect fraud  and other irregularities. Under applicable law and regulations,  the directors are also responsible for  preparing a Directors Report, Directors  Remuneration Report and Corporate  Governance Statement that complies   with that law and those regulations. Directors Statement Pursuant  to the Disclosure and   Transparency Rules  Each of the directors, whose names and  functions are listed on pages 30 and 31  confirm that, to the best of each persons  knowledge and belief: 	 the	financial	statements,	prepared	in	 accordance with the applicable set of  the accounting standards, give a true  and fair view of the assets, liabilities,  financial position and profit of the Group  and Company; and 	 the	directors	report	includes	a	fair	review	 of the development and performance  of the business and the position of the  Group and Company, together with a  description of the principal risks and  uncertainties that they face. The directors are responsible for the  maintenance and integrity of the  corporate and financial information  included on the Companys website.  Legislation in the UK governing the  preparation and dissemination of  financial statements may differ from  legislation in other jurisdictions. Going Concern The Company has considerable financial  resources, together with business operations  across a number of different sectors and  geographic areas. As a consequence,  the directors believe that the Company is  well placed to manage its business risks  successfully. Therefore the directors have   a reasonable expectation that the Company  has adequate resources to continue in  operational existence for the foreseeable  future. Accordingly they continue to adopt  the going concern basis in preparing the  annual financial statements. For further information regarding the  Companys objectives, policies and  processes for managing its capital; its  financial risk management objectives;  details of its financial instruments and  hedging activities; and its exposures to  credit risk and liquidity risk, see note 25. Creditor Payment Policy While there is no formal code or standard,  it is Company and Group policy to settle  terms of payment with creditors when  agreeing the terms of each transaction and  to abide by creditors terms of payment  provided that the supplier is also complying  with all relevant terms and conditions.  There are no creditors subject to special  arrangements outside suppliers terms and  conditions. The Company does not have  any trade suppliers so that a creditor day  payment period is not appropriate. Directors and Officers   Indemnity Insurance Subject to the provisions of the Companies  Acts the Companys Articles of Association  provide for the directors and officers of the  Company to be appropriately indemnified. The  Company purchases and maintains insurance  for the directors and officers of the Company  in undertaking their duties, in accordance with  section 233 Companies Act 2006. Disclosure of Information   to Auditors  The directors who held office at the date  of approval of this directors report confirm  that, so far as they are each aware, there is  no relevant audit information of which the  Companys auditors are unaware; and each  director has taken all the steps that he ought  to have taken as a director to make himself  aware of any relevant audit information and  to establish that the Companys auditors are  aware of that information. Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc  as auditors and to authorise the directors  to determine their remuneration are to be  proposed at the forthcoming AGM. Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at  the Companys offices at Rotork House,  Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ on Thursday,  21 April 2011 at 12 noon. A separate  circular containing the Notice of the  Meeting is sent to shareholders with this  Annual Report & Accounts. On behalf of the Board Stephen Rhys Jones Secretary   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  45 We have audited the financial statements  of Rotork p.l.c. for the year ended 31  December 2010 set out on pages 46 to  89. The financial reporting framework that  has been applied in the preparation of the  Group financial statements is applicable  law and International Financial Reporting  Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU.  The financial reporting framework that  has been applied in the preparation of  the parent Company financial statements  is applicable law and UK Accounting  Standards (UK Generally Accepted  Accounting Practice). This report is made solely to the  Companys members, as a body, in  accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16   of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit  work has been undertaken so that we  might state to the Companys members  those matters we are required to state  to them in an auditors report and for  no other purpose. To the fullest extent  permitted by law, we do not accept or  assume responsibility to anyone other  than the Company and the Companys  members, as a body, for our audit work,  for this report, or for the opinions we   have formed. Respective responsibilities of  directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors  Responsibilities Statement set out on  page 44, the directors are responsible  for the preparation of the financial  statements and for being satisfied  that they give a true and fair view. Our  responsibility is to audit, and express  an opinion on, the financial statements  in accordance with applicable law and  International Standards on Auditing   (UK and Ireland). Those standards   require us to comply with the Auditing  Practices Boards (APBs) Ethical  Standards for Auditors. Scope of the audit of the financial  statements A description of the scope of an audit of  financial statements is provided on the  APBs web-site at www.frc.org.uk/apb/ scope/private.cfm.  Opinion on financial statements In our opinion:   the financial statements give a   true and fair view of the state of the  Groups and of the parent Companys  affairs as at 31 December 2010   and of the Groups profit for the   year then ended;   the Group financial statements have  been properly prepared in accordance  with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;   the parent Company financial  statements have been properly  prepared in accordance with UK  Generally Accepted Accounting  Practice;   the financial statements have been  prepared in accordance with the  requirements of the Companies Act  2006; and, as regards the Group  financial statements, Article 4 of   the IAS Regulation. Opinion on other matters prescribed  by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion:   the part of the Directors  Remuneration Report to be audited  has been properly prepared in  accordance with the Companies Act  2006; and   the information given in the Directors  Report for the financial year for which  the financial statements are prepared  is consistent with the financial  statements; and   the information given in the Corporate  Governance Statement set out on  pages 32 to 36 with respect to  internal control and risk management  systems in relation to financial  reporting processes and about share  capital structures is consistent with  the financial statements.  Matters on which we are required to  report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of  the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are  required to report to you if, in our opinion:   adequate accounting records have not  been kept by the parent Company, or  returns adequate for our audit have  not been received from branches not  visited by us; or   the parent Company financial  statements and the part of the  Directors Remuneration Report to   be audited are not in agreement with  the accounting records and returns; or   certain disclosures of directors  remuneration specified by law   are not made; or   we have not received all the  information and explanations   we require for our audit; or   a Corporate Governance Statement  has not been prepared by   the Company.  Under the Listing Rules we are required  to review:   the directors statement, set out on  page 44, in relation to going concern;   the part of the Corporate Governance  Statement on page 32 relating to  the Companys compliance with the  nine provisions of the June 2008  Combined Code specified for our  review; and   certain elements of the report  to shareholders by the Board on  directors remuneration. AC Campbell-Orde   (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc,  Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 100 Temple Street Bristol BS1 6AG 28 February 2011 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rotork p.l.c. Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information  46  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2010     2010  2009   Notes  000  000 Revenue  2  380,560  353,521 Cost of sales    (199,742)  (187,600) Gross profit    180,818  165,921 Other income  4  83  688 Distribution costs    (3,604)  (3,428) Administrative expenses    (79,513)  (71,585) Other expenses  5  (60)  (59)       Operating profit before the amortisation of acquired intangible    assets and the disposal of property    99,442  92,103 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets    (1,718)  (1,153) Disposal of property    –  587 Operating profit  2  97,724  91,537 Financial income  7  6,931  5,784 Financial expenses  7  (6,800)  (6,405) Profit before tax  8  97,855  90,916 Income tax expense  9  (28,334)  (26,884) Profit for the year    69,521  64,032           Pence  Pence Basic earnings per share   17  80.5  74.2 Diluted earnings per share  17  80.2  73.9 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2010     2010  2009     000  000 Profit for the year    69,521  64,032       Other comprehensive income      Foreign exchange translation differences    1,119  (11,928) Actuarial gain / (loss) in pension scheme    1,095  (11,290) Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges    674  5,046 Income and expenses recognised directly in equity    2,888  (18,172) Total comprehensive income for the year    72,409  45,860   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  47 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2010     2010  2009   Notes  000  000 Assets      Property, plant and equipment  10  25,780  23,521 Intangible assets  11  43,990  40,780 Deferred tax assets  12  11,480  11,631 Other receivables  14  1,290  1,119 Total non-current assets    82,540  77,051 Inventories  13  48,241  46,712 Trade receivables  14  70,362  53,791 Current tax  14  2,398  1,818 Derivative financial instruments  22  918  942 Other receivables  14  6,684  6,197 Cash and cash equivalents  15  97,881  78,676 Total current assets     226,484  188,136 Total assets    309,024  265,187 Equity      Issued equity capital  16  4,334  4,330 Share premium    7,389  7,033 Reserves    16,201  14,406 Retained earnings    175,927  140,402 Total equity    203,851  166,171 Liabilities      Interest bearing loans and borrowings  18  127  162 Employee benefits  19  19,752  22,549 Deferred tax liabilities  12  3,165  1,970 Derivative financial instruments  22  –  127 Provisions  20  1,968  1,664 Total non-current liabilities    25,012  26,472       Interest bearing loans and borrowings  18  49  104 Trade payables  21  30,447  26,350 Employee benefits  19  8,220  7,252 Current tax  21  10,821  9,768 Derivative financial instruments  22  294  1,130 Other payables  21  26,334  24,690 Provisions  20  3,996  3,250 Total current liabilities    80,161  72,544 Total liabilities    105,173  99,016 Total equity and liabilities    309,024  265,187 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: PI France and JM Davis, Directors.  48  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   Issued      Capital   equity  Share Translation redemption  Hedging  Retained    capital  premium  reserve  reserve  reserve  earnings  Total Balance at 31 December 2008  4,325  6,666  24,909  1,642  (5,263)  112,117  144,396               Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  64,032  64,032 Other comprehensive income              Foreign exchange translation differences  –  –  (11,928)  –  –  –  (11,928) Effective portion of changes in fair value    of cash flow hedges  –  –  –  –  5,046  –  5,046 Actuarial gains and losses on defined    benefit pension plans net of tax  –  –  –  –  –  (11,290)  (11,290) Total other comprehensive income  –  –  (11,928)  –  5,046  (11,290)  (18,172) Total comprehensive income  –  –  (11,928)  –  5,046  52,742  45,860 Transactions with owners, recorded    directly in equity              Equity settled share–based payment    transactions net of tax  –  –  –  –  –  48  48 Share options exercised by employees  5  367  –  –  –  –  372 Own ordinary shares acquired  –  –  –  –  –  (3,700)  (3,700) Own ordinary shares awarded under    share schemes  –  –  –  –  –  3,297  3,297 Dividends  –  –  –  –  –  (24,102)  (24,102) Balance at 31 December 2009  4,330  7,033  12,981  1,642  (217)  140,402  166,171               Profit for the year  –  –  –  –  –  69,521  69,521 Other comprehensive income              Foreign exchange translation differences  –  –  1,119  –  –  –  1,119 Effective portion of changes in fair value    of cash flow hedges  –  –  –  –  674  –  674 Actuarial gains and losses on defined    benefit pension plans net of tax  –  –  –  –  –  1,095  1,095 Total other comprehensive income  –  –  1,119  –  674  1,095  2,888 Total comprehensive income  –  –  1,119  –  674  70,616  72,409 Transactions with owners, recorded    directly in equity              Equity settled share–based payment    transactions net of tax  –  –  –  –  –  195  195 Share options exercised by employees  4  356  –  –  –  –  360 Own ordinary shares acquired  –  –  –  –  –  (2,876)  (2,876) Own ordinary shares awarded under share schemes  –  –  –  –  –  3,506  3,506 Preference shares redeemed  –  –  –  2  –  (4)  (2) Dividends  –  –  –  –  –  (35,912)  (35,912) Balance at 31 December 2010  4,334  7,389  14,100  1,644  457  175,927  203,851 Detailed explanations for equity capital, translation reserve, capital redemption reserve and hedging reserve can be seen in note 16.      ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  49 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2010     2010  2010  2009  2009   Notes  000  000  000  000 Cash flows from operating activities          Profit for the year    69,521    64,032  Adjustments for:          Amortisation of intangibles    1,718    1,153  Amortisation of development costs    639    402  Depreciation    3,972    3,549  Equity settled share-based payment expense    1,086    872  Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment    (12)    (598)  Financial income    (6,931)    (5,784)  Financial expenses    6,800    6,405  Income tax expense    28,334    26,884      105,127    96,915  Decrease in inventories    489    9,680  (Increase) / decrease in trade and other receivables    (14,503)    5,967  Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables    3,189    (4,032)  Difference between pension charge and cash contribution    (844)    (1,350)  Increase / (decrease) in provisions    385    (257)  Increase in other employee benefits    507    272      94,350    107,195  Income taxes paid    (26,186)    (27,548)  Cash flows from operating activities      68,164    79,647 Investing activities          Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (5,034)    (4,238)  Development costs capitalised    (1,018)    (768)  Sale of property, plant and equipment    154    908  Acquisition of businesses  3  (5,621)    (4,892)  Interest received    483    270  Cash flows from investing activities      (11,036)    (8,720) Financing activities          Issue of ordinary share capital    360    372  Purchase of ordinary share capital    (2,876)    (3,700)  Purchase of preference shares treated as debt    (4)    –  Interest paid    (88)    (176)  Repayment of amounts borrowed    (464)    (27)  Repayment of finance lease liabilities    (102)    (94)  Dividends paid on ordinary shares    (35,912)    (24,102)  Cash flows from financing activities      (39,086)    (27,727) Increase in cash and cash equivalents      18,042    43,200           Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January      78,676    41,390 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held      1,163    (5,914) Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  15    97,881    78,676  50  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 Except where indicated, values in these notes are in 000. Rotork p.l.c. is a company domiciled in England. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December  2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group). The accounting policies contained below in   note 1 and the disclosures in notes 2 to 30 all relate to the Group financial statements. The Company balance sheet can be found  following note 30. As the Company has elected to continue reporting under UK GAAP, the applicable accounting policies are contained   in note a, and notes b to k relate to the Companys financial statements. 1. Accounting policies The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been  consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated. Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Rotork p.l.c. have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International  Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), IFRIC Interpretations and the  Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention subject to the items referred to in the  derivative financial instruments accounting policy below. New accounting standards and interpretations The following standards and interpretations became effective for the current reporting period: IFRS3, Business combinations (revised), was adopted from 1 January 2010. The main difference for Rotork is that previously  capitalised acquisition costs are now being expensed. The change has not had a material impact on the financial statements.  Amendments to IFRS 2, Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions, IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial  Statements, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items, and IAS 39 Reclassification   of Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition did not have a material impact on the financial statements.  Amendments to IFRS 1, Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters is not applicable to the Group. No interpretations which became effective in 2010 were relevant to the Group. Recent accounting developments  Standards, amendments or interpretations which have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board or by the IFRIC,   and application was not mandatory in the period are not expected to have a material impact on the Group. Subject to endorsement   by the European Union, these standards, amendments or interpretations will be adopted in future periods.  Going concern The Company has considerable financial resources together with a significant order book, with customers across different geographic  areas and industries. As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully  despite the current uncertain economic outlook. The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the  foreseeable future. Thus the going concern basis is adopted in preparing the annual financial statements. Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year to 31  December 2010. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that  control commences until the date control ceases. Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains or losses or income and expenses  arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and  liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that  date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities  that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.  Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling at foreign  exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were determined.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  51 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 1. Accounting policies (continued) Foreign currencies (continued) Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated   into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated   to sterling at rates approximating those ruling at the date of the transactions. Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation   of the opening net investment in subsidiaries, and from the translation of the results of those subsidiaries at average rate, are reported  as an item of other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve.  Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component   of equity. Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to IFRS in respect of all foreign entities are not presented   as a separate component. Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been  transferred to the buyer in accordance with the contracted shipping terms. Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the income  statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date. The stage of completion is assessed  by reference to surveys of work performed. No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the  consideration due, associated completion costs, the possible return of goods or continuing management involvement with the goods. Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control   is transferred to the Group.  For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:  the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus   the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus  the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less  the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement. Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified   as equity, it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of   the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.   For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the  acquisition, including acquisition costs and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.  In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount  recorded under UK GAAP on transition to IFRS.  Goodwill is stated at cost or deemed cost less any impairment losses. The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed at each balance sheet  date and is allocated to cash-generating units (CGU). An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying value of an asset or its  CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Intangible assets (i) Research & development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding,   is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Development costs incurred after the point at which the commercial  and technical feasibility of the product have been proven, and the decision to complete the development has been taken and resources  made available, are capitalised. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion   of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Development  expenditure has an estimated useful life of five years and is written off on a straight-line basis. (ii) Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The  useful life of each of these assets is assessed based on discussions with the management of the acquired business and takes account  of the differing natures of each of the intangibles acquired. The assessed useful lives of intangibles acquired so far range from one year  for order backlog at acquisition to 15 years for long-standing customer relationships. Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over  the estimated useful life of the assets.   52  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 1. Accounting policies (continued) Property, plant and equipment Freehold land is not depreciated. Long leasehold buildings are amortised over 50 years or the expected useful life of the building where  less than 50 years. Other assets are depreciated in equal annual instalments by reference to their estimated useful lives and residual  values at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings   2% to 4% Short leasehold buildings   period of lease Plant and equipment   10% to 33% Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation. Certain items of property that  had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost,  being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation. Leases Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements, which give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they  had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance leases. Assets acquired  under finance leases are initially recognised at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The rentals payable are apportioned  between interest, which is charged to the income statement, and liability, which reduces the outstanding obligation so as to give a  constant rate of charge on the outstanding lease obligations. Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis  over the term of the lease in arriving at the operating profit. Taxation Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the  extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Current tax is the expected tax payable  on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to  tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of  assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences  are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither  accounting nor taxable profits. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the  carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset  can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. Inventory and work in progress Inventory and work in progress is valued at the lower of cost, on a first in, first out basis, and net realisable value. In respect of work  in progress and finished goods, cost includes all production overheads and the attributable proportion of indirect overhead expenses  which are required to bring inventories to their present location and condition. The net realisable value in respect of old and slow moving  inventory is assessed by reference to historic usage patterns and forecast future usage. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term (with an original maturity less than three months) deposits. Bank  overdrafts that are repayable on demand form part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash  flows. Equity Equity comprises issued equity capital, share premium, reserves and retained earnings. When issued equity capital is repurchased, the amount paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.  Repurchased shares are debited direct to equity and shown as a deduction from retained earnings. Provisions A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products or services are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty  cost data, known issues and management expectations of future costs.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  53 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 1. Accounting policies (continued) Employee benefits (i) Pension plans The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes and contributes to these schemes in accordance with qualified  actuaries recommendations. All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Groups obligation in respect of the plan are  recognised in equity. Interest on pension scheme liabilities has been recognised within financing expenses and the expected return   on scheme assets within financing income in the consolidated income statement.  The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes. The costs for these schemes are recognised in the income  statement as incurred. (ii) Share-based payment transactions The Rotork Share Option Scheme allows certain employees to acquire shares in Rotork p.l.c. This scheme is now closed and the last  grant of new options took place in 2004. Details of the scheme are given in note 24. The fair value of options granted is recognised as  an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during  which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial  model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is  adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the  threshold for vesting. The Rotork Sharesave Plan, introduced in 2004, offers certain employees the opportunity to purchase shares in Rotork p.l.c. at a  discounted price compared with the market price at the time of grant. Details of the scheme are given in note 24. The fair value of the  right / option is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date  and spread over the period between grant and maturity. The right / option reaches maturity when the employee becomes unconditionally  entitled. The fair value of the grant is measured using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which  the rights were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except  where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. The Rotork Long Term Incentive Plan grants awards of shares to executive directors and senior managers. These awards may vest after   a period of three years dependent upon both market and non-market performance conditions being met. Details of the grants are  given in note 24. This plan gives either share or cash awards (of equivalent value to the share awards) dependent upon the employees  country of residence at date of grant. The fair value of the award is measured at grant date, using a Monte Carlo simulation model which  takes into account the market based performance criteria, and spread over the vesting period. The fair value of the award is recognised  as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity for the share settled award and a provision within employee benefits for  the cash settled award. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to exclude options that do not vest as a result of non-market  performance conditions not being met. In the case of the cash awards, the liability is re-measured at each balance sheet date and at  settlement date and any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, spread equally over the vesting period. (iii) Long-term service leave The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service leave is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return   for their service in the current and prior periods. (iv) Other employee benefits In addition to the above schemes the Group offers a number of discretionary bonus schemes to employees around the world. The costs  of these schemes are recognised in the income statement as incurred. This includes the Share Incentive Plan and Overseas Profit Linked  Share Scheme both of which are a known liability at the year end. Derivative financial instruments The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from operational and financing  activities. These are the only form of derivative financial instruments used by the Group. In accordance with its Treasury Policy, the  Group does not hold or issue forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. However, forward contracts that do not qualify for hedge  accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. Forward exchange contracts are recognised initially at cost and then subsequently re-measured at fair value. Where a forward exchange  contract is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised liability, a firm commitment or a highly probable  forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the forward contract is recognised directly in equity. Any effective  cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.   The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.  When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction still is expected to occur, the cumulative  gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the  hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss held in equity is recognised in the income  statement immediately.   54  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 1. Accounting policies (continued) Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid. Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements   in the period which they are approved by the Companys shareholders. Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations   of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.   The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related  actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of  assets and liabilities in the next financial year are listed below. (i) Impairment of goodwill Determining whether Goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of CGUs to which Goodwill has been allocated.   The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount   rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values. Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year   are in note 11. (ii) Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate  present values. These include future mortality, discount rate inflation and salary increases. Management makes these judgements   in consultation with an independent actuary. Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are in note 23.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  55 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 2. Operating segments The Group has chosen to organise the management and financial structure by the grouping of related products. The three identifiable  operating segments where the financial and operating performance is reviewed monthly by the chief operating decision maker are   as follows:  Controls – the design, manufacture and sale of electric valve actuators Fluid Systems – the design, manufacture and sale of pneumatic and hydraulic valve actuators Gears – the design, manufacture and sale of gearboxes, adaption and ancillaries for the valve industry Unallocated expenses comprise corporate expenses. Geographic analysis Rotork has a worldwide presence in all three operating segments through its subsidiary selling offices and through an agency network.   A full list of locations can be found at www.rotork.com or on pages 93 to 95 of this report. Analysis by Operating Segment:     Fluid    Controls  Systems  Gears  Elimination  Unallocated  Group   2010  2010  2010  2010  2010  2010 Revenue from external customers  243,361  106,838  30,361  –  –  380,560 Inter segment revenue  –  –  8,844  (8,844)  –  – Total revenue  243,361  106,838  39,205  (8,844)  –  380,560 Operating profit before amortisation    of acquired intangibles  78,786  14,911  9,161  –  (3,416)  99,442 Amortisation of acquired intangibles  –  (1,659)  (59)  –  –  (1,718) Operating profit  78,786  13,252  9,102  –  (3,416)  97,724 Net financing income            131 Income tax expense            (28,334) Profit for the year            69,521     Fluid    Controls  Systems  Gears  Elimination  Unallocated  Group   2009  2009  2009  2009  2009  2009 Revenue from external customers  227,344  99,726  26,451  –  –  353,521 Inter segment revenue  –  –  10,373  (10,373)  –  – Total revenue  227,344  99,726  36,824  (10,373)  –  353,521             Operating profit before amortisation    of acquired intangibles and disposal    of property  72,033  15,313  8,086  –  (3,329)  92,103 Amortisation of acquired intangibles  –  (1,093)  (60)  –  –  (1,153) Disposal of property  587  –  –  –  –  587 Operating profit  72,620  14,220  8,026  –  (3,329)  91,537 Net financing expense            (621) Income tax expense            (26,884) Profit for the year            64,032  56  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 2. Operating segments (continued)       Fluid      Controls  Systems  Gears  Unallocated Consolidated     2010  2010  2010  2010  2010 Depreciation    2,634  1,124  214  –  3,972 Amortisation:   Other intangibles    –  1,659  59  –  1,718   Development costs    639  –  –  –  639  Non-cash items: equity settled share-based payments    609  129  111  237  1,086 Net financing income    –  –  –  131  131 Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination  –  4,102  –  –  4,102 Capital expenditure    3,953  940  179  –  5,072       Fluid      Controls  Systems  Gears  Unallocated  Consolidated     2009  2009  2009  2009  2009 Depreciation    2,262  1,040  247  –  3,549 Amortisation:   Other intangibles    –  1,093  60  –  1,153   Development costs    402  –  –  –  402 Non-cash items: equity settled share-based payments    458  72  79  263  872 Net financing expense    –  –  –  (621)  (621) Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination  –  3,595  –  –  3,595 Capital expenditure    3,083  1,094  135  –  4,312 Balance sheets are reviewed by operating subsidiary and operating segment balance sheets are not prepared, as such no further   analysis of operating segments assets and liabilities are presented.  Geographical analysis:     Rest of    Other  Rest of   UK  Europe  USA  Americas  the World Consolidated   2010  2010  2010  2010  2010  2010 Revenue from external customers by    location of customer  24,277  121,595  71,036  39,488  124,164  380,560             Non-current assets            - Intangible assets  7,248  18,621  13,564  213  4,344  43,990 - Property, plant and equipment  6,423  10,618  4,363  230  4,146  25,780     Rest of    Other  Rest of   UK  Europe  USA  Americas  the World  Consolidated   2009  2009  2009  2009  2009  2009 Revenue from external customers by    location of customer  29,314  117,098  65,370  33,081  108,658  353,521             Non-current assets            - Intangible assets  6,869  19,217  10,207  213  4,274  40,780 - Property, plant and equipment  5,200  11,060  3,360  220  3,681  23,521   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  57 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 3. Acquisitions 2010 On 19 May 2010 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Ralph A. Hiller Company Inc. (Hiller) for 5,453,000. Hiller is a  designer and manufacturer of nuclear actuators and a distributor of related products based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States.  The acquired business will be integrated into the Fluid Systems division. In the eight months to 31 December 2010 Hiller contributed 6,643,000 to Group revenue and 837,000 to consolidated operating  profit before the 390,000 amortisation charge from the acquired intangible assets. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2010  the business would have contributed 10,249,000 to Group revenue and 942,000 to Group operating profit. It is not practicable to  disclose profit before tax or profit attributable to equity shareholders as the Group manages its treasury function on a Group basis. Goodwill has arisen on this acquisition as a result of the value attributed to staff expertise and the assembled workforce, which did not  meet the recognition criteria for an intangible asset.  The acquisition had the following effect on the Groups assets and liabilities.   Pre-acquisition  Alignment of   carrying  accounting  Fair value  Provisional   amounts  policies  adjustments  Fair value Property, plant and equipment  1,075  –  –  1,075 Intangible assets  –  –  1,629  1,629 Inventories  1,085  156  –  1,241 Trade and other receivables  2,104  227  –  2,331 Trade and other payables  (641)  (2,023)  –  (2,664) Overdraft  (168)  –  –  (168) Borrowings  (464)  –  –  (464)   2,991  (1,640)  1,629  2,980 Goodwill on acquisition        2,473 Consideration paid, satisfied in cash        5,453         Purchase consideration settled in cash        5,453 Overdraft in subsidiary acquired        168 Cash outflow on acquisition        5,621 Accounting policy adjustments were required to align Hiller accounting policies to Rotork Group policies. Adjustments were made   in respect of revenue recognition, inventory provisioning, warranty provisions and other accruals.  The intangible assets identified comprise customer relationships, brand and acquired order book.  58  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 3. Acquisitions (continued) 2009 On 6 November 2009 the Group acquired the trade and assets of Flow-Quip a designer and manufacturer of valve actuators based   in Tulsa, USA. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method.    In the two months to 31 December 2009 the business contributed 1,378,000 to Group revenue and 163,000 to consolidated  operating profit before the 235,000 amortisation charge from the acquired intangible assets. If the acquisition had occurred on 1  January 2009 the business would have contributed 9,274,000 to Group revenue and 1,145,000 to Group operating profit. It is   not practicable to disclose profit before tax or profit attributable to equity shareholders as the Group manages its Treasury function   on a Group basis. Goodwill has arisen on this acquisition as a result of the value attributed to staff expertise and the assembled workforce, which did not  meet the recognition criteria for an intangible asset.  The acquisition had the following effect on the Groups assets and liabilities.    Pre-acquisition      carrying  Fair value  Carrying      amounts  adjustments  amounts Property, plant and equipment    550  –  550 Intangible assets    –  1,487  1,487 Inventories    955  –  955 Trade and other receivables    1,293  –  1,293 Trade and other payables    (1,501)  –  (1,501)     1,297  1,487  2,784 Goodwill on acquisition        2,108 Consideration paid, satisfied in cash         4,892       Purchase consideration settled in cash        4,892 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired business        –  Cash outflow on acquisition        4,892 The intangible assets identified comprise customer relationships, brand and acquired order book. 4. Other income   2010  2009 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment  66  654 Other  17  34   83  688 Included in gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment in 2009 is a profit of 587,000 in relation to the sale of a Spanish building.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  59 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 5. Other expenses   2010  2009 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  54  56 Other  6  3   60  59 6. Personnel expenses   2010  2009 Wages and salaries (including bonus and incentive plans)  70,452  64,877 Social security costs  7,928  7,197 Pension costs (note 23)  4,603  4,217 Share-based payments (note 24)  1,848  1,785 Increase in liability for long-term service leave  42  60   84,873  78,136 A total of 1,086,000 (2009: 872,000) of the above share-based payments are equity settled, comprising 154,000   (2009: 124,000) for the Sharesave plan and 932,000 (2009: 748,000) for the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).   The remaining 762,000 (2009: 913,000) relates to the cash LTIP.   2010  2009   Number  Number During the year, the average weekly number of employees, analysed by business segment was:    Controls  1,147  1,089 Fluid Systems  507  460 Gears  215  215   1,869  1,764     UK  510  499 Overseas  1,359  1,265   1,869  1,764  60  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 7. Net financing income   2010  2009 Recognised in the income statement Interest income  540  226 Expected return on assets in the pension schemes  6,141  5,408 Foreign exchange gains  250  150   6,931  5,784     Interest expense  79  167 Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities  6,289  5,449 Foreign exchange losses  432  789   6,800  6,405 Recognised in equity    Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges  457  (217) Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to income statement  217   5,263  Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations  1,119  (11,928)   1,793  (6,882) Recognised in:    Hedging reserve  674  5,046 Translation reserve  1,119  (11,928)   1,793  (6,882)   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  61 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 8. Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging the following:   Notes  2010  2009 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:   Owned assets  i  3,881  3,417   A ssets held under finance lease contracts  i  91  132  Amortisation:   Other intangibles  i  1,718  1,153   Development costs  i  639  402    Inventory write downs recognised in the year  i  772  2,190 Hire of plant and machinery  i  889  849 Other operating lease rentals  i  1,417  1,382 Research & development expenditure  ii  3,300  2,789 Exchange differences realised expense   iii  182  639 Auditors - audit fees and expenses paid to:      KPMG Audit Plc      - In respect of Company reporting    62  60 - In respect of Group reporting of subsidiaries    196  180 - In respect of local statutory reporting of subsidiaries    93  88     351  328       Other auditors of Group reporting subsidiaries    102  109 Total audit fees and expenses    453  437 Other fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates analysed between:   Taxation     40  111   Other    5  –     45  111 In addition to the above, the Rotork Pension & Life Assurance Scheme paid KPMG LLP 10,000 (2009: 75,000) in respect   of investment advice.  These costs can be found under the following headings in the Consolidated Income Statement: (i) Both within cost of sales and administrative expenses; (ii) Within administrative expenses; (iii) Within financing income and expenses.  62  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 9. Income tax expense    2010  2010  2009  2009 Current tax:        UK corporation tax on profits for the year  8,645    13,757  Double tax relief  –    (6,074)  Adjustment in respect of prior years  (417)    (146)     8,228    7,537         Overseas tax on profits for the year  18,787    18,560  Adjustment in respect of prior years  42    (9)     18,829    18,551 Total current tax    27,057    26,088         Deferred tax:        Origination and reversal of other temporary differences  1,477    704  Adjustment in respect of prior years  (200)    92   Total deferred tax    1,277    796 Total tax charge for year    28,334    26,884         Effective tax rate (based on profit before tax)    29.0%    29.6%         Profit before tax    97,855    90,916         Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of    corporation tax in the UK of 28.0% (2009: 28.0%)    27,399    25,456         Effects of:        Non deductible items    785    1,468 Utilisation of overseas tax holidays and losses    (1,127)    (898) Different tax rates on overseas earnings    1,852    921 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years    (575)    (63) Total tax charge for year    28,334    26,884 A tax credit of 926,000 (2009: credit 670,000) in respect of share-based payments has been recognised directly in equity in the year.  The Group continues to expect its effective rate of corporation tax to be slightly higher than the standard UK rate due to higher rates   of tax in the US, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and India. There is an unrecognised deferred tax liability for temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries. Rotork p.l.c. controls  the dividend policies of its subsidiaries and subsequently the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences. It is not practical to  quantify the unprovided temporary differences as acknowledged within paragraph 40 of IAS 12.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  63 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 10. Property, plant and equipment    Land and  Plant and     Land and  Plant and   buildings  equipment  Total  buildings  equipment  Total   2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 Cost At 1 January  19,493  33,762  53,255  20,016  32,106  52,122 Exchange differences  127  985  1,112  (1,120)  (1,558)  (2,678) Additions  399  4,673  5,072  459  3,853  4,312 Disposals  (89)  (903)  (992)  (402)  (649)  (1,051) Acquired through business combinations  1,060  15  1,075  540  10  550 At 31 December  20,990  38,532  59,522  19,493  33,762  53,255 Depreciation At 1 January  6,029  23,705  29,734  5,972  22,282  28,254 Exchange differences  97  786  883  (271)  (1,057)  (1,328) Charge for year  614  3,358  3,972  501  3,048  3,549 Disposals  (24)  (823)  (847)  (173)  (568)  (741) At 31 December  6,716  27,026  33,742  6,029  23,705  29,734 Net book value at 31 December  14,274  11,506  25,780  13,464  10,057  23,521 Net book value at 31 December 2008        14,044  9,824  23,868 The net book value of the Groups plant and equipment includes 142,000 (2009: 218,000) in respect of assets held under finance  leases. Net book value of land and buildings can be analysed between:   2010  2009 Land  1,775  1,741 Buildings  12,499  11,723 Net book value at 31 December  14,274  13,464 It is the Groups policy to test assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts  may not be recoverable.  64  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 11. Intangible assets     Development  Other     Development  Other   Goodwill  costs  intangibles  Total  Goodwill  costs  intangibles  Total   2010  2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009  2009 Cost Balance at 1 January  33,204  4,647  8,409  46,260  32,792  3,879  6,941  43,612 Exchange differences  230  –  468  698  (1,696)  –  (19)  (1,715) Internally developed during    the year  –  1,018  –  1,018  –  768  –  768 Acquired through business    combinations  2,473  –  1,629  4,102  2,108  –  1,487  3,595 Balance at 31 December  35,907  5,665  10,506  52,078  33,204  4,647  8,409  46,260 Amortisation                 Balance at 1 January  –  2,555  2,925  5,480  –  2,153  1,763  3,916 Exchange differences  –  –  251  251  –  –  9  9 Amortisation for the year  –  639  1,718  2,357  –  402  1,153  1,555 Balance at 31 December   –  3,194  4,894  8,088  –  2,555  2,925  5,480 Net book value at    31 December  35,907  2,471  5,612  43,990  33,204  2,092  5,484  40,780 Net book value at    31 December 2008          32,792  1,726  5,178  39,696 The amortisation charge in both years is recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement. Other intangibles include customer  relationships, order books, intellectual property, agency agreements and trading names of acquired companies. Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash generating units (CGUs) identified according to business segment. A segment level summary of  goodwill allocation is presented below.    2010  2009 Controls  6,828  6,687 Fluid Systems  21,436  18,753 Gears  7,643  7,764   35,907  33,204 The recoverable amounts of all CGUs are based on value in use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections and are based on  actual operating results and the latest Group three year plan. The three year plan is based on managements view of the future and experience  of past performance. Cash flows for the remainder of the next twenty years are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate which reflects the long- term nature of many of the markets the Group serves. This rate has been consistently bettered in the past so it is believed to represent a  prudent estimate. The discount rate used is 12.1% (2009: 9.8%), this represents a reasonable rate for a market participant in this sector. The  discount rate of each business segment is not materially different to 12.1%. For the Goodwill to become impaired in the CGU with the minimum  headroom, the discount rate would have to increase by 24%. On this basis each business segment has sufficient headroom and therefore no  impairment write downs are required.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  65 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 12. Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities   Assets  Liabilities  Net  Assets  Liabilities  Net   2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 Property, plant and equipment  183  (334)  (151)  185  (272)  (87) Intangible assets  –  (1,988)  (1,988)  –  (967)  (967) Employee benefits  7,742  –  7,742  7,320  –  7,320 Provisions  4,397  –  4,397  2,381  –  2,381 Other items  351  (2,036)  (1,685)  2,317  (1,303)  1,014 Net tax assets / (liabilities)  12,673  (4,358)  8,315  12,203  (2,542)  9,661 Set off of tax  (1,193)   1,193  –  (572)  572  –   11,480  (3,165)  8,315  11,631  (1,970)  9,661 Movements in the net deferred tax asset during the year are as follows:   2010  2009 Balance at 1 January  9,661  8,119 Charged to the income statement  (1,277)  (796) Credited directly to equity in respect of share-based payments  472  249 Acquired as part of a business combination  262  – (Charged) / credited directly to equity in respect of pension scheme  (633)  4,257 Charged directly to hedging reserves in respect of cash flow hedges  (253)  (1,962) Exchange differences  83  (206) Balance at 31 December  8,315  9,661 A deferred tax asset of 11,480,000 (2009: 11,631,000) has been recognised at 31 December 2010. The directors are of the  opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in the current and future years make it more likely than not that  these assets will be recovered.  A deferred tax asset of 2,033,000 (2009: 2,109,000) has not been recognised in relation to capital losses and certain tax credits,  tax losses and other temporary differences. These assets may be recovered if sufficient taxable or capital profits are made in future   in the companies concerned. 13. Inventories   2010  2009 Raw materials and consumables  30,345  26,998 Work in progress  11,411  13,692 Finished goods  6,485  6,022   48,241  46,712 Included in cost of sales was 147,651,000 (2009: 140,728,000) in respect of inventories consumed in the year.     66  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 14. Trade and other receivables   2010  2009 Non-current assets:    Insurance policy  1,158  995 Other  132  124 Other receivables  1,290  1,119     Current assets:    Trade receivables  72,208  55,384 Less provision for impairment of receivables  (1,846)  (1,593) Trade receivables – net  70,362  53,791     Corporation tax  2,398  1,818 Current tax  2,398  1,818     Other non-trade receivables  3,943  3,729 Prepayments and accrued income  2,741  2,468 Other receivables  6,684  6,197 15. Cash and cash equivalents   2010  2009 Bank balances  40,865  29,704 Cash in hand  95  89 Short-term deposits  56,921  48,883 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  97,881  78,676 16. Capital and reserves Share capital and share premium     5p      5p     Ordinary      Ordinary   5p  shares  1 Non-  5p  shares  1 Non-   Ordinary  issued  redeemable  Ordinary  issued  redeemable   shares  and fully  preference  shares  and fully  preference   Authorised  paid up  shares  Authorised  paid up  shares   2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 At 1 January  5,449  4,330  42  5,449  4,325  42 Preference shares redeemed  –  –  (2)  –  –  – Issued under employee share schemes  –  4  –  –  5  – At 31 December  5,449  4,334  40  5,449  4,330  42 Number of shares (000)  108,990  86,682    108,990  86,613   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  67 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 16. Capital and reserves (continued) The ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to vote at meetings of the Company.  The Group received proceeds of 360,000 (2009: 372,000) in respect of the 68,955 (2009: 102,861) ordinary shares issued   during the year: 4,000 (2009: 5,000) was credited to share capital and 356,000 (2009: 367,000) to share premium.   Further details of the share awards are shown in note 24. The preference shareholders take priority over the ordinary shareholders when there is a distribution upon winding up the Company   or on a reduction of equity involving a return of capital. The holders of preference shares are entitled to vote at a general meeting   of the Company if a preference dividend is in arrears for six months or the business of the meeting includes the consideration of   a resolution for winding up the Company or the alteration of the preference shareholders rights. Within the retained earnings reserve are own shares held. The investment in own shares represents 262,528 (2009: 363,196)   ordinary shares of the Company held in trust for the benefit of directors and employees for future payments under the Share   Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan. The dividends on these shares have been waived. Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements   of foreign operations. Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arises when the Company redeems shares wholly out of distributable profits. Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments   that are determined to be an effective hedge. Dividends The following dividends were paid in the year per qualifying ordinary share:   2010  2009 17.25p final dividend (2009: 16.75p)   14,928  14,470 12.75p interim dividend (2009: 11.15p)   11,033  9,632 2010 additional interim dividend 11.5p (2009: nil)  9,951  –   35,912  24,102 After the balance sheet date the following dividends per qualifying ordinary share were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not  been provided for and there are no corporation tax consequences.   2010  2009 Final proposed dividend per qualifying ordinary share    19.75p   17,120 17.25p     14,943 Additional interim dividend of 11.5p per qualifying ordinary share proposed for 2011  10,000 Additional interim dividend of 11.5p per qualifying ordinary share proposed for 2010    9,960  68  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 17. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated for both the current and previous years using the profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders for   the year. The earnings per share calculation is based on 86.4m shares (2009: 86.3m shares) being the weighted average number   of ordinary shares in issue (net of own ordinary shares held) for the year.   2010  2009 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders   69,521  64,032 Weighted average number of ordinary shares Issued ordinary shares at 1 January  86,250  86,096 Effect of own shares held  131  172 Effect of shares issued under share option schemes / sharesave plans  24  13 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year   86,405  86,281 Basic earnings per share  80.5p   74.2p Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders and 86.7m shares (2009: 86.7m  shares). The number of shares is equal to the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (net of own ordinary shares held)  adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. The Company has three categories of potentially dilutive ordinary  shares: those share options granted to employees under the Share option scheme and Sharesave plan where the exercise price is less  than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and contingently issuable shares awarded under the  Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).   2010  2009 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders  69,521  64,032 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year   86,405  86,281 Effect of share options in issue  9  11 Effect of Sharesave options in issue  108  68 Effect of LTIP shares in issue  145  327 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) for the year   86,667  86,687 Diluted earnings per share  80.2p   73.9p   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  69 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 18. Interest bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings. For more information  about the Groups exposure to interest rate and currency risk, see note 25.   2010  2009 Non-current liabilities  Preference shares classified as debt  40  42 Finance lease liabilities  87  120   127  162   2010  2009 Current liabilities  Finance lease liabilities  49  104   49  104 Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:         Face  Carrying  Face  Carrying     Interest  Year of  value  amount  value  amount   Currency  Rates  maturity  2010  2010  2009  2009 Non-redeemable    preference shares  Sterling  9.5%  –  40  40  45  42 Finance lease liabilities  Euro  1.4% - 10.3%  2011-15  145  136  240  224         185  176  285  266 Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:     Minimum      Minimum     lease      lease     payments  Interest  Principal  payments  Interest  Principal     2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 Less than one year    54  5  49  113  9  104 Between one and five years    91  4  87  127  7  120     145  9  136  240  16  224  70  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 19. Employee benefits   2010  2009 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations:      Present value of funded obligations  117,737  108,514   Fair value of plan assets  (100,466)  (88,906)   17,271  19,608     Defined contribution scheme liabilities  812  799 Employee bonus and incentive plan  6,828  6,290 Long term incentive plan  1,717  1,825 Employee indemnity provision  1,008  985 Liability for long-term service leave  336  294   27,972  29,801     Non-current  19,752  22,549 Current  8,220  7,252   27,972  29,801 Defined benefit pension scheme disclosures are detailed in note 23. 20. Provisions     Warranty     Provision Balance at 1 January 2010    4,914 Exchange differences    295 Provisions used during the year    (1,078) Acquired as part of a business combination    664 Charged in the year    1,169 Balance at 31 December 2010    5,964   Maturity at 31 December 2010  Non-current    1,968 Current    3,996     5,964 Maturity at 31 December 2009  Non-current    1,664 Current    3,250     4,914 The warranty provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products and services.   The provision relates mainly to products sold during the last 12 months, the typical warranty period is now 18 months.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  71 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 21. Trade and other payables   2010  2009 Trade payables  30,447  26,031 Bills of exchange  –  319 Trade payables  30,447  26,350     Corporation tax  10,821  9,768 Current tax  10,821  9,768     Other taxes and social security  4,066  3,627 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses  22,268  21,063 Other payables  26,334  24,690 22. Derivative financial instruments   2010  2010  2009  2009   Assets  Liabilities  Assets  Liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges        Current   918  294  942  1,130 Non-current  –  –  –  127   918  294  942  1,257          The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item   is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedge item is less than 12 months. There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from the use of forward contracts. The hedged forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates. Gains and losses recognised  in the hedging reserve in equity (note 16) on forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2010 are recognised in the income  statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement.  72  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 23. Pension schemes (i) Defined benefit pension liabilities The Group makes a contribution to three defined benefit plans to provide benefits for employees in the UK, USA and the Netherlands  upon retirement. Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations   2010  2009 Liabilities at 1 January  108,514  81,994 Current service costs  2,142  1,659 Member contributions  465  480 Interest cost  6,289  5,449 Benefits paid  (3,189)  (2,624) Past service costs  288  97 Actuarial loss  2,759  22,567 Currency loss / (gain)   469  (1,108) Liabilities at 31 December  117,737  108,514 Movements in fair value of plan assets   2010  2009 Assets at 1 January  88,906  76,277 Expected return on scheme assets  6,141  5,408 Employer contributions  3,393  3,056 Member contributions  465  480 Benefits paid  (3,189)  (2,624) Actuarial gain  4,487  7,020 Currency gain / (loss)  263  (711) Assets at 31 December  100,466  88,906 Expense recognised in the income statement   2010  2009 Current service costs  2,142  1,659 Past service costs  288  97 Interest on obligation  6,289  5,449 Expected return on plan assets  (6,141)  (5,408)   2,578  1,797 The expense is recognised in the following line items in the income statement   2010  2009 Cost of sales  593  525 Administrative expenses  1,837  1,231 Net financing expense   148  41   2,578  1,797   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  73 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 23. Pension schemes (continued) Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   2010  2009 Actuarial gain on plan assets  4,487  7,020 Actuarial loss from liabilities  (2,759)  (22,567)   1,728  (15,547) Currency (loss) / gain  (206)  397 Net gain / (loss)   1,522  (15,150) Cumulative losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  (20,329)  (21,851)       2010  2009  2008  2007  2006 Defined benefit obligation      (117,737)  (108,514)  (81,994)  (93,799)  (87,394) Scheme assets      100,466  88,906  76,277  86,215  80,745 Deficit      (17,271)  (19,608)  (5,717)  (7,584)  (6,649)           Experience adjustments on liabilities     (177)  (2,760)  (2,006)  (1,953)  6,729 Experience adjustments on assets      4,487  7,020  (17,843)  (2,954)  (199) Experience adjustments on currency     (206)  397  (607)  24  213 Liability for defined benefit obligations The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages):   UK Scheme  US Scheme  Average   (% per annum)  (% per annum)  (% per annum)      2010  2009  2010  2009  2010  2009 Discount rate    5.4  5.7  5.8  6.0  5.4  5.7 Rate of increase in salaries    4.1  4.1  4.5  4.5  4.1  4.2 Rate of increase in pensions (post May 2000)  3.6  3.6  0.0  0.0  3.3  3.3 Rate of increase in pensions (pre May 2000)  4.5  4.5  0.0  0.0  4.1  4.1 Rate of inflation    3.6  3.6  3.5  3.5  3.6  3.6 The Retail Price Index is used as the rate of inflation as it is a requirement of the pension scheme rules. The split of the schemes assets and expected rates of return were:   %  2010  %  2009 Equities  7.9  51,435  8.2  43,946 Bonds  4.8  36,431  5.2  33,241 Property  7.5  6,426  7.5  5,819 Cash  3.4  44  3.4  156 US deposit administration contract  6.0  6,130  6.0  5,744 Total    100,466    88,906 Actual return on the schemes assets    10,891    11,717  74  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 23. Pension schemes (continued) The individual return assumptions for each asset class are based on market conditions at 31 December 2010 and represent a best  estimate of future returns for that class allowing for risk premiums where appropriate. No scheme assets are invested in the Groups   own equity. The Group estimates that contributions to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes payable during 2011 will be approximately  2,900,000.  The mortality assumptions used are the S1NXA year of birth tables with future improvements in mortality based on the CMI_2009  projections with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.5% per annum (2009: 1.5%). By way of example the respective mortality tables indicate the following life expectancy:     2010  2009     Life Expectancy at age 65  Life Expectancy at age 65          Male  Female  Male  Female Current Age 65        22.2  24.5  23.0  25.6 45        24.5  27.0  26.0  28.5 (ii) Other pension plans The Group makes a contribution to a number of defined contribution plans around the world to provide benefits for employees upon  retirement. The total expense relating to these plans in the year was 2,173,000 (2009: 2,461,000).  24. Share-based payments The Group awards shares and cash under Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs) and only shares under the Save As You Earn scheme.   The share-based payment expense included in the income statement for each of the plans can be analysed as follows:   2010  2009 LTIP – cash settled  762  913 LTIP – equity settled  932  748 Sharesave plan  154  124 Total expense recognised as employee costs (note 6)  1,848  1,785 Volatility assumptions for equity-based payments The expected volatility of all equity compensation benefits is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average  remaining life of each benefit), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information. (a) Share option scheme At 1 January 1995 the Group established a share option programme for employees. The allocation of options was linked to the  completion of five years service. In accordance with the programme, once vested the options grant the right to purchase shares at the  market price they were at the date of grant. Exercise prices range from 2.78 to 3.87. Options vest after three years and expire ten  years after being granted. Only the 2004 grant occurred after 7 November 2002, the start date for recognition under IFRS 2. Therefore only charges in respect   of these grants have been made to the accounts in accordance with IFRS 2 and the relevant disclosures made below. The recognition  and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have not been applied to the 2000 and 2001 grants in accordance with the transitional  provisions in IFRS 1 and IFRS 2.    ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  75 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 24. Share-based payments (continued) (a) Share option scheme (continued)   Outstanding     Outstanding Option (exercise price)  at start  Exercised  Lapsed  at end * exercisable at end of year  of year  during year  during year  of year 2000 grant (2.85)*  3,049  (3,049)  –  – 2001 grant (2.98)*  3,799  –  –  3,799 2004 grant (3.87)*  10,695  (2,265)  –  8,430   17,543  (5,314)  –  12,229         Weighted average exercise price  3.50  3.28  –  3.59 Weighted average contractual life remaining        2 years       No new grants have been made under the scheme since 2004.  The Group received proceeds of 18,000 (2009: 40,000) in respect of the 5,314 (2009: 12,246) options exercised during the year.  The options were exercised throughout the year at 2.85 and 3.87 (2009: between 2.85 and 3.87). (b) Sharesave plan UK employees are invited to join the Sharesave plan when an offer is made each year. All the offers to date were made at a 20%  discount to market price at the time. There are no performance criteria for the Sharesave plan. Employees are given the option   of joining either the 3 year or the 5 year scheme.     3 year scheme  5 year scheme          2010  2009  2010  2009 Grant date       1 December   1 December  1 December   1 December  Share price at grant date        15.79  11.05  15.79  11.05 Exercise price        13.10  7.92  13.10  7.92 Shares granted under scheme        22,838  39,492  29,255  43,003 Vesting period        3 years  3 years  5 years  5 years Expected volatility        37%  38%  34%  33% Risk free rate        1.2%  1.9%  2.1%  2.7% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield      1.9%  2.5%  1.9%  2.5% Probability of ceasing employment before vesting      20%  20%  20%  20% Fair value        4.71  3.92  5.28  4.06  76  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 24. Share-based payments (continued) (b) Sharesave plan (continued) Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows:     2010  2009          Average    Average         exercise price   exercise price        in  per share  Options in  per share  Options At 1 January         7.02  274,810  5.75  292,925 Granted        13.10  52,093  7.92  82,495 Exercised        5.38  (63,641)  3.67  (90,615) Lapsed        7.36  (4,851)  7.42  (9,995) At 31 December 2010        8.62  258,411  7.02  274,810 Of the 258,411 outstanding options (2009: 274,810), 37,964 are exercisable (2009: 20,800).  The Group received proceeds of 342,000 in respect of the 63,641 options exercised during the year: 3,000 was credited   to share capital and 339,000 to share premium (see note 16). The weighted average share price at date of exercise was 15.48  (2009: 11.19). The weighted average remaining life of 95,992 (2009: 98,249) awards outstanding under the 3 year plan is two years. The weighted  average remaining life of 162,419 (2009: 176,561) awards outstanding under the 5 year plan is three years. (c) Long Term Incentive Plan The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is a performance share or cash unit plan under which shares or cash units are conditionally  allocated to selected members of senior management at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis. Following  shareholder approval of the LTIP at the Companys AGM on 18 May 2000, awards over shares were made to executive directors and  senior managers in each year from 2000 to 2009. In 2009 and 2010 awards were only made under the share-based scheme. 2007-2009 LTIPs No shares or cash units will normally be released to participants unless they are still in the Groups service following completion of three  year performance periods and the Companys relative total shareholder return (TSR) against a comparator group of companies places   it in at least the 50th percentile position in the comparator group at the end of the relevant performance period.  TSR measures the change in value of a share and reinvested dividends over the period of measurement. The actual number of shares  or cash units transferred will be determined by the number of shares or cash units initially allocated multiplied by a vesting percentage.  The actual number of shares or cash units transferred will be 30% at the 50th percentile rising to 100% at the 75th percentile with each  percentile position above the 50th adding 2.8% to the vesting percentage. The Companys earnings per share (EPS) is also monitored  during the relevant performance period to ensure it meets a minimum average annual growth equal to the rise in the Retail Price Index  (RPI) plus 2% per annum. Failure to meet the RPI requirement will result in nil vesting. The performance period for the 2007 awards ended on 31 December 2009. Messrs. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent  actuaries certified to the Remuneration Committee that there was a 100% vesting of this award as the Companys position relative to  the comparator group at the end of the relevant performance period was above the 75th percentile and the Groups earnings per share  growth has exceeded the minimum average annual growth in the RPI plus 2% per annum. The awards vested during 2010. The performance period for the 2008 awards ended on 31 December 2010. Messrs. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent  actuaries certified to the Remuneration Committee that there was a 94.4% vesting of these awards based on the performance criteria   of the scheme. The awards will vest during 2011. 2010 LTIP plan Following shareholder approval of the 2010 LTIP plan at the Companys AGM on 23 April 2010, awards of shares were made to  executive and senior managers. Half of these awards vest under a TSR performance condition and half under an EPS performance  condition. TSR measures the change in value of a share and reinvested dividends over the period of measurement. The actual number of shares   or cash units transferred will be determined by the number of shares or cash units initially allocated multiplied by a vesting percentage.  The actual number of shares or cash units transferred will be 25% at the 50th percentile rising to 100% at the 75th percentile. The EPS performance condition is satisfied with 15% of the awards vesting if the EPS growth is RPI + 10% over the vesting period   up to a maximum of 100% vesting if EPS growth exceeds RPI +25%.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  77 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 24. Share-based payments (continued) (i) Share-based scheme   2010  2009 Grant date  23 April  4 March   2010  2009 Share price at grant date  13.87  7.56 Shares granted under scheme  138,908  220,302 Vesting period  3 years  3 years Expected volatility  34%  35% Risk free rate  1.8%  1.7% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield  2.1%  3.5% Probability of ceasing employment before vesting  1% p.a.  1% p.a. Fair value of awards under TSR performance conditions  8.73  4.31 Fair value of awards under EPS performance conditions  13.13  n/a       Outstanding       Outstanding       at start  Granted  Vested  Forfeited  at end       of year  during year  during year  during year  of year 2007 Award      106,062  –  (106,062)  –  – 2008 Award      112,702  –  (15,340)  (5,113)  92,249 2009 Award      220,382  –  –  (28,986)  191,396 2010 Award      –  138,908  –  –  138,908       439,146  138,908  (121,402)  (34,099)  422,553 At the date of vesting the 2007 and 2008 awards were valued at 13.57 and 14.40 respectively. The weighted average remaining   life of awards outstanding at the year end is one year.   (ii) Cash-based scheme Awards of 67,565 were outstanding at the beginning and the end of the year in relation to the 2008 cash-based award. The  performance period for the 2008 awards ended on 31 December 2010. Messrs. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent actuaries  certified to the Remuneration Committee that there was a 94.4% vesting of these awards based on the performance criteria of the  scheme. The awards vest in 2011. Awards of 74,139 relating to the 2007 cash-based award vested in the year. The weighted average value at the date of vesting   was 13.62.   78  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 25. Financial instruments Financial risk and treasury policies The Treasury department maintains liquidity, manages relations with the Groups bankers, identifies and manages foreign exchange risk  and provides a treasury service to the Groups businesses. Treasury dealings such as investments, borrowings and foreign exchange are  conducted only to support underlying business transactions. The Group has clearly defined policies for the management of credit risk, foreign exchange and interest rate risk. The Group Treasury  department is not a profit centre and, therefore, does not undertake speculative foreign exchange dealings for which there is no  underlying exposure. Exposures resulting from sales and purchases in foreign currency are matched where possible and the net exposure  may be hedged. (a) Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual  obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and cash on deposit with financial institutions.  Management has a credit policy in place and exposure to credit risk is both monitored on an ongoing basis and reduced through the use  of credit insurance covering 70% to 80% of trade receivables at any time. Credit evaluations are carried out on all customers requiring  credit above a certain threshold, with varying approval levels set above this depending on the value of the sale. At the balance sheet  date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. Goods are sold subject to retention of title clauses, so that in the event of non-payment the Group may have a secured claim. The Group establishes an allowance for impairment in respect of non-insured receivables where recoverability is considered doubtful. The Group Treasury Committee meets regularly and reviews the credit risk associated with institutions that hold a material cash balance.  As well as credit ratings, counterparties and instruments are assessed for credit default swap pricing, liquidity of funds and interest rate. Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting  date was:        Carrying amount              2010  2009 Trade receivables            70,362  53,791 Other receivables            7,974  7,316 Cash and cash equivalents            97,881  78,676 Currency swap deposit            –  400 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:      Assets            918  942             177,135  141,125 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by currency was:       Carrying amount              2010  2009 Sterling            5,107  6,179 US dollar            14,183  13,134 Euro            37,730  25,604 Other            13,342  8,874              70,362  53,791   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  79 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 25. Financial instruments (continued) (a) Credit Risk (continued) Provisions against trade receivables The aging of trade receivables and associated provision for impairment at the reporting date was:         Gross  Provision  Gross  Provision         2010  2010  2009  2009 Not past due        49,870  (88)  36,923  (41) Past due 1-30 days        11,503  (89)  9,438  (49) Past due 31-60 days        5,395  (34)  4,417  (62) Past due 61-90 days        2,008  (274)  2,386  (277) Past due more than 91 days        3,431  (1,360)  2,220  (1,164)         72,207  (1,845)  55,384  (1,593) (b) Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Groups approach to  managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under   both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation. The Group is highly cash generative, and uses monthly cash flow forecasts to monitor cash requirements and to optimise its return   on investments. Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on hand to meet foreseeable operational expenses; it also  maintains a 2m overdraft facility (2009: 2m) on which interest would be payable at LIBOR plus 150 basis points. The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact   of netting agreements: 31 December 2010   Analysis of contractual cash flow maturities      Carrying  Contractual  Less than      More than     amount  cash flows  12 months  1-2 years  2-5 years  5 years Finance lease liabilities    136  145  54  45  46  – Trade and other payables    56,781  56,781  56,781  –  –  – Forward exchange contracts    294  294  294  –  –  – Non-redeemable preference shares    40  40  –  –  –  40     57,251  57,260  57,129  45  46  40 The forward exchange contracts will be settled on a gross basis and the undiscounted gross outflow in respect of these contracts is  50,428,000 (2009: 59,410,000) and the gross inflow is 51,191,000 (2009: 59,185,000). 31 December 2009   Analysis of contractual cash flow maturities      Carrying  Contractual  Less than      More than     amount  cash flows  12 months  1-2 years  2-5 years  5 years Finance lease liabilities    224  240  113  74  53  – Trade and other payables    51,040  51,040  51,040  –  –  – Forward exchange contracts    1,257  1,257  1,130  127  –  – Non-redeemable preference shares    42  42  –  –  –  42     52,563  52,579  52,283  201  53  42  80  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 25. Financial instruments (continued) (c) Market Risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as currency rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups results.   The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk within suitable parameters. (i) Currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than sterling. The  currencies primarily giving rise to this risk are the US dollar and related currencies and the euro. The Group hedges up to 75% of forecast  US dollar or euro foreign currency exposures using forward exchange contracts. In respect of other non-sterling monetary assets and  liabilities the exposures are maintained and hedged up to 75% where this is deemed appropriate. The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts that hedge forecast transactions as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.  The net fair value of forward exchange contracts used as hedges at 31 December 2010 was a 624,000 asset (2009: 315,000  liability) comprising an asset of 918,000 (2009: 942,000) and a liability of 294,000 (2009: 1,257,000). Forward exchange  contracts in place at 31 December 2010 mature in 2011 and 2012. Changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies   and for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement.  Sensitivity analysis It is estimated that, with all other variables held equal (in particular other exchange rates), a general change of one cent in the value   of either the US dollar or euro against sterling would have had an impact on the Groups profit before interest and tax for the year ended  31 December 2010 of 300,000 and 250,000 respectively. The method of estimation, which has been applied consistently, involves  assessing the transaction impact of US dollar and euro cash flows and the translation impact of US dollar and euro profits. The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:     Average rate  Closing rate          2010  2009  2010  2009 US dollar        1.54  1.54  1.57  1.61 Euro        1.16  1.13  1.17  1.13 (ii) Interest rate risk The Group does not undertake any hedging activity in this area. All cash deposits are made at prevailing interest rates and the majority is  available with same day notice, though deposits are sometimes made with a maturity of no more than three months. The main element  of interest rate risk concerns Sterling, USD and Renminbi deposits, all of which are on a floating rate basis. The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows:             2010  2009 Fixed rate financial liabilities            118  195 Floating rate financial liabilities            58  71             176  266 The fixed and floating rate financial liabilities comprise finance leases. The floating rate obligations bear interest at rates determined   by reference to the relevant LIBOR or equivalent rate. The weighted average interest rate of the fixed rate financial liabilities is 6.4% (2009: 4.1%) per annum. The weighted average period   for which interest rates on the fixed rate financial liabilities are fixed is 2.5 years.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  81 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 25. Financial instruments (continued) (c) Market Risks (continued) The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows:             2010  2009 In one year or less            49  104 In more than one year but not more than two years          43  69 In more than two years but not more than five years          44  51 In more than five years            40  42             176  266 (d) Capital Risk Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order   to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure. The Group   defines capital as net funds and equity attributable to share holders (see note 16). There are no external imposed restrictions   on the Groups capital structure. The Groups net funds at 31 December were as follows:             2010  2009 Total borrowings            (176)  (266) Cash and cash equivalents (note 15)           97,881  78,676 Group net funds            97,705  78,410 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to  shareholders or issue new shares.  82  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 25. Financial instruments (continued)  (e) Fair Values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, were as follows:         Carrying  Fair  Carrying  Fair         Amount  Value  Amount  Value         2010  2010  2009  2009 Loans and receivables          Trade receivables        70,362   70,362  53,791   53,791 Other receivables        7,974  7,974  7,316  7,316           Financial assets          Cash and cash equivalents        97,881  97,881  78,676  78,676 Currency swap deposit *        –  –  400  400           Designated cash flow hedges          Forward exchange contracts:            Assets        918   918  942   942   Liabilities        (294)   (294)  (1,257)   (1,257)        Financial liabilities at amortised cost        Trade and other payables          (56,781)   (56,781)   (51,040)   (51,040) Preference shares        (40)  (40)  (42)  (42) Finance lease liabilities          (136)   (136)   (224)   (224) Currency swap loan *        –  –  (400)  (400)         119,884  119,884  88,162  88,162 *  As the elements of the currency swap could legally be offset, although the values of the loan and deposit are shown above they have  been offset in the consolidated balance sheet. Basis for determining fair values  The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected   in the table above. Designated cash flow hedges Forward exchange contracts are valued at year end spot rates adjusted for the forward points to the contracts value date, and gains   and losses taken to equity.  Trade and other receivables / payables As the majority of receivables / payables have a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the   fair value. 26. Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:             2010  2009 Less than one year            1,830  1,357 Between one and five years            5,738  6,128 More than five years            315  1,261             7,883  8,746 Of the 7,883,000 (2009: 8,746,000), 5,792,000 (2009: 6,804,000) relates to property and the balance to plant   and equipment.    ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  83 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information 27. Capital commitments Capital commitments at 31 December for which no provision has been made in these accounts were:             2010  2009 Contracted            465  714 28. Contingencies             2010  2009 Performance guarantees and indemnities          8,522  8,592 The performance guarantees and indemnities have been entered into in the normal course of business. A liability would only arise   in the event of the Group failing to fulfil its contractual obligations. 29. Related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors and key management. A list of subsidiaries is shown  in the Directory on pages 93 to 95. Transactions between two subsidiaries for the sale and purchase of products or the subsidiary and  parent Company for management charges are priced on an arms length basis. Sales to subsidiaries and associates of BAE Systems plc, a related party by virtue of non-executive director IG Kings directorship of that  company, totalled 21,000 during the year (2009: 20,000) and no amount was outstanding at 31 December 2010 (2009: 19,000). Key management emoluments The emoluments of those members of the management team, including directors, who are responsible for planning, directing and  controlling the activities of the Group were:             2010  2009 Emoluments including social security costs          2,990  2,455 Post employment benefits            370  424 Share-based payments            755  843             4,115  3,722 30. Post balance sheet event On 23 February 2011 the Group signed a contract to acquire all the outstanding issued share capital of Rotork Servo Controles de  Mexico S.A. de C.V. (RSCM), its Mexican sales and service agent. Formal completion will take place following certain share transfer  formalities being finalised. The gross assets of RSCM are approximately 1.6 million.  84  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Rotork p.l.c. Company Balance Sheet At 31 December 2010     2010  2009   Notes  000  000 Fixed assets      Tangible assets  c  1,118  1,146 Investments  d  43,205  43,205     44,323  44,351       Current assets      Debtors  f  44,180  20,458 Cash at bank and in hand  e  10,633  15,351     54,813  35,809       Creditors:      Amounts falling due within one year  g  (3,824)  (3,888) Net current assets    50,989  31,921       Total assets less current liabilities    95,312  76,272       Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year  h  (40)  (42) Net assets    95,272  76,230 Capital and reserves      Called up share capital  j  4,334  4,330 Share premium account  j  7,389  7,033 Capital redemption reserve  j  1,644  1,642 Profit and loss account  j  81,905  63,225 Equity shareholders funds    95,272  76,230 These Company financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: PI France and JM Davis, Directors.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  85 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information a. Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the  financial statements. Notes a to k relate to the Company rather than the Group. Except where indicated, values in these notes are in 000. Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK GAAP.  Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.  Under FRS 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the Group includes   the Company in its own published consolidated financial statements. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 8 and has not disclosed transactions with entities which   are subsidiaries of the Group. The Group financial statements contain financial instrument disclosures which comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.  Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 not to present separate financial instrument disclosures  for the Company. Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group,  the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the  guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment  under the guarantee. The Company continues to account for intragroup cross guarantees under FRS 12. Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and  liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains   or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account. Investments Investments are measured at cost less any provision for impairment and adjusted where equity settled share-based payments are made  to the subsidiary Companys employees. They comprise investments in subsidiary companies. Depreciation and amortisation Freehold land is not depreciated. Long leasehold buildings are amortised over 50 years or the expected useful life of the building where  less than 50 years. Other assets are depreciated by equal annual instalments by reference to their estimated useful lives and residual  values at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings   2% to 4% Short leasehold buildings   period of lease Plant and equipment   10% to 33% Post-retirement benefits The Company participates in a Group wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable salary. The assets of the  scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and  liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 Retirement benefits, accounts   for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents  the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period. Classification of preference shares Following the adoption of the presentation elements of FRS 25, Financial instruments, the cumulative redeemable preference shares  issued by the Company are classified as long-term debt. The preference dividends are charged within interest payable. Share-based payments The Company has adopted FRS 20 and the accounting policies followed are in all material respects the same as the Groups policy  under IFRS 2. This policy is shown in note 1 to the Group financial statements. Notes to the Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010  86  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 a. Accounting policies (continued)  Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided in full, without discounting, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay  more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and  law, except for the items explained below. Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation  computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements. Deferred tax is not provided on  timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the assets or on unremitted   earnings of subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit those earnings. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent   that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid. Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements   in the period which they are approved by the Companys shareholders. b. Personnel expenses in the Company Profit and Loss Account              2010  2009 Wages and salaries (including bonus and incentive plans)         1,594  1,449 Social security costs            304  206 Pension costs            192  264 Share-based payments            235  263             2,325  2,182 There are seven (2009: seven) employees of Rotork p.l.c. plus the four (2009: four) executive directors. The personnel costs accounted  for within the Company include the full costs of the employees and the Group Finance Director but not the full costs of other executive  directors. Half of the salary costs of the Group Chief Executive are reported within the Company but the balance of the costs and those  of the other two executive directors are reported within the subsidiary where they are based as this approximates to the basis on which  their time is split. Share-based payments The share-based payment charge relates to employees of the Company participating in the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The  disclosures required under FRS 20 can be found in note 24 to the Group Financial Statements. The table below sets out the movement  of share options under the LTIP for employees of the Company.       Outstanding       Outstanding       at start  Granted  Vested  Forfeited  at end       of year  during year  during year  during year  of year 2007 Award      42,432  –  (42,432)  –  – 2008 Award      42,761  –  (15,340)  (5,113)  22,308 2009 Award      64,722  –  –  (28,986)  35,736 2010 Award      –  36,319  –  –  36,319       149,915  36,319  (57,772)  (34,099)  94,363 At the date of vesting the 2007 awards were valued at 13.57. The weighted average remaining life of awards outstanding at the year  end is one year.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  87 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information c. Tangible assets in the Company Balance Sheet   Land and  Plant and   buildings  equipment  Total Cost      At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010  1,468  13  1,481 Depreciation At 1 January 2010  322  13  335 Charge for year  28  –  28 At 31 December 2010  350  13  363 Net book value  at 31 December 2010  1,118  –  1,118 At 31 December 2009  1,146  –  1,146 Net book value of land and buildings can be analysed between:               2010  2009 Freehold land            60  60 Freehold buildings            1,058  1,086 Net book value at 31 December            1,118  1,146 d. Investments in the Company Balance Sheet Shares in Group companies             2010  2009 At 1 January            43,205  2,668 Additions arising from share schemes           –  537 Increased investment in subsidiary undertakings          –  40,000 At 31 December            43,205  43,205     A listing of the principal subsidiaries is included in the Directory on pages 93 to 95.  e.  Cash at bank and in hand in the Company Balance Sheet             2010  2009 Bank balances            633  340 Short-term deposits            10,000  15,011 Cash at bank and in hand            10,633  15,351  88  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 f.  Debtors due within one year in the Company Balance Sheet             2010  2009 Amounts owed by Group undertakings           43,912  20,184 Other debtors            110  32 Prepayments and accrued income            75  56 Corporation tax            –  49 Deferred taxation            83  137             44,180  20,458 A deferred tax asset of 83,000 (2009: 137,000) has been recognised. This asset principally relates to timing differences in respect   of share-based payments. The directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading that the level of future and current  profits make it more likely than not that the asset will be recovered.  g. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year in the Company Balance Sheet             2010  2009 Trade creditors            102  163 Amounts owed to Group undertakings           1,052  1,052 Other taxes and social security            28  25 Other creditors            2,175  1,985 Accruals and deferred income            467  663             3,824  3,888 The Company has a 20m gross overdraft facility and is part of a UK banking arrangement, see note i. h. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year in the Company Balance Sheet             2010  2009 Preference shares classified as debt           40  42 This debt is not redeemable at any fixed future date. i. Contingencies in the Company    The UK banking arrangements are subject to cross-guarantees between the Company and its UK subsidiaries. These accounts are subject  to a right of set-off. The performance guarantees and indemnities have been entered into in the normal course of business. A liability   would only arise in the event of the Group failing to fulfil its contractual obligations.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  89 Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information j. Capital and reserves in the Company Balance Sheet           Capital    Equity       Share  Share  redemption  Retained Shareholders       capital  premium  reserve  earnings  funds Balance at 1 January 2010      4,330  7,033  1,642  63,225  76,230 Profit for the year      –  –  –  54,697  54,697 Equity settled share-based payment transactions net of tax  –  –  –  (731)  (731) Share options exercised by employees     4  356  –  –  360 Own ordinary shares acquired      –  –  –  (2,876)  (2,876) Own ordinary shares awarded under share schemes    –  –  –  3,506  3,506 Purchase of preference shares      –  –  2  (4)  (2) Dividends      –  –  –  (35,912)  (35,912) Balance at 31 December 2010      4,334  7,389  1,644  81,905  95,272 Details of the number of ordinary shares authorised and in issue and dividends paid in the year are given in note 16 to the Group  Financial Statements.  Profit for the financial year in the accounts of the Company is 54,697,000 (2009: 42,199,000). k.  Capital risk management in the Company The Companys objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Companys ability to continue as a going concern   in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders,   return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Companys net funds at the balance sheet date were:             2010  2009 Preference shares            (40)  (42) Cash at bank and in hand            10,633  15,351 Company net funds            10,593  15,309  90  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Information Ten Year Trading History   2010  2009  2008  2007  2006  2005  2004  2003  2002  2001   000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000  000   IFRS  IFRS  IFRS  IFRS  IFRS  IFRS  IFRS  UK GAAP  UK GAAP  UK GAAP Continuing operations  380,560 353,521 320,207 235,688 206,709 174,839 146,883 135,964 129,677 119,322 Discontinued operations  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  3,783  4,367 Revenue  380,560 353,521 320,207 235,688 206,709 174,839 146,883 135,964 133,460 123,689                     Cost of sales  (199,742)(187,600) (176,046) (127,748)(115,603) (95,358) (79,097) (72,046) (71,875) (65,877) Gross profit  180,818 165,921 144,161 107,940  91,106  79,481  67,786  63,918  61,585  57,812                     Overheads  (83,094) (74,384) (69,272) (52,553) (46,017) (42,951) (37,354) (36,808) (35,863) (33,532) Operating profit  97,724  91,537  74,889  55,387  45,089  36,530  30,432  27,110  25,722  24,280                     Continuing operations  99,442  92,103  76,014  55,461  45,089  36,530  30,432  28,415  26,553  24,733 Discontinued operations  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  474  574 Adjusted* operating profit   99,442  92,103  76,014  55,461  45,089  36,530  30,432  28,415  27,027  25,307 Amortisation of acquired    intangible assets  (1,718)  (1,153)  (1,125)  (74)  –  –  –  –  –  – Disposal of property  –  587  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – Amortisation of goodwill  _  _  –  –  –  –  –  (1,305)  (1,305)  (1,027) Operating profit  97,724  91,537  74,889  55,387  45,089  36,530  30,432  27,110  25,722  24,280                     Exceptional items  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  597  –  –                     Net interest  131  (621)  862  1,866  972  127  1,074  461  440  563 Profit before taxation  97,855  90,916  75,751  57,253  46,061  36,657  31,506  28,168  26,162  24,843 Tax expense  (28,334) (26,884) (22,331) (17,957) (14,728) (12,043) (10,508)  (9,469)  (8,868)  (8,539) Profit for the year  69,521  64,032  53,420  39,296  31,333  24,614  20,998  18,699  17,294  16,304                     Dividends  35,912  24,102  29,970  24,732  24,140  13,437  17,751  12,592  11,959  11,147                     Basic earnings per share  80.5p  74.2p  62.0p  45.6p  36.4p  28.6p  24.5p  21.8p  20.1p  18.9p Adjusted* earnings    per share  82.4p  75.5p  63.3p  45.7p  –  –  –  –  –  – Diluted earnings per share  80.2p  73.9p  61.6p  45.2p  36.1p  28.4p  24.3p  21.7p  20.0p  18.9p * Adjusted is before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and the disposal of property. The above ten year history has not been restated to apply IFRS to all periods. Had this exercise been undertaken the major changes  would have been the removal of amortisation of goodwill and the introduction of amortisation of separable intangibles, capitalisation   and amortisation of development costs and charges for share-based payments. Dividends shown in the IFRS columns are on a paid  basis but in the UK GAAP columns are on an accrued basis.   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  91 The tables below show the split of shareholder and size of shareholding in Rotork p.l.c. Ordinary shareholder by type  Number of holdings  %  Number of shares  % Individuals  1,796  67.1  2,727,421  3.1 Bank or nominees  804  30.1  82,723,013  95.4 Other company  38  1.4  408,339  0.5 Other corporate body  38  1.4  822,890  1.0   2,676  100.0  86,681,663  100.0 Size of shareholding  Number of shareholders  %  Number of shares  % 1 – 1,000  1,432  53.5  523,994  0.6 1,001 – 2,000  401  15.0  604,255  0.7 2,001 – 5,000  331  12.4  1,015,831  1.2 5,001 – 10,000  142  5.3  1,007,603  1.2 10,001 – 50,000  185  6.9  4,395,173  5.1 50,001 – 100,000  68  2.5  4,826,624  5.5 100,001 +  117  4.4  74,308,183  85.7   2,676  100.0  86,681,663  100.0 Source: Equiniti Dividend information The table below details the amounts of interim, final and additional dividends declared in respect of each of the last five years.              Additional         Interim  Final  interim  Total         dividend  dividend  dividend  dividend         (p)  (p)  (p)  (p) 2010        12.75  19.75  11.50  44.00 2009        11.15  17.25  –  28.40 2008        9.25  16.75  11.50  37.50 2007        7.70  14.00  9.30  31.00 2006        6.50  11.65  11.60  29.75 Financial calendar  1 March 2011    Preliminary announcement of annual results for 2010 6 April 2011   Ex-dividend date for final proposed 2010 dividend 8 April 2011   Record date for final proposed 2010 dividend 21 April 2011   Annual General Meeting held at Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath, BA1 3JQ 6 May 2011    Payment date for final proposed 2010 dividend 25 May 2011   Ex-dividend date for additional interim dividend 27 May 2011   Record date for additional interim dividend 24 June 2011   Payment date for additional interim dividend 2 August 2011   Announcement of interim financial results for 2011 Share Register Information Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information  92  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Information Corporate Directory Company Secretary  Stephen Rhys Jones     Registered Office Rotork p.l.c.  Brassmill Lane  Bath BA1 3JQ      Company Number  578327       Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA  Stockbrokers  UBS Investment Bank      1 Finsbury Avenue       London EC2M 2PP           Financial Advisers UBS Investment Bank 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Auditors KPMG Audit Plc 100 Temple Street Bristol BS1 6AG Financial Public Relations Financial Dynamics Limited Holborn Gate 26 Southampton Buildings London EC2A 1PB Solicitors Messrs. Osborne Clarke No.2 Temple Back East Temple Quay Bristol BS1 6EG    ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  93 Directory United Kingdom Rotork p.l.c., England Holding Company Roger Lockwood  Chairman (non-executive) Peter France Chief Executive Tel: +44 1225 733200 Fax: +44 1225 733381 Email: peter.france@rotork.com Rotork Controls Ltd, England 100% owned by Rotork p.l.c. Peter France Managing Director Tel: +44 1225 733200 Fax: +44 1225 733381 Email: peter.france@rotork.com Exeeco Ltd, England 100% owned by Rotork Controls Ltd David Littlejohns Managing Director Tel: +44 113 256 7922 Fax: +44 113 256 3556 Email: david.littlejohns@rotork.com  Valvekits, England A division of Exeeco Ltd David Littlejohns Managing Director Tel: +44 1623 440211 Fax: +44 1623 440214 Email: david.littlejohns@rotork.com Rotork Overseas Ltd, England 100% owned by Rotork p.l.c. Jonathan Davis Director Tel: +44 1225 733200 Fax: +44 1225 733381 Email: jonathan.davis@rotork.com Americas Rotork Inc, USA 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Robert Arnold Director Tel: +1 585 247 2304 Fax: +1 585 247 2308 Email: bob.arnold@rotork.com Rotork Controls Inc, USA 100% owned by Rotork Inc. Robert Arnold President Tel: +1 585 247 2304 Fax: +1 585 247 2308 Email: bob.arnold@rotork.com Rotork Process Control, USA A division of Rotork Controls Inc. Derek Olson General Manager Tel: +1 414 461 9200 Fax: +1 414 461 1024 Email: derek.olson@rotork.com  Ralph A. Hiller Company Inc,USA 100% owned by Rotork Inc.  Bob DeMarcki General Manager Tel: +1 724 325 1200 Fax: +1 728 833 3067 Email: bdemarcki@rahiller.com  Flow-Quip Inc, USA 100% Owned by Rotork Inc Tom Degaetano General Manager Tel: +1 918 663 3313 Fax: +1 918 663 1590 Email: tom.degaetano@rotork.com Rotork Controls (Canada) Ltd, Canada 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Chris Bone President Tel: +1 403 569 9455 Fax: +1 403 569 9414 Email: chris.bone@rotork.com Rotork Controls de Venezuela SA,  Venezuela 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Edgar Vina General Manager Tel: +58 212 762 6706 Fax: +58 212 762 9382 Email: edgar.vina@rotork.com.ve Rotork Controls Comrcio De  Atuadores LTDA, Brazil  100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Gil Cavalcante Director Tel: +55 21 2221 7400 Email: gil.cavalcante@rotork.com Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information  94  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Information Directory continued Europe Rotork Motorisation SAS, France 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Bruno Deverly General Manager Tel: +33 143 11 15 50 Fax: +33 148 35 42 54 Email: bruno.deverly@rotork.com Rotork Controls (Deutschland) GmbH,  Germany 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Jrgen Vogel General Manager Tel: +49 2103 95876 Fax: +49 2103 54090 Email: jurgen.vogel@rotork.com RFS Melle, Germany A division of Rotork Controls  (Deutschland) GmbH Dr. Wolfgang Funk General Manager Tel: +49 5422 94140 Fax: +49 5422 941410 Email: wolfgang.funk@rotork.com Rotork Fluid System Srl, Italy 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Stefan Davis Director Tel: +39 0583 93061 Fax: +39 0583 934612 Email: stefan.davis@rotork.com Rotork Controls Italia Srl, Italy 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Renato Vezzoli General Manager Tel: +39 0245 703300 Fax: +39 0245 703301 Email: renato.vezzoli@rotork.com Rotork Gears Srl, Italy 100% owned by Rotork Controls Italia Srl Roberto Boldorini General Manager Tel: +39 033 155 2128 Fax: +39 033 155 3147 Email: roberto.boldorini@rotork.com Rotork BV, Netherlands 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Frank Koopmans General Manager Tel: +31 10 4146911 Fax: +31 10 4144750 Email: frank.koopmans@rotork.com Rotork Gears Holding BV, Netherlands 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Johan Mostert General Manager Tel: +31 53 538 8677 Fax: +31 53 538 3939 Email: johan.mostert@rotork.com Rotork Gears BV, Netherlands 100% owned by Rotork Gears   (Holdings) BV Johan Mostert General Manager Tel: +31 53 538 8677 Fax: +31 53 538 3939 Email: johan.mostert@rotork.com Rotork Rus LLC, Russia 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Simon Brown General Manager Tel: +7 495 645 2147 Fax: +7 495 956 2329  Email: simon.brown@rotork.com Rotork Controls (Iberia) SL, Spain 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Aitor Laso General Manager Tel: +34 94 676 6011 Fax: +34 94 676 6018 Email: aitor.laso@rotork.com Rotork Portugal  A division of Rotork Controls (Iberia) SL  Aitor Laso General Manager Tel: +34 94 676 6160 Fax: +34 94 676 6018 Email: aitor.laso@rotork.com Rotork Sweden AB, Sweden 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Ake Backman General Manager Tel: + 46 23 58700 Fax: +46 23 58745 Email: ake.backman@rotork.com  Rest of the World Rotork Africa (Pty) Ltd, South Africa 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Karl Rautenbach General Manager Tel: +27 11 4539741 Fax: +27 11 4539894 Email: karl.rautenbach@rotork.co.za Rotork Fluid System Pty Ltd, Australia 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Lyndon Dean General Manager Tel: +61 3 9729 8882 Fax: +61 3 9729 8884 Email: lyndon@rfsaustralia.com Rotork Australia Pty Ltd, Australia 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Lee Howard General Manager Tel: +61 353 381566 Fax: +61 353 381570 Email: lee.howard@rotork.com.au Rotork New Zealand A division of Rotork Australia Pty Ltd David Croxford General Manager Tel: +64 4477 3312 Fax: +64 4477 5706 Email: david.croxford@rotork.co.nz Rotork Actuation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd,  China 100% owned by Rotork Controls Ltd Bruce Wang General Manager Tel: +86 21 6434 8388 Fax: +86 21 6434 8266 Email: bruce.wang@rotork.com Rotork Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd,  China 100% owned by Rotork Controls Ltd Steven Xu General Manager Tel: +86 21 544 52910 Fax: +86 21 544 52912 Email: steven.xu@rotork.com.cn Rotork Ltd, Hong Kong 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Steven Xu General Manager Tel: +852 2 5202390 Fax: +852 2 5289746 Email: steven.xu@rotork.com.cn   ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010  95 Rotork Controls (India) Ltd, India 100% owned by Rotork Controls Ltd P Ravindranath President Tel: +91 77 3010 6502 Fax: +91 44 2625 7108 Email: ravi.p@rotork.co.in Rotork Japan Co. Ltd, Japan 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Shinichi Araki General Manager Tel: +81 3 5632 2941 Fax: +81 3 5632 2942 Email: s-araki@rotork.co.jp Rotork Controls (Korea) Co. Ltd,   South Korea 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd SW Chun General Manager Tel: +82 31 768 8151 Fax: +82 31 768 8156 Email: swchun@rotork.co.kr Rotork Actuation Sdn Bhd, Malaysia 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Aaron Ow General Manager Tel: +60 3 5191 3936 Fax: +60 3 5191 3937 Email: pkow@rotork.com.my Rotork (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Malaysia 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Aaron Ow General Manager Tel: +60 3 5192 8812 Fax: +60 3 5192 8821 Email: pkow@rotork.com.my Rotork Middle East FZE Jebel Ali,  Dubai 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd John Pratt General Manager Tel: +971 4 884 9818 Fax: +971 4 884 7215 Email: john.pratt@rotork.com Rotork Controls (Singapore) Pte Ltd,  Singapore 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Ltd Richard Hudd General Manager Tel: +65 64571233 Fax: +65 64576011 Email: richard.hudd@rotork.com  Rotork (Thailand) Ltd, Thailand 100% owned by Rotork Inc. Chaitawat Chotikawanish Manager Tel: +66 2 530 2420 Fax: +66 2 530 2106 Email: chaitawc@rotork.co.th Group Financial Statements Business Review Governance Information  96  ROTORK P.L.C.  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes  Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk  Rotork p.l.c. Rotork House Brassmill Lane Bath BA1 3JQ www.rotork.com