Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010  1 Foreword 4 Summary 6 Millennium Development Goal 1 14 Millennium Development Goal 3 18 Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5 22 Millennium Development Goal 7 28 Millennium Development Goal 8 Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals Creating Shared Value Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger Promote gender equality and empower women Reduce child mortality/ Improve maternal health Ensure environmental sustainability Develop a global partnership for development Cover: Yan Reach is one of thousands of rural farmers to be supported by International Development Enterprises (IDE) Cambodias micro-franchise project. Winner of the rst Nestl Prize in Creating Shared Value, the IDE project enables farmers like Yan to buy seeds and get technical advice on best practice from independent Farm Business Advisors (see pages 28–31).  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 1 Foreword: Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals In 2000, the United Nations launched the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), outlining eight important goals related to poverty reduction to be achieved by 2015. Our immediate response was to take stock of what Nestl could do to support the achievement of the MDGs through the continuation and expansion of existing efforts, and through the launch of new efforts. In 2006, we issued our rst report on those Nestl activities which contribute to achieving the MDGs, and were, to our knowledge, the only company to issue such a report. Now that a decade has passed since the creation of the Millennium Development Goals, we thought it appropriate to again take stock of our actions related to the MDGs. The report contained in these pages and the related website describe the 292 Nestl business activities and programmes which support the Millennium Development Goals. Nestls basic business principle is that we can only create value for our shareholders if at the same time we create value for society. We have identied three focus areas where, for Nestl, business and societal value creation can be optimised: nutrition, water, and rural development. We call this Creating Shared Value. About half of all our factories are in developing countries, mostly in rural areas, and we source about 70% of our raw materials from these rural areas. We aim to ensure that, more than being present in these regions, we are actively leveraging our presence to reduce poverty, improve nutrition and health, and preserve the environment for future generations. The nature of our business means that we have the most impact on MDG 1 – eradicating extreme poverty and hunger. Through our CSV concept, we work directly with hundreds  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 2 of thousands of farmers to help them improve the quality and quantity of their produce and, as a result, increase their family income. This also brings greater access to nutritious and safer food to whole regions. Through many of our business activities and related projects we promote gender equality and education for women and girls, and in some regions, we create new opportunities for women to participate in income generating activities, such as dairy farming (MDG 3). As the worlds leading Nutrition, Health, and Wellness company we are continually improving the nutritional quality and taste of our products, fortifying many of them to address the deciencies of specic populations (MDGs 4 and 5). As a company committed to continuous improvement, we are making considerable investments to stay at the forefront in reducing the environmental footprint of our operations and those of our entire value chain (MDG 7). We wholeheartedly support the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals, but also recognise that eliminating global poverty and its consequences will take more than15 years. Much progress has been made, but it will require many more decades of effort to eradicate poverty and hunger. We believe that businesses that build corporate social responsibility into their basic business model can make a signicant contribution, and we offer this report as a description of how we as a company attempt to serve shareholders and society, creating value for both. Peter Brabeck-Letmathe Chairman of the Board Paul Bulcke Chief Executive Ofcer Nestls basic business principle is that we can only create value for ourshareholders if at the same time we create value for society.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 4 Creating Shared Value Sustainability Compliance Creating Shared Value Nutrition, water, rural development Laws, business principles, codes of conduct Protect the future Summary The intent of the UN Millennium Development Goals is to focus leaders and organisations around the globe on improving quality of life for millions of the worlds poorest people. Our Creating Shared Value concept has close parallels with the UN MDGs as it focuses our business on generating value for our people, our shareholders and society as a whole. We believe that to have long-term business success, we must contribute to the wellbeing and future of the people who farm and supply our raw materials, work in our ofces and factories, and sell and consume our products. There are three areas where we believe we can particularly maximise value creation: nutrition, water and rural development. As a necessary condition for Creating Shared Value, we need to demonstrate responsible behaviour by assuring compliance and sustainability. This includes complying with Nestls Corporate Business Principles, national laws and international norms, and ensuring that our actions are environmentally sound, socially just and economically viable. However, CSV goes beyond compliance and sustainability. It aims to create new and greater value for society and our shareholders within our three focus areas. To do this we continually review our value chain to ensure that we optimise the positive aspects of our work, such as the resources we save, the opportunities we create, and the nutrition we provide. In doing so, Nestl maintains a long-term perspective on business development and welcomes dialogue with external stakeholders who are committed to principled behaviour and constructive engagement. On the following pages you will read examples of the ways we are doing this, grouped under six of the Millennium Development Goal headings reecting the areas where we are having most impact and where we are making specic investments to secure the future for our business, for society and for the planet.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 5 The UN Millennium Development Goals summary The following information is based on United Nations recommendations and statistics. In September 2000, 189 nations signed up to the United Nations Millennium Declaration, committing to halving the number of people in the world who live on less than one US dollar a day by 2015. The eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) provide a framework for achieving this aim, and set out time-bound targets by which progress can be measured. These goals are: Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger 56 Nestl projects, 36 countries, 5 continents Latest estimates from the World Bank show that 1.4 billion people in developing countries were living in extreme poverty in 2005. Recent increases in food prices are expected to push a further 100 million people into extreme poverty. After nancial aid, the greatest impact towards this goal will come from support focused on helping people in developing nations to: generate sustainable income, especially women and young people; protect themselves from the effects of economic and climate uctuations; and access safe water and nutrition, especially in Southern Asia and Africa. Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education 27 Nestl projects, 21 countries, 5 continents Education is the foundation for economic development. By receiving a good basic education, children will have a stronger chance of earning a decent income in the future and positively contributing to their community. While much progress has been made towards this goal, there are still tens of millions of children who do not go to school on a regular basis, the majority of whom are girls, and those living in rural areas. Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women 11 Nestl projects, 11 countries, 3 continents Enabling women to generate income on a level equal with their male counterparts will have a signicant impact on world poverty. While in many areas women have greater access to education and income-generating activities than ever before, specic issues prevent them from achieving parity with men. The gender gap remains wide in many countries, most notably in Southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. Goal 4: Reduce child mortality 5 Nestl projects, 5 countries, 4 continents While worldwide deaths of children under ve years of age have declined between 1990 and 2006, there is still much to be done in developing countries, where a child is 13 times more likely to die before its fth birthday than a child born in an industrialised country. Most of these young deaths are from entirely preventable causes such as pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria and measles, largely as a result of malnutrition, lack of primary health care, and lack of access to basic infrastructure such as water and sanitation. Goal 5: Improve maternal health 6 Nestl projects, 6 countries, 4 continents Every minute a woman dies of complications related to pregnancy and childbirth, according to 2005 estimates. Almost all of these women are from developing countries. The children these women leave behind are up to 10 times more likely to die prematurely than those whose mothers survive childbirth. The majority of these deaths are preventable. Giving women access to better nutrition, sanitation, protection from violence, contraceptives and sex education, and maternal health care would save millions of lives. Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases 7 Nestl projects, 6 countries, 3 continents These diseases continue to claim the lives of millions of people in the developing world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Most of these deaths can be prevented through increased aid, better nutrition, access to basic healthcare and health education, and vaccination and control interventions. Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability 52 Nestl projects, 31 countries, 4 continents As well as giving vulnerable regions the support needed to protect themselves against the effects of climate change, it is vital that the root cause is tackled by promoting environmental sustainability. Achieving this goal will also require developing countries to cultivate and strengthen their economies, diversify the income of their population, strengthen their natural defences and become better prepared for future disasters. Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development 128 Nestl projects, 56 countries, 5 continents To achieve global enhancement, emerging economies need nancial aid and access to the technology and knowledge required to develop and grow adequately. Doing so will enable them to invest in the basic infrastructure and systems people in these regions need, particularly in healthcare and education, and to put in place effective policies for social and economic development. Nestl and the Millennium Development Goals Poor diet and lack of opportunity have given rise to many of the issues targeted by the UN MDGs. Nestl can therefore support the attainment of these goals by making safe and nutritious food products accessible to consumers in poor regions and by continuing our presence in rural and developing communities, providing important sources of investment, knowledge and opportunity. Our Creating Shared Value (CSV) concept is the perfect driver for this within our business as it ensures that we operate responsibly and create sustainable value for our shareholders, whilst simultaneously creating value for society. We have analysed our value chain and determined that the areas of greatest potential both for our business and for society are nutrition, water, and rural development. These activities are core to our business strategy and vital to the welfare of the people in the countries in which we operate. They will also have a positive impact on the fullment of the MDGs. While Nestls initiatives impact each of the eight MDGs to various degrees, in this report we have chosen to focus on MDGs 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8 as these six goals are best aligned with our focus areas of nutrition, water and rural development. To nd out more about our projects and initiatives that positively impact MDGs 2 and 6, see www.community.nestle.com. These three focus areas are also incorporated into Nestls key performance indicators, placing them at the heart of our organisation. These indicators measure and report on CSV, sustainability and compliance, and serve to ensure that we continue to invest in those projects that have the most positive and lasting impact on society, as well as our business.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 6 Millennium Development Goal 1 Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger 56 Nestl projects 36 countries 5 continents For more information visit www.community.nestle.com/mdg1 Of all the UNs Millennium Development Goals (see page 5), Nestl has the most impact on the rst – eradicating extreme poverty and hunger. Creating Shared Value, our basic business principle, ensures that we are not only present in many of the worlds poorest regions, but are also actively engaged in projects that help people in these areas to prosper. Each year, Nestl spends approximately CHF 20.4 billion on agricultural raw materials. Roughly half our factories are in the developing world, primarily in rural areas, bringing important and sustainable sources of income to these deprived regions. We work with about 540000 farmers in total, with the support of approximately 5000 agricultural extension workers and about 1000 agronomists. Our long-established practice of transferring technical knowledge combined with our ability to operate in diverse and complex environments, enables us to help people in emerging economies to increase and protect their income, now and for the future. The very nature of our business enables us to make safe, affordable and nutritious products available to people in low-income regions. These products are often fortied or adapted to meet the budgets, tastes and dietary requirements of people in specic areas. As a result, we are improving the lives of millions of people in developing regions. Our long-term approach and our belief in Creating Shared Value, both for our shareholders and for society, mean that we will continue to make a difference well into the future. Below, we set out just a few examples of how we are helping to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger. You can nd details of more such projects online at www.community. nestle.com. Supporting dairy farmers Nestl is the worlds largest dairy company. We buy 12 million tonnes of milk each year from farmers in the developing world, injecting millions of US dollars into rural communities. Our considerable experience and expertise enable us to deal directly with farmers and work with them to improve the quality of their produce, the productivity of their herds and the sustainability of their activities by giving them access to nancial support and providing them with free technical advice and training. In so doing, we safeguard our long- term supply of quality milk, improve the livelihoods of rural communities, protect the environment, and secure access to affordable nutritious food products for people in developing regions. This is a clear example of how our Creating Shared Value concept creates important mutually benecial situations that have lasting positive effects. The following examples further illustrate the effects of CSV in action: India To manage the fragmented milk-supply chain in India effectively, Nestl Agricultural Services used experience gained in other parts of the world to establish a system of direct and efcient contact with the farmers in Moga, Punjab. The system employs veterinarians and agronomists to supervise milk routes and provide farmers with advice on various issues, irrespective of whether or not they are Nestl suppliers. There is no charge for veterinary services, while medicines are provided at wholesale cost. These costs are  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 7 The Village Women Dairy Development Programme in the Moga milk district of Punjab, India, focuses on advising female farmers on efcient water usage and other agricultural practices.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 8 adjusted against subsequent milk payments to the farmers, making them affordable. We also support farmers in growing their operations, for example we assist with articial insemination programmes for their cattle, subsidise the purchase of milking machines and help them to procure loans. During the past few years we have invested approximately INR 500 million (USD 10.8 million) in Moga to: install cooling tanks and chilling centres to preserve the quality and nutritional value of milk; provide veterinary aid; promote breed improvement; assist in dairy development projects and other related activities. We have also invested around INR 300 million (USD 6.5 million) in procuring goods on behalf of farmers, to be supplied at wholesale prices. The system used in Moga enables us to purchase more and better quality milk directly from hundreds of thousands of farmers. As a result, we have been able to improve the nutritional value of not only our products but also that of the milk available in the region, and have brought increased income to the areas dairy farming communities. In addition to our direct support for farmers, we are continuously implementing initiatives to improve quality of life in the communities around our factories in India, including the provision of clean water sources at village schools and nutrition education for teenage girls. China Nestls Shuangcheng milk production facility is our fourth largest in terms of annual dairy production. Over the past 20 years, we have created a unique milk-collection programme called Factory and Farmers, which provides farmers with technical assistance while eliminating the need for middlemen. This has improved traceability and accountability across the supply chain. Through the programme, Nestl annually provides more than 300 free training sessions for dairy farmers in the region. Led by agricultural extension experts, the sessions introduce farmers to best practices and new tools, and offer continuous skills development. Farmers are also given access to new technologies to improve cow selection and to ensure feed quality, as well as biogas digesters to reduce efuents contaminating local water resources. East Africa Nestl has entered into a partnership with the East African Dairy Development Board (EADD) to help secure and increase sustainable milk production in Kenya and Uganda over the next two years, using a programme of training, advice and assistance based on our experience in other regions. The programme, nanced by the EADD and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, offers technical assistance to dairy farmers in all aspects of feeding, breeding and milking practices. To ensure that products meet Nestls safety and quality standards, food safety management across the entire value chain – from farm to processor – is at the core of the training programme and subsequent audits are conducted. Nestl also provides technical assistance to the two EADD factories involved, again with a clear emphasis on quality control and food safety management. As a result of the programme, it is estimated that 155000 families in Kenya and Uganda will be able to emerge from extreme poverty over the next ten years and the real income of dairy farmers in the region will double. Our Factory and Farmers milk collection programme in Shuangcheng, north-east China provides farmers like Zhengjun Wang with proper manure storage facilities as well as biogas digesters to reduce efuents contaminating local water resources. Dairy farmers in Kenya receive advice on feeding, breeding and milking practices through our partnership with the East African Dairy Development Board (EADD).  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 9 Venezuela To help address the gap between milk supply and demand in Venezuela, we launched our Milk Production Encouragement Plan to help farmers increase milk production and deliver a higher quality yield. The plan, developed together with the dairy industry and the Venezuelan Government, has already seen some very positive results since its launch in three states in 2005. As well as giving farmers the opportunity to increase their income and helping the Venezuelan dairy industry to become more sustainable, it has achieved an 80% increase in milk and generated 5000 new jobs. Improving the quality as well as the quantity of milk production is also having a positive impact on consumer health. The plan consists of four stages: technology transfer, nutritional enhancement of dairy cattle, genetic improvement of dairy cattle, and the renovation of farm facilities. It also helps farmers gain access to the nance they need to make the required changes and investments. The Milk Production Encouragement Plan reects the long term nature of our Creating Shared Value approach to business. For example, the links established with government departments and nancial institutions, the knowledge given to farmers, the increased employment, and the improvements made to cattle and farming facilities, will be of continued economic benet long into the future. In 2009 the plans provision of viable, sustainable and innovative solutions to real problems in Venezuela earned Nestl the Eureka 2009 Innova Social award. The examples outlined above show how, by giving dairy farmers access to new knowledge and technologies, we enable them to improve the quality and quantity of milk produced by their livestock. This allows them to obtain greater food and income security and improves the economic and social conditions of their communities. By supporting farmers in this way, we also enhance our own ability to operate in the region long-term, which further validates our shared value approach. Farming cooperatives in El Salvador producing Fairtrade-certied Nescaf Partners Blend benet from the advice of our agronomists to grow better quality coffee more efciently and sustainably.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 10 Supporting coffee farmers Creating Shared Value is based on our belief that in order to create value for shareholders, we must rst create value for society. The correlation between these two points can be clearly seen in our work with coffee farmers. We are the worlds largest direct buyer of coffee, purchasing 780000 tonnes annually. These raw materials are vital to our business, so it is crucial that we secure long-term access to them. To do this, we need to address global issues such as food and water security, and work with coffee farmers to help them improve the quality and quantity of their produce and adopt environmentally sustainable farming practices. We achieve this through education programmes and technical advice, as well as propagation projects that provide farmers with high-yielding, disease-resistant plantlets to replace ageing crops. Better quality produce and more sustainable practices mean that farmers can increase and protect their income from uctuations in coffee prices, which can prove devastating. They also mean that Nestl can source more raw materials from rural low-income regions, improving quality of life for local farmers and often raising the standard of living for entire rural communities. In addition, we help rural coffee farmers to adopt sound environmental and water management practices. A good example of this is our Nescaf Partners Blend, outlined below. Nescaf Partners Blend Through our goal to create shared value, Nestl has been involved in a number of initiatives to develop sustainable agricultural practices and improve the lives of the worlds coffee farmers. The latest of these initiatives is the Nescaf Partners Blend brand, our rst Fairtrade-certied coffee, with which we aim to promote the sustainable development of the coffee industry, support rural communities and help solve the longstanding problem of uctuating coffee prices in Ethiopia and El Salvador. In El Salvador, for example, we are working with four cooperatives to provide farmers with the right resources to grow better quality coffee more efciently and more sustainably. This work has included the introduction of agronomists who help farmers better understand modern processes for producing and harvesting coffee, and show them how to employ these techniques effectively. Our agronomists also offer expert advice on diversication (the practice of branching out into other agricultural areas), helping farmers identify the most appropriate secondary produce for their plot. To improve day-to-day living conditions, new houses have been provided for some workers in the cooperatives as well as a medical clinic and training centre for the community. Education of local children has become a particular focus. A project to provide schooling for 700 pupils, giving them the knowledge and skills to help improve the long-term prospects of their region is underway. Through investment in farmer training and the development of sustainable agricultural practices, as well as in the infrastructure and living conditions of farming communities, our CSV concept is stimulating the growth of rural coffee growing regions, helping them to emerge from extreme poverty. Supporting cocoa farmers Four and a half million small farmers grow cocoa worldwide. West Africa is the largest producer, contributing Our continued investment in plant science and sustainable production in Cte dIvoire through The Cocoa Plan has seen higher yielding, disease-tolerant cocoa plantlets (developed at our R&D centre in Tours, France) distributed to farmers in the region.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 11  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 12 almost 70% of the total supply. However, after many years of under- investment, the industry is under threat, as are the livelihoods of those people who depend on it. Nestl purchased 350000 tonnes of cocoa in 2009 – 11% of the worlds supply. As a major buyer, we believe we play a key role in improving the industry and building a better future for cocoa farming communities, by ensuring we have reliable access to the high-quality, responsibly-farmed materials required for the continued success of our chocolate businesses. One of the important ways we are helping to improve and stabilise the cocoa industry and reduce poverty and hunger in cocoa farming regions is through The Cocoa Plan, an initiative that fully embraces Creating Shared Value. The Nestl Cocoa Plan In 2010, we committed CHF 110 million over the next decade to The Cocoa Plan. This investment will be focused on Cte dIvoire and Ecuador (the worlds largest sources of cocoa and ne cocoa respectively), and will be spent predominantly in plant science and sustainable production. It builds on the CHF 60 million we have already invested in these regions in the past 15 years. Our vision for the plan is to help cocoa farmers to run protable farms, operate with respect for the environment and enjoy a better quality of life, allow their children to benet from an education, and for cocoa farming to be seen as a respectable profession. Achieving this vision requires us to focus simultaneously on four key areas: Training farmers: Training helps farmers to improve and protect their incomes by teaching them good agricultural practices. Training is delivered through personal contact with agronomists, group sessions and Farmer Field Schools. The latter are funded by the chocolate manufacturers industry as a whole and have already beneted more than 80000 farmers. The Cocoa Plan uses proven methods to help farmers increase the quality and yield of their harvest and adopt sustainable farming methods. In its rst year the plan will train around 2000 farmers. In addition, the training schools provide a forum for raising and tackling issues such as child labour, the importance of schooling for children, and HIV/AIDS and malaria prevention. Investing in plant research: Our Research and Development (R&D) Centre in Tours, France, is working with our R&D Centre in Abidjan, Cte dIvoire, and other research institutes, to propagate higher yielding, disease- tolerant cocoa plantlets. In 2009 we grew 100000 plantlets and by 2012 this will have increased to one million annually. This is our most important area of investment as it will have a direct impact on the ability of cocoa farmers to grow high-yielding, quality crops over the long-term, and thus secure and sustain a better income. Improving the supply chain: By working closely with farming cooperatives and paying a premium price for quality produce, we aim to reduce the complexity of our supply chain. By eliminating the need for middlemen, we improve farmers incomes and secure access to better quality cocoa beans. Creating better social conditions: The Cocoa Plan also sees Nestl working with partner organisations to improve living conditions in rural cocoa farming communities by providing better access to basic healthcare, education, sanitation and water. For example: Through our work with the International Cocoa Initiative (ICI), set up specically to end abusive child labour practices, we ensure that children in cocoa-growing communities are not exploited and have access to education. Since 2002, we have been working in partnership with the International Agronomists Eduardo Eusebio Prez Chuez and Luisa Marillac Trujillo examine higher- yielding cocoa trees in Ecuador, developed at our R&D Centre in Tours, France.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 13 Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), rst on HIV/ AIDS and since 2006 supporting their Global Water and Sanitation Initiative (GWSI). The latest eld project with the IFRC focuses on access to clean water and improved hygiene for children in schools of cocoa farming villages in Cte dIvoire. In addition, by the end of 2010, some 340000 children will have beneted from education programmes funded by the World Cocoa Foundation (WCF), of which Nestl is a co-founder. One of the rst Nestl products to exemplify our Cocoa Plan principles was KitKat, which became Fairtrade- certied in the UK and Ireland in January 2010. The certication reects our CSV concept through its long-term direct commitment to cocoa cooperatives, which includes additional payments for farmers to invest in community or business-development projects of their own choice, such as those designed to improve healthcare and education. More information about these projects and others can be found at www.thecocoaplan.com and www.community.nestle.com. Supporting growers of grains and legumes One of the most signicant problems facing African farmers is that posed by mycotoxins – toxic chemicals produced by the moulds or fungi of specic plant species. Mycotoxins exacerbate hunger and poverty: an estimated 30% of grains produced in Central and West Africa are contaminated, reducing food security and leaving farmers with lower income. High or chronic exposure to these toxic chemicals can also result in various diseases, including cancer, with children and lactating mothers being most at risk. Cereal grains and legumes (beans, peas, etc.) are important to Nestls business, particularly for fast-growing breakfast cereals businesses in those regions where consumer demand for affordable brands such as Golden Morn, Cerelac and Cerevita is strong. Mycotoxin management and control is therefore high on our agenda to ensure a steady supply of safe raw materials, while at the same time helping rural farmers and their communities. As a result we launched our Grain Quality Improvement Project. This two pronged approach teaches small-scale farmers how to avoid crop contamination, while also raising awareness of the health implications of mycotoxin-contaminated grains among agricultural extension ofcials, food companies, retailers, transporters and wholesalers. The project aims to reduce mycotoxin contamination levels in Cte dIvoire, Ghana and Nigeria by 60%. The impact of this project goes far beyond our business aim of protecting our access to quality raw produce. In each of these three countries – Cte dIvoire, Ghana and Nigeria – at least 3000 rural farmers will be able to produce grains of acceptable mycotoxin levels, attracting higher prices and therefore higher income, and providing people in the region with access to a safer diet. The project is expected to be rolled out to Zimbabwe, Kenya, and other countries with known mycotoxin issues. As a business, securing access to quality raw materials is key to our success. By doing so according to our CSV principles, we have been able to promote sustainable development and help alleviate poverty and hunger in many of the worlds deprived regions. Our long-term approach has led us to focus much of our research and development budget on identifying better agricultural practices and propagating disease-resistant crops. We actively share our knowledge and expertise to support economic development, and work in partnership with governments and NGOs to make lasting improvements to social conditions in the communities where we operate. Mycotoxin management and control is high on our agenda in Tamale, northern Ghana, where our Grain Quality Improvement Project aims to reduce mycotoxin contamination levels by 60%.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 14 11 Nestl projects 11 countries 3 continents For more information visit www.community.nestle.com/mdg3 Women are the cornerstones of any successful society. In most communities they are the ones who care for the household, make decisions on health and nutrition, and oversee the education of children. They are also often undervalued and limited in their opportunities. Our Creating Shared Value concept applies as much to our own people as it does to our shareholders and society at large. We have policies in place to ensure that the women in our organisation have opportunities to succeed, such as: exible working options; childcare support where feasible; competitive maternity policies; and a range of training opportunities. In 2009, 27% of all leadership positions across our global operations were held by women, which is an increase of 2% from the previous year. Around the world Nestl businesses are currently deploying locally adapted action plans on gender balance. In addition, we have developed and support many programmes Millennium Development Goal 3 Promote gender equality and empower women in emerging economies targeted specically at helping women generate income and actively encouraging the education of women and girls. You can read about many of these initiatives at www.community. nestle.com, however, here are some examples: Female livestock workers, Pakistan Inspired by our work training women livestock workers in rural Punjab, Pakistan, in 2006 we went into partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to create a wider project called Community Empowerment through Livestock Development and Credit (CELDAC) to train more women in the region. The goal of the programme is to enable rural women to improve their livelihoods by providing them with training in basic animal healthcare, primary livestock management, milk production and extension services, and by facilitating access to micronance. As the programme creates close links with farmers, it also eliminates the need for middlemen who take the lions share of the prot. Empowering these women by providing them with the skills to carry out basic veterinary services is key. Although they are the primary managers of livestock, they have no access to animal healthcare facilities. There are few vets covering the numerous villages in the Punjab and those available are predominantly male, making contact with female farmers difcult. This means that treatable, everyday illnesses often become serious and reduce the life expectancy of animals, leaving farmers in severe economic difculty. With our training, women are provided with a kit comprising medical instruments, medicines and vaccines. They are then self- employed and it is expected that they will earn INR 100–500 (USD 1.5–8) for each service provided in their village. As the Punjab is one of Pakistans largest milk producing regions, the CELDAC programme is perfectly placed to make a signicant impact. To date, 800 women have beneted Female livestock workers in Pakistan receive training from our Community Empowerment through Livestock Development and Credit (CELDAC) initiative, sponsored in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 15 This trainer helps to empower other women in her region by providing them with basic veterinary skills and encourages them to adopt sustainable farming practices by improving their knowledge of water management and milk production.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 16 from the month-long training and services CELDAC provides. It has left them better able to manage and care for their animals and provide affordable basic veterinary services, and has improved income and food security in their local communities. Opportunities for women distributors In developing regions, our Popularly Positioned Products (PPPs), many of them fortied to help meet local nutrition needs, use new distribution models to deliver more safe quality products to low-income consumers at affordable prices. In Brazil, for example, we use a network of micro-distributors and individual sellers with handcarts to reach consumers who would otherwise not have access to our products. All our direct sellers in Brazil are women from impoverished areas of cities such as So Paolo and Rio de Janeiro, with most coming from the shantytowns, or favelas. These women are recruited by their local micro-distributor and provided with appropriate training from us to ensure they have the best chance of success and are capable of advising their customers on the nutritional aspects of the products. Each woman works as an independent sales representative within her neighbourhood, leaving her free to work as much or as little as she needs. On average these sellers make 40% more than the minimum wage and some make as much as BRL 2500 (USD 1400) a month. As these women were rarely employed before becoming sellers of our PPPs, our initiative brings Enthusiastic pupils answer questions at a Zakoura Foundation class in Morocco. With our support, education is being made accessible to thousands of children, particularly girls, who are unable to attend regular public schools.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 17 an important source of new income to these areas. It also gives the women a renewed sense of independence and worth and, through their personalised selling method, provides consumers with nutritional guidance. We currently have 200 micro distributors and more than 6000 saleswomen across Brazil, selling fortied Nestl products to around 700000 lower income consumers each month. This means that these areas are not only beneting from new income, but also from products enriched with vitamin A, iron and zinc – the three major nutritional deciencies in Brazil. In 2010, we aim to expand the programme to include 350 micro- distributors and 10000 saleswomen. The Zakoura Education Foundation The Zakoura Foundation in Morocco is helping to develop the potential of women and girls in rural areas by making education accessible to children who are unable to attend regular public schools, and providing vocational and literacy courses for adults. The Foundation was established in 1995, by a small group of business people, including managers from Nestl Morocco, to improve the conditions of people living in rural communities. It did this initially by creating employment opportunities through micro-credit loans, a scheme which proved to be very successful, particularly among women entrepreneurs who used the funding to establish cottage industries. To further this work, in 1997 the Foundation decided to tackle low education levels in rural Morocco, particularly amongst women, by creating an independent structure under the name Zakoura Education Foundation. The Education Foundations programmes have a particular focus on encouraging the tuition of girls who are not automatically included in the public schooling system. They offer pre-school education for children from 4 to 6 years old, non-formal education for children from 8 to 16 years old, professional training for girls over 16 and literacy programmes for adults. In addition, the Foundations schools teach basic health and hygiene principles. This combination of primary education and vocational skills development is helping women and girls grow in condence and to develop within the community, giving them new opportunities to realise their potential and generate income. Through various studies, women have expressed the benets they have derived from these programmes. These include: valuing themselves and their role within the family; having a better understanding of their rights; enjoying enhanced autonomy in their daily tasks (especially with respect to shopping); supporting their childrens schooling; and completing paperwork. To date, 80000 adults have completed the Foundations adult literacy programme (99% of whom are women), and 20000 children (mainly girls) have gained a primary education through one of its 370 schools. We were one of the rst sponsors of the Zakoura Education Foundation and continue to support its work by nancing nine non-formal schools in Morocco. Nestl Healthy Kids Global Programme The Nestl Healthy Kids Global Programme has been designed to address todays complex health challenges, such as poor nutrition and obesity, by teaching school-age children the value of nutrition and physical activity. Each programme has been developed in collaboration with national health and education authorities, and child nutrition experts, to address the specic needs of children in target areas. The programme builds on Nestls existing base of more than 30 education programmes, which currently reach more than 10 million children each year, and will extend to all countries where we have operations by the end of 2011. The programme is open to all children, but is particularly important for girls, many of whom will go on to share the benets with their own children in the future. Our CSV concept means we evaluate all our business decisions in terms of the value they create for people and society, as well as for our business and shareholders. We have invested in many projects that are helping to bring new opportunities to women, especially in poorer regions. We believe that this will not only empower women to improve their own living conditions, but will also stimulate economic growth in many of the areas that need it most. We have given more than 6000 women in Brazil the opportunity to work as independent At Voce sales representatives in impoverished areas of cities such as So Paolo and Rio de Janeiro.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 18 Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5 Reduce child mortality/ Improve maternal health 11 Nestl projects 9 countries 4 continents For more information visit www. community.nestle.com/mdg4 and www.community.nestle.com/mdg5 According to UN gures, every minute a woman dies of complications related to pregnancy and childbirth. Almost all of these deaths are in developing countries. In the same countries, the gures show that a child is 13 times more likely to die before its fth birthday than a child born in an industrialised country. Most of these deaths would be entirely preventable if people had access to better sanitation, primary healthcare and basic infrastructure such as water, sanitation, and nutritious food. Through our commitment to bring value to society and shareholders equally, we are engaged in various projects that are helping improve basic infrastructure, education and healthcare available to those in many disadvantaged regions. However, as we are fundamentally a Nutrition, Health and Wellness Company, our work has the most impact on tackling malnutrition. For example, in 2008:  We invested CHF 1.98 billion in research to nd science-based solutions to nutrition needs.  Products worth more than CHF 13.6 billion were reviewed for taste preference and nutritional value under our 60/40+ strategy.  More than 65% of all our products sold met or exceeded the Nestl Nutritional Foundation prole, a system we have developed to evaluate our products against public health recommendations and consumer science.  We made 44 billion servings of iron, 94 billion servings of iodine, 29 billion servings of vitamin A, and 13 billion servings of zinc available to consumers globally. In addition, as it is recognised that malnutrition is best tackled through the provision of nutritious food, rather than supplementary injections or pills, we are working together with local health authorities to help address issues such as identied, pre-existing deciencies, by fortifying products regularly consumed by target consumer groups in specic regions. We are bringing safe, nutritious and affordable food and beverage products to increasing numbers of consumers across the developing world and support a wide variety of projects focused on giving people in these areas, especially women and children, a better understanding of how to stay healthy. Below you will nd some examples of our fortied products in the developing world. More can be found at www.community.nestle.com. Iron-fortied cereals Our all-family cereals are nutrient dense foods and make a signicant contribution to the intake of essential nutrients such as vitamins, minerals and bre. Our infant cereals are available in more than 70 countries and are particularly popular in developing countries. To give our consumers the most nutritious products, we have optimised  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 19 We work together with local health authorities to help address issues such as identied, pre-existing deciencies, by fortifying products regularly consumed by target consumer groups in specic regions. Our all-family cereals are nutrient dense foods and make a signicant contribution to the intake of essential nutrients such as vitamins, minerals and bre.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 20 the type of iron our cereals contain and the ratio of vitamin C to iron used in our recipes to enhance high bioavailability, making it possible for the body to readily absorb and use this essential nutrient. In many developing countries, such cereals may be the only fortied food given to an infant at a time when the intake of micronutrients coming from breast milk decreases, especially if the mothers diet is decient. In addition, as red meat in the diet is limited (or absent) in these countries, infant cereals offer a safe and convenient way for mothers to ensure their children receive the iron they need to support physical growth and cognitive development. To ensure this important food product is readily accessible in low- income regions, infant cereals are sold in single-serve sachets in markets such as India and Pakistan and are typically sold through traditional channels, such as small local stores. Nestl has sponsored a number of studies of infant cereals in developing countries, showing their benets to child growth. We have also published information on iron bioavailability that is now cited by many researchers and is used by the World Health Organization (WHO) in their guidelines for the fortication of infant cereals. The development of our products is largely driven by our Creating Shared Value concept. As this is a fundamental part of our business strategy, we will continue to invest in enhancing their quality and nutritional value. In developing countries, this investment helps to improve the health and wellbeing of some of the worlds poorest people by supplying products tailored towards the nutritional needs of specic populations. As a result we are helping to tackle malnutrition in these deprived areas and assisting millions of people in improving the quality and duration of their lives. Fortied milk Milk is a key nutritional product, particularly in developing countries where diets are often lacking in nutritive value. To help prevent micronutrient malnutrition around the world, we have fortied many of our milk products with iron, zinc, vitamin A and other micronutrients according to the deciencies most prevalent in each target population. In Mexico, for example, where many children suffer from a lack of iron and zinc, we estimate that more than 700000 consumers have bought Nido Rindes Diario brand milk, fortied with iron, zinc and vitamin A. Similarly, more than 2 million consumers in Brazil and Indonesia have been reached by iron-enriched Ideal milk since 2005, helping reduce the prevalence of iron-deciency anaemia in both countries. By the end of 2009, 17.2 billion servings of fortied milk products – readily available in affordable formats to local populations – were made available to around 11 million people across 60 countries, including Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Mauritania, where iron, vitamin A and iodine deciencies all occur in varying degrees. In Mexico, where many children suffer from iron and zinc deciencies, more than 700000 consumers have bought our Nido Rindes Diario brand milk, fortied with iron, zinc and vitamin A.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 21  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 22 Millennium Development Goal 7 Ensure environmental sustainability 52 Nestl projects 31 countries 4 continents For more information visit www.community.nestle.com/mdg7 Since Nestls operations began more than 140 years ago, we have adopted the highest environmental standards in all that we do, and in all our global locations. Our Corporate Business principles state that: We will not sacrice long- term development for short-term gain. This view guides all of our decision making to ensure that we always operate in the most responsible way and that we continue to enjoy success long into the future. Our Creating Shared Value concept, where we look to create economic and social value simultaneously, can only succeed if we are also environmentally sustainable. Our goal is always to meet the current needs of our business, shareholders and stakeholders, without compromising the ability of future generations to meet theirs. In todays consumer society this is no small challenge. A combination of population growth and increasing afuence is leading to consumption patterns that exceed the planets ability to replenish its resources. All our raw materials come from nature, so the state of the environment is a top priority for our business. Our future is inextricably linked to the future of the planet. We have successfully grown our business in recent years, whilst simultaneously reducing our impact on the environment. We continue to do this by investing in innovation and research, and working closely with farmers, governments and relevant organisations around the world to identify and share best environmental practice. We also invest in raising awareness of some of the most profound and threatening global issues, such as water scarcity, to encourage and support other individuals and organisations in improving their own activities and to accelerate environmental learning. To monitor and report on all aspects of our performance, we have a comprehensive range of key indicators in place. More than twenty of these measures are focused on our environmental performance and cover aspects such as materials usage or reduction, energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and reductions, packaging reduction, governance and compliance, and water withdrawn, saved or returned to the environment. These measures underline the importance we place on reducing our environmental footprint, and demonstrate our ongoing commitment to improving the sustainability of our operations. Below are just a few examples of the ways we strive to improve our environmental performance. You can nd more at www.community. nestle.com. Drip Irrigation Project, Nicaragua The largest consumer of water is agriculture, which uses two-thirds of Elba Mara Castillo Moreno, an agricultural engineer at the Universidad Catlica del Trpico Seco tests drip irrigation systems in Nicaragua, as part of a study designed to make them as affordable as possible for small-scale coffee farmers.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 23 A worker inspects the tubes of a drip irrigation system at Finca Las Flores in Estel, Nicaragua, installed as part of our successful 2006 pilot programme to accelerate plant growth and achieve better quality coffee crops.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 24 the worlds supply – often inefciently. This is why our training programmes for farmers include effective water management. In Nicaragua, we have taken this a step further and are actively working to develop a low-cost drip irrigation system to be used in plantations where we source coffee as part of a public-private partnership between Nestl, ECOM, and two US-based NGOs, Rainforest Alliance and International Development Enterprises IDE, covering 1500 coffee producers. Through the sustainable use and control of water, we can accelerate plant growth and achieve better quality crops, even during water- stress periods. In 2006, a pilot programme with low cost and low pressure systems was introduced in 11 plantations in Nicaragua. The eld results that same year showed an increase in production of 40 to 60%, as well as rapid growth in young plants. New plants that were irrigated produced yield in two years, in comparison to three years for those plants that were not. The same results were conrmed in 2007 and 2008. In practice, coffee plants are generally not irrigated. Recent experience shows that when supplementary irrigation is used during water-stress periods where soil humidity is low (especially during owering periods), an increase in productivity, plant growth and quality is achieved. The purpose of this project is to introduce, implement and monitor low-cost drip irrigation systems and integrate these as a part of a sustainable, economic, social, and environmentally-certied coffee value chain. This initiative will aid producers in ten coffee zones in Nicaragua, as well as those in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala. Shuangcheng milk district, China Nestls milk operations in Shuangcheng (discussed under MDG 1) have provided new income- earning opportunities for local milk farmers and have identied environmental problems to address. With the increasing number of cows in Shuangcheng, adequate manure storage became important to avoid contamination of ground water supplies. Because most manure storage systems require sizeable investments with no immediate nancial returns, local farmers had little incentive to improve their management of animal waste. Nestl took action by nancing the distribution of biogas digesters to help farmers store their manure in secure, covered containers and collect the manures methane gas as energy for home cooking, lighting, and heating. The simple technology helps farmers reduce their wood and charcoal consumption, saving rural families money whilst reducing household carbon emissions that contribute to air pollution and global warming. More importantly, biogas production provides farmers with an economic incentive to manage their manure supplies more effectively, and reduce water contamination in the process. An agronomist at our demonstration farm in Shuangcheng, north-east China explains to local farmers the advantages of using biogas domestically to provide cheap and clean energy for cooking. Farmhands in Caquet, Colombia, where we are working with the dairy community to increase milk production, reduce the amount of land use and introduce environmentally sustainable practices to lower the impact of dairy farming.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 25  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 26 Nestl initiated the biogas project in 2003 with the installation of 400 biogas pits across the Shuangcheng milk district. Since then education and outreach programmes supported by the company at 74 local demonstration farms have stimulated increased farmer demand for the technology. Improving biodiversity in Colombia Nestl has had a long-standing relationship with the dairy community in Caquet, Columbia for 35 years. With the aim of increasing fresh milk production volume, reducing the amount of land use and introducing environmentally sustainable practices, we are working with 13 pilot Caquet cattle farms to gradually introduce a new system called Silvopasture. This system protects the soil and the environment by combining pasture land with trees and shrubs, resulting in increased prots for the farmer and improved milk quality and quantity (litres/hectare). In addition this project has lowered the environmental impact of dairy farming through enhanced biodiversity, reduction of soil erosion and expansion of the pre-Amazonas livestock borders. Water and sanitation in Africa One of the major challenges of MDG 7 is the provision of safe drinking water and basic sanitation, particularly in rural communities. To help address this issue, we have invested in several water sanitation programmes, mainly in Africa, in partnership with international and local organisations, to provide communities with basic clean water infrastructure. With the support of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent (IFRC) Societies, we have invested in the implementation of a water, sanitation, hygiene education and waste management project in 25 schools in the cocoa belt of the Gagnoa region, Cte dIvoire, to increase access to clean water and hygiene knowledge among the population. Over the past three years, ve deep bore water pumps have been installed, 25 school latrines rehabilitated and training has been provided to Ivorian Red Cross branches in hygiene education. We forged another collaborative partnership with the IFRC in Mozambique by donating funds for the drilling of deep wells and the installation of 22 community water supplies to provide clean and safe water for some 40000 people. The funds were also used to train communities in pump maintenance and to improve overall hygiene practices. With additional support from the British Red Cross and the Norwegian Red Cross, the International Federation of Red Cross aims to install a total of 39 similar water facilities in the province of Nampula. The success of the water facilities initially installed with our support has also inspired the European Union to join forces and expand the programme to other provinces in Northern Mozambique. In 2008, we partnered with the Lutheran World Federation (LWF) and Inter-Faith Action for Peace in Africa (IFAPA) to provide nancial and technical support to supply clean water to rural communities in Kirehe, eastern Rwanda. This project has positively impacted an estimated 22000 people in the area through improved health, hygiene and economic output. Nestl Waters Our bottled waters business is a good example of how we are building environmental stewardship into every stage of our manufacturing processes. Nestl Waters North America (NWNA) has made great strides in reducing the impact of its operations on the environment whilst still delivering a high-quality product to consumers. By examining its entire supply chain, it has created more sustainable factories, continually improved water efciency and reduced packaging. NWNA has also successfully reduced the amount of additional water used, i.e. all the water required that does not go into the bottles, by 30% over four years. This is the result of multiple initiatives and the sharing of best practices among our hundreds of factories worldwide. In 2009, Nestl factories needed 0.68 l of additional water for every litre they bottled, though some have achieved an even lower water use ratio. Packaging is essential for food safety and freshness, and enables us to give consumers important nutritional information. However, to reduce our environmental footprint we are making considerable Shoppers buy our new Re-source branded water in the USA, where we are working with partner organisation, GreenOps, to motivate consumers to recycle more of their waste by using recycling stations and a system of rewards.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 27 investments in limiting the impact of packaging, led by our Product Technology Centre in Vittel, which has a dedicated laboratory conducting packaging research and tests. As a result of our continuous efforts, over the last four years, Nestl Waters has made some important improvements worldwide. We have reduced the quantity of PET resin needed to manufacture our bottles by more than 20% and have developed new bottle shapes. These save more than 89 million kilogrammes of resin and help to avoid more than 356 billion tonnes of CO2eq emissions over two years. An example of how NWNA is innovating across the supply chain can be seen in the recent launch of the new Re-source brand of bottled water in America. This has been introduced to stimulate consumers into thinking differently about the way they use products, directly engaging them in the importance of recycling and promoting the idea that a small change can make a big difference. To reinforce this idea each Re-source bottle is made from 25% recycled plastic. NWNA aims to increase recycling rates for PET bottles in the US from 25% to 60% by 2018. To do this it is working with partner organisation, GreenOps, to re-educate consumers to see plastic as a valuable resource and motivate them to recycle more of their waste by using recycling stations and a system of rewards. The innovative Re-source bottle and campaign surrounding the product have earned it silver Cradle-to-Cradle certication. Our Creating Shared Value concept is about ensuring that we continue to run a protable and responsible business in the long-term. Therefore, the protection of the environment is of prime importance to us. We have more than 20 specic measures in place to ensure we continually improve our environmental performance and invest CHF 100 million annually towards this aim. This is spent predominantly on continuous research and innovation programmes focused on reducing our environmental impact. We support the individuals and organisations that make up our value chain to improve the sustainability of their activities. This is particularly important in the developing world where traditional tools and techniques can have an adverse affect on the planets natural resources. We also go beyond our own organisation and value chain, using our position as one of the worlds largest and most respected nutrition companies to raise awareness of key issues such as water scarcity amongst key industry and governmental groups, to actively use our knowledge and experience to help further global learning, and to educate end-consumers in the importance of practices such as recycling and water conservation. One of the community wells in Kirehe, eastern Rwanda provided by our 2008 partnership with the Lutheran World Federation and Inter-Faith Action for Peace in Africa, to supply clean water to rural communities.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 28 Millennium Development Goal 8 Develop a global partnership for development 128 Nestl projects 56 countries 5 continents For more information visit www.community.nestle.com/mdg8 Nestl has more than 125 partnerships with local and national governments, UN agencies, academia, NGOs, and healthcare professionals. Through these relationships, we support a range of programmes and initiatives aimed at bringing us closer to the achievement of the MDGs – particularly in terms of enhancing economic opportunities, access to basic necessities such as food and water, and provision of technical expertise. One of our key collaborators is the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent (IFRC) Societies, as well the country ofces of the Red Cross, through whom we provide rural communities with access to clean water infrastructure. Nestl Prize in Creating Shared Value We believe that developing countries face under-investment in key social sectors, and that rewarding truly signicant and innovative efforts to meet global challenges in the areas of Sour Say, one of IDE Cambodia's Farm Business Advisors, sells seeds to his client, rural farmer Mao Khon. In addition to providing high-quality agricultural products, including irrigation equipment, fertiliser, and plastic mulch, Sour Say also offers advice to help Mao Khon improve his farming techniques. water, nutrition and rural development creates shared value for all. With this in mind, the Nestl Prize in Creating Shared Value was launched in 2009. This is awarded every other year to an individual, non-governmental organisation or business for outstanding innovation in improving access to and management of water, improving the lives of farmers and rural communities, or delivering high nutritional value to populations suffering from nutritional decits. The Prize Laureate is determined by the Nestl Creating Shared Value Advisory Board, an independent global body comprised of internationally recognised experts in corporate strategy, nutrition, water and rural development. The rst Nestl Prize in Creating Shared Value of CHF 500000 was awarded in May 2010 to International Development Enterprises (IDE) Cambodia for a project entitled Farm Business Advisors: Scaling up private-sector delivery of agricultural support services in Cambodia. Started in 2005, this non-prot organisation has developed a micro-franchise model to deliver high-quality agricultural  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 29 The Creating Shared Value prize of CHF 500000, committed by Nestl to IDE Cambodia, will enable the organisation to train at least 36 additional FBAs like Sour Say, who will help Cambodian farmers to improve their standard of living by growing and selling vegetables.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 30 Yan Reach, a rural farmer, sells her produce at the Svay Rieng market. Our CSV prize commitment to IDE Cambodia will directly impact 20000 people like Yan, in more than 4000 rural households. Puth Saroeun (left), a Farm Business Advisor, discusses farming techniques with her client, Yan Reach. products (such as irrigation equipment, good quality seeds, fertiliser, and plastic fencing), services (collection and marketing) and technical advice to poor farmers through independent micro-entrepreneurs or Farm Business Advisors (FBAs); turning agricultural extension into a protable business. Eighty-ve percent of Cambodias 14 million people and ninety percent of its poor live in rural areas and depend primarily on agriculture for their livelihood. Cambodian farmers can improve their standard of living by growing and selling vegetables. However, many cannot exploit this opportunity because they lack the technical know-how, quality raw materials, farming equipment, credit, or market information. By offering high-quality products and services through FBAs, the market- based approach promoted by IDE Cambodia responds to these challenges and creates shared value for both small farm households and FBAs. In addition to increasing their cash income, the project enables small farmers and their families to not only improve their management of water by using drip irrigation, but also their nutrition with more diverse food. FBAs then earn an additional income from selling their products and services. The CSV Prize of CHF 500000, committed by Nestl to IDE Cambodia, will enable the organisation to bring this innovative approach to scale by training at least 36 additional FBAs and will have a direct and tangible impact on the lives of 20000 people in more than 4000 rural households. The next step for IDE will be to develop the franchise operations into a private social enterprise to create a self- sustaining entity that will continue to serve small farmers without relying on continued donor support. What makes the Nestl prize unique is this nancial commitment over a three-year period to ensure long-term success and self-sufciency. In addition, the winner will have the opportunity to share ideas and recommendations with, as well as receive feedback from, world-leading experts in the area of rural development who are part of the Nestl Creating Shared Value Advisory Board. For more information about the Nestl Prize in Creating Shared Value, visit www.nestle.com/CSV/CSVPrize.  Nestl and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals 2010 31   June 2010, Nestl S.A., Public Affairs Nestl S.A. Avenue Nestl 55 1800 Vevey Switzerland www.community.nestle.com Concept and writing Nestl S.A., Public Affairs, with Melitta Campbell Visual concept and design Nestec Ltd., Corporate Identity & Design, with Esterson Associates Photography Markus Bhler-Rasom, Sam Faulkner/NB Pictures, Charlie Gray, Harmen Hoogland/Nestec, George Osodi/Panos Pictures, Fernanda Preto, Sergio Santorio, Holly Wilmeth Illustration Simon Pemberton/Heart Production Altavia Swiss Paper This report is printed on Arctic Volume, a paper produced from well-managed forests and other controlled sources certied by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). By supporting small rural farmers, Farm Business Advisors earn an additional income from selling their products and services.