Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report and  Chronicle For a detailed presentation on how the bank assumes its diverse   social and environmental responsibilities when  conducting its business  activities, refer to the Corporate Responsibility Report. This publication  is  complemented by our online Chronicle that adds a multimedia   dimension by providing a selection of reports, videos and picture   galleries that focus on our international projects and initiatives.  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Annual Report  For a detailed presentation of the banks annual financial statements, company   structure,  corporate governance and compensation practices, treasury and risk manage- ment framework and an in-depth  review of our operating and financial results, refer to the  Annual Report.  Company Profile For insights about the work of each of the banks  divisions, regions and other   functions,  refer to the Company Profile. A summary of the banks financial  performance   during the year, the Business Review, is also included in the publication. Cover Susan R. Fellner and Julie Kalish from the Americas Campus Recruiting team pictured in front of the  Brooklyn Bridge in New York. They feature in the story about the Talent, Branding and Communications department   in the Company Profile on page 33.   Facts and Figures  2010 How to Access the Responsibility   Chronicle from the  Corporate   Responsibility Report 5. Go to   computer 6. Log in to per-   sonal kooaba   account 7. Find photo    taken with    smartphone 8. Load as PDF   (opens in   Acrobat) 9. In Acrobat    click link to    Chronicle 10. Corresponding page of     Chronicle opens in browser     in page-flipping mode   (English or German) iPad Layout of iPad   version of Chronicle  is identical to page- flipping version The Responsibility Chronicle can also be viewed at   www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle I. II. III. 2. Take photo of  page featuring  Chronicle symbol  in printed version  of Corporate   Responsibility  Report 1. Start   kooaba    Visual Search  or Paperboy  on smartphone * Free kooaba Visual Search or Paperboy apps are available   for iPhone and Android smartphones; personal kooaba account  is also free of charge. 3. Select   language   (English or  German) 4. Save to personal   kooaba account* II. Credit Suisse   Facts and   Figures   Brochure 2010 < <  < How to Access  the Responsibility  Chronicle from  the  Corporate  Responsibility  Report PDF versions available in   English and German at  www.credit-suisse.com/facts  2010 Corporate Responsibility Report  2 Dear Reader 2010 was a pivotal year for our industry as it continued to adapt  to the changed operating environment in the wake of the finan- cial crisis. Banks, regulators and politicians around the world  engaged in an intensive dialogue to redefine the regulatory  landscape  a process that involved the balancing of often di- vergent interests. We continued to adjust our business model  as we sought ways of generating sustainable, high-quality  earnings in this new environment.  At Credit Suisse, our first priority in 2010 was to operate prof- itably and responsibly as we performed our core activi ties as a  global bank – providing governments, companies and individuals  with vital access to capital, managing client assets, steering  capital flows and prudently assessing risks. Acting as a reliable,  professional partner to our clients, we focused on building and  maintaining the trust that is essential to our long-term success.  Second, we played an active role in discussions about finan- cial regulation and helped to develop constructive solutions –  particularly in Switzerland, where we contributed our expertise  as a member of the Commission of Experts appointed to   address the Too Big to Fail issue. We support the Commis- sions recommendations, which are designed to strengthen   the stability of the financial system without compromising the  banks competitiveness or undermining their ability to serve   the economy.  Our commitment to making our industry more robust is also  demonstrated by the changes we have made to our own busi- ness over the last two years, during which we assumed a pio- neering role with regard to new regulations: In anticipation of  stricter capital and liquidity rules, we moved swiftly to adopt a  client-focused, capital-efficient strategy and reduced-risk  business model, which have positioned us well in the current  environment. We have consistently followed our own path,  firmly renouncing a return to business as usual and exiting  most proprietary trading businesses. At Credit Suisse, we believe that responsible banking and  successful banking go hand in hand. We therefore strive to act  as a responsible employer, offering a fair and stimulating work- ing environment that will attract top talents to our organization.  Foreword We do so based on the knowledge that it is only thanks to our  highly qualified employees that we can guarantee the best ser- vice for our clients. As part of our commitment to responsible  banking, we also focus on instilling a sense of personal ac- countability in our employees and on fostering a culture of in- tegrity, compliance and trust that motivates them to act in the  best interests of clients and shareholders while safeguarding  our reputation. Our Code of Conduct, which was updated in  2010, defines six ethical values and six professional standards  that we pledge to uphold in every aspect of our work. We also  recognize the importance of key international agreements that  promote responsible and sustain able practices in the business  community. For example, Credit Suisse is a signatory of the UN  Global Compact, which prescribes universal principles relating  to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and  anti-corruption efforts.  As an integral part of society, we are acutely aware that our  actions have a direct or indirect impact on the world around us.  We therefore strive to balance the diverse needs and expecta- tions of our stakeholders and the communities in which we op- erate. We also recognize that a stable social environment is a  prerequisite for the success of our company and seek to pro- mote social cohesion by addressing problems such as youth  unemployment. One example is the CHF 30 million of support we  are providing for coaching programs run by non-profit organi- zations in Switzerland to help young people find apprentice- ships. In our global partnership with Junior Achievement, Credit  Suisse volunteers mentor students to help them identify career  options or teach in school programs that develop the business  acumen of young people. Our interest in the welfare of the  younger members of society is also reflected by the Credit   Suisse Youth Barometer, which we published for the first time  in December 2010. This unique representative survey provides a  valuable insight into the lifestyle, views and concerns of young  people – opening the way for a dialogue with this generation.  As a good corporate citizen, Credit Suisse also looks beyond  banking and seeks to improve the lives of needy individuals  around the globe through our diverse social and philanthropic   Foreword 3 Brady W. Dougan, Chief Executive Office r (left),  and Hans-Ulrich Doerig, Chairma n of the Board of Directors. activities. One example is the continuation of our Microfinance  Capacity Building Initiative, which aims to strengthen the micro- finance sector in Africa, Latin America and Asia and to thus  help drive economic development in these regions. We also  work with a host of partner organizations to support charitable  and humanitarian projects worldwide. These efforts are comple- mented by the work of the Disaster Relief Fund of the Credit  Suisse Foundation. Following the natural disasters in Haiti and  Pakistan in 2010, for example, the Disaster Relief Fund pro- vided rapid financial assistance and matched our employees  charitable donations on a 2:1 basis. Our employees commitment to helping others is not only  reflected by monetary contributions but also by their willing- ness to devote their time and expertise in the context of our  corporate volunteering program. In 2010, for example, staff in  New York volunteered with Habitat for Humanity to build low- income housing in the city. In Asia Pacific, similar construction  projects with our global partner were conducted in Seoul and  Sydney. In total, 15,100 Credit Suisse employees worldwide  volunteered 163,700 hours of their time last year to help others.  As well as considering the social dimension of our corporate  responsibilities, we are mindful of environmental issues when  conducting our work. In 2010, we pursued our efforts to oper- ate in an environmentally friendly manner by promoting the   efficient use of resources throughout the company and raising  employee awareness of sustainability issues. We reached an  important milestone in our commitment to climate protection in  2010 when we achieved greenhouse gas neutrality for all our  operations worldwide as part of our Credit Suisse Cares for  Climate initiative. This program is designed to incorporate  wide-ranging climate protection measures into our business  activities. In our client-facing activities, we evaluate transac- tions with potential environmental and social risks using a de- tailed review process. We also apply our internal policies and  guidelines to transactions involving sensitive sectors such as  forestry, mining, and oil and gas.  All these different aspects of our activities are an expres- sion of our overarching commitment to act as a good corporate  citizen when delivering on our core responsibilities and obliga- tions as a global bank. Especially in these more challenging  times for our industry, we recognize the importance of com- municating openly and transparently with our stakeholders to  keep them informed of the performance of the business and  the progress of our efforts in the field of social and environ- mental responsibility. This Corporate Responsibility Report   which forms an integral part of our ongoing dialogue with our  partners  is intended to provide you with a clear understand- ing of the ways in which we generate long-term value for our  clients, shareholders, employees and the broader communities  in which we work. We also hope that it will encourage you to  give us your feedback on this topic and will serve as a platform  for further discussions. Yours sincerely Hans-Ulrich Doerig  Brady W. Dougan March 2011  4 	 8	 Responsibility	in	Banking 	 9	 Trust	and	Expertise 	11	 Corporate	Governance 	12	 Due	Diligence	and	Sustainability 	16	 Sustainable	Products	and	Services 	18	 Responsibility	in	Society 	19	 Our	Role	in	the	Economy	and	Society 	22	 Our	Social	Commitment 	28	 Sponsorship Contents 	 2	 Foreword 	 6	 Our	Understanding	of	Corporate	 Responsibility  Contents 5 	30	 Responsibility	as	an	Employer 	31	 Credit	Suisse	as	an	Employer 	34	 Global	Diversity	and	Inclusion 	36	 Responsibility	for	the	Environment 	37	 Environmental	and	Climate	Protection 	40	 Environmental	Management 	46	 Dialogue	and	Transparency 	47	 Dialogue	with	Stakeholders 	51	 Reporting	on	Corporate	Responsibility Booklet	–	Focus	Themes	(Page	27) 	 2	 Education 	 4	 Microfinance 	 6	 Employee	Engagement Focus  Themes 2010 Focus Themes – Social Commitments We believe that the existence of a sound and stable social environment is key to the   long-term success of our business. For many years, Credit Suisse and its employees have  therefore been working to help strengthen our  society and to address social issues in   conjunction with selected partner organizations. As well as providing direct financial   support for our partners, we consider it important to make a personal contribution. We  therefore encourage our  people to share their knowledge and volunteer their own time   to help make a difference. In this way, we are demonstrating how we put our corporate   values into practice. As part of our social commitments, we defined three  focus themes in  2010: education, microfinance and employee  engagement. We also lend our  support to   various regional projects and campaigns. Together with our employees and  partner organi- zations, we strive to improve the living standards of disadvantaged people. For	the	purposes	of	this	report,	unless	the	context	otherwise	requi	res,	the	terms	Credit	Suisse	Group,	Credit	Suisse,	the	Group,	we,	us	and	our	 mean	Credit	Suisse	Group	AG	and	its	consolidated	subsidiaries.	The	business	of	Credit	Suisse	AG,	the	Swiss	bank	subsidiary	of	the	Group,	is	substantially	 simila	r	to	the	Group,	and	we	use	these	terms	to	refe	r	to	both	when	the	subject	is	the	same	or	substantially	similar.	We	use	the	term	the	bank	when	we	 are	referring	only	to	Credit	Suisse	AG,	the	Swiss	bank	subsidiary	of	the	Group,	and	its	consolidated	subsidiaries.  6 Our Understanding   of Corporate Responsibility At Credit Suisse, we believe that our  responsib le approach to business is a  decisive factor determining the long- term success of our bank. We therefore  strive to act as a good corporate citizen  in every aspect of our work. This  approach is founded on a broad under- standing of our duties as a financial  services provider and our responsibilities  toward society and the environment,   Responsibility Chronicle We report on our activities in the area of corporate   responsibility throughout the year. Each week, we publish   articles on this topic in our stakeholder magazine bulletin   as well as in our online magazine In Focus. The Chronicle,  which we have published for the first time in 2011, provides   readers with a selection of reports, articles and videos about  our  support for social and environmental initiatives. as well as our role as an employer. It  als o reflects the importance we assign   to our dialogue with our stakeholders  (see illustration on page 7). This report  is structured according to the various  areas of corporate responsibility that we  focus on at Credit Suisse.  We added a multimedia dimension   to our reporting for 2010 by launching  the Responsibility Chronicle. It contains   reports, videos, podcasts and picture  galleries about our international projects  and initiatives, which have been written  or produced in a journalistic style (see  box below). To ensure we can supply the full  breadth of information required by our  stakeholders, the contents of this report,  as well as additional information and  data on all the themes discussed within  it, can be found on the Internet at:   www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility This report forms part of our series of  annual reporti ng publications, which  provide detailed information about the  Groups strategy and business model,  as well as our 2010 financial results.   The Chronicle symbol refers the reader  to further information in the Responsibili- ty Chronicle. This Chronicle can be ac- cessed online at  www.credit- suisse. com/chronicle and as a special edition  within the iPad app of the Credit Suisse  bulletin magazine. By taking a photo   of the page with the smartphone apps  kooaba Visual Search or Paperboy, you  can  directly access the corresponding   feature in the Responsibility Chronicle.  The kooaba app instructions can be  found on the inside flap of this report.  Corporate Responsibility 7 Our Understanding of Corporate Responsibility Responsibility in Society Credit Suisse sees itself as an integral part of   society rather than just as a bank and financial  intermedia ry. That is why we support a number  of humanitarian and charitable organizations   and projects around the world, as well as cultural  and sporting events. We also encourage our  employe es to volunteer their time to assist chari- table projects.  Responsibility for the Environment The protection of the natural environment is one  of the most pressing issues of our time. At Credit  Suisse, we take our responsibilities seriously by  promoting the efficient use of resources and   by engaging in a dialogue with our stakeholders.  We also develop products and services that focus  on environmental themes for our clients. Responsibility in Banking Our greatest responsibility is to ensure that we  manage our company successfully on a long-term  basis for the benefit of our clients, shareholders,  employees and society as a whole. Competence,  diligence and responsible conduct are key to  the success of our business. We also strive   to take social and environmental aspects into   account when carrying out our operations. Responsibility as an Employer Qualified and motivated employees are a vital  success factor. We want to be an employer of  choice worldwide and therefore offer our people  progressive working conditions, attractive training  programs and varied career opportunities in a  multicultural environment.  Dialogue and Transparency We cultivate an open dialogue with our clients,  shareholders and other stakeholders by partici- pating in events, engaging in personal discussions  and contributing to the public debate. This   increas es mutual understanding and helps us   to identify the needs of our stakeholders, while   rapidly  responding to new trends. Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct, which sets out binding  principles for all our operations worldwide,  increas es the personal responsibility of all our  employees and Board members and creates a  framework where each individual is familiar with  Credit Suisses corporate responsibilities. Our key  values include integri ty, confidentiality and re- spect, as well as a commitment to sustainability. Society  Role in Economy  and Society  Social Commitment  Sponsorship   Banking  Trust and Expertise  Corporate Governance  Due Diligence and  Sustainability  Sustainable Products  and Services Employer  Credit Suisse  as an Employer  Global Diversity  and Inclusion Environment  Environmental and  Climate Protection  Environmental  Management Code of Conduct   Our Ethical Values   Integrity   Responsibility   Respect   Compliance   Confidentiality   Trust Our Professional Standards   Service and Excellence   Risk Culture   Transparency   Adherence to Laws and Regulations   Sustainability   Commitment Dialogue  Dialogue with  Stakeholders  Reporting on Corpo rate   Responsibility  8 Responsibility   in Banking Ray Wood, Co-Head Power and Renewables in the  Credit Suisse Investment Banking division based in   New York, is an expert on investment opportunities in   the area of sustainable energy.   Watch an interview with Ray Wood   in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 18  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle  Banking 9 Trust and Expertise We want to be a reliable and compe- tent partner to all our clients and   to help them achieve their financial  goals. We believe that our long-term  success depends on the trust that   clients place in us. We also operate according to a   client-focused, capital-efficient and  reduced-risk strategy and business  model that is designed to generate   consistently good earnings across the  economic cycle. Under this approach,  we have significantly scaled back our  risk exposures while bolstering our   capital base and have thus positioned  Credit Suisse as a solid and stable   partner to our clients. Our Shared   Services functions help to protect the  banks capital through their activities   in the areas of strategic risk manage- The trust that clients and investors place  in Credit Suisse forms the basis of our  success. This relationship of trust be- comes even more important in periods  of fundamental change and uncertainty,  when our clients need for reliable   service and sound advice  increases.  Our clients have confidence in   Credit Suisse because they know that  we are fully committed to performing  our core activities skillfully and respon- sibly in every phase of the economic   cycle – supporting businesses, helping  clients to achieve their financial objec- tives and safe guarding the interests   of both clients and investors. We fulfill  this duty by providing governments,  companies and individuals with vital   access to capital, managing client   assets,  steering capital flows and   prudently  assessing risks. To this end,  we base all our business decisions on a  combination of objective data analysis  and the knowledge and insights of our  team of experts.  We gain trust by maintaining a   strong compliance and control  culture.  This means that we strive to conduct  our business in accordance with the  highest standards of due  diligence and  to comply with the applicable laws,  rules and regulations in all our different  markets. We have been  investing   continuously in the development of our  supervisory and control  culture and   processes since long before the start   of the financial crisis. Our  current com- pliance framework allows us to respond  promptly and effectively to regulatory  developments in all our  regions. Developments in Global Banking At Credit Suisse, we view our business from a global perspective. In strategic  terms, we focus less on the distinction between local and cross-border activities  and more on our individual markets as components of a single global marketplace.  We offer products and services on a cross-border basis  known as offshore  banking  as well as on a local basis, referred to as onshore banking. In anticipa- tion of changing client needs and the evolving regulatory environment, Credit   Suisse has been growing its international presence and onshore services for many  years. We are now active in over 50 countries and operate 24 booking platforms  worldwide. At the same time, the Swiss financial center remains attractive   to international clients in view of its numerous strengths relative to other financial  centers around the globe, such as its efficient system of universal banking  with  the hallmarks of expertise, reliability and quality  as well as favorable framework  conditions such as political and economic stability, a strong currency, first-class  services and highly qualified employees. The banking services offered out of  Switzerland will therefore remain important  particularly in response to the needs  of sophisticated clients in emerging markets. Ensuring strict compliance with all  applicable legislation when offering cross-border services is an essential part of  our business model at Credit Suisse. We have therefore been working intensively  for years to make sure that our onshore and offshore activities adhere to all   applicable rules and regulations in Switzerland and abroad. ment, risk analytics and reporting,   credit risk management and operational  risk oversight. These different measures are critical  to our efforts to earn the trust of our  stakeholders and, in particular, to   safeguard the interests of clients and  investors. The effectiveness of our   approach is demonstrated by the fact  that Credit Suisse has never had to turn  to the government for assistance, while  around 70 of the worlds 100 largest  banks  received direct state support  within the last three years. More impor- tantly, we have been able to focus our  entire energy and resources on our   clients during the recent period of global   uncertainty and were able to help them   invest in growth and manage difficult   restructuring and liquidity situations.  Underlining our  clients satisfaction with  Credit Suisse and the trust they place   in our strategy, business model and  management team, we continued to   record strong net  inflows of client   assets in every quarter of 2010 and   received a number of accolades and  Continued on page 10  10 Continued from page 9 Barrier-Free Banking Services We are committed to ensuring   that our products and services are   accessible to every one. In 2007,  we established our Center of Ac- cessibility with a view to building a  barrier-free relation ship with our  clients and to adapting our banking  services according to their needs.  For the first time in 2010, the center  provided relation ship managers  in Private Banking with training on  how to offer barrier-free services  that are tailored to the needs of   clients with disabilities. In addition,  42 ATMs have been positioned  so that wheelchair users can oper- ate them easily, over 350 talking  ATMs have been installed, and  the accessibility of our branches  and office buildings is constantly  being improved. Credit Suisse also  issues bank statements printed in  Braille and large type and we have  implemented a barrier-free design  for our website and our online  banking service, which received an  AA  rating (top  rating: AA+) from the   Access for All Foundation in 2010.  Our Disability Interest Forum  (see page 34)  provides a platform  where employees can discuss top- ics relating to  disability and pro- motes an environment in which all  employees can  realize their full   potential. A Dis ability Awareness  Training program has been rolled out  to educate  employees about this  topic. More than 2,000 people have  already completed the course.   Read more about this topic in the   Responsibility Chronicle on page 16   www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle awards – including  Euromoneys re- nowned awards for Best Global Bank,  Best Emerging Markets Investment  Bank, Best Bank in Switzerland and  Best Private Bank Globally. Our Strategy for the Future In 2011, we will focus our attention  on three principal areas: our clients,   developments in the regulatory   landscape, and the recovery in the  global economy.  First, we will further intensify our   efforts to satisfy the needs of  private  individuals, busi nesses and  institutions  and to generate financial  returns with  and on behalf of these  clients. As   part of our commitment to delivering  outstanding financial advice, we will   continue to leverage the expertise and   experience of our teams of dedicated  professionals in all the major financial  centers around the world, drawing   on their industry-leading  analyses of   market developments. We will also  strive to constantly improve and   extend our range of products and   services. One example is our award- winning  advisory process that takes a  holistic view of our clients needs   and develops customized risk/return   profiles, strategies and solutions to   address them. It is essential for todays banks to   be able to rapidly adapt their offerings  in line with changing client needs as   a result of trends such as growing   international mobility. Since an increas- ing proportion of our client base   comes from outside Western Europe  and the US – with individuals often   living and working in a number of loca- tions and moving between different  worlds – it is important for us to contin- ue  extending our geographical footprint.   We want to offer our expertise to   our global clientele in the locations they  prefer, whether it is through booking  platforms on a cross-border basis,  in the locations where the clients them- selves are based or simultaneously   from a combination of financial centers  (see box on page 9). New Capital and Liquidity Rules Developments in the regulatory land- scape are our second major area of   focus. We will continue to participate   in international discussions about   the structuring and implementation of  new regulations that are intended to  create a more robust financial system,  enhance investor protection and in- crease the transparency of financial  services. In particular, this includes our  contribution to the definition of new  capital and  liquidity rules, as well as our  pioneering role in the development of a  market for contingent convertible bonds.  In February 2011, we announced the  execution of a definitive agreement with  two strategic investors to issue an   aggregate of approximately CHF 6 bil- lion of tier 1 buffer capital notes to  be paid up no earlier than October 2013  for cash or in exchange for tier 1  capital notes issued in 2008. We also  placed a Regulation S-only issue of  USD 2 billion tier 2 buffer capital notes  in February 2011 (see page 48). As our third area of focus, we will  closely monitor the form that the econo- mic recovery is taking across different  geographies – particularly in the emerg- ing markets, where consumer and in- vestment demand appears to be gradu- ally exceeding that of households in  richer countries. This geographical shift  in economic power will bring a large  number of challenges on a social, finan- cial and economic level, while also   representing a source of opportunities  both for developed nations and the  emerging markets. Going forward, we  will continue to act as a reliable and  trusted partner to our clients and strive  to proactively help them to capitalize   on the current process of structural  change and turn it to their advantage.  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ banking  Banking 11 Credit Suisses corporate governance  complies with internationally accepted  standards. We fully adhere to the prin- ciples set out in the Swiss Code of Best  Practice including its appendix stipulat- ing recommendations on the process  around setting compensation for the  Board of Directors and the Executive  Board. In connection with our primary  listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange we  are subject to the SIX Directive on  Information Relating to Corporate Gov- ernance. Our shares are also listed on  the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)  in the form of American Depositary  Shares. As a result, we are subject to  certain US rules and regulations.  Our Governance Framework Our corporate governance policies and  procedures are laid out in a series of  documents governing the organization  and management of Credit Suisse. The  Board of Directors has adopted a set of  corporate governance guidelines aimed  at explaining and promoting an under- standing of our governance structure.  Other important corporate governance  documents include the Articles of Asso- ciation, the Organizational Guidelines  and Regulations, the Charters of the  Board of Directors and of each of its  committees, the Code of Conduct and   a global Compensation Policy.  Furthermore, our employees must  maintain the highest standards of com- pliance with all legal, regulatory and   internal requirements. They are asked  to observe strict standards of profes- sional conduct at all times. Compliance  considerations are critically important  when selecting employees, developing  training tools, defining processes and  rules, and are a vital element of all our  supervisory and control systems. Shareholder Rights As part of our continued efforts on good  corporate governance we encourage   investors to participate in the Annual  General Meeting and to execute their  voting rights. To support their decision- making process we are committed to  ensuring accuracy and transparency   of our reporting publications, and to  maintaining a state-of-the-art Investor  Relations website. We are committed   to producing precise, reliable and com- prehensible financial reports that clearly  explain our performance, our mission  and our strategic rationale. Moreover,  we are committed to employing a   responsible compensation approach  that ensures a prudent approach to  risk-taking and aligns the employees  interests with those of Credit Suisse,  thus motivating the creation of sustain- able shareholder value (see box). Managing Risk Our Risk Management function plays   a central role in our organization as it   fosters a disciplined risk culture and  creates appropriate transparency provid- ing a sound basis for management to  define a suitable risk profile. Risk   Management is instrumental in ensuring  a prudent and intelligent approach to  risk-taking that appropriately balances  risk and return and optimizes the allo- cation of capital throughout the Group.  Moreover, through a proactive risk   management culture and the use of  state-of-the-art quantitative and quali- tative tools we strive to minimize the  potential for undesired risk exposure   in our operations. Further information on corporate governance can be found in the Annual Report 2010 of  Credit Suisse Group or at:  www.credit-suisse.com/governance Corporate Governance The way we interact with our stake- holders is fundamental for our business  and our success. We strive to act   with integrity, responsibility, fairness,   transparency and discretion at all  times in order to secure the trust of  our shareholders, clients and employ- ees, as well as other stakeholders. Taking a Responsible Approach to Compensation Credit Suisse is committed to fair, balanced, performance-oriented compensation  practices that align long-term employee and shareholder interests. We believe in  rewarding employees for creating sustainable value for the bank and its share- holders over time. Amid emerging regulation and market practices and in dialogue  with regulators and shareholders, we further modified our compensation structure  for 2010. The changes included an increase in base salaries and a decrease  in performance-based discretionary variable incentive awards to ensure a more  balanced mix between fixed compensation and variable awards. Regarding variable  awards, which were 27% lower than for 2009, a higher proportion was deferred  and subject to future performance provisions. We also simplified instruments for  deferred awards, thus enhancing transparency for stakeholders. We will continue  to refine our practices based on performance, competitive factors and the   regulatory environment as part of our responsible approach to compensation.  12 Due Diligence and Sustainability Due diligence and a responsible   approach to business are key factors  determining our long-term success.  We are therefore committed to   ensuring we comply with laws and  regulations and fulfill our duties   of due diligence. These efforts are   supported by clear internal rules,  comprehensive control systems and  broad-based employee training. Credit Suisse has to meet the high-  est standards of trustworthiness,  respon sibility and integrity. We therefore   expect our employees to act in a pro- fessional, fair and prudent manner   at all times. Our Code of Conduct,  which  defines ethical values and pro - fessional standards that are binding   on all Credit  Suisse staff worldwide,  provides a framework to ensure   these values and rules of conduct are  firmly established throughout our   or ganization and guide our employees   in their daily work. In view of the in- creasingly complex and challenging   nature of our  business, we refined our  Code of  Conduct in 2010. The obli- gation to  observe the Code of Conduct  also forms an integral part of the   annual  employee review process. International Agreements The Code of Conduct also forms the  basis of our commitment to sustain- ability and our pledge to uphold relevant  national and international agreements.  Of particular importance for Credit   Suisse is the United Nations Environ- ment Programme Finance Initiative  (UNEP FI), of which we were one of the  first signatories in 1992. More than  190 banks, insurers and asset manag- ers are now involved in this  initiative  that commits the financial  sector to  take greater account of sustainability   issues in its work (see table on page 50). Another key agreement is the UN  Global Compact  an initiative launched  in 2000, of which Credit Suisse was  one of the first signatories. Under the  terms of this accord, Credit Suisse  and more than 5,300 other companies  have agreed to observe a set of prin- ciples in the areas of human rights,   labor standards, environmental protec- tion and anti-corruption efforts  (see table on page 50). Respecting Human Rights Our commitment to assume our re- sponsibilities in the area of human  rights is based on the UNs Universal  Declaration of Human Rights and   the human and labor rights principles  laid down in the UN Global Compact.  We also support the efforts of the   UN Special Representative on Business  and Human Rights to clarify the res- pective human rights responsibilities of  states and individual businesses.  At Credit Suisse, we recognize our  responsibility to respect the human  rights of individuals within our sphere   of influence. Our primary focus is on our  employees and on ensuring we offer  them fair working conditions and equal  opportunities while protecting them  from discrimination and recognizing their  right to join or establish a union. Human  rights issues can also arise indirectly   in our relationship with suppliers and  external service providers. Even if our  influence is more limited in this area,  we try to make sure that our  business  partners uphold human rights and   comply with employment and social leg- islation and environmental regulations  (for example by rejecting the use of  child labor and forced labor), based on  the terms of the Supplier Code   of Conduct we introduced in 2010. One of the challenges we face   relates to indirect cases of potential   human rights breaches as a result of  our clients activities. The actual extent  to which Credit Suisse can influence  these issues depends primarily on the  client in question and the nature of   the business relationship or transaction.  If there is a risk that the activities of a   client could impact on human rights,  Credit Suisse conducts an in-depth risk  review (see pages 13–14).  As a partner of the International   Human Rights Forum Lucerne (IHRF),  Credit Suisse also promotes human  rights in areas that go beyond banking.  The IHRF seeks to foster a debate  about human rights issues and to raise  public awareness of current challenges  in this area. In May 2010, it provided  a platform for a discussion between  various leading experts about digitaliza- tion and its impact on human rights. Voluntary Industry Standards As well as upholding these international  agreements, we comply with voluntary  industry standards that set out specific  requirements for individual areas of  business. For example, we conduct our  project finance activities in accordance  with the Equator Principles, which  are based on the environmental and   social standards defined by the World  Bank Group. In line with these stan- dards, the 70 participating international  financial institutions perform detailed  reviews to minimize the negative im-  Banking 13 Sustainability Risk Assessments in 2010 2010 2009 2010 2009 Transactions   assessed 1 Equator Principles transactions 2 Number Volume 3 Number Volume 3 By region 279 132 5 12 Americas 47 15 1 6 Asia Pacific 105 72 0 4 Europe, Middle East and Africa 58 15 0 1 Switzerland 69 30 4 1 By sector 279 132 5 12 Mining 105 46 4 6 Forestry 38 25 0 0 Oil and gas 50 24 1 3 Energy 24 6 0 2 Hydropower 2 2 0 1 Chemicals 9 2 0 0 Defense 15 3 0 0 Other 36 24 0 0 By category 4 5 12 Category A 2 225 6 1,270 Category B 3 111 5 1,755 Category C 0 0 1 12 According to type of financing Project financing 5 10 Advice on project financing 0 2 1 Excluding Equator Principles transactions.  2 Transactions assessed.  3 In USD million.  4 Equator Principles  projects  are divided into different risk categories (A–C), and additional clarifications and action are initiated if required by the  degree of risk involved. pacts of major projects such as the  construction of dams, power stations  and iron ore mines on the environment  and local population. As one of the  founding members of the Equator   Principles in 2003, we apply these  standards diligently and report annually  on our efforts to implement them.   We also play a part in various working  groups and joined the Equator Princi- ples Association Steering Committee   in 2010.  By signing up to the Carbon Prin- ciples, Credit Suisse has pledged to   observe an additional industry standard  that calls for the detailed identification  and reduction of carbon-related risks  associated with certain projects in the  US power generation sector.  Identifying and Managing Risks  We pursue a strategy that excludes   any involvement in transactions or activ- ities that are not compatible with the  agreements that we have signed up   to or with our own internal guidelines,   as well as those that could pose   an unacceptable risk to our reputation.  If a transaction poses such a risk,   Credit Suisse carries out a detailed,  uniform internal reputational risk review  process, consulting with independent  external specialists where necessary.  During this process, detailed assess- ments are conducted regarding the   nature of the transaction, the identity of  the potential client and the regulatory,  political and social  background, as well  as environmental and social impacts   of a potential clients activities. The  findings of this assessment are submit- ted to an independent risk officer who  can approve the  transaction, authorize   it subject to the fulfillment of certain   conditions, or  reject it. If the activities of a prospective   client entail possible environmental or  human rights-related risks, the analysis  is performed by Sustainability Affairs,  the internal group with responsibility   for managing environmental and social   issues. It determines whether the po- tential client complies with the relevant  industry standards and assesses the  clients track record and stakeholder   relationships. It also evaluates whether  the transaction is compatible with   Credit Suisses own internal standards  for sensitive sectors. Equator Principles  transactions are assessed in the same  way using this process. If significant reputational risks are  identified or if the transaction is es- pecially complex, the final decision may  be reached by the Reputational Risk  Sustainability Committee, which is com- posed of 13 senior management repre- sentatives  including six members   of the Executive Board  and is chaired  by the Chief Risk Officer of Credit   Suisse. The committee is also respon- sible for ensuring that Credit Suisse   fulfills its voluntary commitments in the  field of corporate sustainability. In 2010, we analyzed a total of  284 transactions using the review pro- cess to determine whether they posed  an environmental or human rights- related risk. Approxi mately 30% were  approved subject to certain conditions,  while around 16% were rejected or not  pursued. In most cases where trans- actions were rejected, the decision was  reached  because they were not com- pliant with the Credit Suisse standards  or because of irresolvable conflicts   between the prospective client and the  population potentially affected by its   activities. For those transactions that  were reviewed but not pursued, the rea- sons were adverse market conditions or    14 Industry- specific guidelines Database of projects/  companies  under sustain- ability review Public Policy –  Sustainability  Affairs  Analysis of   transactions  Awareness   raising/training  Provision of   assistance Transaction Transactions with potential  environmental or social   reputational risks Reputational Risk  Review Process Decision (decline/adapt/adopt) Assessment of Sustainability Risks   within the Reputational Risk Review Process (RRRP)  also published in summary form (see   table on page 15). These guidelines are  based on the regulations prescribed   by international organizations such as  the UN and the World Bank and in- corporate standards that we expect our  clients to observe, as well as a list of  activities and business prac tices that  we will not finance. Credit Suisse drew  up earlier policies for the forestry   and mining sectors. They were followed  in 2010 by a policy on the oil and gas  sector and guidelines on palm oil pro- duction. Following the entry into force  of the International Convention on Clus- ter Munitions in 2010, Credit Suisse  has also communicated its position on  this topic. We have stated, among other  things, that we do not engage in any  business transactions that are connect- ed to the production, trading or use  of cluster munitions. Challenges of Complex Transactions At Credit Suisse, we endeavor to con- sistently take account of issues such as  climate change, biodiversity, water scar- city and human rights when assessing  because significant additional investi- gation would have been required. We strive to continuously develop   the tools we use to review risks and to  raise employee awareness of their   importance. Standards for Sensitive Industries Credit Suisse conducts business with  certain clients who operate in sensitive  industries such as mining, forestry,   and oil and gas. Companies in these  sectors play an important economic role  by supplying raw materials and energy,  as well as often representing a major  source of employment, especially   in regions with developing economies.  At the same time, their projects and   activities can sometimes have a signifi- cant impact on the natural environ-  ment and biodiversity, as well as on the   climate and water resources. We are  very conscious of our responsibilities   as a bank when engaging in business  relations with these clients. To assess  potential transactions with companies   in these sectors, we have drawn up  specific internal guidelines that we have  risks in our business relations with   clients. This presents a number of chal- lenges that we will continue to address  in the future. When reaching decisions on con- troversial issues, we consider the op- portunities and risks to individuals   and groups of people, based on their  different viewpoints and interests.  This is a complex undertaking and we  therefore try to meet high standards  when reviewing risk aspects and   balancing the interests of our stake- holders. While observing our duties of  confidentiality, we engage in a dia-  logue with specialized interest groups  and non-governmental organizations  and encourage our clients to follow   the same approach. We consider it important to provide  needs-based training for our employees  to make them aware of these complex  issues and to ensure they have the   necessary level of expertise to deal   with them effectively. In 2010, we inten - sified our training courses and rolled  them out across all regions, as well as  focusing even more closely on the   Banking 15 needs of relationship managers. Our  three-tier training program is designed  to provide a general introduction to   sustainability at Credit Suisse, to pro- mote an understanding of the risk   review process, and to offer in-depth  information on specific themes for   relationship managers serving clients in  sensitive industries. Recognizing Our Responsibilities To preserve our reputation as a bank  that acts correctly and with integrity,   it is vital that we prevent the improper  use of our products and services by  third parties and comply with the most  stringent legislative and regulatory   requirements. To this end, we perform  internal controls, apply recognized stan- dards and work constructively with   the authorities.  The strict Swiss regulations relat -   ing to the prevention of money launder- ing, business relations with politically  exposed persons and the financing of   terrorism are implemented in all our  business units around the globe. As a  member of the Wolfsberg Group of   11 leading international banks, we are  also working on the further develop- ment of industry standards to combat  corruption, terrorist financing and   money laundering.  Our employees have a duty to im- mediately report any legal and regulato- ry infringements or cases of ethical  misconduct to their line manager or a   superior. Alternatively, they can contact  our Integrity Hotline and speak to an  advisor anonymously if preferred.   Mandatory online training courses are   designed to educate our employees  about incidents that can have a critical  impact on our business.  Credit Suisse Groups Internal Audit  department systematically monitors  compliance with internal and external  principles, policies and guidelines.   Regular reviews ensure that processes  to reduce risks are being conducted  properly and effectively.   www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ banking Key Elements of Sector Policies and Guidelines  Introduction We recognize the key economic importance of various industry sectors for the global  economy. Future economic growth will partly depend on the supply of energy or raw materials by these  sectors. At the same time, it is vital for them to operate in a sustainable manner. Our sector policies  and guidelines set out the environmental and social standards that we expect clients in certain sensitive  sectors to observe when conducting their activities and exclude certain activities. Any exceptions   may only be granted individually based on our Reputational Risk Review Process. Summaries of these  policies are available online at:  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/doc/policy_summaries_en.pdf Forestry and Forest Products Policy  Professional forestry management operations that are perceived as responsible; purchase of resources  from such forestry management operations  Consideration of and response to local community issues in a meaningful and credible way  No financial services for operations in primary tropical moist forests or other High Conservation Value  Forests (HCVF), unless such operations are certified by a FSC-accredited certification body or have  made substantial and demonstrable progress towards FSC-accredited certification  No financial services for companies that engage in or purchase forest products from forestry oper ations  in UNESCO World Heritage Sites or that harvest or trade tree species protected under Appendix I of the  Convention on International Trade in Endan gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES)  No financial services for activities involving illegal logging or uncontrolled and/or illegal use of fire Mining Policy  Responsible management of the following issues: water contamination and use; habitat depletion,  fragmentation and degradation; waste management; site decommissioning and remediation; worker and  community health and safety; public involvement, consultation and disclosure  RRRP mandatory for the mining of coal, asbestos and uranium (or other radioactive materials)   No financial services for operations in protected areas (such as primary tropical moist forests or other  HCVF if resulting in significant degradation, UNESCO World Heritage Sites, Ramsar wetlands)  No financing of operations where mountaintop removal mining practices are used or that include tailings  disposal in riverine or shallow sea environments  No financial services for companies against which there is credible evidence of involvement in human  rights abuses or operations that require resettlement of substantial numbers of people Oil and Gas Policy   Responsible management of the following issues: water contamination and use; air emissions;   habitat depletion, fragmentation and degradation; waste management; oil spill prevention, preparedness  and response; site decommissioning and remediation; worker and community health and safety;  public involvement, consultation and disclosure.  RRRP mandatory for oil sands and oil shale development, Arctic oil and gas development,  and transnational pipelines  No financial services for operations in protected areas  No financial services for companies against which there is credible evidence of involvement in human  rights abuses or operations that require resettlement of substantial numbers of people Palm Oil Guidelines  Membership in and certification according to the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO),  or time-bound commitment towards RSPO certification  No financial services for projects or activities prohibited by host country legislation and international  conventions relating to the protection of biodiversity resources and cultural heritage  No financial services for projects or activities located in or involving clearing of primary tropical moist  forests, involving illegal logging or uncontrolled and/or illegal use of fire Hydropower Guidelines  Taking account of New Framework for Decision-Making by the World Commission on Dams (WCD)  No financial services for projects or activities prohibited by host country legislation and international  conventions relating to the protection of biodiversity resources and cultural heritage  No financial services for projects or activities located in or involving clearing of primary tropical moist  forests or other HCVF, UNESCO World Heritage Sites and Biosphere Reserves, or Ramsar wetlands  16 Sustainable Products and Services Credit Suisse has once again expand- ed its offering of sustainability-related  products and services with the aim   of combining economic, environmental  and social requirements. At Credit Suisse, we develop products  and services in all our businesses that  generate environmental and social ben- efits. In this way, we can provide clients  with attractive investment op portunities  while helping to supply the necessary  capital for new technologies and for  companies that focus on sustainability.  Our research departments also produce  a wide array of publications to inform  clients about current trends and future- oriented topics. Supporting Economic Development Microfinance is the term used to de- scribe microloans, savings, insurance  and other financial services targeted   at low-income clients. It enables people  in emerging and developing countries   to build up a basic livelihood and is  geared toward the achievement of the  UN Millennium Development Goals  such as combating poverty, achieving  gender equality and improving health.  Credit Suisse has been active in the  field of microfinance since 2001 and, in  2003, joined forces with partner banks  to establish responsAbility Social In- vestments AG, a social investment firm  focusing on developing countries and  the emerging markets. Credit Suisses current microfinance  offering includes three investment funds  and one private equity fund that enable  investors to participate directly in small  and medium-sized enterprises and micro- finance institutions. The bank also man- ages the custody and administration of  a number of large microfinance facilities  sponsored by international financial in- stitutions such as the International Fi- nance Corporation (IFC). At the end of  2010, Credit Suisses volume of assets  under management in the area of   microfinance totaled USD 998 million. In November 2010 the responsAbility  Base of the Pyramid Fund (BoP), of  which Credit Suisse is the lead investor  with a commitment of USD 25 million,  received the G-20 SME Finance Chal- lenge Award, which recognizes the   best approaches to financing SMEs in  developing economies. We joined this  venture to complement our microfi - nance commitments, thus supporting  the long-term development of local  economies and gaining an early expo- sure to the growth potential of future  markets. In July 2010, Credit Suisse  also underwrote the IPO of SKS, the  leading microfinance institution in India  and the first organization of its kind   to go public in the country. The microfinance sector has seen  enormous growth in recent years and  offers a number of undisputed advan- tages. Nevertheless, it is our duty to   responsibly guide the evolution of this  young industry. Recent events and   criticisms have demonstrated the need  for strong institutions led by well-trained  managers and staff. The Microfinance  Capacity Building Initiative (see booklet,  pages 4–5) actively takes on this chal- lenge by supporting training, product in- novation and thought leadership in mi- crofinance institutions around the world.  Furthermore, in 2010 Credit Suisse  contributed to academic work in the  field by publish ing a microfinance case  study in conjunction with INSEAD Busi- ness School. A Credit Suisse research  unit dedicated to the micro finance sec- tor also tracks trends and developments  on a monthly basis. In addition, we are  represented on the Board of Directors  of the European Microfinance Platform  (MFP) and in the team of experts for  the European MFP Awards 2010, which  focus on  value chain finance.  Green Business Initiative To meet the diverse needs of our clients  and provide them with a range of green  products and services, we set up the  Credit Suisse Green Business Initiative  in 2009. This internal forum brings to- gether senior managers and specialists  from across our regions and divisions   to share their insights and promote  products and services in renewable en- ergy, clean technology and related  green business sectors. By drawing on  our global resources and perspectives,  Credit Suisse can better understand  environmental trends, their market im- plications and our clients needs. Clean Tech in Asset Management Credit Suisses Private Equitys Custom- ized Fund Investment Group has nearly  CHF 625 million of client commitments  for investments in clean technology,  making it one of the largest participants  in the sector. The groups clean  tech practice has committed roughly  CHF 440 million to solar, wind, water,  materials and related companies. The Credit Suisse Real Estate Fund  Green Property was the first Swiss real  estate fund to invest in sustainable and  energy-efficient real estate. It achieved  significant progress in its growth in  2010. The properties in which this fund  invests must meet the strict criteria   relating to the greenproperty quality  seal that covers dimensions such as en- ergy, materials, infrastructure, utilization  and lifetime cycle. Achievements in Investment Banking Credit Suisse is the global market leader  in the wind and solar energy sectors  within the investment banking industry.  Since 2005, we have led the market  in terms of our volume and number of  deals executed and have received nu-  Banking 17 Socially Responsible Investments 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 in CHF million in CHF million  Assets under management with high   social/environmental benefits 3,992 3,546 Credit Suisse Sustainability Indices Index Name Description Credit Suisse Social  Awareness Index 60 businesses that adhere to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Credit Suisse Global  Resource Efficiency Index 30 businesses that distinguish themselves through the efficient utilization  and recycling of environmentally relevant resources Credit Suisse Global  Warming Index 40 businesses that are active in renewable fuels or electricity, emissions  limitation or demand management Credit Suisse Water Index  30 businesses in the fields of water generation, preservation, infrastructure,  treatment and desalination   Credit Suisse Global  Alternative Energy Index 30 businesses in the fields of wind energy, solar energy, bioenergy,  natural gas, geothermal energy, hydroelectricity, fuel cells and batteries Credit Suisse Global  Nanotechnology Index 25 businesses in the fields of nano materials, nano information technology,  nano health, nano energy and nano instruments Credit Suisse Electric  Vehicle Index 32 businesses in the fields of energy storage, suppliers and materials,  vehicle manufacturers, infrastructure and services Renewable Energy Index  Switzerland Economic indicator for turnover, order backlogs, delivery periods,  inventories and employment in the sustainable energies market merous awards for our achievements  (see page 37). Credit Suisse also employs  a large team of analysts to monitor  market trends. In 2010, our research  team extended its coverage to more  than 70 alternative energy companies  globally and provided in-depth analyses  of the solar, biofuels, wind, smart grid  and battery industries. Credit Suisse has also been active   in emissions trading since 2005. Our  specialists focus on carbon trading and  market making in liquid markets such   as the EU. In 2010, we distributed a  portion of the Dutch governments auc- tion of EU carbon allowances and  handled the sale of 500,000 metric tons  of emissions reduction certificates for  the World Bank in its role as trustee for  the United Nations Adaptation Fund. New Index for Private Banking In 2010, we further expanded our offer- ing of sustainability-themed investment  products. The newly launched Credit  Suisse Solutions (Lux) Megatrends is  based on three global megatrends:  Sustainability, Demographics and Multi- polar World. Our global research team  manages the research on megatrends  and has developed a  responsible invest- ment strategy,  including a portfolio of  equity recommendations. Our partner- ship with MSCI, a provider of portfolio  ESG analyses, enables us to offer our  clients analyses of the environmental,  social and governance performance of a  significant number of companies. The Credit Suisse Electric Vehicle   Index was launched in 2010 to guide  investors through this future-oriented  market. We also published a number of  research reports on clean mobility to  complement the index. Building on the  Credit Suisse Global Alternative Energy  Index, we launched the first index-based  exchange traded fund (ETF). Also in  2010, we joined with the Swiss Agency  for Renewable Energy and Energy Effi- ciency (AEE) to launch the Renewable  Energy Index Switzerland (REIS).  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ banking   Read about one of the supported projects   in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 12  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Client Foundations: Every Donation Reaches Its Beneficiary  Credit Suisses three charitable foundations Accentus, Symphasis and Empiris pro- vide straightforward solutions for Swiss clients who wish to use part of their wealth  to benefit social causes or help protect the environment. To ensure that the dona- tions are used efficiently, we assume the foundations administration and manage- ment costs and work with professional NGOs to select and monitor the projects  they support. In 2010, more than CHF 7 million was donated by the foundations.   18 Anessa Chui, Program Advisor at Credit Suisse in Hong  Kong, spent three months working for a microfinance  institution in Uganda as part of the Global Citizens Program  in 2010.   Watch a video about Anessas volunteering efforts  in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 91  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Responsibility   in Society  Society 19 Our Role in the Economy and Society We aim to conduct our business   in a way that creates value for our  clients, employees and shareholders.  We also want to ensure that our   activities benefit the economy and   the broader social environment in  which we  operate. Our social responsibility centers on   our role as a financial services provider.  Credit Suisse functions as an intermedi- ary between companies, private and   institutional investors and the public sec- tor, helping to supply capital, financial  advice and expertise to the economy.   In this way, we support economic growth  and promote individual prosperity.  Taking Account of Risk We entered 2010 in a position of  strength – especially as we are one of  the few major financial institutions that  have never had to turn to the govern- ment for support. Risk management is  of central importance in our business,  and we have continued to systematically  and successfully implement our client- focused, reduced-risk business model.  We have also intensified our focus on  risk when offering financial advice –  especially to private clients.   Credit Suisse welcomes the regula- tory measures taken around the globe  to improve investor protection and   system stability and to ensure the prop- er functioning of the financial markets.  In this context, we remain convinced   of the merits of our integrated strategy  in view of the synergies between our   Private Banking, Investment Banking  and Asset Management businesses and   believe that it provides a sound basis  for our current and future success.  No Government Support At Credit Suisse, we share the view   that all forms of government support  are to be avoided. Based on this   philosophy, we participated in the   Swiss  Federal Councils Commission   of Experts, which drew up possible   solutions to address future financial   crises (see box on page 48). We support  the recommendations proposed by the   commission of experts which – together  with the Swiss finish – significantly   exceed  international standards. We   responded promptly to these recom- mendations by implementing appro- priate mea-sures and we adjusted our   financial  targets in line with the new   operating environment. We continue to assume our full   social responsibilities in all four of our  regions. This reflects the fact that the  success of our business depends on  our international network with its   broadly diversified refinancing and   investment opportunities. At the same  time, our Swiss home market has   always been very important to Credit  Suisse and we have been a key part of  Swiss society for more than 250 years  (Credit Suisse was founded in 1856  and Bank Leu in 1755). We serve a  very broad and diverse clientele in our  domestic market in our role as a univer- sal bank.  As a partner to more than one-third  of all Swiss companies, we are very  conscious of our importance to the  countrys economy (see box below). We  therefore took every possible measure  to prevent a credit crunch in Switzerland  during the financial and economic   crisis. We did not tighten our rules on  Credit Suisse in Switzerland Switzerland is a key region for Credit Suisse: We generate  around one-third of our profit in our domestic market, which  is home to almost half of our workforce. Our team of around  2,600 relationship managers provides high-quality service  and advice to our two million private clients and 106,000 cor- porate clients in Switzerland. We are currently renovating our   entire Swiss branch network market with a focus on client,  employee and environmental needs; this work is due to be  completed by 2013. In 2010, we placed orders for goods,   services and licenses with 14,000 Swiss SMEs. As a lender,  we currently have around CHF 150 billion of loans outstanding,  comprising mortgages and loans to corporate,  public  and private clients. CHF 32 billion of this sum consists of  loans to SMEs. We manage CHF 590 billion of  assets from   private and institutional clients in Switzerland. Continued on page 21  20 Taking Young People Seriously Credit Suisses first ever Youth Barometer survey,   which was conducted online in Switzerland, the US and  Brazil, provides valuable insights into the views and   attitudes of young people aged between 16 and 25.  This annual  survey, performed in conjunction with   the  research  institute gfs.bern, is intended to help  strengthen the  dialogue with members of the younger  generation while addressing their legitimate needs   and promoting their skills and abilities. The full survey   results can be found under:   www.credit-suisse.com/youthbarometer 0%  25%  50%  75% There was a clear consensus between young people  in Switzerland, the US and Brazil on the following   issues. Level of agreement in percent. I want to lead a responsible life. 82 71 I want to be respected as an individual. 89 80 My leisure time is more important than my career. 49 40 Women are at a disadvantage professionally. 47 49 Young people are at a disadvantage professionally. 41 44 I want to earn as much money as possible. 51 33 School provides a good grounding for a career. 47 37 A university education is the best basis for a career. 76 40 I am pleased to have a good job. 63 57 I want to engage in lifelong learning. 95 81 A successful career is important to me. 91 77 78 47 48 55 59 56 77 80 88 84 89 Switzerland  US  Brazil Promoting Young Talent Credit Suisse recognizes the important role that young people will play   in our future social, cultural and economic development. In addition to our  Global Education Initiative, we have been committed to supporting talent- ed young people for many years – be it in the area of sport or culture  or within our own company. In December 2009, we announced plans to   increase the number of apprenticeships in Switzerland by 25% from 600  to 750 over three years.  We also place a particular focus on the development of aspiring IT   professionals. As one of the countrys largest IT employers, Credit Suisse  requires access to a growing pool of expertise. We are providing CHF  10 million for an IT initiative we are implementing in cooperation with  ICT Switzerland.  Our program to tackle youth unemployment helps young  people in   Switzerland to find an apprenticeship and enter the labor  market. Credit  Suisse has made CHF 30 million available over five years for this purpose.  In 2010, we worked with seven partner organizations to implement this   initiative. In the first year alone, 400 young people took part in the various  programs. Now that the necessary structures are in  place, the number of  individuals who receive support will rise to 7,500 each year.  In 2010, Credit Suisse conducted its Youth Barometer survey for the  first time as part of its comprehensive efforts to support young people.  This poll, which was carried out in Switzerland and on a pilot basis in the  US and Brazil, provided valuable insights into the attitudes of young   people toward work, leisure and social values. They were also questioned  about various financial issues. The findings will enable Credit Suisse  to address the needs of its younger clients in a more targeted manner.   Read more about the Youth Barometer   in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 92  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle A discussion between Credit   Suisse apprentices at an   introductory event in Zurich.  The 25% increase in the   number of apprenticeships   that was  decided in 2009  is  being implemented as   planned. Around 85% of all   apprentices continue working   at Credit  Suisse after com- pleting their training.  Society 21 Goods are delivered to the Credit Suisse distribution center in the Uetlihof administrative  center, Zurich, and are then dispatched by internal post to our individual branches. Continued from page 19 lending at any time and actually slightly  increased our lending volume during  this period. Credit Suisse as a Taxpayer We are also committed to assuming our  responsibilities as a client, contractual  partner and taxpayer (see box below).  On average over the last five years,  Credit Suisse has paid CHF 1.2 billion  in corporate income taxes worldwide.  We  also pay taxes that are unrelated to  income, which exceeded CHF 400 mil- lion in 2010. In addition, on behalf of  employees, Credit Suisse pays payroll  withholding taxes and social security  contributions, as well as other statutory  levies. In 2010, these additional taxes  and contributions amounted to over  CHF 4 billion globally. Our 50,000 em- ployees also continued to pay billions   in income tax worldwide. Despite measures to reduce costs  and boost efficiency, our headcount in  Switzerland has remained stable at  around 21,000 and we even increased  our number of training positions and  jobs for qualified apprentices (see box on  page 20; further information on Credit Suisse  as an employer can be found on pages 30 –35). Credit Suisse as a Client and Contractual Partner Credit Suisse plays an important role as a purchaser of products and services.   In 2010 alone, we purchased over CHF 6 billion of goods, services and licenses  across our four regions: the Americas, Switzerland, Asia Pacific, and Europe,   Middle East and Africa. Credit Suisse is committed to conducting its business in  an ethical, legal and socially and environmentally responsible manner. We expect  our suppliers to observe the same standards of conduct. We want to work with  partners that offer great quality and the best possible value for money, as well as  pursuing a sustainable and innovative approach. Our various suppliers make an   important contribution to ensuring that we can deliver first-class financial services  to our clients around the world. We select suppliers on the basis of merit and   undertake to work with those firms best able to meet our exacting requirements. Risk Capital Creates Jobs We established the fully owned subsidiary SVC Ltd. for  Risk Capital for SMEs in May 2010 and supplied it with  CHF 100 million of capital in an  effort to help sound Swiss  businesses with limited capital reserves achieve growth. This   organization  focuses on SMEs in all sectors whose products  and services have achieved market acceptance. In the first  few months alone, it received around 300 inquiries from  firms seeking capital and made six investments in the course  of 2010.   Read about the first investments by the new venture   capital company in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 30  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle  22 Our Social Commitment At Credit Suisse, we have been   committed to improving the lives   of disadvantaged people for many  years. Working with a group of  partner organizations, we support  a variety of humanitarian and char itable projects around the world.  We believe that the existence of a  sound and stable social environment is  key to the long-term success of our  business. Credit Suisse and its employ- ees therefore work with selected part- ner organizations to help strengthen our  society and to address social issues   on an international level.  As a company that is active in both  industrialized and emerging market  economies, we care about the economic  and social development of regions   suffering from severe poverty and take   targeted steps to help improve the living  standards of socially disadvantaged  people in these areas.  We want to be recognized as a good  and reliable local partner in all the   regions in which we operate – including  in periods of economic difficulty. We   focus, in particular, on building long- term relationships that can bring about   lasting change and enable our partner  organizations to extend their projects   to other countries.  Both our regional and global com-  mitments are founded on our belief in   the ability of communities to help   themselves and our wish to assist those   who are in greatest need, as well as  our  desire to preserve the natural envi- ronment. Our global initiatives for  2010 reflect these priorities (see booklet).  For example, we regard microfinance  as an effective means of helping people   to find a way out of poverty and we   are working on expanding our Micro- finance Capacity Building Initiative.  Based on the knowledge that education  is the key to economic growth and   social change, we also support interna- tional organizations that provide children  with access to quality learning. As   a further area of focus, we encourage  our employees around the world to   parti cipate in charitable projects on a   voluntary basis. Think Globally – Act Locally In order to implement our global philan- thropy strategy as effectively as possible  across all our regions, it is important  for us to consider local needs and   cultural differences when determining  which projects to support. We aim  to develop strategic partnerships with  leading  non-governmental organizations  that have a sound knowledge of the   regions in question and can ensure that  the resources we provide are used in   a needs-oriented and effective manner.  Credit Suisse foundations and com- mittees in our four regions coordinate  our work with more than 200 partner  organizations worldwide, as well as   facilitating the volunteer work of our   employees. For example, the Americas  Foundation in New York and the EMEA  Foundation in London support charitable  projects in their regions, while regional  management teams  oversee our projects  in Asia Pacific. In Switzerland, the  Credit Suisse  Foundation Jubilee Fund  and Corporate Volunteering lead our  various initiatives.  Volunteering by Employees  As well as significantly increasing   the value of our financial contributions,   the volunteer work performed by our  employees gives them an insight into  the needs of the people among whom  they live and work. It is also an op- portunity for employees to develop their   interpersonal skills and team spirit. In  this way, volunteering helps to enhance  our corporate culture. In view of the  benefits for all concerned, we actively  encourage all our employees to get   involved in volunteer work. We consult  with them regarding the selection of   our partners, as well as supporting them  if they assume positions on the man-   Watch a video about the Enduro Challenge   in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 91  www.creditsuisse.com/chronicle EMEA: Supporting People with Dementia and Their Carers Each year, employees in the UK select a charitable organization that will benefit  from their collective fundraising activities over a 12-month period. In 2010, employ- ees selected The Alzheimers Society as the UK Charity of the Year. This partner- ship broke all previous records: Our people offered their time, money, expertise   and talents to support this worthwhile cause and raised more than GBP 738,000  in the process. A record GBP 107,000 was raised by the Credit Suisse Enduro  Challenge Triathlon Team. Other events organized by Credit Suisse in the course  of the year included a dragon boat race and art workshops at Londons National   Gallery that were specifically tailored to people with dementia.  Society 23 Switzerland: Integration Program for Young People In various Swiss cantons, the Swiss Red Cross program   Mitten unter uns (In our midst) supports the integration   of children and young people who do not speak the local   language. To develop their language skills, the organization  arranges for each child to visit a native volunteer for two  or three hours a week over a period of at least six months.  The initiative aims to dispel prejudice and to foster under standing. In addition to this program, the canton of Zurich is  running an initiative to promote the establishment of language  clubs at which volunteers meet with young people on a week ly  basis to help them learn German as they engage in a range  of different activities. In 2010, Credit Suisse employees de voted 1,194 days to supporting various corporate volunteering   programs run by the Swiss Red Cross.   Read more about this program   in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 66   www.creditsuisse.com/chronicle Humanitarian Aid and Disaster Relief Fund A number of natural disasters occurred in 2010. In Pakistan, the monsoon  rains resulted in catastrophic flooding that eventually covered a quarter  of the country – leaving millions of people homeless. In Haiti, the earth quake that struck on January 12, 2010, devastated vast areas of the coun try and left 1.3 million people living in emergency accommodation. In  view of the exceptional suffering in both of these countries, the Disaster  Relief Fund – which was established for this precise purpose and is man aged by the Credit Suisse Foundation – provided rapid financial assistance  to help the victims of the two disasters. Our employees made generous  donations which, together with the financial contributions and matching  gifts from the foundation, amounted to a total of USD 7 million in 2010.  Through our swift response, we endeavored to alleviate the suffering of  the countless victims and to support the rebuilding process.   Read about the disaster relief efforts in Haiti and Pakistan   in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 6  www.creditsuisse.com/chronicle Following the heavy monsoon rains   in Pakistan in July and August 2010,  over a quarter of the country was   left severely flooded.  agement boards and boards of trustees   of these charitable organizations.  As a responsible employer, we actively  promote our volunteering program by  enabling every Credit Suisse employee  to dedicate an entire working day on   full pay to helping social projects. Since  2010, we have also recognized the so- cial commitment of our people by includ- ing it in our annual performance apprais- als as well as in our human resources   development strategy. In Switzerland,  volunteering has been part of the   professional training program for young  talents since 2008.  We continued our successful inter- national cooperation with our two global  volunteering partners in the course of  the year: Junior Achievement World- wide focuses on promoting the develop-  ment of business acumen among young   people, while Habitat for Humanity   International seeks to eliminate poverty  housing and homelessness by helping  people to construct new homes. Since  2009, Credit Suisse clients have been  given the opportunity to participate   in selected projects run by our company.  Since 2010, Credit Suisse has had  a global database in which we record   our volunteering activities. Systematical- ly recording all the data will enable   us to coordinate volunteering activities  more efficiently in the future and   to measure and quantify their social   impact. Expanding Our Commitments Credit Suisse is constantly extending  the list of countries in which we   par ticipate in social initiatives. In 2010,  we  increased the number of projects   we support across all four of our regions.  In Switzerland, where volunteering is   already well established, we encouraged  our employees to play a voluntary   role in projects that are supported by  the Credit Suisse Foundation Jubilee  Fund. The number of young employees  who perform volunteer work as part   of their training program has also risen.   In addition, we have been able to in- crease our number of partnerships with   24 Asia Pacific: A Brighter Future through Education Childs Dream is an aid organization that aims to provide children and young people  in Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Thailand with access to education. Thanks to  the financial support it received from Credit Suisse – which totaled USD 250,000 in  2009 – this organization has been able to supply classrooms, toilets, clean water  and writing materials for around 1,400 schoolchildren in Laos. As well as improving  the educational infrastructure, Childs Dream runs a scholarship program that   enables gifted young adults to study at university – an opportunity that they would  otherwise be unable to afford. The grant given to them has to cover all their   expenses, including tuition and fees, the cost of accommodation, food and study   materials. At present, 90 talented young people are studying at universities in  Thailand and Hong Kong, while 380 students are being  educated at special high  schools in refugee camps. In spring 2010, the first group of scholarship students  completed their courses with excellent grades.   Listen to a podcast about Child Dreams support for disadvantaged students   in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 48  www.creditsuisse.com/chronicle non-profit organizations in Switzerland  from 7 to 12.  In our Europe, Middle East and   Africa (EMEA) region, we once again   supported programs in the UK, Ger- many, France, Russia, Italy, Israel,  South Africa and Poland and  conducted  activities in Spain and the Middle East  for the first time.  In the Americas, we increased our  level of support for voluntary organiza- tions located outside New York. In the  coming years, we will continue to invest  in measures to support schools and   to select the best teachers and school  leaders.  In the Asia Pacific region, we focused  on expanding our education projects   for socially disadvantaged children and  young people (see box).  Growing Level of Participation We are proud that corporate volunteer- ing is growing in popularity and that  more and more of our employees are  playing a personal role in addressing  social issues. Compared to 2009,  the number of employees volunteering   for charitable projects around the world  increased by 1,436 to a total of 15,094  in 2010 (see chart). Our aim in 2011  is to encourage even more of our people  to act as volunteers in all four regions   and to thus further strengthen our rela- tionships with our partner organizations.  www.creditsuisse.com/responsibility/ society Participation of Our Employees  in Projects Supported   by Credit Suisse Worldwide Volunteering metrics related  to global partnerships  (included in regional figures above) by region Junior Achievement Worldwide Habitat for Humanity International 203 884 3,186 8,735 Volunteers    Time dedicated to voluntary work (in hours) Americas 5,289 59,466   1,752 17,417  Switzerland 5,600 56,450 2,453 30,366 Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East   and Africa  Society 25 Selected Projects Project Aim Result Board Training Program,  US, since 2009 Training to prepare employees to serve on the boards   of non-profit organizations  Training provided to 297 employees in New York, Chicago  and San Francisco Special Olympics North  Carolina, US, since 2005 Offering children and young people with learning difficulties  the opportunity to train for and compete in athletic  tournaments  Employees in Raleigh, North Carolina, volunteered 800 hours  of their time. Sponsorship of the Plane Pull Competition  Baby Buggy Monthly  Volunteer Clothing Repair,  US, since 2004 Recruiting employee volunteers to help repair clothing   that is provided to children in need  365 employees volunteered, mending over 7,400 articles  of clothing that benefited nearly 1,500 children Childs Dream, Laos,  since 2003 Construction of 33 classrooms for 1,400 students   Classrooms completed in February 2011 China Youth Development  Foundation, China,  since 2010 Construction of a computer lab for the Linjiang school in  north-eastern China  21 computer workstations installed Polish Children and Youth  Foundation, Poland,   since 2009 Supporting the comprehensive development of children and  young people in order to increase their chances of  obtaining a good education and leading a successful life  212 students from four schools in Warsaw participated in   the Training of Social Skills program Fight for Peace, UK,  since 2008 Fight for Peace uses boxing and martial arts combined  with education to realize the potential of young people in  communities that suffer from crime and violence  30 young people (3 cohorts) participate in the Pathways  program per year clouddog, UK and South  Africa, since 2009 A 12-month program to help students from inner city  backgrounds develop self-esteem, focus and direction  through targeted exposure to multicultural, environmental  and ecological experiences  24 young people participated in the program, directly  benefitting over 1,000 people through their community work College for All, Israel,   since 2009 Encourage disadvantaged children and young people with  the potential for excellence to broaden their horizons,  pursue higher education, contribute to society and become  community leaders  Program implemented at 11 College for All centers, including  the launch of Young Economist course and various community  outreach programs City Year London, UK,  since 2009  City Year brings together 18- to 25-year-olds from a  variety of backgrounds to volunteer in schools for a year  60 corps members volunteered in six schools in East London,  directly helping over 1,800 pupils Swiss Red Cross,  Switzerland, since 2008 Support for Swiss Red Cross health and integration  programs  1,869 employees supported programs including a blood  donation campaign, 2 x Christmas, a driver pool transport  service and Mitten unter uns (In our midst) Right To Play, Switzerland,  since 2010 Support for children in disadvantaged regions of the world,  including refugees, former child soldiers and children  (orphans) with HIV/AIDS  In the Right To Play project, volunteers tell primary school  children about the lives of disadvantaged youngsters and   how they can be helped through games and sports programs Plusport, Switzerland,   since 2008 Promotion of positive experiences and integration through  physical sports activities for disabled people  Around 70 volunteers supported the annual Plusport Day,  Switzerlands biggest sports day for people with disabilities, or  participated in tournaments for the blind and visually impaired WWF, Switzerland, since 2010 Preservation of biodiversity in the Alps  Almost 300 people volunteered in the Engadine and Valais St. Jakob Foundation,  Switzerland, since 2010 Provision of sheltered work and day structures in   an individually motivating framework  Approximately 250 individuals have volunteered to help at  the St. Jakob bakery UNICEF, Twinkle Week,  Switzerland, since 2009 Support for fundraising campaign by children in  Switzerland for children in need  Since 2004, around 78,000 children in Switzerland have  collected more than CHF 3.4 million for children in need Americas: Students Present Business Plans  Prep for Prep is a leadership development program that offers promising students access to   lifechanging opportunities. In August 2010, the Credit Suisse Americas Foundation hosted  the Prep for Prep Institute for Entrepreneurship. This event was developed in conjunction with  The Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship in New York, which is devoted to helping young   people from lowincome communities to find a path to success. Talented students were given  the  opportunity to present their business plans to Credit Suisse volunteers who subsequently   judged the submissions to select the winner of the competition. In total, 19 students partici pated and six became finalists, competing for USD 1,200 in prize money.    Watch a video about this event in   the Responsibility Chronicle on page 90  www.creditsuisse.com/en/chronicle  The Uetlihof administrative center in Zurich is a prime example of how   a large building complex within a city can be merged harmoniously   with its  surroundings through the planting of trees and other vegetation.  The  nature park adjacent to the building has received awards from   various  organizations. It incorporates small ponds and marshes and   provides a habitat for around 350 different species of plants.   Focus  Themes 2010 Focus Themes – Social Commitments We believe that the existence of a sound and stable social environment is key to the   long-term success of our business. For many years, Credit Suisse and its employees have  therefore been working to help strengthen our  society and to address social issues in   conjunction with selected partner organizations. As well as providing direct financial   support for our partners, we consider it important to make a personal contribution. We  therefore encourage our  people to share their knowledge and volunteer their own time   to help make a difference. In this way, we are demonstrating how we put our corporate   values into practice. As part of our social commitments, we defined three  focus themes in  2010: education, microfinance and employee  engagement. We also lend our  support to   various regional projects and campaigns. Together with our employees and  partner organi- zations, we strive to improve the living standards of disadvantaged people.  2 The entire way of life of Tanzanias nomadic   pastoralists is under threat as they compete with  settled communities for increasingly scarce   natural resources. If they are to prosper in a   rapidly changing society, it is vital for their   children to go to school. An education project   is opening up new opportunities for these   young people.  Sofia and Tumaini wear the same traditional Masai  clothing as their mother Marta. However, there is one  fundamental difference between the two generations:  Both children can read and write. This important step  forward has been achieved thanks to an education  project run by the development organization CARE,  which integrates children from pastoralist communities  into the general school system, offering them access  to good-quality primary education. Education: A Source of New Opportunities The nomadic herders way of life has changed dramat- ically in recent years. It is becoming increasingly dif- ficult for them to live from herding alone, and this is  forcing the Masai to adapt to their changing environ- ment. Education has a key role to play in this context.  Our children will not be able to pursue our ancestors  way of life. Our distinctive culture and language sepa- rates us from the rest of Tanzanian society. We are  being driven from our land and our herds are dwin- dling. But education is an asset that cannot be taken  away from us or lost – unlike our livestock. This com- ment sums up the feelings of the Masai people. The  pastoralist communities are increasingly realizing how  important it is to educate their children to ensure their  future livelihoods, says Stephanie Baric, a program  manager at CARE. Parents havent necessarily  stopped migrating but they are now beginning to allow  their children to stay behind and continue their educa- tion. This trend is reflected by the number of pupils  enrolled in the four schools managed in conjunction  with the education project: Since it began, the number  of children attending school has risen by 47% to a   total of 1,627.  The primary school that Sofia and Tumaini attend is  located in the village of Mela in the southern part of  central Tanzania. As part of the education project, the  school has received considerable financial support to  build new classrooms and teacher accommodation,   as well as to purchase tables, chairs, books and other  teaching materials. Improvements to the schools   infrastructure represent a major step forward for the   local population. The children agree. We dont have  to sit outside on the ground anymore. The wind no  longer turns our pages and we can write more easily.  Now there are only two of us sharing a book. Our   older brothers and sisters hardly ever got a chance to  read because one book had to be shared between   six pupils.  Path to Independence  Many older children are unable to read and write   because they were expected to help at home and  missed out on the opportunity to attend regular   primary school. However, these children are now able  to visit the Center for Non-Formal Education (NFE),  which was also established in Mela with CAREs   support. NFE runs special classes in reading and   writing that are currently attended by 23 children –  around 10% of local pupils. Sofia and Tumaini also  benefitted from classes at the NFE Center at first but  very quickly made great progress and were able to  transfer to the regular primary school after passing  the necessary exams. Today, the two girls are among  the best in their class and have a good chance of   going on to high school. If they graduate, they will be  able to learn a trade and maybe even go on to study  further, which would give them even greater indepen- dence. Their prospects in life no longer depend on  their parents or their future husbands. By going to  school, the two girls have taken the first step on a  new path toward independence. Educating Tanzanias Nomad Children  Education Focus Themes 3 Selected figures for the  school year 2010–2011 Number of countries in  which the Global Education  Initiative is active 24 Number of students   who have benefitted from  improved access to   education and/or improved  quality of education 52,603 Number of teachers trained 10,813 Number of schools benefit- ting from our support 278 Sofia and Tumaini, two Masai girls wearing traditional dress, are given  the  opportunity to attend school thanks to an education project run   by the  development organization CARE. The project integrates children  from pastoralist communities in Tanzania into the general school system. Credit Suisse Is Committed to Education The Credit Suisse Global Education Initiative supports selected international   non-profit organizations with the aim of giving thousands of children and young  people access to better education. The programs run by the initiative focus on   providing scholarships and learning materials, as well as training teachers and   improving the educational infrastructure. They also seek to create an environment  that will sustain a commitment to education at a local, regional and national level. In 2010, we continued our cooperation with our long-term partners Camfed,  CARE, Plan International, Room to Read and Teach for All and entered into a new  partnership with Worldfund. In addition, we awarded a number of one-year grants  to selected organizations including Catholic Relief Services, Children in Crisis,  Leonard Cheshire Disability, PestalozziWorld and the Swiss South African   Cooperation Initiative. Through these partnerships, we have been able to broaden  the reach of our program, extend our organizational network and meet requests   for support in specific regions and countries. You can find out more about this topic in the Corporate Responsibility Report   (pages 22–25) and at  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/focusthemes  4 In a small town in Colombia, Norma Vergara   collects and cleans used plastic bags and sells  them for a good profit. Thanks to microloans  and training from Opportunity International,   she has been able to expand her business,   significantly improve her familys standard of   living and contribute to her communitys   development. At the same time, her business  model is helping to protect the environment. Norma Vergara and her neighbor Carlos bundle used  but clean plastic bags and load them on to the waiting  mule to take them to the market. I collect all sorts of  plastic bags, wash and sort them, and then sell them  for a profit, Norma explains. She is from the town of  Henequn in the Magdalena region of Colombia.   Norma belongs to a Trust Group made up mostly of  women, who take out loans with the microfinance   organization Opportunity International to finance the  growth of their various small businesses.  Guaranteeing Neighbors Loans Opportunity offers its clients a variety of financial   services, including Trust Groups, which are based on  the principle of group liability: The members pledge to  guarantee one anothers loans. This group guarantee  enables individuals without collateral to access the  loans they need to build up their businesses. Before  they qualify for a loan from Opportunity, Trust Group  members must receive between four and eight   weeks of training from their loan officer on a range   of topics from business skills to personal development  to health care.  Affording School Fees Like most of the members of her group, Norma   started out with a small personal loan. Her 76 US dol- lars bought her the first bundle of used plastic bags  from the local dump, as well as the tubs and detergent  to clean them. Having repaid her first microloan on  time, she has since taken out new ones on a rolling  basis, investing in her business and always repaying  promptly. As a result, she has been able to expand her   business continuously over the last year and a half.  She now has a loan of USD 190, which she is paying  off. I usually employ three people to help me with the  washing and sorting, but when I have more bags,   I have up to five neighbors helping me, says the micro- entrepreneur, whose business is also  promoting the  economic development of her neigh borhood. The prof- its mean that I can pay the school fees for my children,  Carlos David and Jonathan, and buy  better food.  Treating Clients with Respect Our specialist customer service officers are focused  on driving forward projects that strengthen the local  community, says Robin Bell, Managing Director at  Opportunity Latin America. In doing so, it is hugely  important to us to be respectful and helpful to every- one, including our poorest clients. The focus here is  on women. In poor regions, in particular, women  often feel that their work is worthless, explains   Opportunity Colombias Sandra Guerra. In our Trust  Group training programs, we emphasize to them that  what they do – both at work and in the home – is  immensely valuable, and we boost their confidence as  entrepreneurs. As a result, we find that the women  take on a leadership role within their communities.  Norma agrees: The loans and the training really en- couraged me and gave me new hope. By contributing  to our household income, I feel more independent and  I know that with my business, I can carry on improving  the standard of living of my family and the people  around me. Normas conscientiousness is typical of  the many women who reliably repay their loans.  High Pay-Back Rates With pay-back rates of 95%, the Trust Group model  has proven an effective means of combating poverty.  By building up small businesses, the groups help   to expand and stabilize the local economy. They also  bring the local community closer together. Norma   confirms this: If one of our members cant repay her  loan, we as a group step in on a temporary basis   and provide the money. We always discuss things and  help each other. Microfinance: Financing for Small Businesses  Microfinance Focus Themes 5 Selected figures for 2010 8,000 local staff trained 200 training manuals designed 1,400,000 people have benefitted  directly as a result of improved   microfinance services In a small town in Colombia, Norma Vergara collects and cleans used plastic bags and sells them for a good profit. Thanks to microloans  and training from Opportunity International, she has been able to expand her business, significantly improve her familys standard of  living  and contribute to her communitys development. Microfinance Microfinance is an effective means of helping people in developing countries to help   themselves – and is therefore an important sector for Credit Suisse to support. Ensuring  the development of a strong and responsible microfinance industry is vital, which is why   we launched our Microfinance Capacity Building Initiative in 2008. It focuses on developing  the people and processes involved in microfinance institutions, as well as their product   offering, so that these organizations can strike a balance between their social and financial  objectives and their clients needs. Credit Suisse currently works with four partner organi- zations that were selected due to their broad and positive impact on the industry and their  ability to replicate their achievements in different markets or regions:  ACCION International The founding partner of the Center for Financial Inclusion, a unique  solutions lab that brings together microfinance organizations, the private sector, policy- makers and practitioners. The Smart Campaign, a global consumer protection initiative, is  one of the many initiatives run by the center. As one of our premier partners, ACCION   supports the launch of training centers in India and China to provide credit methodology,  management and best practice training to microfinance staff.  www.accion.org FINCA International A premier partner of the Global Training Initiative that is designed to  promote leadership and employee development and to improve the performance of FINCAs  7,500 employees worldwide – especially its credit officers. The initiatives goal is to make  FINCA a global learning organization in order to better execute its mission and strategy.   www.finca.org Opportunity International The Electronic Wallet programs in Ghana, Rwanda and   Colombia are providing low-income customers with a new means of accessing financial   information and services. This innovative program uses a combination of channels such  as ATM machines, SmartCards, mobile banks, point-of-sales devices and cellular   banking.  www.opportunity.org Swisscontact Ukraine: The Training in Financial Management Initiative provides workshops  that are run by senior Swiss banking experts to share valuable knowledge with the employ- ees of Ukrainian banking institutions and SMEs. South Africa: The Access to Finance for  Small Business program offers small businesses enhanced access to financial services  through awareness campaigns and mentoring. East Africa: The Reducing Poverty through  Access to Financial Services program gives farmers, small entrepreneurs and households in  Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania access to secure savings and credit facilities.   www.swisscontact.ch You can find out more about this topic in the Corporate Responsibility Report   (pages 16–17) and at  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/focusthemes  6 Swiss citizen Anne Acker- mann works as a fund   ad visor at Credit Suisse in  Hong Kong. In 2010, she  spent three months assisting  the  Microfinance Capacity   Building Initiative as part   of the Global Citizens   Program. In Bangalore, India, she developed   a risk manage ment training module for ACCION  International to be used by microfinance   institutions.  What exactly did your work entail?  Anne Ackermann Idevelopedariskmanagement trainingmodulefortheACCIONtrainingcenterin Bangalorethattrainsemployeesfrommicrofinance institutions.OurWesternunderstandingofrisk managementnotonlyincludescreditrisksbutalso corporategovernance,employee-relatedriskssuch ascorruptionandexploitation,andenvironmentalrisks suchasthethreatofnaturaldisasters.Asurveyof microfinanceinstitutionsrevealedthatcreditrisks tendtobeevaluatedquiteaccurately,whereasthese othertypesofriskareneglected.ThisiswhyIdevel- opedatrainingprogramthatwouldaddressissues suchastheseanddemonstratecomprehensiverisk managementsolutions. How did your work benefit ACCION? Everycompanycanbenefitfromexternalinput. ThespecialistriskmanagementknowledgeIhave gainedatCreditSuissewasparticularlyuseful whenitcametoformulatingastructuredanddetailed conceptforthetrainingprogramsanddeveloping thenewmodule. In which way did you – as a Credit Suisse   employee – benefit from these three months? IbelievethatIcannowbringmoreinnovation,creativ- ityandperhapsevenbettermanagementskillstomy work.InIndia,Ihadtoembraceaculturethatwas unfamiliartomeandtoshowtolerance.Inowusethis opennessinmyroleatthebank.Sincetheproject involvedworkingindependently,Ialsohadtodevise myownsolutionstoanumberofproblemsandthis hasincreasedmyconfidencetomakedecisionsand manageissuesonmyown. How is this reflected in your daily work? Ihavelearnedagreatdealabouthowmicrofinance programsfunction.AtCreditSuisse,Iadviseclients oninvestmentfunds,includingfundsthatinvestin microfinanceinstitutions.SinceIreturned,Ivebeen tryingtogivemyclientsaclearerinsightintomicro- financeprogramsandtorefinetheadviceIofferthem. Has your time in India changed your   perception of microfinance programs? Iwasalreadyveryinterestedinmicrofinanceandmy timeinIndiahasnowfullyconvincedmeofthemerits oftheseprograms.Duringmyfieldtrips,Imetlarge numbersofpeoplewhoregularlytakeoutandrepay microloans,andthisshowedmethattheprograms reallydowork.Whatisespeciallyimportantisthat microfinanceclientscantrusttheirownlendersand areabletorepaythemoneyonagradualbasis, withoutbeingsubjecttotheexorbitantinterestrates chargedbyotherlendersinthemarket. More information about Anne Ackermanns assignment:   http://microfinanceindustrystandards.wordpress.com/ Elizaveta Timasheva is a   Russian national who works  as a project manager at   Credit Suisse in Zurich. In  2010, she spent one week in  the village of Mela in Tanzania  as part of the Global  Citizens  Program. Drawing on her  marketing expertise, Elizaveta documented   the success of local education schemes run by  CARE International.  What was the nature of your assignment ?  Elizaveta Timasheva IworkedwithCAREInterna- tionalinTanzania,whereIwasresponsiblefordocu- mentingtheprogressofitsschoolprojectsinthe MasaivillageofMela.Itisimportantforaidorganiza- tionstobeabletoreportonthesuccessoftheir programsbothintheirownpublicationsaswellasin thepressinordertoraisetheprofileoftheirwork andthusattractfinancialsupport. How did CARE benefit from your work?  Iwroteanewspaperarticleandcreatedpresentations forCAREusinginformationIobtainedininterviews Employee Engagement: Global Citizens Program  EmployeeEngagement Focus Themes 7 Employee Engagement  Manyofouremployeesvolunteertheirtimeandexpertise tohelpgoodcauses–notonlyincreasingthevalueofour financialcontributionsbutalsohelpingthemtodeveloptheir interpersonalskillsandteamspiritintheprocess.Wealso offereachemployeetheopportunitytodedicateanentire workingdayonfullpaytocharityworkaspartofoursupport forsocialinitiatives. Inadditiontoourtwoglobalvolunteeringprograms,which weareconstantlyexpandinginconjunctionwithourpartners JuniorAchievementWorldwideandHabitatforHumanity International,weworkwithselectedorganizationsinallour regionstocoordinateemployeevolunteering. In2010,wefocusedprimarilyonvolunteeringprogramsthat promotethetransferofskillsandknowledgebetweenour peopleandsocialorganizations.Thiswastheaimofthe GlobalCitizensProgramlaunchedinJune2010.Thepilot programenabledqualifiedemployeestocontributetheir professionalskillstoprojectsrunbyourpartnerorganiza- tionsintheareasofeducationandmicrofinance.Byworking atalocallevel,wecanrespondtothespecificneedsofour partnersandhelptodeveloptheirprojects. Lastyear,15CreditSuissevolunteersweresentto10coun- triestocompleteone-weektrainingandeducationassign- mentswithfivepartnerorganizations.Thevolunteers performedabroadrangeoftasks–fromteachingITcourses anddevelopingextracurricularactivitiestodrawingup strategicbusinessplansforthepartnerslocalbranches. Threeofouremployeesweredeployedwiththreeofour microfinancepartnerorganizationsforaperiodofthree months.Duringtheirassignments,theyhelpedtodevelopa riskmanagementcoursethatenablesourpartnerorganiza- tiontotrainmicrofinancespecialistslocally.Theyalsode- signedamodeltohelpmicrofinanceinstitutionscreateprod- uctsthatarebetteralignedtotheneedsoftheirclientsand helpedimprovebankingprocessesandstandards. TheGlobalCitizensProgramwillbebroadenedin2011, withupto25employeesvolunteeringtheirskillsand expertisetohelpensurethattheprojectsrunbyourpartners deliverlastingbenefits. YoucanfindoutmoreaboutthistopicintheCorporate ResponsibilityReport(pages22–25)andat  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/focusthemes  WatchvideoreportsabouttheGlobalCitizenshipProgram intheResponsibilityChronicleonpages88and91  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle withschoolchildren,teachers,parentsandcommunity leadersinMela.Thismaterialwillbevaluabletothe organizationinitsfundraisingwork.Anotherimportant aspectofmyrolewasthetransferofknowledge: DuringmyassignmentinTanzania,Ispentalotoftime discussingwaystopromotethecharitysactivitieson differentlevels.IalsoleftvideoequipmentwithCAREs localemployeessothattheycancontinuetodocu- menttheirwork. How will your experiences in Tanzania help  you in your role at Credit Suisse? MyplacementwithaMasaicommunitygavemean opportunitytoimmersemyselfinanentirelynew cultureandwayoflifeandtostepoutsidemycomfort zoneandseewhatIwascapableofachieving.I believethatthishasgivenmemoreconfidence.Ialso improvedmycommunicationandorganizationalskills andIammoredisciplinedwhenstartingnewprojects. How has this altered your everyday life? Inowthinkmoreaboutthewaymyactionsaffect otherpeople.Ihaverecognizedthatevenasan individual,Icantrulymakeadifferencebydevoting mytime,skillsandenergytosupportingthework ofcharitableorganizations. Why did you apply for the Global Citizens   Program?  Iwasverykeentoparticipateintheprogramafter readingtheinformationaboutthepilotscheme.In viewofmymarketingbackgroundandexperiencein conductinginterviews,IthoughtIhadtherightskills forthisrole.HavingneverpreviouslyvisitedTanzania, IfoundtheprospectofworkinginthispartofAfrica bothchallengingandexciting. What have you told your colleagues, family  and friends about your experience? Iwaseagertosharemypositiveexperienceswith asmanypeopleaspossible.Ihavethereforegiven anumberofpresentationsabouttheprogramat CreditSuisseevents,duringwhichIencouraged otheremployeestogetinvolved.  Thanks to support from Credit Suisse,   the organization Leonard Cheshire Disability  (LCD) can provide children with disabilities  with access to good quality education.  In Chongwe, a rural district east of Zambias  capital Lusaka, 272 children in seven  schools are benefitting from projects that  help schools and communities to find ways  to work around or eliminate barriers such   as poorly accessible classrooms and unsuit- able teaching methods.   28 Credit Suisse Foundation  Cultural sponsorship has a long tradition at the Credit Suisse Foundation  Jubilee Fund. Its activities include the presentation of the Credit Suisse  Young Artist Award and Prix Credit Suisse Jeunes Solistes, which have  been awarded in alternate years since 2000. The Jubilee Fund also  lends its support to the Musikkollegium Winterthur and the Swiss Youth  Music Competition Foundation. Sponsorship has enjoyed a prominent  place in our corporate and communica- tion strategies for over 30 years. We  work with institutions that share the  same core values as Credit Suisse and  thus strive to achieve an outstanding  performance and long-term success.  These partnerships in all our regions  enable us to benefit from the outstand- ing reputation of the organizations we  sponsor and to offer our clients unfor- gettable experiences. At the same   time, the corporate sector offers vital  support to these sporting and cultural  institutions, without which they would  have to scale down their activities   dramatically – with gifted young people  being the first affected.  New Partnerships We assign particular importance to the  development of young talent. This as- pect was highlighted in the two main  sponsorship agreements we concluded  with new partners in 2010: in conjunc- tion with the Today Art Museum in  Beijing, we launched the Credit Suisse  Today Art Award for young artists, which  is unique in China. We also entered   into a partnership with the Sydney   Symphony, Australias national orches- tra, under which we will not only provide  funding for the position of assistant  conductor but also for the renowned  Sydney Symphony Program, which pro- vides one year of training across the  broadest possible repertoire for highly  gifted young artists.  In the area of sponsorship – like in  the world of business – we place a  considerable focus on consistency and  trust. Longstanding partnerships make  it possible to plan for the future and   to create a basis for long-term talent  development. Since 1993, for example,  we have been supporting the Swiss  Football Associations junior national  teams. Switzerlands talented young  players delivered another outstanding  performance in 2010 when they quali- fied for the finals of the U-17 European  championships as well as for the U-21  European championships that will be  held in 2011.  Credit Suisses commit- ment to promoting young international  talent dates back to 1986, when we  Sponsorship Our sponsorship projects in the areas  of sport and culture form a key part   of our commitment to the broader  community. These activities focus on  golf, football and equestrian sports,  as well as classical music, the fine  arts and jazz. We place a particular  emphasis on the promotion of young  talent and on the international   exchange of cultural experiences. supported the Davos Festival Young  Artists in Concert for the first time.  This event was held for the 25th time in  August 2010 (see box on page 29).  Music – A Global Language The international exchange of cultural  experiences is another key component  of our sponsorship philosophy. This   includes tours by our partner orches- tras, especially the New York Philhar- monic, with which we extended our   collaboration in 2010 – adding a new  annual education project to our   partnership. Renowned classical music  festivals that bring together many of   the worlds leading artists also promote   exchanges across cultural boundaries.  We have been supporting the Salzburg  Festival as its main sponsor since   2006 and now also provide support  for its international Young Singers   Project to develop young talent.   Credit Suisse has, since 1993, been  the  resident sponsor of the Lucerne   Festival in Summer, where we fund   the Vienna Philharmonics annual   residency. Four other Credit Suisse  partners also performed at the Festival  in 2010: the Bolshoi Theatre, the   Sydney Symphony, the Tonhalle Orches- tra Zurich and the Orchestre de la   Suisse Romande.  Wherever possible, we support the  educational projects organized by our  sponsors. Examples include special  evening viewings at the National  Gallery  in London, as well as its art educational  projects for schools and community   organizations.  www.credit-suisse.com/sponsorship  Society 29 The Match for Africa  The Match for Africa saw the worlds two top tennis  players –  Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal – compete  against each other in Switzerland for the first time. The  match, which was held in December 2010, enthralled  spectators in Zurichs Hallenstadion and  television  viewers at home, raising a total of CHF 2.5 million for  the Roger Federer Foundation and its educational   projects in  Africa in the process. Credit Suisse played  a key role in  organizing this unique match as a   presenting  partner. A training session for talented  young Swiss tennis players was also held in conjunc- tion with the event. Based on a partnership agreement  concluded with Roger  Federer in 2009, Credit Suisse  will donate USD 1 million annually to the Roger Federer  Foundation for the next 10 years.   Watch a video about this event in the   Responsibility Chronicle on page 83  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle 25 Years of Promoting  Young Talent The Davos Festival Young Artists in  Concert was held for the 25th time  in August 2010. It features perfor- mances by exceptional musicians from  all over the world, including Martin  Helmchen, Antoine Tamestit and   Nicolas Altstaedt – all previous winners  of the Credit Suisse Young Artist  Award. Nicolas Altstaedt later per- formed at the Lucerne Festival in a  prize-winners concert with the Vienna  Philharmonic. The jury included the   musical experts Michael Haefliger,   Director of the Lucerne Festival and  founder of the Davos Festival, and   author Urs Frauchiger.   Read more about the winner of the   Credit Suisse Young Artist Award   in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 54  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle Above Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal at the Match for Africa in Zurichs Hallenstadion.  Center Nicolas Altstaedt, winner of the Credit Suisse Young Artist Award 2010, at a   concert in Lucerne.  Bottom left Members of the Sydney Symphony, Australias National  Orchestra.  Bottom right Launch of the Credit Suisse Today Art Award in Beijing.  30 Responsibility   as an Employer Elizabeth Intsiful, Dominic Haywood-Benge,   Fayez Khan and Anastasia Shadrina are completing  the Full-Time Analyst Program at Credit Suisse, London.   Read an article about our promotion of young  talent in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 44  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle  Employer 31 Credit Suisse as an Employer The skills and expertise of our people  are a critical factor determining our  success. We want to continue to  attract and retain the best employees  by offering progressive working   conditions, wide-ranging development opportunities and attractive career  prospects. This is essential to preserve  our future competitiveness. We know that highly qualified and moti- vated employees are the most critical  factor determining our success as a  global bank – especially in a challenging  market environment. In order to attract  and retain the best talent, we are   committed to further strengthening our  position as an employer of choice. As  well as focusing on training and devel- opment, we offer a large number of   employee benefits and competitive  compensation (see box on page 11) and  promote internal mobility. In 2010, we  further developed our human capital  strategy in order to align it more closely  with our business priorities, enhance  our corporate culture and thus secure a  long-term competitive advantage for  our company. As part of this strategy,  we have launched three initiatives that  focus on the following areas:  Building a committed partnership  culture: We believe that it is only by  working together effectively across   our organization that we can deliver   optimal client service. This is why we  use targeted measures to promote   cooperation between employees at all  levels of the company, to encourage   the sharing of knowledge and experi- ence, and to  ensure that our people  recognize their shared responsibility   toward our clients.   Embedding client skills in our or- ganization: We want to align the exper- tise and advisory skills of our employees  even more closely with the needs of our  clients, who are today seeking increas- ingly sophisticated financial solutions.   Growing our own talent: Our   people are the single most important  factor driving the banks long-term   success. This is why Credit Suisse is  taking steps to recruit even more new  employees with leadership potential   directly after the completion of their for- mal schooling and studies. These top  talents are offered targeted training to  support the development of their career. Broadening Skills Employee training and development is  an important strategic factor that   enables us to build the necessary skills  and expertise to serve our clients well.  We therefore offer a broad range of  programs that are designed to strength- en the specialist knowledge and leader- ship skills of our people. We help them  to actively shape their own career and  to grow their professional and personal  skills using forward-looking approaches  and tools. Our training courses for   apprentices, students and graduates,   as well as our range of advanced pro- grams for specialists and managers,   reflect our commitment to supporting  the development of our people at every  stage of their career at Credit Suisse. As a global bank, we also promote  the exchange of knowledge and experi- ence by encouraging cross-national  and cross-business collaboration. In  2010, our internal human resources  units helped over 5,000 employees to  transfer to a new position internally.  Offering Development Opportunities Our Business School, which won a  pres tigious international award in 2010,  offers specially tailored development  courses for employees, managers and  young talents (see box). Our learning and  development programs are designed to  take account of Credit Suisses strate- gic business objectives and to provide  our employees with the expertise they  need to act as a competent and reliable  partner to our clients and to offer them  first-class service and advice (see box  on page 33). Since 2008, the Business  Credit Suisse Business School Wins Prestigious   International Award In 2010, the Credit Suisse Business School received the internationally   recognized CLIP (Corporate Learning Improvement Process) Award for  the second time. This accreditation granted by the European Foundation  for Management Development demonstrates that our Business School   is a world-class corporate learning organization. In particular, the award   highlights its strong client focus, the close links between its programs   and our business strategy, its comprehensive measures to assess   the  effectiveness of the training it offers and its use of innovative   learning technologies. In 2010, the Business School conducted a total  of 6,530 courses, which attracted around 94,000 attendees.  32 Number of Employees   (full-time equivalents;  as of December 31, 2010) Business School 2010 by division Private Banking Number of leadership  training sessions Investment Banking Number of employees  attending courses Asset Management Number of training days Europe, Middle East   and Africa Americas Corporate Center Number of participants  in e-learning courses,   including mandatory   modules Switzerland Asia Pacific 459,899 85,660 94,000 661 21,700 7,100 900 9,200 12,100 2,900 20,700 25,600 Credit Suisse 50,100 by region School has also been offering numer- ous courses such as the four-week   program for newly recruited MBA grad- uates that enables them to rapidly   assume a pro ductive role within Credit  Suisse and to build up an internal net- work of contacts. Innovative Learning Technologies In addition to traditional forms of class- room learning, we continuously make  use of new learning technologies such  as online modules and videos featuring  internal experts. For example, a series  of programs with learning nuggets   allows our employees to access short  modules about business principles and  management expertise on our corporate  intranet at any time. We also make use  of short videos in which experts provide  an insight into a range of current topics.   In 2010, we introduced our Skill Profiler  Platform, which provides employees  with an individual overview of their   current portfolio of skills and their   potential for improvement. This platform  is accompanied by more than 40 web- based training modules that help   employees to eliminate any gaps in   their knowledge. Investing in Young Talent Our efforts to nurture young talent not  only lay the foundations for our long- term success but, at the same time,  benefit society as a whole. This is why  line managers at Credit Suisse are   expected to see the cultivation of talent  as an integral part of their role. Their  personal performance is measured   according to how effectively they lead  their people.  We offer attractive training positions  and first-class career start programs  for high school and university gradu- ates. The new human capital strategy  we defined in 2010 aims to recruit  even more young talents with leader- ship  potential directly after they   complete their studies and to system- atically support their career growth and  advancement. Credit Suisse is regarded as an   employer of choice in Switzerland, espe- cially among university graduates. For  the eighth year in succession, we  achieved a top ranking in the Universum  Awards in 2010, when we were named  the second most popular employer  among economics graduates. We hold  events at the worlds top universities  and institutes of applied sciences to   establish contact with young people  who are completing their studies   and are interested in a career in the   finance industry. In 2010, we hired  300 graduates directly as a result of  this process.  Building on a successful training   initiative launched by Credit Suisse in  Switzerland in 2009, we plan to in- crease the number of apprenticeships  we offer by 25% over the next three  years. This means that we provide com- mercial and IT training for a total of 750  young people. A large proportion (85%)  of the apprentices who successfully  completed their training in 2010 were  offered a job with Credit Suisse – an   increase of 5 percentage points com- pared to 2009. We also offer training  positions for 120 high school graduates  and 300 university graduates, as well  as internships for 180 students. Credit Suisse believes it is important  for managers to be actively involved in  the development of young talent and  therefore created a mentoring program  in which gifted young professionals re- ceive support and advice from members  of the Executive Board while completing  a business-relevant project.  The Bachelor of Banking degree that  Credit Suisse created in 2004 in con- junction with the Zurich University of   Employer 33 Ensuring the Quality   of Our Advisory Services The financial market crisis severely  tested client confidence in the quality  of advice offered by banks as well as  their integrity. Credit Suisse navigated  the crisis more successfully than   many of our peers. We are, however,  committed to further improving the  quality of our financial advice and  therefore intend to conduct assess- ments and certifications of the approxi- mately 6,000 employees in Private  Banking who have direct client contact.  We already laid the necessary founda- tions with the Frontline Training initia- tive that was launched in Private Bank- ing in 2009. The aim of this training  scheme is to ensure that all relation- ship managers can provide clients with  comprehensive information and expla- nations about products, investment  risks and return opportunities and tailor  their  offering to individual client needs. The Credit Suisse Business School  collaborated with our specialist depart- ments to develop a suitable training  program comprising both web-based  modules and instructor-led training.  Following the successful conclusion  of a pilot phase with employees in   Singapore, Hong Kong and Zurich,  Credit Suisse intends to complete  the certification of all frontline employ- ees in Private Banking by the end  of 2012. The certification will be valid  for three years. With this employee  evaluation system – the largest of its  kind in the bank – we believe we are  playing a  pioneering role by setting  a benchmark for advisory quality in the  area of private banking. Applied Sciences has now become   established as a standard training pro- gram in the industry. In 2010, we launched an alumni web- site to maintain contact and exchange  knowledge with former employees.   A series of specialist and social events  are also designed to build a network  fostering contact between groups of  current and former employees.  Nurturing Potential  We require highly trained professionals  with strong leadership qualities in order  to extend our competitive position. The  range of leadership and management  programs offered by the Business  School are developed in close collabo- ration with our businesses and are   designed to prepare high potentials to  assume key positions within the com- pany. To promote the transfer of know- how and the exchange of views and  ideas, we have established specialist  networks in various regions that allow  more than 1,000 employees to impart  their knowledge to their colleagues  within the bank. Discussion platforms  such as the Leadership Forum enable  members of the Executive Board and  senior management to come together to  exchange their views on Credit Suisses  strategy and focus. At the same time,  our intensive coaching and mentoring  culture helps to support top talents   individually. In 2010, Credit Suisse presented its  Leadership Awards for the first time   to recognize employees who have made  a significant contribution to the compa- nys success through their outstanding  performance and leadership qualities.   A total of 1,160 employees worldwide  received an award. As well as promoting young talent,  we regard long-term succession plan- ning as a strategic priority. Each year,  we conduct in-depth reviews and   discussions regarding potential candi- dates for appointment to the Executive  Board and the next management level  within Credit Suisse. In 2010, most   senior managers as well as the majority  of employees were included in our   most comprehensive talent review so  far thanks to the introduction of a   uniform global concept for succession  planning. Enhancing Employee Satisfaction Our employees level of satisfaction and  motivation has a decisive impact on  their performance. Since 2006, we  have conducted regular employee en- gagement surveys in conjunction with  an independent consulting firm. We   believe that it is imperative for any com- pany wishing to be perceived as an   attractive employer to obtain feedback  and to implement appropriate measures  based on the input it gathers. In an   effort to continuously enhance our  feedback culture, we decided to modify  the format of our employee survey in  2010. The new survey, which will be  conducted for the first time in April  2011, will enable us to better analyze  whether our people are satisified with  their work at Credit Suisse and to   rapidly initiate improvements wherever   necessary. At Credit Suisse, we consider it   important for employees to be able to  combine their family and professional  commitments and to maintain a work/  life balance (see page 34). As a result,  we employ over 10% of our employees  on a part-time basis and offer employee  benefits such as childcare and care   for the elderly, legal aid, employee   assistance, study grants and adoption  support. In addition, employees who  have worked for Credit Suisse for a   long period of time are offered the   opportunity to take a sabbatical of up   to three months.  To ensure that the needs of our   people are taken properly into account,  we have been working closely with   bodies that represent employee inter- ests – such as the European Works  Council and the Credit Suisse Staff  Council in Switzerland – for many years.  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ employer Johannes Toetzke, Head of the Private  Banking Institute at the Business School  (left), and Walter Berchtold, CEO of   the Private Banking division, at an award  ceremony.  34 Global Diversity and Inclusion Companies with diverse workforces  gain a host of competitive advantages  in a global business environment:   Employee diversity not only strength ens their international network of   contacts and their ability to innovate  but also ensures a better under standing of different client needs and  guarantees access to a broad pool   of expertise. A detailed knowledge of regional mar- kets and different cultures is essential  for a globally active bank that wishes   to satisfy the needs of its various groups  of clients and to offer them first-class  service. At Credit Suisse, we therefore  regard diversity as a key success factor.  We assign the utmost importance to   offering equal opportunities for all   our employees irrespective of their age,  gender, religion, ethnicity, sexual   identity or disabilities. We also strive   to provide an attractive, stimulating and  inclusive working environment that is  free from discrimination and promotes   a spirit of partnership and productive  cooperation. Support Programs and Mentoring In 2010, we launched a new program,  Diversity 2.0, in order to implement  our global diversity strategy. The   program includes the concept of estab- lishing Diversity Councils for specific   areas of the business. Drawing on   our global diversity strategy, these  councils – each made up of a group of  experienced managers – will formulate  concrete measures and activities for  their area.  Equality also remains a priority issue  at Credit Suisse: We have launched   targeted programs across all our regions  with the aim of increasing the propor- tion of women in senior management  positions. For example, we run a talent  management program to advise women  on how they can exploit career oppor- tunities as effectively as possible.   At the end of 2010, female employees   accounted for 37% of our total work- force and 15% of the banks senior  management. In Switzerland, Credit Suisse offers   a mentoring program that is designed to  provide female specialists with targeted  support to help them plan their own   career and to assume new roles, as well  as encouraging and preparing them to  take on a management function.  Promoting Global Cooperation One important element in our diversity  strategy is the establishment of net- works that enable our people to ex- change information and ideas across  national and divisional boundaries – thus  helping to intensify cooperation and  strengthen our corporate culture. Our  range of networks include forums for  women, families, junior profes sion als  and our 50+ generation, as well as   lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender  employees. The Disability Interest   Forum addresses the daily challenges  facing people with disabilities. Three  new forums were established in 2010,  bringing the total number of  employee  networks to 38. In 2010, they organized  around 500 events.  Credit Suisse also has a Center of  Competence for Cross-Cultural Collab- oration offering courses to raise   employee awareness about important  issues that can arise when working with  people from different cultures. It has  organized events including Paradeplatz  Meets Manhattan – Cross-Cultural   Collaboration Between Swiss and Amer- icans and Doing Business in India. Health and Flexibility  Credit Suisse believes there is a direct  link between employee satisfaction and  the health, well-being, motivation and  productivity of its people. In order to  provide a modern working environment  for employees, we launched the pilot  project Smart Working in 2010 (see box  on page 45). The new office spaces   created as a result of this initiative will  not only provide greater flexibility and  mobility but also promote cooperation,  communication and creativity through  the use of innovative technologies. In conjunction with a number of   internal specialist units, we have also  developed various offerings to help   our employees master the challenge   of combining their professional and   personal commitments. Credit Suisse  also offers employees a range of   benefits, including:  Flexible working models, such as  part-time positions, job sharing and   remote access to the corporate network  Support for employees with   personal, professional, family, health or  financial problems  Health and pension benefits,   as well as leave to care for a partner  who is suffering from illness  Maternity, paternity and    adoption leave  Extensive child care programs;  Prayer rooms for employees who  wish to practice their religion  Internal medical centers and fit- ness centers, as well as programs   re latin g to health, nutrition and em ployee  well-being. In the course of 2010,   Employer 35 In 2010, Credit Suisse received various awards in recognition  of its  efforts to foster a tolerant and inclusive working environment,   including: 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers Credit Suisse was once again voted one of the 100 best  companies for  working mothers by Working Mother Magazine. Top 50 Companies for Diverse Managers to Work Diversity MBA Magazine named Credit Suisse one of the top 50 companies  that provide equal opportunities for managers. 5 Years Plus Caring Company Award The Hong Kong Council of Social Services commended Credit Suisse   for its social  commitments. Stonewall Workplace Equality Index Credit Suisse once again ranked among the UKs top 100 employers  for lesbian, gay and bisexual employees.  WorkLife Achiever Award Credit Suisse was honored for its commitment to promoting a better  work/life balance by the Singapore Ministry of Manpower. Credit Suisse ran more than 230 pro- grams at which employees were able   to find out more about health issues   and nutrition, to participate in sports or  to learn about stress management. Promoting Diversity We believe that the execution of our   diversity strategy has a decisive impact  on our corporate culture and we expect  all our employees to help promote   an inclusive working environment that   is free from harassment and discrim- ination. When implementing our global  policy on diversity, we therefore con- duct mandatory bank-wide online train- ing courses on the topic of equal oppor- tunities and dignity in the workplace.  www.creditsuisse.com/responsibility/ employer Above left Pamela Thomas-Graham, a member of the Credit Suisse Executive Board, talks to employees  at an event organized by the Womens Forum.  Above right Panel discussion at an event held by  the Womens Forum.  Below left Credit Suisse allows many of its employees to complete part of their  work from home.  Below right Credit Suisse offers extensive child care programs for employees.  36 Responsibility   for the Environment In his position as Head of Corporate Real Estate and   Services Switzerland, Rolf Krummenacher is respon sible for improving our environmental performance.   Read an article about the Credit  Suisse  Cares for Climate initiative in the   Responsibility Chronicle on page 70  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle  Environment 37 Environmental and Climate Protection Credit Suisse promotes environmental  and climate protection and the pres ervation of biodiversity at a number   of levels. In 2010, we achieved green house gas neutrality for all our oper ations worldwide as part of our Credit  Suisse Cares for Climate initiative.   We participate in discussions on ways   to promote climatefriendly business  practices and we take environmental  issues into account when managing  risks and developing new products. Climate change represents one of the  greatest challenges of our time. The  Climate Change Conference in Cancun  in December 2010 once again demon- strated to the world just how difficult it  can be to reach agreement on concrete  measures. At Credit Suisse, we rigor- ously pursued our efforts to protect the  climate despite – or because of – the  slow pace at which progress is being  made at a global level. Having already  become greenhouse gas neutral in  Switzerland in 2006, we realized this  goal for all our operations worldwide in  2010. A key element of this achieve- ment is the implementation of our four- pillar strategy to reduce greenhouse  gas emissions (see pages 42–43).  In June 2010, we published the  Credit Suisse Cares for Climate book - let to provide details of our operational  climate protection program and to dis- cuss how climate change relates to   our business. In connection with the  launch of the publication, we organized  a panel discussion at the banks head- quarters in Zurich, at which in-house  and external experts debated the   opportunities and risks facing society  and the banking industry as a result   of climate change. To mark the start of  the Credit Suisse Cares for Climate   initiative, we also developed an inter- active on line training module to educate  our employees about climate change  and to inform them about concrete   energy-saving measures. Information   is also provided through a series of   posters with specific tips on how   em ployees can reduce the individual   carbon footprint. Diverse Measures  Credit Suisses efforts to support sus- tainable development include our com- mitment to preserving biodiversity.   We recognize the vital need to protect  the broad range of species on our   planet and to safeguard natural eco- logical processes in view of their impor- tance as a source of food, medicine,  clean air and water, as well as their role  in protecting against natural disasters  or in providing green spaces. Biodiver- sity is now under threat due to the   overexploitation of land, the destruction   of habitats, climate change and the   impacts of invasive species. Against  this backdrop, staff in our Asia Pacific  region have been supporting the  newTrees project on the Indonesian  island of Lombok (see box on page 39).  We are also a member of a biodiversity  working group that forms part of the  United Nations Environment Programme  Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and we  actively participated in the 10th meeting  of the Conference of the Parties to   the Convention on  Biological Diversity  in Nagoya, Japan, in October 2010  (see page 39).  Whether we are addressing the   issue of climate change, biodiversity or  forest conservation – the key theme  highlighted by the UN in 2011 –  Credit Suisse wants to ensure that its  commitments are structured in the   most  effective way possible. We take  concrete steps to reduce our direct   impact on the environment and use   our network of contacts, our financial  know-how and our pivotal function   within the economy to bring about   progress in this field. For example, we  hold information campaigns to raise   employee awareness about en- vironmental issues. We not only channel  our expertise into the development   of products with an environmental,   climate-related or social focus but also  exploit it in our dialogue with business  partners, economic and political   representatives and other stakeholders  to promote a sustainable approach   to business (see pages 47–50). Products and Services At Credit Suisse, we also take environ- mental issues into account in our offer- ing of products and services whenever  possible (see page 17). In 2010, Credit  Suisse once again received industry  recognition for its environment-themed  services. For example, we were involved  in the financing of a wind park for the  UK en ergy provider Centrica that was  named the Renewable Energy Deal of  the Year, and the flotation of the US  solar company STR Holding underwrit- ten by Credit Suisse was recognized as   the IPO of the Year. These accolades  were awarded by Environmental Fi- nance, a leading specialist publication.   38 Credit Suisses Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2010 by region per capita 175,000 150,000 125,000 100,000 75,000 50,000 25,000 0 14,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 CO2 equivalents (metric tons) CO2 equivalents (kg) Switzerland Switzerland EMEA EMEA Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Americas Americas 2008 2008 2008 2008 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Energy use of buildings  Business travel  Other (paper, waste, water) Energy use of buildings  Business travel  Other (paper, waste, water) Energy use of buildings  Business travel  Other (paper, waste, water) 78% 19% 3% Identifying Environmental Risks When assessing activities or trans- actions with prospective clients, we   conduct a detailed reputational risk   review process to identify any risks   they could pose to people or the envi- ronment, including potential impacts   on the climate and biodiversity. This  review is based on international industry  standards such as the Equator Princi- ples (see table on page 50), as well as  internal sector-specific guidelines for  sensitive industries such as forestry,  mining, and oil and gas (see page 14). Participating in Environmental Talks Credit Suisse is involved in international  discussions about ways of promoting   a sustainable, climate-friendly approach  to business, and we contribute our   expertise through our role in various  organizations (see page 50). Since 2002, Credit Suisse has par- ticipated annually in the Carbon Disclo- sure Project (CDP) that aims to create  greater transparency about greenhouse  gas emissions. Around 3,000 compa- nies from 60 countries – including 82%  of the worlds 500 largest corporations –  disclosed information about their CO2  emissions and climate strategies in  2010. Credit Suisse scored 69 out of  a possible 100 points. We also take part in national and   international conferences that are dedi- cated to the topic of climate change –  contributing our expertise from a   banking perspective while obtaining  valuable input from other specialists  that we can apply to our own work.   In 2010, we supported or participated  in various events, including:  Credit Suisse Asian Investment  Conference (AIC) in Hong Kong: The  13th AIC featured keynote speeches  and panel discussions on a broad range  of key investment themes and trends  with a particular focus on risks and op- portunities in the Asia Pacific region.   A panel discussion between representa- tives of companies in the renewable   energy sector met with considerable   interest among the audience of well    Environment 39 Engaging Our Employees At Credit Suisse, we not only encourage our clients, service providers and sup- pliers to support environmental and climate protection but also motivate our people  to play an active part in these efforts. In 2010, we engaged in various activities  to raise employee awareness of these issues, including:  WWF Earth Hour 2010: Several thousand cities in 128 countries and millions of  people around the world turned off their lights for one hour to make a statement  about the need to protect our climate. Credit Suisse took part in this symbolic  WWF campaign at 57 of its offices worldwide and encouraged em ployees  to also set an example. In Hong Kong, Credit Suisse staff organized a program  of events in conjunction with WWF Earth Hour to heighten public awareness  of this issue.  bike to work: For the third year in succession, we encouraged our employees  in Switzerland to support this campaign by cycling to work. In June 2010,  around 400 employees – organized into over 100 teams – participated in the   initiative, covering a total of more than 40,000 kilometers.  Go paperless today! Each year, Credit Suisse uses thousands of tons of paper  to send out account statements and other bank documents to clients. We are  therefore switching to the use of e-documents and are distributing information  in electronic form wherever possible. Credit Suisse made a donation to the  Swiss Foundation for Landscape Conservation for each employee or client in  Switzer land who switched from paper to e-documents in response to our  initiative in the period from October to December 2010.    newTrees for Lombok: Credit Suisse offered its employees based in the Asia  Pacific region and their family members and friends the opportunity to adopt  a tree within a 15-hectare area of land on the Indonesian island of Lombok as  part of the WWF supported newTrees project. This reforestation initiative  is intended to improve water resources management in this water-scarce area.  At the end of the year, over 2,200 trees had been adopted.  London Eco Challenge: Which options are available to reduce energy con- sumption? Where can waste products be recycled to produce new resources?  Credit Suisse employees in London launched a competition in which their  colleagues were invited to put forward specific ideas to address these issues.  Their suggestions were examined by an internal specialist committee to  determine their potential and viability.  e-bike pilot project: We launched a pilot project from our headquarters in  Zurich  involving 50 participants and 10 bikes equipped with electric motors for use  on short journeys. Thanks to this initial project, we were able to gain insights  and experience in the use of e-bikes before launching a larger scheme in 2011.  Campaigns on UN World Environment Day: Employees in our Hong Kong  office – in collaboration with one of our corporate partners – once again devoted  a day to cleaning up a remote and unmanaged beach in recognition of World  Environment Day and World Oceans Day. over 2,000 institutional and high-net- worth investors.  Biodiversity Conference in Nagoya:  Credit Suisse participated in the 10th  Conference of the Parties to the   Convention on Biological Diversity in  Nagoya, Japan, in connection with  UNEP FI. The conference represented  the highlight in the International Year   of Biodiversity. A CEO Briefing by  UNEP FI on the topic of biodiversity  was presented during the event. The  expertise of various financial institu- tions, including Credit Suisse, was   incorporated into the briefing. Following  the event in Nagoya, UNEP FI and  Credit Suisse co-organized a workshop  in Hong Kong in November 2010 to  discuss biodiversity issues with   business community rep resentatives   with a focus on the asso ciated risks   and opportunities.  www.creditsuisse.com/responsibility/ environment  40 Environmental Management  Credit Suisse is committed to sustain- ability and to operating in an environ- mentally friendly manner. Our ISO- certified environmental management  system helps us to save resources in  all our premises, reduce our environ- mental impact, lower operating costs  and ensure compliance with environ- mental standards. As energy con- sumption is the area in which we have  the greatest impact on the environ- ment, we implement various operation- al measures to address this issue. In 1997, Credit Suisse became the  worlds first bank to obtain ISO 14001  certification for its environmental man agement system, which governs all the  operational responsibilities, processes  and requirements relating to the im plementation of our sustainability policy.  We strive to continuously improve our  environmental performance in order   to lower our consumption of resources  and reduce our level of greenhouse   gas emissions, thus also saving costs.  Our team of environmental coor dinators – which was strengthened in  2010 through the recruitment of addi tional specialists in Zurich and New  York – helps to promote implementation  of our measures in the field of opera tional ecology. To ensure that our   environmental management system has   the broadest possible basis, we have  extended it to include external service  providers in sensitive areas such   as  facility management, catering and   travel management.  In 2010, the recognized external  certification company SGS conducted  its annual surveillance audit of Credit  Suisses environmental management  system, concentrating on our activities  in Switzerland and the Americas region.  We once again passed the audit with  out any need for corrections. The Group wide certification is valid until 2012.  Global Greenhouse Gas Neutrality  Credit Suisse has been active in the   area of climate protection for over a   decade and has been greenhouse gas  neutral in Switzerland since 2006.  We began working on our Credit Suisse  Cares for Climate initiative in 2007  with the aim of becoming greenhouse  gas neutral globally – a goal that we  achieved in 2010. Credit Suisses  greenhouse gas neutrality is based on  four pillars: optimizing operations,   capital expenditure, substitution and  compensation (see chart on pages 42–43).  In concrete terms, this means that we  continuously optimize energy consump tion in all our locations and invest in   energysaving technology, highly insu lating materials and an energyefficient  IT infrastructure for new or renovated  buildings. We also encourage the use  of climatefriendly energy sources  worldwide and substitute fossil fuels  with renewable energy derived from   hydro, wind or solar power to meet   our energy needs. Our remaining emis sions are  offset through the purchase   of highquality emissions reduction   certificates. Carbon Calculation Extended From 2008 to end2010, we improved  energy efficiency at our locations in  Switzerland by around 7%. Without  the implementation of these efficiency  measures over the last three years,   our energy costs would have risen by   an estimated 6.5%.  In 2010, the total global emissions  were higher than in previous years   Prestigious Facility Management Award for 2010 In 2010, Credit Suisse received the FMAnwenderpreis (Facility Management  Award) from the German trade magazine Der Facility Manager at the International  Trade Fair for Commercial Property – ExPO REAl – in Munich in recognition of  the success of a major project to optimize the awarding of contracts to facility  management companies in Switzerland, as well as the insourcing of key functions  such as data and energy management. The awardwinning project reflects   developments at the bank dating back to the 1990s. We had outsourced a range  of important facility management services to an external provider but subsequently  decided to insource important strategic functions again in response to increasing  dissatisfaction among users and the growing need to optimize energy and resource  consumption. In this context, a new energy and resource management tool,   EMaximo, was developed that provides full documentation on these areas,  thus enabling orders to be pro fessionally managed, errors to be addressed and  performance to be monitored or enhanced. It also allows us to produce reports on  the energy footprint of each building.  Environment 41 Environmental Management Key Figures 2010 2009 Environmental/sustainability specialists (in fulltime posts) 1 50 44 Employees trained in environmental issues 2 1,692 2,728 Training time (in hours) 3,230 4,205 1 Fulltime equivalents, including the corresponding fixed mandates of externals. 2 elearning not included. Key Performance Indicators for Operational Ecology 1 2010 2009 Absolute per FTE 2, 3 Absolute per FTE 2, 3 Energy 718,737,000 kWh 14,346 kWh 682,465,046 kWh 14,338 kWh Business travel 580,390,000 km 11,585 km  491,440,354 km 10,324 km Paper 5,517 t 110 kg 5,809 t 122 kg Water 1,900,000 m 3 38 m 3 1,567,570 m 3 33 m 3 Waste 14,538 t 290 kg 14,656 t 308 kg 1 According to VfU standard.  2 Annual average.  3 Employees (fulltime equivalents). Continued on page 44 for a number of reasons: Our workforce  grew significantly, we switched to more  costefficient energy sources and air  travel rose by 15% as a result of the  economic recovery. In addition, we took  account of new factors when calculat ing our total volume of greenhouse gas  emissions. When measuring electricity  consumption, we now not only consider  the emissions resulting from the gener ation of electricity but also the losses  that occur within the network when   the electricity is being transported and  converted for use by consumers.  In 2010, our global emissions totaled  365,800 metric tons, compared to  273,000 in 2009. However, the two  sets of data are only comparable to a  very limited extent due to the use of  new calculation methods in 2010. In  Switzerland, we succeeded in reducing  emissions by 4% per employee.  Energy  consumption in our premises and   business air travel remain our primary  sources of emissions.  Business air travel, which is often  essential to maintain direct contact   with our clients, continues to represent  a major part of our greenhouse gas  footprint, accounting for approximately  17% of our total  output. In an effort to  reduce the number of business flights  taken by our  employees as far as possi ble, we  encourage them to take the  train when traveling short distances or  to switch to video conferencing, which  saves both time and money. As a result,  our use of video conferencing rose by  almost 40% to a total of 100,000 hours  in 2010 compared to 2009. Since  2006, the greenhouse gas emissions  from all business flights originating   in Switzerland have been offset through   the purchase of emissions reduction  certificates; with effect from 2010,  we have offset the emissions from all   our business air travel globally. To raise   employee awareness of this topic, the  level of emissions incurred is spe cified  on each ticket. Although the paperless office is still  a vision, we remain committed to con tinuously improving our environmental  Use of video conferencing   (increase compared to 2009) 100,000 hours (40%) Business travel   (global greenhouse gas neutrality through purchase   of emissions reduction certificates, as of 2010 ) 555 million kilometers Use of FSC-certified paper (in Switzerland) 69% (premises outside Switzerland) 11%  Servers no longer in use as a result of   virtualization  12,158 Figures for 2010  42 1. Optimizing operations Efficiency gains and reduction   of energy consumption through  optimization of installations 2. Capital expenditure Reduction of energy   consumption through  energysaving investments 3. Substitution Use of climatefriendly  energy sources 4. Compensation Purchase of reduction   certificates to offset   greenhouse gas emissions Reduction of own energy   and material consumption Reduction of own greenhouse  gas emissions Greenhouse gas neutrality Reduction of greenhouse   gas emissions each time   energy is consumed Compensation of remaining  greenhouse gas emissions  Extension of the Uetlihof according  to the strictest Minergie standard: In 2008,  we began the extension of our Uetlihof adminis trative center in Zurich – currently the largest  building in Switzerland to be constructed ac cording to the MinergiePECO standard, which  takes account of environmental and health   aspects. The Minergie standard sets out strict  requirements regarding energy efficiency and  the use of healthy and environmentally sound  building techniques. For example, it stipulates  that buildings must have a compact design   featuring highly insulated external structures  and energyefficient windows and provide a  constant supply of clean air. It also prescribes  that workplaces must have the greatest pos  sible degree of natural light – complemented by   highly efficient artificial lighting systems –  and contain stateoftheart office equipment.  The new section of the Uetlihof will only con sume around onetenth of the heating energy  required by a typical building constructed in  1975, when the original complex was built.  When it is ready for use at the start of 2012,  the Uetlihof extension will provide 2,000 sus tainably designed new workspaces for employ ees who are currently based in less energy  efficient premises in the city of Zurich.  Renovation of Basel branch: In 2010,  we modernized Credit Suisse premises in   Basel – the first office building in the region to  be refurbished according to the MinergieP  standard. The facade of the branch at Claraplatz  was fully upgraded to improve its energy effi ciency and the building was equipped with  stateoftheart heating, air conditioning and  ventilation systems. The Basel Department  of the Environment and Energy provided finan cial support for this project, which is intended  to serve as an example to other investors.  Reinvestment of CO2 tax refund: Under  our Credit Suisse Cares for Climate initiative,  the tax refund we obtained in 2010 from Swit zerlands CO2 incentive tax system was rein vested in energy efficiency projects as part of  our efforts to support operational climate pro tection measures. Examples of these measures  include switching to renewable energies when  upgrading heating systems, increasing insula tion levels, installing more efficient lED lighting  and using optimized cooling systems in data  centers.  Further examples of investments that en abled us to improve our carbon footprint:  Replacement of halon fire extinguish- ers with more climate-friendly extinguishers:  We installed climatefriendly fire extinguishers   in all of Credit Suisses premises in Switzerland  as well as the offices of our Swiss subsidiaries  Neue Aargauer Bank and Clariden leu, thus  significantly reducing the threat of harm to the  ozone layer if they are used.   Installation of new LED lighting in the  Uetlihof auditorium: The entire stage lighting  system, which previously comprised electricity intensive spotlights that emitted a large amount  of heat, have been replaced with an innovative  lED lighting system. This will reduce energy  consumption, incur lower maintenance costs  and maintain a pleasant environment for both  speakers and the audience.  Increase in energy efficiency of  2.5% per year: We agreed on a target to in crease energy efficiency by 2.5% per year with  our facility management partners in Switzer land back in 2008. As a result of the energy   efficiency measures implemented over the last  three years, we are now able to generate  annual  savings of 18 million kilowatthours of energy  in our Swiss premises. This has been achieved  in part by extending server virtualization in   our data centers – allowing us to realize further  targeted efficiency improvements compared   to 2009.  E-Maximo: This specially designed ener gy and resource management software pro  gram (see box on page 40) enables us to define   energy targets for individual buildings and   to  initiate specific operational enhancements  and energyrelated investments. For example,  EMaximo makes it possible to systematically  record meter readings or to conduct detailed  analyses of the energy and resources we   consume. The tool has also simplified the pro cess involved in determining the energy foot print of individual buildings. EMaximo has   already been successfully rolled out in 400 busi ness premises in Switzerland. In 2011, we will  further develop the EMaximo concept and  conduct extensive tests with a view to imple menting it globally to meet our international   requirements. 1. Optimizing operations 2. Capital expenditure Achieving Greenhouse Gas Neutrality  Environment 43 Portfolio of Purchased   ERC Qualities 2010 Wind  Biomass/biogas  Geothermal power   Hydropower  Landfill gas 35% 12% 34% 14% 5%  In total, we purchased approximately   208 million kilowatthours of electricity from   renewable sources in 2010. This corresponds to  around 34% of our global electricity consump tion. All Credit Suisse locations in Switzerland,  as well as our offices in Frankfurt, now obtain  their electricity exclusively from renewable  sources.  In london, we previously obtained our  electricity from renewable sources. In view of  new legislation in the UK, however, we have re turned to the conventional energy mix when ex tending our supply contracts. Under this legisla tion, companies are required to base their CO2  calculations on the use of a conventional elec tricity mix that entails a relatively high level of  CO2 emissions, even if they purchase renewable  electricity. We will continue to monitor policy  and best practice on energy procurement in the  UK.  Whenever we negotiate new electricity  supply contracts, we verify whether it is pos sible to obtain the quality of green electricity we  require at reasonable costs. In order to provide  greater transparency regarding the use of ener gy labels in the international electricity market,  Credit Suisse financed a study entitled Green  Electricity – Making a Difference.  Our remaining emissions, which totaled  around 365,800 metric tons in 2010, are offset  through the purchase of highquality emissions  reduction certificates. Approximately 40% of  these certificates meet either the gold standard  or the social carbon standard. In 2010, our  portfolio of emissions reduction certificates  comprised 70% wind and biomass/biogas   projects, with the remainder consisting of the   recycling of landfill gas as well as geothermal  and hydropower projects. 3. Substitution 4. Compensation Left We began extending our Uetlihof adminis trative center in Zurich in 2008. At present,  it is the largest building in Switzerland to be  constructed according to the MinergiePECO  standard.  Above In 2010, we modernized our  premises in Basel according to the MinergieP  standard. This included the upgrading of the   facade and the installation of new heating, air  conditioning and ventilation systems.   44 Improvement outside Switzerland In addition to the measures implemented in Switzerland (see pages 42–43), we also took steps to optimize  energy  consumption in our other regions in 2010.  Europe, Middle East and Africa  The replacement of halogen lights with an  energyefficient, lowmaintenance lighting system using  lED technology on the floors of both  london offices produced a 75% reduction in the amount of   electricity they use for lighting.  The proportion of refuse from our london offices that can be recycled or converted into fuel also   increased from 40% to 90%. The separation of refuse materials into plastics, paper, metals and food  waste was previously performed on site. However, Credit Suisse is now working with a specialist  firm that compacts, separates and dries the refuse, food waste, glass and metals using hightech   equipment in order to produce a fuel product that can be used as an alternative to  fossil fuels. Asia Pacific   Our data center in Singapore, which was constructed in 2009 and received a Green Mark Platinum  Award, was further extended in 2010. These measures – which comply with Singapore Green Building  Standards – will not only reduce energy and water consumption but will also help to create a more   pleasant working environment with improved air quality for a total of 480 workspaces. In addition,   lowenergy lED lighting systems that adjust automatically to levels of natural light have been installed  and rain water is now used to flush toilets.   During the renovation of Credit Suisses offices in the Gateway building in Sydney in 2010 and 2011,  a focus is being placed on enhancing energy efficiency and on making use of sustainable building   materials and equipment.  During the annual Credit Suisse Asian Investment Conference in Hong Kong in 2010, we opted to work  with environmentally and socially responsible hotels and catering firms and supplied the participants   with the conference documentation in digital form in order to make the event as sustainable as possible. Americas  In 2010, we modified the operating times of the ventilation and airconditioning systems in our New  York offices One Madison Avenue and Eleven Madison Avenue to better reflect the periods when most   employees are present, according to a demandbased approach. This means that the systems auto matically switch off outside regular office hours. It is, however, still possible to manually control the sys tems in localized areas for employees to offer a comfortable working environment outside office hours.  This project provides an estimated annual cost saving of USD 230,000 by reducing electricity consump tion by approximately 1.9 million kilowatthours per year. Continued from page 41 footprint in this area by accelerating   the process of data digitalization, using  environmentally friendly paper at our  major centers, and encouraging the use  of doublesided printing. In 2010, we  reduced our global paper consumption  by 5%. The proportion of FSCcertified  paper we use in Switzerland remained  high at 69% and totaled 11% for our   international locations in 2010.  Credit Suisses 30 data centers  around the world consume 172 million  kilowatthours of electricity per year,  thus accounting for 24% of our total  energy usage. Thanks to the increased  use of virtualization software, we were  able to turn off 12,158 servers across  our company in 2010 and have thus   further optimized our ITrelated level of   energy consumption. Involvement of External Partners We are committed to conducting our  business in an ethical and socially and  environmentally responsible manner   that complies with applicable legislation.  We strive to create a working environ ment that is characterized by integrity,  fairness and professionalism and we   expect our external providers and busi ness partners to observe the same prin ciples of conduct based on our supply  management values.  The global Supplier Code of Conduct  we introduced in 2010 defines stan dards relating to business ethics and   integrity, environmental protection, and  employment and social standards –  including general business principles  and the corresponding management  systems – that our suppliers are expect ed to uphold. In order to promote social  and environmental responsibility, the  code requires suppliers to meet stan dards that, in some cases, exceed local  legislative and regulatory requirements.  Important aspects of the Supplier Code  of Conduct include the sparing use   of raw materials, the careful handling of  dangerous substances, the rejection  of child labor and intentional discrimina tion, and the provision of competitive  rates of compensation.  Left The data center in Singapore, which has 480 workspaces and received a Green Mark Platinum Award,  was further extended in 2010.  Right New waste separation system in london.  Environment 45 Smart Working Initiative A new  lighting concept has been introduced as part of the Smart Working  Initiative. Credit Suisse is the first major corpo ration in Switzerland  to install LED standard lamps in its offices. This decision was made by  an interdiscipli nary project group based on sustainable, energy-related  and architectural considerations. We are thus actively  promoting a   future-oriented techno logy that continuously enhances efficiency, is free  from harmful substances and requires substantially less maintenance.   Following a complex international tendering process, the project team  was able to select lamps that have been tailored to the needs of the   company and its employees. This allows the intensity of office lighting  to be increased in line with individual requirements – such as when   employees are completing detailed PC work. The need to ensure the   efficient management of overall lighting levels to provide a comfortable  and safe working environment was also considered. The  standard lamps  are equipped with an innovative control system that  provides the right   level of light in the right places so that natural light can be complemented  with artificial light, positively impacting employee  performance and con- centration. This combination of modern technology and intelligent controls  also provides large energy savings, leading to a long-term reduction in  operating costs. The Smart Working Initiative focuses on how best to use policies, technology and space to address  changing work patterns, workplace preferences and the increased flexibility resulting from new technol ogies. Modern workspaces installed in connection with the pilot project in Zurich are pictured above. Our main areas of focus in 2010:  Catering and cleaning firms:   We once again defined annual targets  governing energy and waste manage ment, product ranges and employee  training for the catering firms we   use in Switzerland. We adopt a similar  approach when working with cleaning  companies; here, our focus is on   the selection of cleaning products as  well as their application.  Invitation for tenders for lED  lamps: We defined energy efficiency  targets, sustainability requirements and  ergonomic criteria for the procurement  of lED standard lamps as part of a  pilot project in Switzerland.   Corporate wear for Region   Switzerland: When inviting suppliers   to tender for contracts to manufacture  corporate clothing, we prescribed  environmental and social standards   that have to be observed in the pro duction process and the selection   of fabrics. This enabled us to achieve  greater transparency in our cooper  ation with suppliers in 2010, as well  as  leading to a clear improvement   in fabric quality.  Merchandising products: The envi ronmental and social standards relating  to all the products offered in conjunc tion with our Bonviva bonus program  were reviewed by an internal specialist  committee and fair trade products were  added to the range.   Facility management: We updated  the requirements for the management  of our premises, installations and equip ment in Switzerland.  Waste/recycling management:  Since January 2011, the New York  Campus has eliminated the use of all  Styrofoam food and drinks containers,  which have been replaced with products  made from recyclable materials.  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ environment  46 Dialogue and   Transparency Elisabeth Engel and Bernard Bruttin are two of over  300 employees in Switzerland who hold a public office in  parallel to their jobs at Credit Suisse.   Read an article about the political mandate holders  in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 58  www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle  Dialogue and Transparency 47 Our Stakeholders As a globally active bank, Credit Suisse cultivates a dialogue with its stakeholders   on a range of topics through various channels. Media Local Communities Suppliers Employees Unions Governments NGOs Politics Financial Analysts Shareholders Clients W o rk pl ac e M a rk et pl ac e                                                                         S o ci e ty                                                                                                                                                                               E n vi ro n m e nt E c o n o m ic  I s s u e s                                                                                                                                                                                              E n vi r o n m e n t a l  I s s u e s S o c ia l  I s s u e s Credit Suisse Products and Services Environmental Management System Responsibility in Society Legal Compliance Code of Conduct Supplier Guidelines HR policies Dialogue with Stakeholders The trust of our stakeholders is   essential to the long-term success  of our business. This is why we are  committed to providing transparency  about our activities and strive   to  cultivate an open dialogue with   clients, shareholders and other  groups of stakeholders to promptly  identify their needs and find joint   solutions to current challenges. The success of our company depends  on our ability to gain and maintain   the trust of different stakeholders. To  achieve this, we must first obtain a  clear understanding of the issues that  are important to them. It is only by   engaging in a fair and open dialogue  with our clients, shareholders, em ployees, regulatory bodies, politicians   and other representatives of society  that we can create a solid basis   of trust. This exchange of views and  ideas enables us to recognize key  trends and issues at an early stage   and to develop sustainable solutions.  One of the dominant themes at   present is the discussion about the   lessons learned from the global finan cial and economic crisis. In order   to restore public trust in the banking   sector, Credit Suisse has sought to help  address weaknesses in the financial  markets and continued to participate   in an intensive dialogue with politicians,  legislators, regulators, international  bodies and nongovernmental organi zations (NGOs) throughout 2010. Focus on Restoring Trust Credit Suisse has never required gov ernment support at any point in our   history of over 150 years. We viewed  the recent credit and capital market   crisis as an opportunity to refocus on  and consolidate our strengths. For   example, we reduced risk exposures   and adjusted our compensation system  at the start of 2011, thus demon strat  ing that we are committed to strik   ing a balance bet ween the interests   of our shareholders and the concerns   of regulators, politicians and the gener al public. We were able to anticipate  some of the demands of investors and  regulators at an early stage and have  been seen as a valued partner in cur rent discussions about our industry  thanks to our experience and expertise.  In 2010, we once again participated in  an intensive dialogue with national reg ulators and legislators – especially  the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory   Authority (FINMA), the Swiss National  Bank (SNB), the US Federal Reserve  (Fed) and the UK Financial Services  Authority (FSA). These discussions cen tered on the definition of new capital  and liquidity requirements as well as  measures to ensure the continuation   of the big banks systemically relevant  functions in the event of a crisis. For  example, the ViceChairman of the  Board of Directors of Credit Suisse  Group, Urs Rohner, campaigned for the  formulation of a balanced package of   48 Finding a Solution to the Too Big to Fail Issue On October 4, 2010, the Expert Commission appointed by  the Swiss Federal Council presented its recommendations to   address the Too Big to Fail issue. The proposed pack - age of measures will strengthen the stability of the financial   system without severely undermining the competitiveness  of the Swiss big banks and Switzerlands financial center. The  individual measures will increase the banks ability to ab - sorb losses and thus have a preventative effect. At the same  time, they will enable them to maintain systemically relevant  activities such as payment operations, lending and the de- posits business, even if faced with the threat of collapse or  if their failure is inevitable. In this context, Credit Suisse has  voiced its support for a solution that would allow the sys- temically relevant functions of ailing banks to be maintained.  In December 2010, a draft consultation paper was produced  on the basis of the Expert Commissions recommendations.  By producing a video that clearly explains the proposals,   Credit Suisse has sought to contribute to the forthcoming  public debate about this key topic – both in Switzerland and  across the industry, as well as among interested members  of the public worldwide.   Watch a video explaining the Too Big to Fail issue  in the Responsibility Chronicle on page 17   www.credit-suisse.com/chronicle regulatory measures in his capacity as   a member of the Expert Commission   appointed by the Swiss Federal Council  to develop recommendations to ad  dress the Too Big to Fail (TBTF) issue  (see box). He is also involved in the   international debate about this topic   as Chairman of the IIF CrossBorder  Res olution Working Group. To preserve the stability of the finan cial system while maintaining a level  playing field for international financial  centers, Credit Suisse also believes   it is imperative for effective regulatory  measures to be coordinated interna tionally. This is especially critical since  the cumulative costs of stricter regula tion are not only expected to impact the  banks but also society as a whole by  reducing economic growth and adverse ly affecting the labor market. We are  therefore actively involved in the regu latory debate as a member of various   regional and national industry bodies.  Credit Suisse has contributed to a num ber of reports on the future architecture  of the international financial system, as  well as the lessons learned from the  credit and capital market  crisis. We also  worked on position papers that were  presented to the Basel Committee on  Banking Supervision, the Financial   Stability Board and meetings of G20  ministers. We have been addressing regulatory  developments and adapting our activities  accordingly for some time – as dem onstrated by the implementation of our   clientfocused, capitalefficient business  strategy. As a result, we have already  implemented a significant element of  the proposed package of measures to  address the Too Big to Fail issue. In  February 2011, we announced the exe cution of a definitive agreement with  two strategic investors to issue an ag gregate of approximately CHF6 billion  of tier 1 buffer capital notes to be  paid up no earlier than October 2013  for cash or in exchange for tier 1 capi  tal notes issued in 2008. In addition, we  placed a Regulation Sonly issue of  USD 2 billion tier 2 buffer capital notes.  Our Stakeholders  Credit Suisse performs important social  functions that go beyond our core bank ing activities. This means that our long term business success is  influenced   by our relationship with  clients, employ ees, investors and other stakeholders  such as analysts and the media, as   well as representatives of the business   community, academia, the  political   arena, legislative bodies and NGOs. We  cultivate a constructive dialogue with   all these groups of stakeholders by at tending or hosting events and engaging   in discussions in order to identify   their needs and interests and to formu late joint  solutions to current challenges.  By  simultaneously providing transpar ency about our business, we also   use these exchanges as a means of  keeping the public informed about our  strategy and activities. Clients Credit Suisse regularly organizes client  events with highprofile speakers. For  example, Jeffrey Owens from the Centre  for Tax Policy and Administration at  the OECD was one of the guest speakers  at our Thought Leadership Conference  in Zurich. At the Credit Suisse Salons in  2010, leading decisionmakers including  the former Mexican President Ernesto  Zedillo and the economist Nouriel Rou bini discussed a range of topical issues. Investors We maintain a dialogue with investors,  analysts and the financial media and  have gained considerable recognition  for our investor relations work in industry  circles. For example, Credit Suisse   Investor Relations achieved first place   in the banking sector in a survey   conducted by Thomson Extel in 2010.   Dialogue and Transparency 49 Society Politicians and regulators  We regularly exchange information with politicians and government bodies and engage in a constructive  dialogue with regulators and legislators. In Switzerland, we lend our support to the militia system of  politics by granting employees generous working time arrangements so that they can fulfill their political  roles while exercising their regular profession. At present, around 300 members of staff hold a public  office in the cantonal authorities or at commune level. We hold an annual meeting for these employees  at which we run workshops on political work and provide a  platform so that they can share their experi ences and exchange their views and ideas with the banks top management.  World Economic Forum (WEF) The WEF  provides a global platform for international, crossindustry  dialogue and cooperation. Credit Suisse has been a member of the WEF for more than two decades  and a strategic partner since 2006. Events hosted by Credit Suisse at the WEF in 2010 were dedicated  to climate change, economic growth, sovereign debt and the future of the financial markets. Business organizations A favorable operating environment is important to Credit Suisse in view of the key role we play in   the economy and as an employer and taxpayer. A large number of Credit Suisse employees around the  world are therefore involved in committees, working groups and the executive bodies of industry  associations, as well as in umbrella organizations and bilateral chambers of commerce. They include  the following organizations:   Association for Financial Markets in Europe (AFME) AFME promotes the interests of European  wholesale financial markets, and is chaired by a Credit Suisse representative.  economiesuisse This umbrella organization represents the interests of Swiss businesses in the  political process and works to create an optimal operating environment. Credit Suisse is represented on  its Board of Directors and plays a role in expert commissions and committees.  European Financial Services Round Table (EFR) The EFR aims to facilitate a truly single European  market for financial services and supports the development of internationally consistent financial   regulation.  Institute of International Finance (IIF) The IIF represents the interests of globally active financial  institutions. Credit Suisse is represented on its Board of Directors and in various committees and   working groups, including the Special Committee for Effective Regulation.  International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) As a member of the ICC, Credit Suisse is committed  to promoting free international trade and participates in a working group that addresses energy and   climate issues.  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) This association, of which  Credit Suisse is a Board member, aims to develop policies to strengthen the financial markets and to  promote the availability of capital, job creation and economic growth.  Swiss Bankers Association (SBA) This umbrella organization, which represents the interests of banks  in Switzerland, is committed to improving the framework for the Swiss finance industry. Credit Suisse   is represented on the SBA Board of Directors and various specialist committees. Science and research Credit Suisse promotes the transfer of knowledge so that theoretical knowhow can be applied in   practice and supports the development of a progressive education system.  We have been partnering with the ETH Zurich Foundation since 2008 to help extend the leading position  of the Swiss Institute of Technology (ETH) in Zurich. In conjunction with Swiss universities, we present  the Credit Suisse Award for Best Teaching through our Jubilee Fund. Together with the SBA, we support  the Swiss Finance Institute, which combines the research institutions of several Swiss universities.   We are also a member of research bodies such as the Institut International dEtudes Bancaires and the  International Center for Monetary and Banking Studies. Non-governmental organizations  In 2010, Credit Suisse hosted a conference that brought together 23 banks that have signed the Equator  Principles and 15 NGO to exchange their views about the challenges that exist following the Climate  Change Conference in Copenhagen, as well as the further development of the Equator Principles.  In the course of 2010, we extended our cooperation with the WWF. As well as participating in WWF  campaigns such as Earth Hour and the newTrees project (see page 39), we hosted the Sustainable For estry Investment Forum in conjunction with WWF Hong Kong, Greenpeace  China and ASrIA. We also  sponsored the public screening of a documentary about the harmful effects of overfishing. In addition, our annual reporting suite  (Annual Report, Business Review   and Corporate Citizenship Report)  achieved second place in the Harbour  Club ratings produced in conjunction  with the Swiss business magazine   Bilanz and the University of Zurich,  while our Investor Relations website  was named the best in Switzerland   in the IR Global Rankings 2010.  Employees We work closely with bodies that re present employee interests such as the  Credit Suisse Staff Council (PKOM) in  Switzerland, national employee asso ciations and the European Works Coun cil to ensure that the needs of our   people are taken properly into account.  In conjunction with independent   consulting firms, we also regularly con duct a survey of all our employees to  assess their views on topics such as  the working environment and opportuni ties for professional development. In   an effort to continuously enhance our  feedback culture, we decided in 2010  to modify the format of the survey   so that we can analyze our employees   level of satisfaction with their role at  Credit Suisse even more effectively and  can rapidly initiate improvements   wherever necessary (see page 33). Society As an active member of society, Credit  Suisse cultivates relations with regula tors, politicians, legislators and NGOs.  Our efforts in this field include our   support for business organizations and  our involvement in various networks   and initiatives that promote discussions  about economic, political and business  issues (see table). Continued on page 50  50 Credit Suisse Barometer For more than 30 years, Credit Suisse has con ducted an annual Worry Barometer survey, which  examines the issues that are of greatest concern  to the Swiss public. Unemployment, pension   provision and healthcare are the issues that Swiss  voters worry about most. Confidence in the   economy as a whole has risen. In 2010, the Worry  Barometer was extended to include a survey of  young people – the Youth Barometer. It revealed  that the common interests of young people not  only include aspects of the cyberworld such   as SMS, Facebook, email and smartphones but  also Italian food and TV series (see page 20). Credit Suisse Research Institute The Credit Suisse Research Institute compiles  analyses of global social, economic, scientific,  ecological and demographic trends. It works with  a body of leading experts, research institutes   and specialist committees as well as the extensive  Credit Suisse research team consisting of 400 an alysts around the world. The knowledge gained  is made available to all business areas and inter ested members of the public. The institute has  examined a number of themes, including govern ment debt, the distribution of wealth, investment  in education, technology, and health. bulletin and In Focus In addition to our economic analyses, Credit   Suisse produces a series of other publications  that are geared toward a broad readership.   The client magazine bulletin examines different  feature topics – in 2010, they included: neighbors,  south, movement, consumption, and youth –  along with reports on business, society, invest ment, business practices, culture and sports.   Our weekly online magazine In Focus provides  our clients and the public with timely reporting   on a range of topics. Investment Research In view of the increasing complexity of the capital  markets, Credit Suisse economists, strategists,  and investment specialists deliver a global   economic assessment and a market outlook on   a monthly basis. These publications are primarily  geared toward our clients but also attract a  broader readership. Based on these analyses,  specific investment ideas are also presented. The  investor magazine Global Investor is published  regularly and, in 2010, covered topics such as   inflation and urbanization. The publication also   examines global megatrends such as sustainability,  the multipolar world and demography. Sustainability Networks and Initiatives Credit Suisse participates in specialist discussions about a broad range of sustainabilityrelated topics in our capacity as a member   of national and international working groups and associations:  United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) More than 190 financial services providers are involved  in this initiative with the aim of encouraging the financial sector to take greater account of sustainability issues. Credit Suisse   became one of the first signatories of the initiative back in 1992 and we regularly participate in UNEP FI meetings and play  an active role in its project groups. In 2010, we attended the 10th meeting of the Conference of Parties to the Convention on   Biological Diversity in Nagoya in conjunction with the UNEP FI. This conference represented the highlight in the International  Year of Biodiversity (see page 39).  UN Global Compact Credit Suisse was one of the first signatories of the UN Global Compact in 2000 and – together with  more than 5,300 other companies – has pledged to promote a more socially and environmentally responsible approach to   globalization. As an active member, we report annually on our progress, participate in the national Global Compact networks  in Switzerland and Singapore and support events relating to the initiative (see page 51).   Equator Principles We conduct our project finance activities in emerging economies and developing nations in accordance with  the Equator Principles. By signing up to these voluntary industry standards, around 70 international banks have pledged to minimize  the negative impacts of major projects. As one of the first signatories of the initiative, which was launched in 2003, we play a part   in various working groups and have been a member of the Equator Principles Association Steering Committee since 2010.   Swiss Association for Environmentally Conscious Management (bu) This network comprises around 370 Swiss  companies  that work together to promote the sustainable development of Switzerlands economy. It focuses on companyspecific initiatives  and projects relating to economic policy, as well as promoting the exchange of knowledge and ideas between its members.  Association for Sustainable and Responsible Investment in Asia (ASrIA) ASrIA strives to promote sustainable investing  in Asia. As a member of this initiative, we want to contribute to the exchange of information about sustainable investments   in the region. Continued from page 49 Contributing to the Public Debate Credit Suisse regularly publishes studies  and specialist articles and participates  in conferences about current economic,  political and social issues. We make   our extensive experience and expertise  available as part of our efforts to sup port the formation of public opinion. In 2010, we once again participated  in various national and international  conferences. For example, we contrib uted our expertise at a global level   in the context of the Asian Investment  Conference and the World Economic  Forum (see pages 38 and 49), thus helping  different parties to form an opinion and  assisting in the formulation of solutions. In Switzerland, we continued our  work with Osec in the role of a premium  partner at the Forum for Swiss Foreign  Trade and Investment, and we con   tri buted to the success of the third na tional  MinergieP Day, where interested  parties were able to find out more about  the advantages of constructing build ings according to this energyefficient  standard.   www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/ society  Dialogue and Transparency 51 Implementation of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Examples of implementation at Credit Suisse Human rights1 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the   protection of  internationally proclaimed human  rights; and      Credit Suisse adheres to the UN Universal Declaration   of Human Rights Signing of UN Global Compact CEO Statement  on Human Rights in 2008 Partnership with International Humanitarian Forum in Lucerne  (IHRF) Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human  rights abuses.   Application of Reputational Risk Review Process Implementation of sector-specific policies Labor standards2 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of as- sociation and the effective  recognition of the  right to collective bargaining;   Staff Council in Switzerland (internal employee representation) European Works Council Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and   compulsory labor;   Progressive working conditions for own staff Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct3 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and   Progressive working conditions for own staff Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct3 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of  employment and occupation.  Global Diversity and Inclusion Environment4 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary   approach to  environmental challenges;   Application of Reputational Risk Review Process Implementation of sector-specific policies Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater   environmental responsibility; and     Credit Suisse Cares for Climate (CSCfC) initiative  Global greenhouse gas neutrality since 2010 ISO 14001-certified environmental management system Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of   environmentally friendly technologies.   ISO 14001-certified environmental management system Offering of environment-related products and services Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in  all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  Wolfsberg Statement against corruption5 1 See pages 12–15;  2 pages 31–35;  3 page 12;  4 pages 12–17 and 37–45;  5 page 15. Reporting on Corporate Responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility Report   is designed to inform our stake holders  about the principles that guide us   in our daily work and to illustrate how   we address current environ mental   and social challenges in our business  activities. To achieve long-term success, Credit  Suisse takes account not only of   economic but also of environmental   and social aspects when conducting   its activities. The most important   principles governing this approach are  set out in our Code of Conduct (see  page 12) as well as our Group-wide   sustainability policy. This report is   designed to inform our stakeholders   about our principles and objectives   relating to  corporate  responsibility and  to provide an overview of our diverse  commitments in this area. At the   same time, we want to provide a trans- parent account of our activities to   enable our stakeholders to engage in   a  dialogue with us and to provide us   with valuable input on the topic of   corporate  responsibility (enquiries can  be sent to: responsibility.corporate@  credit- suisse.com).  This  Corporate Responsibility Report  forms part of Credit Suisses annual   reporting suite (see inside cover) and   covers the  period from January to   December 2010. Its contents focus on  five themes relating to corporate re- sponsibility: banking, society, employer,  environment and dialogue. Given that it  is only possible to portray a selection of  our wide-ranging activities in the print- ed publication, we added a multimedia  dimension to our reporting for 2010 by  launching the Responsibility Chronicle.  It contains reports, videos and articles  about our international projects and   initiatives in these five areas, which  have been written or produced in a jour- nalistic style. More in-depth information,  additional data and articles can also be  found on our website:   www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility Global Reporting Initiative Our Corporate Responsibility Report   reflects the requirements set out in the   52 Sustainability Indices Index  Brief description Credit Suisse Dow Jones Sustainability   World Index (DJSI World) Global best-in-class approach:  the top 10% of the 2,500   largest companies in the Dow  Jones Global Total Stock  Market Index according to   sustainability criteria. Credit Suisse has been a   constituent of the Dow Jones  Sustainability World Index   since it was launched in 1999. Dow Jones Sustainability   Europe Index (DJSI Europe) European best-in-class   approach: the top 20% of   companies in terms of sustain- ability criteria of the 600 largest   European companies in the   Dow Jones Global Total Stock  Market Index. Credit Suisse has been a   constituent of the  European Index  of the Dow Jones Sustainability  Indices since 2001.1 FTSE4Good Index Series Companies that achieve a top  ranking in the area of corporate  social responsibility. Credit Suisse has been a   constituent of the FTSE4Good   Index Series since it was   launched in 2001. 1 Prior to 2010: Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Index (DJSI STOXX) Sustainability Ratings Assigned to Credit Suisse in 2010  Carbon Disclosure Project (UK):  69 points (rating scale: 1 to 100; industry average: 59)  RiskMetrics Group (US):  BBB (rating scale: AAA to CCC)   oekom research (Germany):2 C Prime (rating scale: A+ to D-; prime denotes best in class)  SAM (US/Switzerland): 78% (economic dimension 86%,  environmental dimension 73%,  social dimension 74%;  industry average 50%) 2 Rating 2009 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This  internationally recognized voluntary  standard defines principles and indica- tors for companies wishing to publish  information about the economic, envi- ronmental and social aspects of their  work. The GRI guidelines thus promote  greater transparency and comparability,  as well as making it easier to locate  specific data.  Detailed information about Credit  Suisses GRI indicators can be found at  www.credit-suisse.com/responsibility/gri  For this report, Credit Suisse has had  its GRI index reviewed and assessed for  the first time.  Sustainability Indices and Ratings Sustainability ratings assess whether  companies fulfill their social and envi- ronmental responsibilities and are seen  by a growing number of investors as   a key indicator of whether these firms  are being managed according to a   forward-looking approach. The ratings  also help us to identify opportunities  and risks and to constantly optimize  business processes. Credit Suisse regularly achieves  strong results in sustainability ratings  and was once again included in leading  sustainability indices such as the Dow  Jones Sustainability Indices and the   FTSE4Good Index Series in 2010. In  addition, various investment funds that  pursue sustainable investment strate- gies invest in the Credit Suisse share.  neutral Printed Matter No. 01-11-704850 – www.myclimate.org  myclimate – The Climate Protection Partnership Enquiries Credit Suisse AG Investor Relations Tel. +41 44 333 71 49 investor.relations@credit-suisse.com Credit Suisse AG Corporate Communications Tel. +41 844 33 88 44 media.relations@credit-suisse.com Photography: Alberto Venzago (Cover, 3, 18), iStockphoto (7, 41),  Johannes Kroemer (8), Credit Suisse (10, 20), Martin Stollenwerk (21),  Olav A Saltbones, Norwegisches Rotes Kreuz (23), Credit Suisse (26),   Andreas Meier (29), Priska Ketterer, Lucerne Festival (29), Keith Saunders,  Sydney Symphony (29), Credit  Suisse (29), Laurent Burst (30), Jrg  Isler (33), Cortis & Sonderegger (34), Jrg Isler (34), Credit Suisse (35),  Laurent Burst (36), Martin Stollenwerk (43), Dirk Altenkirch (43),  Credit Suisse (44), Dirk Altenkirch (45), Laurent Burst (46, Backcover);   Focus Themes: Elizaveta Timasheva (3), Opportunity International (5),   Martin Stollenwerk (6), Fran Black, LCD (Backcover)  Design: www.arnold.inhaltundform.com Printer: Swissprinters Zrich AG, Zurich Paper: Trucard Ice FSC, single-page mirror finish, 280 gm2 wood-free (cover) Dominant Plus FSC, offset, white, matt, 90 gm2, wood-free (content  and booklet)  CREDIT SUISSE AG Paradeplatz 8 8070 Zurich Switzerland Tel. +41 44 212 16 16 Fax +41 44 333 25 87 www.credit-suisse.com 5511064 Banking  Continue to refine the tools used to examine   sustainability-related risks in our business  transactions and work on their implementation.   Foster cross-divisional collaboration through the  Green Business Initiative (GBI), the purpose of  which is to help coordinate efforts in the areas of  clean energy, water and sustainable commodities.  Develop innovative solutions and services to link   the top with the base of the wealth pyramid  and continue to actively support the responsible   development of the microfinance industry. Society  Sharpen the strategic direction of the three focus  themes Employee Engagement, Education and   Microfinance Capacity Building.  Expand the support of activities and partnerships   in emerging markets.  Work more closely and systematically with   departments and raise awareness of volunteering   opportunities that enable employees to use their  competencies to add value to our partners and   our communities.   Further improve the Access to Quality Education  programs through measures which– depending  on the regions – focus on building infrastructures,   providing scholarships and advancing excellent  teaching in order to prepare young people for   subsequent education attainment or employment. Employer  Translate Credit Suisses refined global HR strategy  into tangible actions and behaviors, fostering   diversity and inclusion. Enable further development  of employees through a new forward-looking   approach to reviewing and managing performance.  Continue to be an innovative leader in learning   and development.  Deepen our committed partnership culture by   empowering leadership and collaboration at all levels  and across divisions to serve our clients needs.   Reinforce the understanding that every employee   is an important driver of the banks long-term   performance and that managers are accountable   for proactively developing their people. Objectives 2011 Employer (continued)  Strengthen our presence on university campuses  globally to increase the number of people we hire   at entry level from schools and universities – with  the mid-term goal of such talent accounting for half  of the annual intake. Simultaneously improve the  assessment of talent and systematically develop into  managerial and expert roles.   Embed client skills deep in the organization. Environment  Continue to engage in the climate change debate  and to explore the potential impacts of climate  change on our business while also building aware- ness for climate issues.  Raise awareness for biodiversity risks and oppor- tunities, also in connection with the International  Year of Forests (2011).  Implement further improvement measures based   on our ISO 14001-certified Environmental   Management System – with special focus on   reducing our carbon emissions. Dialogue  Continue dialogue and engagement with important  stakeholders to recognize global trends as early as  possible and to jointly work on solutions through our  involvement in networks and initiatives as well as  through selected publications.  Further increase dialogue with NGOs and IGOs and continue implementation of partnerships with   selected organizations.  Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Credit Suisse