1 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum sustainability report 2010 world forum  2 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum EvEnts that shapE thE world  3 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum preface  5 1.  organisation profile  7 1.1 Our Company  7 1.2 Structure  8 1.3 The Market  9 1.4 Stakeholders  10 1.5 CSR policy  11 1.6 Recognition of CSR results  11 1.7 Memberships  11 2.  people  13 2.1 Employment issues  13 2.2 Human rights  15 2.3 Society  16 2.4 Ambitions  19 3.  planet  21 3.1 Energy consumption  21 3.2 Waste  22 3.3 CO2 compensation  23 3.4 Catering  23 3.5 Ambitions  24 4.  profit  25 5.  about this report  25 6.  GrI table  26 Colofon  28 table of contents world forum  4 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum Fotograaf: Lex Draijer  5 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum We now consider the subject of a structural policy which  concentrates all the necessary attention on people, both  internal and external.  Along this road we will have to make choices this year. There  are many possibilities: Will we approach this on a large scale  or on the contrary, on a very small and goal-oriented one?   Im already looking forward to inform you extensively next year  about the practical outcome of these considerations. We hope that this way we inform you, as our valued relation  of the World Forum, with enough transparency about both  our results and our plans on this crucial aspect of our  management. Sincerely, Michiel Middendorf General Manager Dear reader, The World Forum Convention Center in The Hague (Holland)  is possibly one of the smallest members of the United Nations  Global Compact. However, being internationally oriented as  we are, we still feel we can make an impact. For instance, the World Forum Ethical Program comprises  various measures for checking choices for integrity and  actually making a difference for a more sustainable society.   As part of the Ethical Program the World Forum only uses  green electricity and, among other things, is a member of   the Green Meeting Industry Council and MVO Nederland  (CSR Netherlands, a Dutch government subsidiary). people Although we are very enthusiastic about the road we have  taken, we still see major challenges in the People aspect of  the corporate social responsibility policy. Without neglecting  the environmental angle of our policy we want to go deeply  into this essential aspect of responsible entrepreneurship.  From the story of Anele in South-Africa to the children of the  IMC weekend school in The Hague we are standing at the very  beginning of this focus. preface world forum  6 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum  7 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 1. organisation profile world forum 1.1 our company The World Forum is an international congress centre in The  Hague, the city of peace and justice. Historically, The Hague,  with its Peace Palace, has been the worlds location of choice  to discuss international peace and justice. The city hosted  its first peace conference in 1899. Since then, whenever any  new development in the field of peace emerges, The Hague  is looked to as a potential home for it, and over time many  institutions in the field of international law and peace have  come to establish themselves here. The World Forum is  located at the heart of The Hague World Forum, The Hagues  international zone, and stands shoulder to shoulder with the  city in providing a home for meetings on peace and justice. Each and every one of the extraordinary meetings and events  that take place in the World Forum, no matter what the  scale, have the potential to change the world view of those  who attend them. Whether its an international conference  on banning chemical weapons, or an illuminating discussion  between two CEOs, these are events that shape the world. The  conferences of the International Criminal Court (ICC) or the  OPCW (Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons)  held here represent dialogues at the highest levels of  international relations and law. And in 2009, the World Forum  successfully hosted the biggest peace conference to be held in  the Netherlands since the Second World War: the UN summit  on Afghanistan, with its 73 delegations from all over the world.  Along with national and international conferences at the  highest level, the World Forum also hosts corporate events,  receptions and exhibitions. The flexibility of its multifunctional  location allows the World Forum to offer a wide variety of  events for any target group. The site is also home to the  Netherlands largest theatre auditorium, where many major  national and international productions are staged.  8 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum GL World Forum Convention Center B.V.  General Manager Management Assistant/ HRM Manager Finance & Control Finance & Control Commercial  Manager Building Manager Facilities Technique Stage management Parking Duty Management Suppoosten Communications Project management Account Management  Account Support Front Office Manager Operations  Organigram GL World Forum Convention Center B.V. 1.2  structure Since October 2009, the operation of the World Forum has  been handled by GL events, a French events management  company with 36 conference and event centres worldwide. For  over 30 years, GL events has been managing events in Europe  and beyond. Today the company is active on five continents  and employs over 3,500 people.  GL events takeover of the operations is entirely in line with  the World Forums international profile. It is a natural step in  the continuing rise of the World Forums international profile,  culminating in the UN Afghanistan summit in March 2009. The day-to-day operations of the World Forum are handled  by General Manager Michiel Middendorf, who reports to GL  events Managing Director, Venue Management (Jean-Eudes  Rabut) at the companys headquarters in Lyon. The World Forum has a total of 29 staff (22.50 FTE). We furthermore employ a few interns during the year and a  few temporary employees, mainly working as attendants.    9 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 1.3 the Market The  World Forum serves both the national and the  international conference and event market. The clients of the  World Forum can be divided in four markets, the Association  market, the Institutional market, the Corporate market and  the Cultural/Theatre market. association market By association we mean a (inter)national society of people  with the same interest or discipline. The characteristics of  association conferences are that they are mainly recurrent  events, requested a long time ahead and hardly being  organised again within a short period of time within the same  country. Association conferences rotate between different  countries. The organisation of this type of conferences is  mostly in the hands of a group of initiators that form a local  organising committee (l.o.c.). This local counterpart invites  the international association to hold the conference in their  home country. The association market consists of the following customers:  labour unions, associations, federations, clubs and political  parties. Institutional market The institutional market refers to meetings on national,  European or international level. The ministerial conferences  that take place at the World Forum are mainly organised  by the Dutch ministries destined for both international and  national ministries. Ministries gather to exchange together  ministerial subjects, to share their points of views or  to  meet. The participants of these meetings can be of national  or international origin.  The institutional market includes: local and regional  authorities, ministries, NGOs (Non Governmental  Organisations), universities, civil services and  governments. Corporate market The corporate market is made up of national and  international industries with companies such as Microsoft,  Aegon and ING, as well as national event companies.  Corporate meetings are (inter)national meetings with  a business goal (meetings, product launching, relation  events, training, incentives, etc).  The corporate market mainly consists of businesses, event  agencies and organisers of trade fairs. Culture / theatre market The cultural relations of the World Forum are big national  impresarios and producers like Stage Entertainment /  Joop van den Ende Theatre productions, Senf Theatre  partners, Studio 100 and Stardust. They bring national  and international artists, musicals and other cultural  performances of top quality to the World Forum Theatre.   Photographer: Bert Rietberg  10 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum Most of the events and conferences hosted at the World Forum  fall into the category of the association and institutional  market and are governmental or UN related. The association  and institutional market include among others the ministries  and associations. This is partly a result of the fact that the  World Forum is located in the international area of The  Hague and put strong emphasis on meetings around peace  and justice. It is a recognisable and accessible zone for  international organisations in the field of peace and justice. 1.4 stakeholders The stakeholders of the World Forum are the organisers,  partners, vendors, local authorities, neighbouring businesses,  visitors, local residents and employees. On all issues,  including those related to sustainability, we stay in constant  contact with our stakeholders on the developments at the  World Forum. At the start of each year, the stakeholders  receive an annual report of the World Forum that outlines the  most significant events of the past year. The stakeholders will  also receive a copy of this sustainability report. Chart of international conferences, national conferences  and cultural performances (2007-2010) Number of events per year 2005-2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 international national culture 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 209 210 216 217 169 150 250 200 150 100 50 0  11 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum 1.5 Csr policy The World Forums corporate social responsibility policy  is a defining feature of the organisation. Corporate social  responsibility and corporate citizenship is now the World  Forums singular USP. In this sector, trust is critical, and the  World Forum has to be able to bank on trust. We win the trust  of our clients and partners by profiling ourselves as a socially  responsible and engaged business that highly values integrity,  ethics and sustainability. The World Forums payoff, Events that shape the world, is  also connected to our Ethical Program (the name used to refer  to the CSR policy within the World Forum). We refer to it this  way because we want to emphasise that for the World Forum,  CSR means much more than just attention to environmental  issues. The World Forum aims to implement its CSR policy as part  of its business strategy in 2011. 1.6 recognition of Csr results Green award In 2008 the World Forum won the Green Award, the award  for the best green initiative. The jury lauded the World  Forum Ethical Program. The World Forum very clearly  and unequivocally opted to assume its corporate social  responsibility last year. The jury report was full of praise that  the World Forum does not only lead by its shining example,  but also provides its clients the opportunity to follow that  example. Green Key Since 2009 the World Forum possesses the certificate of the  Green key, gold level. This certificate is the international eco- label for companies in the tourism and recreation sector that  are seriously engaged with environmental protection in a way  that can be assessed. This certificate proves that the World  Forum is making more of an effort for the environment than  required by law and regulations. In 2010 the World Forum has  shown its capability to keep this certificate at the highest level,  i.e. the gold level.  1.7 Memberships The World Forum is a member of a number of national and  international organisations in the field of sustainability. In  these networks, the World Forum is a participant in the  exchange of knowledge and experience on corporate social  responsibility, not only within its own MICE market but on a  wider scale. Un Global Compact In 2008, the World Forum became the first location in the  Netherlands to sign the United Nations Global Compact. For  the World Forum and its partners, respect for human rights,  safe working conditions and environmentally conscious  operations are paramount concerns. The endorsement of the  UN Global Compact is an extra incentive for the World Forum  to continue to dedicate itself to a sustainable and responsible  business climate.  12 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum International Congress & Convention association (ICCa) With over 600 member organizations and companies in  80 countries, ICCA has a worldwide network of meeting  professionals, specialists in ever aspect of hosting and  organizing congresses and conventions. ICCA offers its  members unique opportunities in the fields of acquisition and  customer management.  ClC - vECta Centre for live Communication The CLC - VECTA is a national trade organization for everyone  who is professionally involved in organizing, accommodating  and facilitating trade fairs, congresses and events. Meeting professionals International (MpI) MPI is an organization that is active worldwide in raising  convention and event organizations to a higher plane. The  composition of its membership is unique: 50% planners  and 50% suppliers. This balance contributes, among other  things, to the professional development of the members of  the organizations with whom they work. World Forum is gold  sponsor of the Netherlands Chapter of MPI. International association of Congress Centres (aIpC) The AIPC is the industry association for professional  convention and exhibition centre managers worldwide. AIPC  occupies a unique position amongst the various organizations  that represent the meetings industry. It is a true international  organization, with representation from over 49 countries  around the world. The World Forum is the first convention center in the  Benelux, which has completed in 2010 the AIPC Quality  Standards Program at the gold level. The AIPC Quality  Standards Program is developed in response to ongoing  interest by members in having an industry-specific program  for identifying and evaluating key areas of convention centre  performance leading to a visible, accepted and industry- specific form of recognition. Green Meeting Industry Council To keep on top of the latest international developments in  green meetings, the World Forum is a member of the Green  Meeting Industry Council, an international consultative body  promoting the greening of the meeting industry. In the Netherlands a few professionals have taken the  initiative to found a so called Dutch chapter of the GMIC,  thus becoming the first European Chapter. The goal of this  chapter is to offer her members an effective green network  and education, as well as to increase in a measurable way  the number of green accommodations, services and business  meetings. World Forum is part of this Dutch Chapter. Mvo nederland Membership in MVO Nederland (CSR Netherlands) gives  the World Forum access to a broad knowledge and network  organisation within the industry in the field of corporate social  responsibility and corporate citizenship. Green label Events Within the Dutch events sector, the World Forum is a proud  participant in the Groene Hartlopers initiative by Green Label  Events. This initiative is made up of a number of businesses  from the events sector. Our goal is to join with our industry  partners in standing up for corporate citizenship and  sustainable development in our industry. We exchange ideas  with allies and competitors alike, and together we inspire  each other to set the bar higher. Like all participants of the  Groene Hartlopers initiative, we want to be in the vanguard of  corporate social responsibility and put our money where our  mouth is. For us, the bottom line is transparency, knowledge  transfer, direct action and creating green solutions. other memberships Beside the memberships in the field of sustainability the  World Forum is also member of a few (inter)national trade  organisations. This way contacts are maintained, the World  Forum stays informed of the developments in the market  and contributes in an important way to the promotion of The  Hague and the Netherlands. The World Forum is among  others a member of the following organisations:  13 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum The World Forum is engaged with the people aspect in various  areas, both within and outside of the company. This means not  only the people of World Forum, but people in society. Each year, the World Forum supports a number of initiatives  at the local and national level. Along with financial and  material support, this also means utilisation of our expertise  within the market. 2.1 Employment issues Internship placements The number of internship placements within the World   Forum has increased in 2010. In 2009 the 4 internship  placements within the World Forum were available in the  facilities department, project management, sales and  communication. In 2010 an internship placement has been  added to the department of duty management. We have  chosen for this expansion to better satisfy the growing  demand from the market.   The department Finance now also  offers an internship placement. The  Finance department within the World  Forum has received the ECABO  certificate, which actually means that  they may accompany students of a  MBO school, department of financial  administration, as an acknowledged  educational institute. This project will  start beginning of 2011.  2. people  world forum working part-time As a company, the World Forum stands for helping employees  to continue their career after life events such as pregnancy and  childbirth. We offer employees the option to work part-time or  work partially from home. Our goal is to allow employees the  room to strike a good balance between their work and private  lives, something that ultimately benefits our organisation. Education and training The World Forum offers an annual collective budget for  education and training. We invite all our employees to draft  a personal development plan each year. We then look at all  personal development plans and determine what training is  needed and who can participate in which programmes.  A supervisor with end responsibility can ask an employee to  take a training and/or coaching programme deemed necessary  for the proper performance of the employees tasks and  responsibilities. The supervisor and the employee then make  individual arrangements on the employees participation. For education and training costs in excess of a fixed amount,  a study agreement will generally have to be signed. These  agreements will usually stipulate a repayment schedule.  14 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum MpI scholarship program In 2010 the World Forum has participated for the first time  in the MPI Scholarship Program, an initiative of  Meeting  Professionals International (MPI), who are at the same time  member of the UN Global Compact.  In April 2010 the first MPI Scholarship Program has started  in the Netherlands. This is a cooperation between the World  Forum in The Hague, MPI Netherlands and the Stenden  University in Leeuwarden. On June 24th five students of the Stenden University  have organised in the World Forum the MPI event Next  Generation. The organisation of this event is part of the MPI  educational program to involve students (the next generation)  in the conference and event industry, by giving them the  opportunity to actively organise a MPI event for students, MPI  members, press and non MPI members from the industry.   The students that organise the event will receive an one year  MPI student membership sponsored by the World Forum  and are thus welcome to participate in all MPI events in the  Netherlands.  The event was organised in a Corporate Social Responsible  way, which fits into the CSR policy of the World Forum. The  subject of the meeting reflected how the new generation sees  the meeting and event industry and   how new media and tools  can be integrated in the future.   Because of its success the MPI Scholarship Program will be  expanded in 2011 and more locations and universities will  collaborate in this event. The coming year the World Forum  also continues to support this initiative as one of the locations.  Kijk Mee day Each year, the Municipality of The Hague organises an open  day (the Kijk Mee Dag) for primary school pupils. Under this  initiative, children in their last year of primary school are given  an opportunity to get a look behind the scenes at a variety of  professions in industry or governmental or other institutions.  The World Forum is proud to be a part of this initiative,  and gives pupils a chance to get to learn about a number  of aspects involved in facilitating a theatre performance or  conference.  On March 10th the World Forum has received a few students  of the Meester Schaberg school in The Hague to introduce  them to several aspects that come up when facilitating a  theatre performance or conference.  Gl Campus At the end of 2008, GL events launched the GL events Campus,  an internal training institute with a number of objectives:    Promoting employee motivation and participation    Promoting shared culture and team spirit    Promoting integration between the various divisions and  departments of GL events and creating networks    Developing and organising training programmes that meet  employee needs    Maximising the return from training & education and  achieving internal knowledge sharing To achieve these objectives, GL Campus has a twofold  mission: coordination of all training & education plans of  the GL Group for optimum results and designing training  programmes for the development of expertise in the various  GL business lines. At present, GL Campus offers mainly training programmes  given in the French language (oriented towards senior  management, operational management and basic  management), and focuses primarily on management, sales  positions and project-oriented employees. However, there  are now two English-language programmes available for  international staff: the Management Training and the Welcome  Convention. absenteeism Since 2010 the World Forum carefully assesses the  absenteeism. The average absenteeism this year was  2,75%. Our aim is to push this percentage further back the  coming year.    1,42% 3,20% 2,75% 3,5% 3% 2,5% 2% 1,5% 1% 0,5% 0% man Absenteeism percentage woman average  15 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum Engagement Regular updates on the developments in the field of CSR are  provided in an electronic Ethical Program Message sent to  the World Forums employees and partners. CSR is also a  recurring agenda item in the team meeting with all World  Forum employees. All this helps engender engagement on the  part of the employees. 2.2 human rights vendor code of conduct When selecting its regular partners and vendors, the  World Forum considers all aspects of socially responsible  purchasing. Vendors and partners must sign a code of conduct  document in which they endorse the ten principles of the  United Nations Global Compact, including a commitment to  not deal in products that are the result of child labour. When  we request our partners and vendors to sign this document,  we feel we are raising awareness and getting people thinking. Conference on Child labour On May 10th and 11th the World Forum has hosted an  international conference on child labour, The Hague Global  Child Labour Conference 2010, Towards a World without Child  Labour, Mapping the Road to 2016.  The Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment together with  the International Labour Organisation have organised this  international conference against child labour. Her Majesty  Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands has attended the closing  session on May 11th. The purpose of the two day conference was to draw attention  again to child labour and to reach actual decisions which   will ultimately lead to eradicate by 2016 the worst forms of  child labour. The conference was attended by participants  from 80 countries. Not only governmental officials,  representatives of employer and employee organisations   were represented, but also international organisations like  Unicef and Unesco and NGOs.  During this international conference a discussion, initiated  by the Global Compact and Initiative Sustainable Trade, was  held about the role of the industry in fighting against child  labour. At this meeting a plan was presented for a network  of companies that will make a real effort in the fight against  child labour and will support other companies, wherever in  the world, in this battle.     Her Majesty the Queen attended The Hague Global Child  Labour Conference. Source: Ministry of Social Affairs  and Employment  16 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum High School he learns Afrikaans and English. He is doing very  well and is highly motivated. For the past two months Anele  lives during the week in a home near his school, in a more  stable environment. Apart from having a sleeping place he  also gets there three meals a day. In the weekend he returns  to the township where his father or brother lives.  For more information about the project look at  www.thekusasaproject.org Foundation haiti Contact As part of its CSR policy the World Forum has offered the  Haiti Contact the possibility to set up their office within the  World Forum since April 2010. Foundation Haiti Contact was established in September 2007  by Judy Bralds, a Haitian who grew up in the Netherlands.  The moving forces behind the foundation have a (direct)  relation with Haiti, are very devoted volunteers and their  central goal is to ease up the daily life of the children in Haiti.    The establishment of the foundation was a logical result  after several, successful Haiti Contact Day meetings.  A private initiative that since 2004 is organised in order to  bring together the Haitians in the Netherlands.  2.3 society nl doEt World Forum and some of its employees participate annually  in NL DOET, the largest volunteer activity in the Netherlands.  That day they support a project / institution in the Hague area.  On March 19th 2010 seven employees of the World Forum  have worked at De Zeedistel in The Hague, an institution that  organises activities, to completely tidy up their garden. De  Zeedistel, an institution for supporting activities, is part of  Parnassia and offers help to (young) adults with psychotic  disorders and elderly people with mental conditions and  memory problems.   On the day, we pay our employees their normal salaries to  participate in activities like these during their regular working  hours, so they can experience for themselves the importance  of social responsibility and citizenship. It increases the social  consciousness and involvement of our employees, and helps  keep them motivated and inspired in their other work. IMC weekend school The IMC Weekend School is a school for supplemental  education for motivated young people aged ten to fourteen  who come from underprivileged neighbourhoods. At  the Weekend School locations, students follow a 2-year  programme of courses taught every Sunday by committed  teaching professionals who love their job. The goal is to  help these young people expand their horizons, boost  their self-confidence and develop their talents. The World  Forum supports the location in The Hague by providing  accommodation as well as knowledge in the field of the  theatre, and by offering the experience of an actual cultural  performance. the Kusasa project The World Forum supports since 2010 Anele Gebuza in South  Africa via the Kusasa Project. The Kusasa Project    devotes  itself to children in the Franschhoek valley. Anele is 12 years old and was born in the Eastern Cape, but  because of economic reasons he moved 7 years ago with his  parents to the Western Cape, to Franschhoek. Right after they  moved there his mother died. His father is jobless and has  an alcohol problem, and therefore Anele has not had a stable  home situation these past years. Anele is one of the 23 children who via the Kusasa Project has  the possibility to receive a good education. At the Franschhoek   17 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum The disaster on January 12th 2010 resulted in the growth of  the foundation and therefore they were able to offer help to  the people in Haiti, together with the Haitian community in the  Netherlands.  For more information look at www.haiticontact.org art exhibition peace and Justice Artists from the Statenkwartier have held an exposition in the  World Forum from December 21st till January 4th Called Peace and Justice. This exhibition was the initiative  of Rens Bakker, an enthusiastic and very active woman who  lives for years in the Statenkwartier. She has brought together  the artists and the World Forum. The cooperation between  the World Forum and the Artists of the Statenkwartier was  unique; together they have organised this special exhibition.   The Hague is the international city of Peace and Justice and  the second UN-city in the world. The World Forum is the heart  of the International Zone and the location for international  conferences. An exhibition on the theme of Peace and  Justice perfectly suits the location. The purpose of the exhibition was to create a dialogue  between the residents of the Statenkwartier and the  organisations in the international zone of the city of The  Hague.  The exhibition was opened on December 21st by Mayor Jozias  van Aartsen, who is himself a resident of the Statenkwartier.  About 100 people were present, from artists, sponsors,  (international) organisations in the area to other residents.  The exhibition has drawn some 1000 enthusiastic visitors  from the Statenkwartier and the rest of The Hague and  surroundings.  Business and Climate In 2010, the World Forum is participating in the Dutch  Business and Climate project, an initiative of the Municipality  of The Hague. A few regions in the Netherlands are already  familiar with this successful sustainability project, one of the  projects of Schools for Sustainability. Within these projects,  young people are asked to come up with creative solutions for  sustainability issues.  In the Business and Climate project, students form an  advisory group designated the climate intervention team.  The team then sets about studying a number of research  questions within a company. The content of the student  research depends on the sustainability and climate issues  relevant to the specific company.  The question that the World Forum has put to the students  is: How can the World Forum achieve better waste separation  during conferences? This question is also about helping  conference-goers to separate their own waste. By participating in this project, the World Forum hopes  to come up with new and better ways to separate waste.  In addition, the World Forum is also showing its social  commitment and helping teach students how to approach  a real-world case. The results of this project are shown on  page 22. valid Express Valid Express was founded by Nicolette Mak in 1999.  Seeing her physically handicapped brother incapable of  getting a job inspired her to set up this courier service.  It serves as a vehicle for helping the chronically sick and  physically handicapped to get off, and stay off, benefits.  Today, Valid Express employs sixty people, with offices in  Amsterdam, The Hague/Rotterdam and Utrecht, and has six  hundred clients.  Valid Express believes in a world that takes its own  responsibility. Where people who have bodies with issues  can join forces with the business world, focusing on potential  instead of limitations. For clients requiring courier services, the World Forum offers  Valid Express as preferred supplier.  18 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum In 2010 he has given the below mentioned presentations,  lectures and workshops:    presentation on sustainable organisation to the Event  Manager of the ING    mini-workshop The motivation and reality of   responsible events at the theme square Nice to Meet on   the Event10 Fair    participation in the panel at Green Inspiration On-stage  organised by Green Label Events during Event10 with as  subject CSR/sustainability and the 3 Ps    workshop CSR, its done like this! – Why should I work in a  sustainable way as a company? at the network event Meet  & Greet Sustainable The Hague, that was organised on The  Day of the Sustainability  Green Events Checklist The World Forum has developed a Green Events Checklist full  of practical tips an organiser can use to help put on a socially  responsible event. We have developed this list to encourage  our clients to make their events as green as possible.  Co2 calculator  Clients of the World Forum can choose to compensate for  their events CO2 emissions, either internationally (through  the Climate Neutral Group) or locally in the Netherlands  (through Klimaatfonds Den Haag climate fund). On the World  Forum website, we provide a CO2 calculator that clients can  use to calculate the emissions of their event and compensate  them through the Climate Neutral Group. Event organisers  preferring to compensate their events emissions locally can  also choose to compensate them through the Klimaatfonds  Den Haag by using the emissions calculator on  www.klimaatfondsdenhaag.nl. Chain reaction The World Forum challenges its clients to be more socially  conscious in their own events. And we also challenge our  regular partners, vendors and the industry. The objective of  the World Forum Ethical Program is to promote corporate  social responsibility and corporate citizenship at the micro  level. We see communicating all activities and progress in this  area to the market and the world around us as an essential  part of this objective. It was not so long ago that just such an incentive by one of  our clients pushed us over the line and made us go green.  Thats why we at the World Forum are sure we can pass on  the green bug to others; because we know first-hand how  effective such a signal can be. We call it our stinging nettle  theory: one little prickle is so irritating that before long youve  just got to do something about it. Because the World Forum believes in this stinging nettle  theory and finds it important to share the knowledge and  experience in this field of CSR, Michiel Middendorf, General  Manager of the World Forum, regularly gives presentations,  lectures and workshops on the subject of CRS within the event  and conference industry.   19 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum sustainable the hague Guide The Sustainable The Hague Guide is an initiative of the  Development Company The Hague. Their website www. duurzaamdenhaaggids.nl shows which sustainable projects  there are in the city of The Hague. The World Forum is one of  these projects. With this website they want to motivate others  to also go ahead with sustainability.  Good & Green Guide the hague The Good & Green Guide The Hague can best be compared  to the Lonely Planet travel guide, but only with sustainable  addresses. Apart from Amsterdam and Rotterdam The Hague  is the third city in the Netherlands that disposes of such  a guide. This guide is destined to tourists and inhabitants  of The Hague and shows the way to for instance biological  supermarkets, environmental friendly hotels, vegetarian  restaurants, fair-trade shops and theatres. The World Forum  Theatre is also mentioned in this guide.  Events at the world Forum Impaction symposium In April the second edition of the Impaction Symposium took  place in the World Forum. The Impaction Symposium 2010  showed the participants how a good CSR policy can lead to  social and financial result. During an interactive lecture they  learned how these results come about and can be measured.  Some successful companies illustrated this principle by  showing their own practical experiences. The World Forum  participates as a partner in this conference. Meeting nEn – Iso 26000 On December 9th 2010 the NEN (Netherlands Standardisation  Institute) organised the introduction seminar ISO 26000:  convert good intentions into good actions at the World Forum.  This international guideline on corporate social responsibility  (MVO) was published in November.  The guideline is made for organisations looking for support  by putting into practice the CSR policy, based on their wish  to contribute to sustainable development and to join a  worldwide accepted approach. ISO 26000 is meant for all  types of organisations: companies, MKB (Small to Medium  Sized Enterprises), governmental institutions and social  organisations. 2.4 ambitions  The ambition of the World Forum in 2011 is to focus even more  on the people aspect of corporate social responsibility. Of  course the planet aspects are also very important, but should  be seen as obvious.    In 2011 a plan is being made how the World Forum can use  the people aspect as a steady motive within the full CSR policy  and company strategy.  20 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum Photographer: Robert Aarts  21 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum The World Forum looks after the environment whenever and  wherever possible. We scrutinise our energy consumption,  waste separation and compensation of the CO2 we still  produce despite every effort to reduce our emissions. 3.1. Energy consumption The World Forums first priority is to reduce our energy  consumption. We then try to cover all our remaining energy  needs with green power wherever possible. Whatever CO2  emissions ultimately remain, we compensate in full. In 2010 the World Forum has set up an energy team and its  goal is to seriously assess the energy consumption and to  reduce it wherever possible.  3. planet  world forum The total electricity consumption of the World Forum already  decreased with 12% from 2008 till 2009, also due to the  switch to LED lighting in a large number of areas. In 2010  the electricity consumption was reduced even further to  3.385.648 KWh. This was a result of turning off as much  lamps as possible during the quiet summer period. The consumption of central district heating in the World  Forum in 2010 compared with last year has increased from  22.035 GJ to 23.373 GJ. Reason is that in 2010 there have  been some very cold months and in fall (colder period) the  occupancy for conferences in the World Forum was very high.  World Forums electricity consumption, 2008, 2009 and 2010 World Forums central district heating consumption, 2008,   2009 and 2010 2008 2009 2010 6.000.000 5.000.000 4.000.000 3.000.000 2.000.000 1.000.000 2008 2009 2010 25.000 24.500 24.000 23.500 23.000 22.500 22.000 21.500 21.000 20.500  22 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum summer break When no conferences are being held in the World Forum  during the summer period, we take a number of steps to  reduce energy consumption. These include turning off as  much lighting, ventilation and lifts as possible. In 2010,  measures like these and others allowed us to reduce our  energy consumption in the months of July and August. Earth hour In 2010 the World Forum has collaborated with Earth Hour.  Each year during Earth Hour millions of people and thousands  of organisations worldwide show that they consider climate  important and switch off the light for one hour. On March  27th the World Forum contributed hereto by switching off  completely all lights in the building during one hour.     10:10 initiative World Forum has supported in 2010 the 10:10 initiative. This  is a pioneering initiative to get the entire country behind one  idea, namely: save in 2010 10% on your energy consumption  and reduce CO2 emission. The campaign began in England  and has been successfully introduced worldwide from Norway  to New-Zealand and from France to Ghana. The person who  participates in this initiative really makes a statement and  saves 10%. The World Forum supports this initiative because it believes in  the Stinging Nettle Theory: it is good to stimulate others to  be sustainable and at the same time it is important to be open  minded and inspired by others. 3.2 waste We separate the waste produced at the World Forum into the  following categories:    Office waste    Paper    Oversized waste (pallets, doors, steel frames)    Organic waste    Glass    Chemical waste (including fluorescent lighting elements)    Grease trap In 2010, as part of the Business and Climate project (see 2.3),  we will be taking a closer look at the World Forums waste  process. We will investigate the developments and trends  in the field of waste separation, and look for answers to the  questions of how the World Forum can better separate its  waste and how to involve conference-goers in the process. Energy team The energy team set up in 2010 has taken this year the  following measures to reduce consumption:    the central-heating boiler for the big kitchen and dressing  rooms in the building has been replaced by some smaller  boilers on location, so that they can be switched on  separately from each other and thus the big boiler does not  have to work constantly anymore.      As a result of the energy scan conducted by the World  Forum in 2009 a management system has been acquired.  All energy power is being measured by this system in such  a way that per hour one can see how much energy is being  used. The energy power can be managed and ultimately the  consumption will decrease. lighting All public spaces in the World Forum are equipped with LED  lighting. The LED lamp is a very energy-efficient lamp, uses  fully 90% less energy than an ordinary light bulb and lasts fifty  times longer. And unlike the energy saving bulb the LED lamp  is not chemical waste and can be thrown away as ordinary  trash. A LED lamp produces yearly 120 kg less CO2 than an  ordinary light bulb.  In 2011 all niche lighting in the World Forum, which now  consists of neon light, will be replaced by LED lighting.  In the biggest auditorium of the World Forum, the World  Forum Theatre, the working lighting appeared to be  insufficient. Therefore during cleaning, working or other  activities the ordinary total lighting was switched on.  The working lighting at the World Forum has now been  adjusted so that full lighting is not necessary anymore and  the working light is sufficient. Because energy-efficient  lamps have been used here, the total annual consumption  will therefore be reduced.  Green power The World Forum uses 100% green power. All power used in  the building for our daily operations and during conferences  and events is 100% green power.   23 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum The most important recommendation as a result here from is  that separate waste bins have to be placed in the World Forum  in which conference visitors can throw away their waste.  In the first place we should think of waste bins for paper,  plastic, green waste and other. This project will be further  implemented in 2011.  waste Management The Active Club (sports school) and the Novotel Den Haag  World Forum (hotel), both located next to the World Forum,  have been approached to examine their Waste Management  Program. The World Forum has offered to help them with  better separating their garbage. The garbage they produce is  being transported by the World Forum.  The Novotel Den Haag World Forum has indicated that by the  end of 2011 they want to maintain a good Waste Management  Program. This means that they will separate the paper from  the rooms, which is not happening now. The Active Club will  start right now to also separate the green waste.  Catering The long term catering partner of the World Forum, Maison  van den Boer, also thinks along to improve the separation of  waste. Therefore the waste separation of Maison van den Boer  in the World Forum has been expanded. They now take care  that porcelain and PET bottles are being separated.  3.3 Co2 compensation As an organisation, the World Forum operates on a fully  climate-neutral basis by compensating its CO2 emissions. We  compensate these emissions through the Climate Neutral  Group, a worldwide pioneer in the field of voluntary CO2  compensation services. Through the Climate Neutral Group,  the World Forum is investing in sustainable energy and  forestry projects. The World Forum also compensates an additional 10% of  its total CO2 emissions locally, through the Klimaatfonds  Den Haag. This means that the World Forum is in fact  overcompensating its emissions (110%). We compensate  more than we emit. In 2010 the total CO2 emission of the World Forum was 415,83  ton. This is slightly more than in 2009, when the CO2 emission  reached 394,58 ton. The main reason is the higher use of the  central district heating. Other components like paper use,  public transport, car use and electricity have stayed the same  or were reduced.  CO2 emission in ton for 2008, 2009 and 2010  (source Climate Neutral Group) 3.4 Catering  The World Forum partners with catering company Maison  van den Boer, an organisation that fully endorses the World  Forums CSR policy. In its catering offerings, Maison van den  Boer selects a combination of organic, local and seasonal  products and sustainable choices.  In 2010 the World Forum Gusto range has been introduced in  the World Forum, the own catering brand of the World Forum.  You can find herein several biological packages, so clients can  choose for a sustainable conference and contribute this way to  a better environment.    In 2010 an intern at Maison van den Boer has examined as a  final paper how to optimize waste management of the catering  in the World Forum. Each conference and event has been  evaluated extensively and the results and recommendations  have been put in the final report. This report has been  discussed by the management and is presently being  implemented.  In order to offer youngsters with little schooling a better  chance on the labour market, students including from the  Mondriaan College work in the kitchen of restaurant Pangea  at the World Forum. Here they have the opportunity to  participate in the working world and learn the skills from our  professional cooks. At present we examine if this could also  be done in other fields in the catering sector.    0 500 1.000 1.500 Car Public Transport Paper Heating Electricity (not green) 18,9 18,49 0,03 0,03 5,46 4,64 370,18 392,67 31,04 0,14 8,81 415,73 2010 2009 2008 0 0 1.391,45  24 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum Fair trade restaurant week In October the Pangea Restaurant in the World Forum has  participated for the second time in a national Fair-trade  restaurant week. Puur! Dining out and the Foundation Max  Havelaar organised this week to promote the use of Fair-trade  products in the catering industry. 3.5 ambitions Energy consumption The World Forum has set up a special energy team that will  investigate the coming years where and how the energy  consumption of the World Forum can be further reduced.  They will obtain advice on different subjects from colleagues,  suppliers and specialists and aim to diminish the energy  consumption drastically. In 2010 a first step has been made,  but the coming years this will stay one of the most important  points of our attention. The following points will be our main focus:    Screening of the energy contracts    Replacing the management system of the building    The lighting plan    Placing new meters    Drawing up an inventory at our long term partners about  energy consumption    Checking the ventilation and pump system Certification The World Forum follows the development in the field of  ISO norms related to corporate social responsibility and  sustainable events (ISO 26000 and ISO 20121).  At the same time GL events is conducting a broad  investigation in the ISO norm 16001.  Iso 26000: Guidance on social responsibility ISO 26000 helps organisations set their priorities in corporate  social responsibility and gives recommendations on how to  embed CSR within organisations. ISO 26000 is also intended to  introduce a uniform CSR terminology. Iso 20121: sustainable events standard At the invitation of the Netherlands Standardisation Institute  (NEN), the World Forum participated in the start-up  discussions on the setting of an international standard for  sustainable events. The goals of these discussions were:     gaining information on the set-up and status of the  Sustainable Events international standard committee   within ISO.    determining whether the Dutch Market has a need/interest  in contributing to the development of this international  standard for Sustainable Events and setting up a national  shadow committee/working group to that end. Today, in the  year 2010, the time has come for quantifiable sustainability  criteria, and if these are feasible, the World Forum will be  looking forward to following them. Iso 16001: Energy management system This European norm is a powerful instrument to support  enterprises to save energy and costs. This norm offers  guidelines for all kind of organisations from small to big who  want to improve systematically their energy performances.  The NEN-EN 16001 gives guidelines to all organisations who: a) Want to improve systematically their energy household    b)  Want to set up, introduce, improve and/or maintain an  energy management system  c)  Want to assure themselves that the energy household is in  order in accordance to the latest insights   d)  Wishes to show to clients, third parties, etc.  e)  Wishes to get certification for their energy management by  third parties in accordance to the norm  f)  Wish to judge, evaluate their energy management against  the norm   25 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum the world Forum contributes to the national and  local economy, particularly through facilitating multi- day international conferences. By actively attracting  international multi-day conferences, we generate extra  economic spin-off for hotels, restaurants, retail, transport  companies, museums and attractions. The economic spin-off from international multi-day  conferences (both corporate and non-profit) is calculated  by multiplying the number of conference participants by the  number of days of the conference. The product is expressed  in conference participant days (CPDs). 4. profit  world forum The number of CPDs is multiplied by an expense factor  determined by the Netherlands Board of Tourism &  Conventions (currently  344).  In 2010 41 international meetings and conferences took place  at the World Forum. This is 11 more than in 2009. 22 meetings  lasted more than 1 day, 2 more than last year.  This shows a total number of conference visitor days of  39.273. This is less than in 2009. It can therefore be concluded  that the conferences take less days on an average and/ or less  visitors attend. If you multiply the spending factor of  344,-  you come to the amount of  13.509.912,-  5. about this report world forum this sustainability report is the second report about the   Csr policy of the world Forum. the report contains the  activities and developments in the Csr field at the world  Forum in 2010. we also discuss some of our ambitions for  the coming years.  This report is intended for all our stakeholders of the   World Forum. The World Forum publishes annually a sustainability report  to inform stakeholders, clients, partners, suppliers and  colleagues about the developments in this field.     26 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum G3-indicator location page strategy and analysis 1.1 A statement by the top decision maker within the organisation Preface 5 organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organization 1.1 Our company 7 2.2 Products and services 1.1 Our company 7 2.3 Operational structure 1.2 Structure 8 2.4 Location of the organisations  main office  1.1 Our company 7 2.5 Number of countries in which the organization operates 1.1 Our company 7 2.6 Ownership structure and legal form 1.2 Structure 8 2.7 Markets 1.3 The market 9 2.8 Size of the reporting organization 1.2 Structure 8 2.9 Significant changes in the organization  1.2 Structure 8 2.10 Awards during the reporting period 1.6 Recognition of CSR results 11 reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period 5. About this report 25 3.2 Date of the most recent report 5. About this report 25 3.3 Reporting cycle 5 .About this report 25 3.4 Contact for questions about the report Colofon 28 3.5 Process for determining the contents of the report 3.6 Definition of the report 5. About this report 25 3.7 State any possible limitations to the scope or definition   of the report Not applicable 3.8 Foundation for reporting  Not applicable 3.10 Explanation of the consequences of possible reformulations of  previously supplied information Not applicable 3.11 Significant changes with regard to previous reporting periods Not applicable 3.12 GRI table 6. GRI table 26 3.13 Policy and actual practice with reference to the involvement of  extern Assurance of the report  Extern Assurance will only take place  in the financial annual report. 6. GRI table world forum the GrI table is based on the guidelines for sustainability  reporting issued by the Global reporting Initiative (GrI).  GrI is a network-based organization that has pioneered the  development of the worlds most widely used sustainability  reporting framework and is committed to its continuous  improvement and application worldwide. We feel that the B-level of the G3-guidelines of the GRI  apply to this report. The World Forum has no special CSR  department. It will be a challenge to improve our reporting  level in coming years.  In the table below you will find an overview of the core  indicators, which you will find in this report.  27 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum G3-indicator location page Management, obligations and involvement 4.1 The organisations management structure 1.2 Structure 8 4.2 Indicate whether the chairman of the highest administrative body  also has a managerial function 1.2 Structure 8 4.3 Independence of Board of Management 1.2 Structure 8 4.4 Shareholder feedback mechanism Not applicable 4.13 Associated memberships 1.7 Memberships 11 4.14 List of stakeholders 1.4 Stakeholders 10 4.15 Stakeholder identification 1.4 Stakeholders 10 4.16 Approach of the involvement of interested parties, among which  its frequency  1.4 Stakeholders 10 Economic performance indicators EC 1 Direct economic values Environmental performance indicators EN 3 Direct primary energy consumption 3.1 Energy consumption 21 EN 5 Energy saved due to savings and efficiency improvements 3.1 Energy consumption 21 EN 6 Initiatives for the benefit of energy-efficiency or on sustainable  energy based products and services, as well as decrease of the  indirect energy consumption and the already realised decrease 3.1 Energy consumption 21 EN 7 Initiatives for reducing the indirect energy consumption and  already realised reduction 3.1 Energy consumption 21 social performance indicators LA 1 Total number of employees according to type of work,  labour contract 1.2 Structure 8 LA 6 Percentage of the total number of employees  represented in  formal  joint arbo-commissions of employers and employees who  contribute to the control and advice about arbo-programs Not applicable LA 7 Injury, occupational disease, drop out days and absenteeism  numbers and the number of deaths work related per region 2.1 Employment issues 13 LA 10 Training per employee 2.1 Employment issues 13 HR 2 Supplier screening on human rights 2.2 Human rights 15 HR 6 Child labour 2.2 Human rights 15 SO 1 Impact on communities 2.3 Society 16  28 Sustainability Report 2010 World Forum world Forum World Forum Churchillplein 10, 2517 JW The Hague t +31 (0)70 306 63 66  F +31 (0)70 306 62 53  E info@worldforum.nl  I www.worldforum.nl  Colofon text Linda van Wijngaarden design The Key Agency, Amsterdam Contact For more information or questions about the  Corporate Sustainability Report of the World Forum,  please contact Linda van Wijngaarden at:  linda.vanwijngaarden@worldforum.nl