Corporate responsibility   report 2010 Ernst & Young Ukraine  Corporate responsibility at Ernst & Young — stable development  in a period of change  2 About Ernst & Young  5 Our commitment to corporate responsibility   9  Workplace  12    Our people culture  12    Ernst & Young people  13    Employee surveys, FY2010 results  15    Bodies for people matters  15    Learning and development  17    Employees rights and benefits  19    Life outside the office  22 Marketplace  24    Our clients  24    Our commitment to quality and risk management  24    Independence practices  25    Data privacy and information security  26    Launch of new services in 2010: CCaSS  and FIDS  26    Public events and intellectual leadership  27    Professional and business associations  28      Engagement with the government and NGOs – corporate responsibility   development  28    Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year program – www.eoy-ua.com  30    Awards for Ernst & Young  Ukraine  30 Environment  31     Our principles, results and targets in terms of procurement   and materials consumption  32    Green group  35 Community  39    Projects for students  39    Charity work  44 Report parameters  48 Contact information  48 GRI G3 disclosures and performance indicators table  49    GRI application level  51 List of abbreviations used in the Report  52  NT: A tough year of recovery from the   financial crisis is behind us. Despite our   apprehensions, activity in the field of corpo- rate responsibility has not come to naught,  and even gained greater importance. New  projects have been launched and each year  more and more volunteers are being in- volved in activities organized by the Corpo- rate Responsibility Committee. According   to a survey among Ernst & Young partners  and employees, 87% of respondents assess  Ernst & Youngs social investments in educa- tion, environment and charity as significant  and are proud of their involvement. AK: The high level of support that respon- dents have given to the companys corporate  responsibility initiatives is very important   for us, as the keystone of our CR work is   voluntary participation of our employees.  Just like Ernst & Young offices across the  globe, Ernst & Young Ukraine is dedicated to  doing business responsibly, and our employ- ees devote their time and experience to  projects  which make the world better.  Thats a reflection of our strategic vision of  the role we play in a community and of our  responsible approach to the development of  local communities and society as a whole.  As you know, achieving a stable business is  possible only in a socially developed com- munity. At the project level, we are talking  here about efforts to support public, educa- tional, environmental and business initia- tives. These pillars structurally support our  social activities in the medium-term per- spective. I am sure that our corporate re- sponsibility projects in Ukraine will be suc- cessfully implemented over the next five  years, because even in the most difficult cri- Corporate responsibility   at Ernst & Young — stable  development in a period   of change Alexei Kredisov, Managing Partner  Natalia Telenkova, Head of the Corporate Responsibility Committee We are glad to present   Ernst & Youngs second   Corporate Responsibility   Report in Ukraine.  It highlights our economic,  environmental and social   performance and activities   during the period   July 2009 – June 2010. 2   Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       3 sis years, we as an organization were able  to increase our activity in these areas. And  the most important thing is that our people  have demonstrated their support for our  values and projects. Were on the right path. NT: In communicating with colleagues from  other Ernst & Young offices – in Moscow,  Paris, Almaty, New York – I realize that de- spite we have common trends in corporate  responsibility, in many respects the priori- ties of the Ukrainian team are determined  by the needs of the community in which we  work. So the global social investment strate- gy is refracted through the appreciation   of what business has to do in Ukraine today. AK: Certainly. On the one hand were part  of a global organization, but on the other we  work within the specific socio-economic con- ditions of Ukraine, which is a young country  with little experience of entrepreneurial ac- tivity. And in Ukraine, we primarily work for  the sake of Ukrainian business and society.  During the last year a significant portion of  our projects in the sphere of business sup- port was focused on provision of informa- tion and explanation of future changes in  the tax area. Tax reform was the project of  the year for Ukrainian business, and we had  to respond appropriately to the needs of the  community in gaining direct access to the  developers of the Tax Code and conducting  public debates about the most difficult  issues. We always try to follow the   Ernst & Young global agenda, even while   responding to pressing issues that are of  great interest to our Ukrainian community. NT: We are preparing a social report for the  second year now, and the first report provid- ed very valuable experience. Preparing the  report and analyzing feedback allow us to  systematize information about the relation- ship between the company and its partners,  employees and community. It helps us to  identify areas in which we can work towards  the future and hear the opinions of col- leagues and partners. This year we compiled  our report according to the requirements of  the standard G3 of the GRI (Global Reporting  Initiative), which pushed for more thorough  preparation of the indexes and information. AK: Indeed, working on social responsibili- ty reports is a rewarding experience for all  organizations. It gives the chance to look at  the companys work from the stakeholders  viewpoint. How can the community benefit  from the fact that our company is at work in  Ukraine? When we say community here,  of course, we mean specific stakeholders,  including our employees, customers, part- ners and business associations colleagues.  This year we decided to follow the require- ments of GRI, which defines our approach  to the list of indexes and topics that are to  be covered. While preparing the report, we  also put great weight on the feedback that  we received in response to our prior period  report.  NT: Analyzing the year that has passed  since the first report, we realize that there  has been a significant shift in awareness of  corporate responsibility. Several innovations  and the expanded range of activities in cor- porate responsibility has brought us to a new  level. AK: Ill start with the changes across the  whole market arena: last year we launched  a separate service offering in sustainable  development. Within the scope of nonfinan- cial reporting and beyond it, this depart- ment provides consultancy on CR strategy  and dealing with climate change and mak- ing sure that business processes stay  steady. We launched this new direction in  response to the needs of Ukrainian market.  For us, its first of all a recognition that the  leading Ukrainian companies are finding  these problems important. NT: Last year we launched a range of im- portant initiatives at Ernst & Young Ukraine.  Those are meant to recognize, support,  measure and stimulate employee involve- ment in corporate responsibility projects.  Weve added to the staff appraisal system  matrix a criterion for employee engagement  with community-related activities (providing  free consultation to unprofitable organiza- tions, giving lectures to students and chil- dren, participation in environmental events,  etc). Employees who voluntarily take a lead- ing role in a corporate responsibility project  receive all the support they need from man- agement. They get a working hours quota   for their voluntary activities; the company  covers expenses for the necessary training  and conferences. In addition, the spectrum of  social projects that company takes part in has  expanded. Our representatives have become  members of the Verkhovna Rada committee  on the development of a national corporate  responsibility strategy and we have estab- lished partnerships with NGOs that promote  and develop corporate responsibility in  Ukraine. You will find more detailed informa- tion on these projects in the report. AK: In releasing a corporate responsibility   report for 2010, we are looking ahead. We will  act in the future within the areas that weve  defined. The world today is overcoming the  crisis and we can see some instability in our  country. Governments of different countries  are developing packages for changing regula- tory standards and the political leadership of  Ukraine has also expressed ambitious plans to  reform the country. Under such circumstanc- es, Ernst & Young will follow its corporate re- sponsibility program, one that meets interna- tional standards and provides for the necessary  public consultation about changes and   reforms. It also supports entrepreneurship,  driving the economy, and increases access   to education. And most importantly, one more  priority is a concern for the environment. NT: CR committees priority in the nearest   future is to continue within chosen course,   and to steadily and systematically implement  responsibility principles at all levels. This  means fostering our relationships with   existing partners and finding new ones,   working to develop responsible leaders within  the company, helping the community bring   up a healthy and responsible generation, pro- moting volunteerism, maintaining a dialogue   with stakeholders and encouraging feedback. AK: These are the priorities that Ernst & Young  in Ukraine has approved and we will follow them  in all areas of our work: with clients, employees,  partners, business associations and the society  as a whole. I started the conversation by saying  that our employees are the main driver of our  responsibility work and our mission as an orga- nization is to motivate and guide them ensuring  progress in the four stated areas: Marketplace,  Workplace, Environment and Community. Facts  CR governance structure formalized   People Board formed to give more attention   to people matters   Key performance indicators for corporate   responsibility embedded into the annual   assessment matrix   New initiatives for working mothers proposed   New projects for the community launched Figures  Average personnel turnover went down by 17%    In 2010 employees spent 114 hours at an average on training   and certification    27 roundtables for clients and the public on business issues organized   72 events on business and investment climate improvement   organized or supported    11 roundtables and seminars on  Tax Code organized   5 thousand students covered by vocational programs 4       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Key highlights for Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010 in the area   of corporate responsibility  Ernst & Young   in the world Ernst & Young is a global leader in assur- ance, tax, transaction and advisory servic- es, with offices in 700 cities in 140 coun- tries, with the headquarters in London. Our  revenues for the fiscal year ended 30 June  2010 were USD 21.3 billion. Worldwide, our  141,000 people are united by our shared  values and unwavering commitment to qual- ity. We continually invest in methodologies,  training and technology to promote the de- livery of seamless, consistent, high-quality  client service worldwide. Our global industry  centers draw upon teams of professionals  from across the global organization with  deep technical and industry experience.  They help clients by anticipating trends,  identifying their implications and developing  points of view on relevant industry issues.  Our cross-border management structure al- lows us to align our people and activities  better to meet clients demands for a con- sistent quality of service worldwide, while  respecting the legal and regulatory require- ments in each country. We invest in leading- edge thought leadership to interpret busi- ness trends, which delivers valuable insights  to our clients. In 2010, for the thirteenth  consecutive year, Ernst & Young was recog- nized as a Most Admired Knowledge Enter- prise (MAKE). Our networking events  around the world – seminars, conferences,  roundtables – provide clients with regular  forums to discuss current and emerging is- sues relating to the business environment.  Globally, Ernst & Young provides assurance  and advisory services for many of the  worlds leading businesses. We audit 25% of  the companies listed on the Standard &  Poors Global 1200 (publicly disclosed audi- tors as of November 2010). Our consider- able resources to serve global businesses  are clearly recognized by the market, and in  the last several years we have won appoint- ments as auditors for large global compa- nies including Siemens, Apple, AES Corpo- ration, Eni S.p.A., Danone and Allianz. About Ernst & Young  5  6       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young in the CIS With the opening of our Moscow office in  1989, we were the first professional servic- es firm to establish operations in the Com- monwealth of Independent States. Since  then our presence in the CIS has expanded  as demand for our services has continued   to grow. We currently have 3,500 people   working in 17 offices located in Moscow,   St. Petersburg, Ekaterinburg, Novosibirsk,  Togliatti, Kazan, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Kyiv,  Donetsk, Minsk, Almaty, Astana, Atyrau,  Baku, Tashkent, Tbilisi and Yerevan. We are organized by functional business  units and industry business units. Our ser- vice lines include Assurance, Advisory, Tax  and Transactions. Our industry specializa- tion in the CIS covers the following key sec- tors: Automotive, Financial Services, Con- sumer Products, Diversified Industrial  Products, Government & Public Sector,   Life Sciences, Media & Entertainment,   Mining & Metals, Oil & Gas, Power & Utilities,  Private Equity, Real Estate, Retail & Whole- sale, Technology, Telecommunications and  Transportation. Ernst & Young in Ukraine Ernst & Young was among the first   international professional services firms   to establish its practice in Ukraine, in 1991.  Ernst & Young in Ukraine provides high   quality services to a number of world-famous  multinational corporations and influential  Ukrainian enterprises. In September 2006,  we were the first among the Big Four to open  a branch office in Donetsk. In the period   covered by this Report Ernst & Young em- ployed 505 professional staff, 42 of them in  Donetsk. Ernst & Young provides services in  the area of Assurance, Advisory, Tax & Legal  and Transaction advisory. Ernst & Young is  a private limited liability company.  The main  executive officer in Ernst & Young Ukraine  is the Country Managing Partner, alias the  Chair of Partners Board. Partners Boards  is a group of partners working in Ukrainian  offices, including Service Lines Heads. St. Petersburg Novosibirsk Ekaterinburg Togliatti Kazan Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Moscow Astana Atyrau Almaty Tashkent Baku Tbilisi Yerevan Kyiv Donetsk Minsk Armenia Georgia Azerbaan Uzbekistan Kazakhstan Russia Ukraine Belarus  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       7 Ernst & Young Ukraine organisational structure Country Managing Partner Partners board Assurance Finance Human   Resources Marketing &  business   development Information  Technologies Audit Performance   Improvement Corporate  Tax Transaction  Support In-house Legal General  Administration Fraud   Investigation   & Dispute   Services IT Risk &   Assurance Human  Capital Corporate  Finance Financial &   Accounting   Advisory Services Risk Valuation   & Business   Modeling Climate Change   & Sustainability  Services Academy  of Business Real Estate  Advisory Advisory Tax &   Legal Transaction  Advisory Service Lines Heads, Client Service Core Business Services Corporate Responsibility Committee Economic Performance Million UAH,   FY2010 Total net revenue 329182 Paid taxes 61367 Collected taxes 22697 Ernst & Young Ukraine economic performance  8       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Corporate responsibility is integral to Ernst & Youngs  business strategy. Our community engagement is  mostly focused on education, entrepreneurship and  environmental sustainability. Its our role in creating a  sustainable context — in other words, a thriving com- munity able to protect its environment, educate its  children and become prosperous by fostering innova- tion and generating new businesses. The communi- ties around us have a profound impact on the future  of Ernst & Young and our clients, and we invest in  them through these 3 key areas of corporate respon- sibility. As a talent-driven organization, our people  and their skills are the best asset we can offer a com- munity. As a responsible employer, we encourage our  people to apply their skills to create positive change  in communities close to home and around the world.  Volunteering is an important part of our culture.   We contribute more to our communities and give  our people more meaningful experiences by tapping  into our professional skills and capabilities. Our   people serve on not-for-profit boards, support  schools, mentor students and strive to reduce   our environmental footprint. In 2010 in Ukraine   we introduced a set of Key Performance Indicators  (KPIs) that reflect our peoples involvement in   corporate responsibility activities and serve   as additional points that are included in the annual  assessment. In doing so, we declare that time spent  on voluntary corporate responsibility initiatives   is valuable from the business standpoint.  Building a better future – how can we make a difference? Our commitment to corporate  responsibility Natalia Telenkova,  Head of the Corporate  Responsibility Committee  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       9  Education   We work to broaden access to education  so that the next generation has the skills it  needs to make a positive contribution to  society. In our knowledge-based global  economy, children need an education to  secure their future. At the same time, or- ganizations like Ernst & Young need to re- cruit a talented workforce in every country  where they do business. Yet a quality edu- cation is out of reach of many young men  and women. As one of the worlds great  global training organizations, we help our  people realize their full potential. And  through educational programs and out- reach, we are able to help young people in  the communities around us realize their  full potential as well. We build links be- tween academic education and business  reality for future specialists; we also sup- port deprived children, ensuring they get  their chance for a proper education.  Entrepreneurship   We support entrepreneurs because they  create jobs, build communities and con- tribute to macro-economic growth. Entre- preneurs transform communities as well  as industries. And entrepreneurs are   extremely resourceful in both good times  and bad. Working with and supporting   entrepreneurs has given us a profound   understanding of the value of entrepre- neurship. The Entrepreneur of the Year  contest held by Ernst & Young Ukraine  draws public attention to the importance  of entrepreneurship in the modern  economy.  Environmental sustainability   We reduce our impact on the environment  wherever we can. Because we believe that  any commitment to a greener world has   to start at home, were also challenging  ourselves to work in an environmentally  responsible manner and to find new   ways to improve our impact on the  environment. A healthy environment   is important to our people and to our   business. Ernst & Youngs Climate Change  and Sustainability Services practice helps  our clients and our communities move   to a low-carbon way of operating and   lower their costs.  3E strategy  10       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine The chart of our stakeholders has taken shape over many years of work in Ukraine. Employees have always been the core of our business.  Relationships with clients are the key to success for any company. Being more and more engaged with the community, we have established  relationships with governmental bodies, business associations and NGOs. The chart below shows how we see our stakeholders today,  through the prism of our corporate responsibility strategy. Corporate responsibility area Stakeholders Means and channels for engagement Workplace partners, employees, retirees job terms, professional development, employee surveys,  people board, people advisory council, corporate events recruits open doors events, vocational guidance alumni alumni club Marketplace clients service quality assessment tool, infrastructure for quality  control and risk management, public events legislators, government active involvement, advocacy business and professional associations lead role, participation Environment procurement team, suppliers, employees,  local community, NGOs community events, green office program, educational  programs Community universities, academics, students educational programs, lectures NGOs, deprived children volunteer initiatives, charity programs Stakeholder engagement  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       11 In our previous CR report we discussed the  work of our Charity Committee (established  in 2004) and its responsibilities. In 2010  Ernst & Youngs Charity Committee trans- formed into the Corporate Responsibility  Committee. The committee now consists of  10 people, including the head of the com- mittee, the Managing Partner in Ukraine,  the Head of the Climate Change and Sus- tainability Services practice and the leaders  of the corporate responsibility projects: the  Green Group head, the Human Resources  department/Educational projects head and  the heads of the Orphans and Oncology  Groups. The mission of the committee is to  implement a global corporate responsibility  strategy with respect to local specifics; to  implant corporate responsibility values and  principles throughout all the companys   operations; and to manage community   engagements projects. Fundamental  decisions in corporate responsibility are   discussed during quarterly committee   meetings. Project details are elaborated   via workgroup meetings and online discus- sions. The committee aligns its activities  taking into account an ongoing dialog  with the global corporate responsibility  team and colleagues in other Ernst & Young  offices, the partners and employees of   Ernst & Young Ukraine and the partners   and beneficiaries on the Corporate   Responsibility Committee. Corporate responsibility management in Ukraine  Partners Board  Employees  Business partners  Community  Beneficiaries CR Committee Head Orphans   group  Educational  group  CR development  group  Green  group  Oncology     group   Our people culture We aspire to maintain a leading people   culture everywhere in the world. To achieve  this aspiration we invest in including,   developing and engaging all of our people.  Our increasingly complex and intercon-  nected world requires businesses to be   more global, more accepting and under- standing of diverse points of view and   more focused on what really matters  in the post-financial crisis world.  The following was on our agenda in terms   of people culture in the past year:   our leading people culture, which ensures  that we attract and retain the best;   attracting and retaining the best   people to deliver the best results for   our clients, resulting in a competitive   advantage;   we want our people to feel that   Ernst & Young is the best organization   for them; we want them to be excited   and proud to work here; and we want   them to achieve their potential while   helping others and our clients to succeed;   we pride ourselves on our teamwork.   We are fostering a corporate culture that conforms  to our peoples expectations and helps them succeed  professionally and personally; a culture in which   each individual is valued and respected; a culture  that fosters teamwork, integrity and the courage  to lead. Marina Zakharina, HR Manager 12       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Workplace   Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       13 Ernst & Young People This chapter of the Report represents   statistics pertaining to the Ernst & Young  workforce. Type of Agreement/ Contract  of Employees Permanent labor   agreements 462 91% Fixed labor agreements* 1 0% Outsourced personnel 23 5% Contractors** 19 4% *  Fixed labor agreement includes an expiry date ** Contractors are services providers that are not   eligible for paid vacation, sick leave days or   medical and life insurance. 99% of Ernst & Young employees   work full-time.  Diversity and inclusiveness We view multiculturalism and diversity   as strengths of our global organization.   A sustainable and inclusive culture enables  Ernst & Young to deliver high quality service  to our clients, create a competitive advan- tage and drive market leadership. Diversity  and inclusiveness have become a part   of the way we operate. 69% of our employees are 30 or younger.  Young people traditionally prevail in the   assurance profession, where availability   for frequent business trips is a major job  requirement.The turnover percentage  downfall correlates with the increase   in middle-aged personnel (29% versus   21% in FY2009). Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010 by age 20 – 30 2% 69% 29% 2010 Over 50 30 – 50 Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010 turnover Gender % Male 20% Female 11% Age % age 20-29 17% age 30-49 10% age over 50 0% Region % Kyiv 15% Donetsk 12% The average turnover rate in 2010 decreased to 14% from 31% in 2009, a sign   of reversion to stability. Turnover is calculated as the ratio of employees who left   the company to the total number of employees at the end of the reporting period.   Ernst & Young Ukraine by gender, FYs 2009, 2010 0%  10%  20%  30%  40%  50%  60%  70%  80%  2009  2010  2009  2010  2009  2010  Partners  and Directors   Senior Managers and Managers Seniors and Staff  Female  Male  Our firms culture and environment provide  leadership opportunities to both men and  women. There is no gender differentiation  made when pay or career advancement   issues are considered. Female employees  prevail at the junior and middle manage- ment levels. The majority of partners and   directors are men; however, the number   of female partners increased since 2009.   In overall 62% of our employees are   women. In 2010 Ernst & Young was recognized at  the Equal Opportunities competition, which  was jointly organized by the EU-funded   project Women and childrens rights   in Ukraine — communication component  and the Ministry of Ukraine for Family,  Youth and Sports. We were ranked second  among companies employing 101 to 1000   employees that provide for gender equality  at work.  14    Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       15 Employee surveys,  FY2010 results Regular and ad hoc surveys conducted  among employees help the management   to understand and measure employee   satisfaction and engagement. People Pulse Survey In August 2010 approximately 55% of our  people responded to the People Pulse Sur- vey, an internal Ernst & Young survey which  serves as an important pulse check supple- ment to the Global People Survey (GPS) and  is conducted every two years. The People  Pulse was a short survey with 10 questions  taken from the GPS 2009. The results of the  Survey have given us a valuable opportunity  to measure our progress against the actions  initiated in response to our employees feed- back in the GPS 2009. The answers showed  that our employees (80%) share Ernst &  Young values. Some 70% of our employees  believe that the leadership of the company  considers the impact on people when making  important decisions and 67% indicated that  Ernst & Young provides a work environment  in which they feel free to be themselves.  However, we had less favorable responses  about career development and recognition.  The score for meaningful conversation re- garding your career development remains  the lowest (57%). Still, a 6% increase since  2009 shows that this indicator is improving.  As a result of the People Pulse survey, we  identified counseling and coaching as key ar- eas on which to focus in our people policies  in the future. Hewitt Best Employers Survey In June 2010 we received the results of the  Hewitt Best Employers 2010 Survey, in which  47% of our employees and 73% of our top  management participated. According to this  survey, our highest scores are in the area of  company reputation (92% of the responses  were positive), work environment (72%) and  education and development (67%). The low- est scores traditionally are for work-life bal- ance and reward and recognition. As part of  this survey, employees answers were com- pared with those of our top management so  that the opinion gap could be kept and an  alignment score calculated. That score was  68%, which indicates that there was a high  amount of alignment between employees  and top-management responses. The survey results were brought to the atten- tion of the Human Resources department,  the Partners Board and the People Board for  review and further actions. The next chapter  discusses some of these actions. Bodies for people   matters People Board In January 2010 we established the People  Board aimed at developing and refining our  overall people strategy. The People Board is  a group of partners and managers from   different service lines, who are dedicated to  and ready to develop different people initia- tives and resolve current people issues.   It cooperates closely with the Human   Resources department and Service Line  Leaders as well as with the Managing   Partner. Through it, people-related innova- tions can be promptly implemented.  Marina Zakharina,   Human Resources department Olesya Melnyk, Assurance Dmitry Litvak, TAS Nadiya Konovalenko, Advisory Olga Gorbanovska, TAX People Board 2010  The following initiatives and projects,  among others, were developed   by People Board:   Global People Survey; results analysis   and action plan;   salary survey; results interpretation   and methods of communication with   employees;   plan of activities to improve quality of  counseling and communication in the  company, including the Thomas Interna- tional Personal Profile Analysis tool,   used for testing and adjusting behavioral  styles at work;   new work-life balance solutions, including  flexible time for working mothers People Advisory Council (PAC) The People Advisory Council (PAC) is a tool  for communication between employees and  management of the Firm. It serves as an inter- nal labor union where employees of all  grades and service lines raise and discuss   issues and provide suggestions to improve  work-related matters and processes. During  the 2010 financial year the PAC gathered four  times and discussed the following topics: train- ing opportunities and access to training mate- rials; criteria for annual assessment; draw- backs to the work of the medical insurance  company and taxi service; comfort in the of- fice; amendments to travel policy; reducing  impact on the environment; options for feed- back exchange; and corporate discount op- tions. A separate meeting was held for the   assurance team in December 2009 to respond  to widespread worries about business   turbulence.  Some of the PAC solutions that were put  into practice:   MS Excel 2007 training materials were   developed by the IT team;   the KPI assessment matrix in the   Assurance service line was amended;   training materials log and storage were   established;   fast reading courses organized;   additional tool for feedback exchange  within the company launched;   corporate credit card limits expanded Some of the issues raised at the PAC found  immediate solutions; more complicated   issues needed time to be reconciled at   different levels; some got negative   responses from either the PAC or from   the management as being contradictory   to internal policies or financially non-viable.  The PAC has become a trusted platform  where all sort of issues, from the most   critical to the most minor, can be raised  openly and find resolution. 16     Learning   and development We are passionate about helping our employees  reach their goals and achieve their potential.   A unique global career development framework  has been designed called EYU. EYU stands for  Ernst & Young and You, reflecting the mutual  commitment we have to supporting our people   and that each employee has to owning his or her  career. It provides the right mix of learning, expe- rience and coaching to make a difference to our  employees, our clients, our business and our  communities. Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010:   100% of Ernst & Young Ukraine employees are  entitled to have a counselor from the first day  of employment;   100% of Ernst & Young employees undergo the  Performance Management and Development  Process and receive annual feedback and   assessment of their performance;   100% of counselors undergo training   in counseling and coaching Mentoring — each employee has a Mentor   from the Partners group as an additional option  for personal and professional support within  Ernst & Young Ukraine. Mentoring focuses   on providing guidance, direction and career   advice. Through mostly informal communication,  partners help their mentees to manage their own  learning so that the mentees can maximize their  potential, develop skills, improve performance  and achieve targets. EYU diagram Experiences – putting knowledge  into practice and developing new  skills to stretch and grow as an  Ernst & Young professional. Learning – all employees have   access to high-quality learning  through a tailored, structured   curriculum that is both service-line  specific and enterprise-wide.   The learning curriculum is designed  to help employees develop their  knowledge and insights and become  successful Ernst & Young profes- sionals. Coaching is a meaningful conversa- tion that, when applied to day-to- day feedback, counseling and   mentoring, helps you transform  learning and experience into   practice. EYU provides consistent  coaching capability as an essential  part of Ernst & Young culture. Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       17 Y o ur  r ol e O ur  c li en ts O ur  b us in es s O ur  c o m m un it ie s Y o ur  n e e d s Y o u r  c o m p e te n c e s Your development Learning Coaching Experiences  18       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young Ukraine annual training hours on average, FY2009, 2010 Ernst & Young Ukraine professional certification, data as of FY2010 year-end 2009 2010 0  5  10  15  20  25  30  35  40  45  Partners and Directors   Senior Managers and Managers   Seniors and Staff   Certification Program Ernst & Young   employees,   certificate holders Ernst & Young   employees, students of   a certification program ACCA 33 212 CPA 7 Ukrainian National auditor and NBU   certificates 23 8 CIMA, CFA 3 6 PMP 1 1 CISSP, CISM, CISA 9 CIA 2 1 Valuation certificates 16 Professional education is an essential part  of career development at Ernst & Young.   It ensures that employees are continuously  enhancing their professional skills and that  they receive professional certification ade- quate to their roles and responsibilities as  their career progresses. Ernst & Young pro- vides a significant amount of support, in- cluding sponsoring, to employees in their  professional education and certification  programs. This enables Ernst& Young pro- fessionals to propose services in accor- dance with world best practices, interna- tional standards and local requirements and  to continuously improve their skills and the  quality of their performance.  As the result of our focus on education, our  client-serving personnel spent 114 hours  (including hours for professional certifica- tion) on average on their studies during  FY2010.  Professional Education and Certification  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       19 Remuneration comparison by grade, October 2009 Ernst & Young Pay  Market (Median)  BIG4 Kiev Pay Market (Median)  37%  20%  33%  29%  29%  35%  27%  38%  35%  33%  Intern  Staff  Advanced  Staff 1  Advanced  Staff 2  Senior 1-2  Senior 3  Manager 1 Manager 2 Manager 3  Senior  Manager   Employees rights  and benefits We maintain strict compliance with the  Ukraine Labor Code and all requirements for  social protection, and ensure payment  of all  social charges, including pension and social  insurance funds, unemployment  compensa- tion and work accident insurance. We con- stantly monitor the level of wages  on the  Ukrainian market and ensure appropriate   rewards for our employees. The firm pro- vides competitive salary to employees; our  aim is to be at the higher end of the market.  We participate in surveys on remuneration  conducted by an independent  surveyor an- nually; employees receive the results.  The range of existing benefits for our   employees, in excess of legal requirements,  includes:   medical insurance to an employee   and one family member;   life and accident insurance;   vacation allowance above statutory  norms;   additional pay for sick and maternity  leave. The company provides a range of benefits to  support mothers. Ernst & Young encourages  women to continue their professional careers  with the firm after childbirth and offers:   additional payments to ensure that an em- ployees aggregate income (Social Insur- ance Fund payment + additional payment  at the Firms expense) amounts to 80% of  her base pay during the first 12 weeks of  maternity leave;   flexible work schedules for mothers;   possibility for women who have children  under 14 have to use an hour per day   (five hours per week) at their own   discretion;   100% payment for five days on which an  employees children are sick (beyond exist- ing additional payments for sick leave for  all employees)  20       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Induction to new employees The company makes continuous efforts   to make the first days at the company   for new-comers as smooth and fruitful   as possible. Each new employee undergoes  an induction training course covering   Ernst & Youngs history, values, company  structure, policies and procedures and   so on. The new-comer is appointed   a counselor since the first day in the   company.  A special Intranet tool is at hand to answer  topical questions about life at Ernst and  Young. In 2010 general induction sessions  led by the Human Resources department  became more regular, so that the time lag  between the first day and the induction day  is kept to a minimum; an executive assistant   in each service line has been appointed   to handle administrative issues a new   employee might face during the accom- modation process.  In addition:   three working days paid paternity   leave for the new fathers upon the birth  of their child;   a gift from the company to all employees  who have a new-born baby Service anniversary awards  — in recogni- tion of long, successful years of work with  Ernst & Young, the company has a tradi- tion: employees who work 5 years for the  company receive golden Ernst & Young  pins, those working 10, 15 etc years  receive golden pins with diamonds.    The mothers hours option helps to reduce the pressure on me  as I try to combine my work and my personal life. I appreciate the  companys recognition of working mothers in introducing such   a good initiative.  Tatiana Iarygina, auditor  Work-life balance Balancing between work and life is a serious  issue for most consulting and auditing  firms. The prosperity of business often   depends on peoples readiness to sacrifice  their personal time in favor of clients inter- ests, i.e. work overtime to achieve high   business and career targets. One of the key   priorities for the Human Resources depart- ment at Ernst & Young is to find solutions  for this issue. Twenty-five working days   of vacation, which is seven days more than  the legislation suggests, are meant to over- come busy-season fatigue. The whole range  of benefits for working mothers, initiatives  for kids, out-of-office corporate activities,  corporate discounts for fitness etc. is pro- posed to employees in order to support  their health and emotions at a proper level.  Courses on time management skills help  employees to rethink their priorities and  elaborate their own methods of navigating  between work and leisure, between   professionalism and exhaustion.  21  22       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Life outside the office We maintain a tradition of regular entertainment and sport activities outside the office. The New Year Party 2009/2010 turned into a real talent show.   For one night employees who are generally known as serious   consultants, auditors and administrators became singers, dancers,  rock musicians and showbiz stars, and enjoyed stunning success.  Ernst & Youngs achievements in sports are a traditional story. Ernst  & Young teams are regular participants in EBA and AmCham foot- ball and basketball tournaments. In 2010 new sports were included  in Ernst & Youngs profile – paintball and beach volleyball. One of the most joyful events of the year is the summer picnic, dedi- cated to the fiscal years end. In July 2010 employees gathered on  Trukhaniv Island to enjoy a variety of entertainments, one of them  being a film festival. Everybody was involved in shotting brief movies  in different genres. The team led by aduit partner Olesya Melnyk   was the winner, thanks to a bunch of talented actors (all EY     employees) and their excellent performing of scenes from   an Odessa restaurant.   Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       23 All Ernst & Young kids get gifts from the company before Christmas;  since FY2010 they have also had an option of participating in a mar- velous kids party instead. Master classes on Christmas tree decora- tions, fun contests, a quiz for elder children, body art, oil painting,   a disco – the party program was put together to delight everyone. Another nice option for giving kids the taste of Christmas is for them  to participate in a picture contest; the winners get memorable gifts  and fill their parents hearts with pride.  Outdoors events and parties for kids strengthen links between people  and create a family-like atmosphere among employees. Initiatives for kids More traditions for Ernst & Youngs kids evolved in FY2010.  WORKPLACE - targets for 2011: stay committed to   values and principles stated; develop new initiatives for employees.  Forthcoming steps:  the Employer Brand strategy is to be up-dated and implemented;   new tools for communication with personnel are to be introduced;   a cycle of surveys is to be conducted to gather feedback from our  employees on various aspects of the companys life and improve  our workplace environment;   more work-life balance solutions are to be introduced, including  extended medical insurance package, more activities for the   employees children, etc.;   new comers induction activities are to be enhanced in order  to facilitate their adaptation period in the company.  24       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Our clients We perform a wide range of professional  services for clients of our Ukrainian prac- tice. We are particularly proud of the fact  that we provide assurance and advisory ser- vices for many of the leading local and inter- national companies with operations in  Ukraine. Our clients are large domestic and  international companies including Ukrzaliz- nytsja (Ukrainian Railways), EastOne, the In- dustrial Union of Donbass, the State Export- Import Bank of Ukraine, Naftogaz of  Ukraine, Ferrexpo-Poltava Mining, System  Capital Management, the Donbass Fuel and  Energy Company (DTEK), Konti and Roshen. Our commitment   to quality and risk   management Quality is the foundation of our organization  and is reflected on every Ernst & Young doc- ument: Quality in Everything We Do.  Ernst & Youngs reputation for providing  high-quality professional services in an inde- pendent, objective and ethical manner is  crucial to its member firms success as inde- pendent auditors and advisors. We continu- ally strive to improve quality and risk   management processes across member  firms, with the goal of achieving consistent- ly high-quality client service worldwide.  Ernst & Young recognizes that in todays   environment – characterized by continuing  globalization and the rapid movement   of capital – the quality of the member firms  services has never been more important.  Ernst & Young has designed a comprehen- sive set of global quality control policies and  practices that meet the requirements of the  IAASB (International Standards on Quality  Control issued by the International Auditing  and Assurance Standards Board) and IFAC  (International Federation of Accountants.  Each member firm is individually responsible  to its clients and is required to adopt these  global policies and procedures, supplement- ing them as necessary to comply with local  laws and professional guidelines and to ad- dress specific business needs. The Code of  Conduct provides a clear set of standards  and behaviors that guide the member firms  actions and business conduct. The global  ethics hotline is an external and, if so de- sired, anonymous hotline reporting service  that provides Ernst & Youngs people and cli- ents and others outside the organization  with confidential means for reporting activi- ty that may involve unethical or improper  behavior that may be in violation of profes- sional standards. The client acceptance  and continuance policy sets out principles  to determine whether to accept a new client  or a new engagement or to continue a rela- tionship with an existing client. We have re- strictions on accepting as a client an entity  in the gaming and pornography industry or  companies that are involved in illegal or un- ethical activities. These principles are funda- mental to maintaining quality, managing  risk, protecting Ernst & Young personnel  and meeting regulatory requirements. Our  global culture strongly supports collabora- tion and consultation and places special  emphasis on the importance of consultation  in dealing with complex or subjective ac- counting, auditing, reporting, regulatory  and independence matters. A comprehen- sive hierarchy of responsible partners is  developed to ensure that each and every as- pect of quality risk is insured. Each member  firm is also required to execute the Ernst &  Young global Quality Review programs and  annually evaluates whether its system of  quality control has operated effectively.   Marketplace   Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       25 Results of the global Quality Review pro- gram and external practice-monitoring and  inspection activities are evaluated and com- municated so that quality improvement ac- tions can be taken at the appropriate level. Independence practices Independence is a concept fundamental to  the audit profession and is pervasive in all  dealings between audit firms and their audit  assurance clients. Maintaining Ernst &  Youngs independence is pivotal for achieving  audit quality. We consider and evaluate inde- pendence from several relevant perspectives.  Annually, all Ernst & Young professional per- sonnel are required to confirm compliance  with Ernst & Young independence policies  and procedures. The Global Independence  Compliance Team (GICT) conducts an array  of testing and member firm visits to assess  compliance with several independence mat- ters. Compliance with professional standards  governing the provision of non-audit services  to audit clients is designed to be achieved  through a variety of mechanisms, including  the use of the Ernst & Young portfolio of ser- vice reference tools, training and business re- lationship evaluation tools.  Ernst & Young   Ukraine FY2010 Assurance Audit quality review v Advisory Advisory quality  review v TAX  TAX quality review v TAS GICT review v Ernst & Young Ukraine FY2010 Independence policy training update  to client serving personnel 100% Independence confirmation for client  serving personnel 100% Anti-bribery policy compliance  confirmation 100% Insider trading policy compliance  confirmation 100% Client satisfaction surveys Our unwavering commitment to quality and risk management is supported by a variety of  policies, procedures and tools. This means our clients can be confident of high-quality work.  We measure our clients satisfaction through our Assessment of Service Quality (ASQ) and  seek to continuously improve our service delivery based on the feedback we receive.  *  Ernst & Young Global   online monitoring tool,  which allows for moni-  toring the quality of our   services. Survey requests  are sent to clients chosen  according to certain   criteria. Assessment Service   Quality*  Application to large client  engagements. Annual  survey. FY2010: 80% favorable  feedback; 94% of respon- dents would recommend  Ernst & Young as a service  provider. All unfavorable comments  have been passed on to   engagement partners   for follow-up.   26       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Data privacy and   information security We are proactive in securing and properly  managing confidential and personal informa- tion through our ISO 27002-based   information security program. The Ernst & Young Global Information Secu- rity Policy, known as the Code of Connec- tion, defines the security rules, roles and   responsibilities protecting information and  information systems and is reviewed annual- ly. Information security policy statements  span nearly a dozen information security   areas including but not limited to:  access control;   asset management classification   and control;   communication and operations   management;  human resources security;  physical and environmental security. We also maintain the confidentiality,   integrity and availability of information  through the protection of our technology   resources and assets, using proven techno- logical means including but not limited to:  full disk laptop/desktop encryption;  removable media encryption;  personal firewall;  anti-virus and anti-malware software;  multi-factor authentication solutions;   automated patching and security   vulnerability assessments;  strong physical, environmental security;   intrusion detection and prevention   technologies. Ernst & Young has not experienced   any breach of network security resulting   in the exposure of data.  Launch of new services   in 2010: CCaSS and FIDS Two new subservice lines were introduced   in Ukraine in 2010: Fraud Investigation and  Dispute Services (FIDS) and Climate Change  and Sustainability Services (CCaSS). These   two sub-services are gaining their momentum  as businesses are recovering from the   economic crisis.  In todays environment, managing risk for global  organizations is more important than ever. Gen- erally prevalent perceptions of fraud can vary  from country to country. In Ukraine fraud is per- ceived differently than in developed economies,  and it is extremely important to provide fraud-re- lated services that take into account local specif- ics. FIDS department assists clients with the fol- lowing solutions:   fraud detection and investigations;   anti-fraud solutions such as assessment   of fraud risks and anti-fraud controls   in different business processes;   corporate compliance;   forensic Technology & Discovery Services;   transaction risk services (forensic due   diligence);   dispute services;   fraud and corruption awareness trainings   on various topics.  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       27  Companies in Ukraine these days are also  giving increasing attention to business repu- tation — and larger companies are looking to  be transparent and green. Building up social  capital and a proactive approach to corpo- rate responsibility not only promote a com- panys image, but also strengthen trust   of shareholders, investors, authorities and  other stakeholders. The CCaSS practice pro- vides the following services to our clients:   strategic advisory on corporate social re- sponsibility issues, including CSR strategy  and program development;    assistance in the development and im- provement of non-financial reporting sys- tems and processes, as well as in the prep- aration of non-financial reports;   audit of non-financial reporting in accor- dance to international standards;   advisory on climate change, including  strategy development and the introduction  of relevant tools and controls, as well as  the carbon emission verification;   assessment of the companys environmen- tal, health and safety (EHS) risks and   liabilities. Strengthening FIDS and CCaSS helped us  capitalize on these offerings in Ukraine,  bringing benefits to our clients. Public events and   intellectual leadership Ernst & Young Ukraine is an active organiz- er of workshops on various business issues.  In 2010 we conducted 27 roundtables and  seminars for clients and the general public.  The aim was to discuss current and emerg- ing business issues and share views and  knowledge in order to maintain business in  the economic downturn. The themes cov- ered during this period were tax code adop- tion, human capital management, technolo- gy security, real estate and others. The year  2010 was marked by increased Ernst &  Young public activity on the market. We or- ganized or supported 72 events devoted to  improvement of the business and invest- ment environment in Ukraine. We strategi- cally support leading business events. Examples of our intellectual leadership:   To support and promote Ukraine as an   investment destination, Ernst & Young   has served as a co-organizer or sponsor   of a number of leading business events,   in particular the Adam Smith Ukrainian   Investment Summit, the Zaporozhie   Investment Summit, the Lugansk Invest- ment Summit and the Ukraine-Poland   Economic Forum.   We are serving as a strategic partner for  the Donetsk Investment Summit for the  third year in a row. In 2010 the Donetsk  event was planned as a year-long project  that comprised the Donetsk Restructuring  Forum and the Donetsk Private Public  Partnership Forum, attended by the Presi- dent of Ukraine, top government officials  and leading international investors. We  see our involvement in these events as a  contribution to the improvement and de- velopment of the investment climate of  the region.   A number of special public projects were  launched, among which were an Expatri- ate Survey in cooperation with Delo News- paper and the American Chamber of Com- merce. The survey was held to see how  expatriates feel about infrastructure and  social standards in Ukraine and about the  tax and regulatory regime, and to see how  the crisis impacted the cost of living and  compensation package. The results of the  survey were of great interest to foreign in- vestors and the Ukrainian business com- munity in general: the survey indicated  the level of satisfaction with living in  Ukraine and addressed hot issues hinder- ing the flow of investments into Ukraine.  The results of the survey were presented  in the Delo newspaper and at a number of  public events.   28       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Professional and   business associations We are committed to serving not only our  clients, but also the community in which we  operate. This is underlined by our involve- ment in the Foreign and Local Investors Ad- visory Council under the auspices of the  President of Ukraine. Karl Johansson, Ernst  & Young CIS Managing Partner, is a partici- pant in the body.  Ernst & Young has also demonstrated its  leadership in the Ukrainian business envi- ronment through its extensive work with the  European Business Association, the Ameri- can Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine, the  US-Ukraine Business Council and the Ukrai- nian Union of Industrialists and Entrepre- neurs, and through interaction with Ukraini- an legislative and ministerial processes  affecting business. Our employees are ac- tively involved in contributing to the success  of these associations. This means that our  people are not only knowledgeable about  the political and economic drivers of our cli- ents businesses, but also have insight into  developing matters and key influencers on  events. Ernst & Young members take active  part in various European Business Associa- tion debates. Alexei Kredisov, Ukraine Coun- try Managing Partner of Ernst & Young,   is Vice President of the European Business  Association (for the third year). Jorge   Intriago and Tom Cradock-Watson are   Advisors to the EBA Board. Vladimir   Kotenko is the chair of the EBA Tax Commit- tee for the fourth year in a row. One of the  aims of participation in the EBA and Am- cham events is to discuss and resolve prob- lems faced by the private sector in Ukraine.  Another aim is collective advocacy of mem- bers interests with the central and local   authorities of Ukraine and with foreign and  international organizations. The Ukrainian  Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs,  meanwhile, enables a systematic dialog with  authorities, in order to maintain a mutually  responsible relationship between business  and government and foster country   priorities.  The year 2010 was marked by the adoption  of the new Tax Code, which influenced every  business in Ukraine. Vladimir Kotenko,   a member of the Advisory Council at the  Ministry of Finance, played an important  role in drafting the tax principles and facili- tating dialog between businesses and gov- ernment on improvements to the new tax  system. In addition, series of roundtables  and seminars on the Tax Code (11 in total)  were held by Ernst & Young with the partici- pation of top government officials and the  top managers of the leading businesses in  Ukraine. Engagement with the  government and NGOs —  corporate responsibility  development Community engagement is one of the priori- ties for our companys corporate responsi- bility agenda. At Ernst & Young Ukraine we  understand the importance of building mo- mentum for the development of corporate  responsibility traditions in the country.    Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       29 We see raising the level of business   involvement; we understand the historical  context that may hinder further progress.  We are ready to share our expertise and  give our support to facilitate advancement  of corporate responsibility best practices   in the community. Thats why:   we have been part of the United   Nations Global Compact (UNGC)   network in Ukraine since 2008 and  are actively involved in networks   initiatives;   we have been members of the Multi-  stakeholder Advisory Council (MAC) on  the development of CSR National strategy  under the Parliamentary Committee on  Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship  since its establishment in February 2010.  We have shared with MACs colleagues   European experience in sustainability  concept development and will be more   involved in the future;   for two years we have supported the   CSR case contest organized by the   CSR Development Center. About 70   companies and NGOs have used the   contest to present their corporate   responsibility practices in the problem-  solution-results format for public   acknowledgement. Printed practices will  be used in the future as study materials  for CSR academic courses at Ukrainian   institutions;   in June 2010 we supported the publica- tion on non-financial reporting (NFR) that  was prepared by the CSR Ukraine Commu- nity with the support of UNGC; the publi- cation gives an overview of non-financial  reporting in the world and a detailed pic- ture for Ukraine; it also functions as a  manual on NFR preparation;   we have supported the summer school of  the Ukrainian Association for Management  Development and Business Education and  its study program for CSR academic  course instructors Adlai Goldberg, advisory partner, Kyiv, spoke at the Verkhovna Rada   Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship hearings   on Developing Corporate Social Responsibility: the Ukrainian Perspective,  November 2009 Julien Perez, an expert from the Climate Change group, France, spoke   at the Climate Change conference organized by the United Nations in Kyiv   in March 2010  Ksenia Leschinskaya, aSS leader in CIS, spoke at the IV international  conference on corporate responsibility organized by Expert magazine   in April 2010 Ernst & Young specialists took part   in the following corporate responsibility  events:  30       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young   Entrepreneur   Of The Year Program — www.eoy-ua.com The Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the  Year (EOY) is the worlds most prestigious  business award for entrepreneurs. As the first  and only truly global award of its kind, EOY  honors those who are building and leading  successful, growing and dynamic businesses,  recognizing them through national and global  awards programs. The participants in the  contest are middle and large businesses, and  the winners in each participating country are  announced by a national jury consisting of in- dependent experts who are well-known mem- bers of the business community. In 2010 EOY  celebrated its 24th anniversary. In those  years, the Entrepreneur of the Year program  has expanded to more than 140 cities in  more than 50 countries, with awards present- ed annually to over 900 of the worlds most  successful and innovative entrepreneurs.  Ukraine joined the program in 2006 and with- in these years had honored four outstanding  Ukrainian entrepreneurs: Mikhail Levchenko,  Millenium Capital (2006), Nikolay Lagun,   Delta Bank (2007), Boris Lozhkin, United   Media Holding (2008) and Sergiy Grygoro- vych, GSC Game World (2010). In June 2011  Mr. Grygorovych will represent Ukraine and  compete with the worlds best entrepreneurs  at the World Entrepreneur of the Year Award  final in Monte Carlo, Monaco.  Awards For   Ernst & Young Ukraine While our work is rewarding, were always  delighted and honored when respected   organizations recognize our achievements.   The Kyiv Posts Best of Kyiv poll recognized  Ernst & Young Ukraine as the countrys  Best Audit, Tax and Consulting Services  Firm for 2009. Ernst & Young Ukraine won  this honor for the second year in a row.   In 2010 the International Tax Reviews an- nual European Tax Awards recognized  Ernst & Young Ukraine as Transfer Pricing  Firm of the Year in Ukraine.    Marketing Media Review has recognized  Ernst & Young Ukraine as one of the most  PR professional and friendly companies   in the country. According to Ukraines   Best Corporate Press Service survey,   Ernst & Young Ukraine is in the Top 10.   Equal Opportunities competition jointly or- ganized by the EU-funded project Women  and childrens rights in Ukraine - communi- cation component and the Ministry of  Ukraine for Family, Youth and Sports  ranked us second among companies em- ploying 101 to 1000 employees that pro- vide for gender equality at work.  MARKETPLACE — targets for 2011:   stay committed to quality, enhance quality  control and information security tools; stay   active participants of the business community:  encourage entrepreneurs, continue traditional  programs and develop new ways to invest   into communitys benefit and development.  Among future plans:  — implementation of global CRM program  —  support of Adam Smith Ukrainian  Banking Forum, Adam Smith Ukrainian  Investment Summit  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       31 Environment As our Climate Change and Sustainability   Services (CCaSS) enable clients to become  more environmentally sustainable, we are  looking at every aspect of our own organiza- tion. We are taking a closer look at environ- mental sustainability and continuously   working on initiatives designed to reduce our  impact on the environment. For the Ukrainian  offices of Ernst & Young, a commitment   to environmental sustainability means   well-thought-out procurement in combination  with voluntary initiatives organized by the  Green Group.  We understand that we need to be open to new ways of managing  our business so that the business targets are met and our impact  is less. In many cases, solutions can have a double advantage.   Tatiana Yatsenko, administrative director  32       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Item  Our approach and results, FY2010 Suppliers We consider eco-criteria when choosing suppliers to work with. Office  equipment Our procurement policy defines a list of manufacturers that are eco-labelled. We reduced the number   of printers in 2009 and did not increase it in 2010. Energy  In FY2010 energy consumption fell by 10%  compared to the prior period. We are taking measures to consume energy  economically   all PCs switch to energy saving mode after a few  minutes being unattended as the default setting;   no light is left unattended; security and cleaning  staff control electricity usage during non-working  hours;   corporate desktop background suggest steps to  take towards saving energy;   energy-saving bulbs are used Re-use options: 100% of day-light bulbs are given   to a specialized company for further use.  Our principles, results and targets in terms of procurement   and materials consumption Ernst & Young Ukraine monthly energy consumption,   FYs 2009, 2010, kw/h 24000  34000  44000  54000  64000  2009  2010   Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       33 Item  Our approach and results, FY2010 Paper We use eco-labelled paper (FSC).  Compared to the prior period, consumption   of paper has increased by 6% due to growth   in business activity. We continue our initiatives and propose new steps  to reduce paper consumption:   double-side printing is used as the default  setting for all PCs;   intelligent printing options are being promoted  using various internal communication tools;   electronic solutions have been elaborated  to replace a number of paper-based internal  procedures;   resealable envelopes are being proposed  for interoffice correspondence;   on-screen presentations are used instead of  printed materials at our meetings wherever  appropriate;   training materials exchange among employees  is organized to reduce the number of printed  copies Re-use options: across all our offices in Ukraine  confidential papers are collected in boxes that   are sent to a supplier for confidential shredding  and further recycling. Up to 64% of paper waste   is thus re-used.  Ernst & Young Ukraine monthly paper consumption,   FYs 2008-2010; packs 0  100  200  300  400  500  2008  2009  2010   34       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Item  Our approach and results, FY2010 Cartridges Compared to the prior period, consumption   of toner has increased by 10% due to increase   in business activity. A clarification on data measurement: we have  changed our approach to measuring our impact  in regard to cartridges use. As different models  of printers and copy machines are used in our  offices, we have defined the toners weight and  expense for each model. Units of measurements  are thus kilos. Re-use options: 100% of cartriges go   to a specialized company for further use. Travel An increase in business activity has led to an increase in travel. Promoting responsible travel has thus become   more critical. We suggest that our employees:   video-conference instead of travel;   take the train instead of fly. Kitchen We promote reusable tabeleware instead of plastics among our employees. Ernst & Young Ukraine toner consumption, FYs 2009, 2010; kg 0  100  50  200  250  300  150  2009  2010   Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       35 Although our business does not have a significant impact  on the environment, we will continue drawing attention of  our employees to environmental issues, as we realize their  significance for every human being on the planet.   Yulia Byba, Head of the Green Group, 2010 Green group In 2009 a Green Group was established   under the auspices of the Corporate   Responsibility Committee. Employees   from different departments of the company  volunteered to join. The targets for the Group:   educational campaign on environmental   issues for employees;    leading change while implementing   green behavior;    active involvement in nationwide   environmental initiatives and ecological   programs. During FY2010 the Green Group developed  and supported the following initiatives:  Climate Week In September 2009 Ernst & Youngs Green  Group took an active stance in promoting   Climate Week, a worldwide United Nations  initiative, among employees of the company.  Tuesday of that week was Refuse a car day  for many employees. On Wednesday volun- teers joined Seal the Deal campaign and  signed an online global petition on the part of  civil society to governments of the world be- fore the global summit on climate change in  Copenhagen. Friday was Green Casual Friday,  when all employees were encouraged to wear  green clothes to show their support for pro- tecting the environment.   36       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine On Saturday volunteers went to Poznyaki  Park to participate in the Plant a tree and  save the planet initiative. An internal news- paper on Climate Week highlights was distrib- uted among employees.  Green principles In February 2010 the Green Group an- nounced a kind of contest for employees – a  list of Green Principles, rules to be followed in  the workplace and at home, was proposed,  and employees could sign up for them and  add new ideas. Those who signed up for the  most positions and shared their own princi- ples for green behavior were announced  Green Champions and received gifts. An in- terview with them was distributed via internal  We did a good job! Im pleased that there are people who are not  indifferent to the troubles of our country. Im grateful to everyone  who spent a weekend for the benefit of the worldwide climate week   in Ukraine. We planted 6 trees and 12 bushes in Poznyaky park.   If each of us plants at least one tree a year, our future generations  will live in a greener world.   Victoria Starynets, auditor  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       37 mail. That list of Green Principles formed the  basis for the Ernst & Young Green bookmark,  which was used to disseminate the principles  during various ecological events. Earth Hour In March 2010, a global action initiated by  the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Earth Hour,  was supported by Ernst & Young employees.  Many joined in the initiative.  Zelena Toloka In April 2010 Ernst & Young traditionally   supported a UN Global Compact initiative in  Ukraine – Zelena Toloka. This time the Ernst &  Young Green team joined 300 volunteers in  Syretsky Gai to clean up the park; about eight  tons of garbage was collected. Participants  were entertained by Oleg Skrypka, ate some  delicious kulish and took part in a lottery. Green Rush  In 2010 Ernst & Young became a partner   in the Green Rush project, organized   by the AIESEC Kyiv Youth Organization.   The projects aim is to implement  theoretical knowledge about  environmental  responsibility in the everyday life of youths  in Ukraine. Young people from 20 schools  and 5 universities from different Ukrainian  cities participated in an educational cam- paign (100 academic hours), an ecological  seminar and an eco-poster contest. The winners of the contest were invited   to the Ernst & Young office, companys  certificates and memorable gifts were  handed by the Managing Partner in Ukraine,  Alexei Kredisov. For the Earth Hour, in my family we had a dinner with candles and  spoke about the damage people make to nature and how we can use  fewer resources.I appreciate that it was my childs decision to start  separating paper and plastic garbage to practice recycling.  Irina Levadnaya, finance  Trypilske Kolo  The Third International Eco-Cultural Festival  Trypilske Kolo 2010: Fire took place this  summer in Rzhyschiv, Kyiv region, under   the slogan We Light Up Hearts. The festival  takes place annually and is devoted to one of  the four elements: Water, Fire, Air and Earth.  Ernst & Young was a partner to this year   festival and was invited to the ECO-ground to  present green principles and inform the visi- tors about the steps the company is taking  towards the full-scale development of its  Green Office program, as well as about the  rules its employees observe in everyday life.  ENVIRONMENT — targets for 2011:   continue considering every possibility to  reduce the negative environmental impact  of our business.  The primary focus will be on:    developing and implementing a supplier  code of conduct;   reviewing opportunities for online  subscriptions to reduce paper  consumption;   continuing to develop electronic solutions  for paperless internal procedures;   taking additional steps to increase the  percentage of paper waste that is re-used;   continuing an educational campaign   to keep the amount of plastic tableware   to a minimum   supporting national projects in  environmental education. 38       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       39 As a responsible employer, we encourage  our people to apply their workplace skills   to create positive change in communities  close to home and around the world. This  chapter of the Report describes the invest- ments the company makes in the future   of the country by supporting projects   targeted at the students and children   of Ukraine. Projects for students We often hear from students today that the  education they obtain has a wholly theoreti- cal character, detached from the realities   of business and from the knowledge   requirements of potential employers.   While discussion of the educational system  reform is ongoing, we developed and  supported programs that aimed to help   students get practical knowledge in the   chosen profession. In total, about 5,000  students were involved in these during  FY2010. Step Into the Future program In 2010 Ernst & Young started the Step   Into the Future program for students at the  Kyiv and Donetsk universities that provide  the company with the largest number of  successful job candidates. Ernst & Young  University is one of the initiatives from this  program, representing a suite of meetings  in Ernst & Young office for Kyiv universities  students. Here they can get a foretaste of  such professions as auditor, tax consultant  and IT risk and informational security   consultant; get acquainted with the basic  requirements for entry level positions in  various departments and discuss key ten- dencies in professional development and  possible career growth directions with   Ernst & Young employees. Coffee with   a Partner is another initiative that foresees  meetings with the companys Partners   to discuss secrets of a successful career and  to find out what is evaluated during testing  and interviews at Ernst & Young.  Community Educational projects 2009 2010 Kyiv sponsoring fees, UAH 42,063 312,042 Ernst & Young people value, UAH 112,055 324,825 Donetsk sponsoring fees, UAH — 6,000 Ernst & Young people value, UAH 32,977 47,164 Ukraine fees general, UAH 187,094 690,031  40       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine   Kyiv National Economic University  named after V. Hetman   Kyiv National Trade and Economic  University   National University Kyiv Mohyla  Academy   National University Kyiv  Polytechnic Institute   Taras Shevchenko National  University of Kyiv   Donetsk National University   Donetsk National Technical  University   Donetsk National University   of Economics and Trade named  after Tugan-Baranovsky   Donetsk National University   of Management   Donetsk Institute for Artificial  Intelligence List of universities  that participate   in the program: We are thankful to those Ernst & Young   colleagues who took part in the   Step Into the Future program:   Olesya Melnyk, Oleksandr Berchiy,  Kateryna Rabtsun, Volodymyr  Zabrodskiy, Ganna Kurylenko,  Olga Makara, Oleksandr Dermanets,  Natalia Deryzemlia and Svitlana Suponina  from Assurance department, Kyiv   Yuliya Boietska, Olexander Chausovsky,  Maryna Kostina, Viktor Nikolov, Viktoria  Turska and Darya Zhuravska from  Assurance department, Donetsk   Aaron Johnson and Rostyslav Grygorenko  from Transaction Advisory Services   group, Kyiv   Tetyana Mykolenko and Iryna Kalyta   from Tax & Law department, Kyiv   Kateryna Gorbunova, Dmytro  Lazuchenkov and Oksana Hontar   from Information Technology   and Risk Services department, Kyiv   Natalia Krivtsova and Yelizaveta Babych  from Human Resources department, Kyiv   Kateryna Kayda and Natalia Vyshnevetska  from Administration, Donetsk Ernst & Young and Students   in Free Enterprise program 2010 In June 2010 Alexei Kredisov, the Managing  Partner of Ernst & Young, became the co- chairman of the advisory business council of  the Students in Free Enterprise, or SIFE, or- ganization in Ukraine. The councils main  goal is to develop a strategy and budget for  SIFE Ukraine activities. The group includes  representatives of Ukrainian businesses and  education sphere who make a considerable  contribution to the development of talented  young people in Ukraine. SIFE is an interna- tional organization that unites together stu- dents, teachers and business representatives  in 40 countries. Working in a team under the  guidance of a mentor-teacher, SIFE students  use knowledge they gained at university to  educate others in market economics, entre- preneurial skills, financial competence, prin- ciples of environmental protection and busi- ness ethics. This year, seven teams from  universities in Kyiv, Lviv, Odesa, Chernivtsi  and Kharkiv competed for the national  championship on 1 June. The SIFE teams put  their outreach programs into a presentation  format and communicated it to the jury. Lviv  National University named after Ivan Franko  won the national competition for the second  time in a row. The winners presented five  projects: Hlynchyky, Job Co, New Farm,   Sashko-Meta and Discount Boom.   Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       41   Hlynchyky was aimed at providing people with Downs syndrome with  economic opportunities to increase their personal income and foster inclusion  in the communities where they live. The team organized a club where disabled  people could make special souvenir pottery and distribute it through a chain of  souvenir shops. The project helped the disabled people to conclude long-term  agreements with five shops in Lviv region.    The Job Co project consisted in conducting a Career Forum that gathered  around 300 participants, who also had the opportunity to attend training  seminars on how to write a CV and search for a job. The team also developed a  career site for university students where they can find up-to-date information  about vacancies in different Ukrainian and international companies.   In the New Farm project, the LNU SIFE team organized training seminars   on 1C for 15 farmers to raise farming efficiency and profit margins.   In collaboration with the Swedish SIFE team they also created a hotline   call center where farmers could receive professional advice.    Sashko-Meta helped a Ukrainian painter drive consumer awareness of his  brand, make it well-known in the community and start his own business. The team  organized several promo-actions for him and ensured his participation in the  Open International Festival of Modern Art in Lviv. As a result, artist Sashko turned  his hobby into a profitable business and increased his monthly income by 39%.   The winners tried to encourage students and university staff to recycle paper.  In the framework of the Discount Boom project they collected paper for  recycling in exchange for discount cards for 16 stores and 14 restaurants.  Some 485 students participated in the project and brought in around three  tons of waste paper. Ernst & Young supports   Students Global Management  Challenge Championship   (GMC Junior)  In 2008 Ernst & Young supported the GMC  Junior competition in Ukraine for the first  time. Today we are a strategic partner of  the initiative, which involves students in  their third to fifth years of study at Ukraini- an universities. Teams of students in the  contest perform the roles of key decision  leaders in a virtual company: CEO, Finance  Director, Marketing Director, Human Re- sources Department Director, Sales Direc- tor, etc. They have to analyze the financial  status of the company, its production ca- pacity, market share and potential for de- velopment. On the basis of the conclusions  they develop and implement their teams  strategies in order to achieve maximum  stock value. Only eight teams reached the  final 2010, and the Crimean branch   of the Kyiv National Economic University  in Simferopil has become the winner.  42       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine During GMC junior we observed both the joy of victory and the bitter  taste of the defeat. However, despite the fact that some participants  were less lucky than the others, all of the teams are united in  striving for new knowledge. They are the future leaders and elite of  our country. Our company is looking ahead and would like to invite  talented young experts on board.   Alexei Kredisov, Managing Partner of Ernst & Young, Ukraine Incentive Scholarship Fund   for KMA In 2008 jointly with the National University  Kyiv Mohyla Academy Ernst & Young   created a special fund to present an annual  award to the institutions best teachers   and students. We contribute to the  universitys endowment, which will guaran- tee the realization of its statutory objectives,  its self-government and its independence.  The fund also supports scientific researches  and the latest projects in technology  development. Scholars for the 2009-2010 school year:   Iryna Grygorivna Lukyanenko, head   of the finance platform, Associate   Professor of Economic Science   Victoria Dobrynska, fifth year student   of the law faculty Ernst & Young Ambassadors In October 2010 Ernst & Young introduced  a new initiative in cooperation with the AIE- SEC in Ukraine Youth international organi- zation. The objective of the program is the  professional education and development of  Ukrainian university students. The program  includes five cities: Donetsk, Lviv, Kharkiv,  Odesa and Dnipropetrovsk. From October 2010 till May 2011 Ernst &  Young and AIESEC will conduct educational  seminars and presentations for students  who want to know more about the auditors  profession. The program gives future spe- cialists the unique opportunity to under- stand better what skills and knowledge the  labor market demands. Students will meet  with Ernst & Young professionals and   recruitment specialists.  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       43 Open Door Days   at Ernst & Young In spring 2010 we held several Open Door  Days for graduates of the Kyiv National Uni- versity of Trade and Economics, the Kyiv   National Economic University named after  V. Hetman, the Kyiv School of Economics  and the National University Kyiv Mohyla  Academy. The participants were told about  career opportunities for graduates at our  firm and introduced to the Ernst & Young  structure and corporate culture. The guests  asked questions about the daily work rou- tine of the audit, transactions and advisory  teams and learned the specifics of different  departments. The event was followed by a  Human Resources department presentation  with focus on how to take the first steps to- wards a successful career. The presentation  was supported by personal examples and  valuable tips.  In Donetsk we also organize meetings be- tween students and employees. During  these meetings students get useful informa- tion about auditors profession and employ- ment details and can ask questions on how  to prepare a solid CV and go through the   interview process successfully. They can also  meet successful Ernst & Young employees  and ask questions about the requirements  international companies have towards  potential staff.   Odesa National University   named after I.I. Mechnikov   Odesa State Economic University   Odessa National Polytechnic  University   Dnipropetrovsk National University  named after Oles Gonchar   Dnipropetrovsk National Financial  Academy   Dnipropetrovsk University   of Economics and Law   named after Alfred Nobel   Prydniprovsk State Academy of  Civil Engineering and Architecture   Ivan Franko National University Lviv  National University   National University Lviv Politechnika   V.N. Karazin Kharkiv National  University   Kharkiv National Economic  University   Donetsk National University   Donetsk National Technical  University   Donetsk National University of  Economics and Trade named after  Tugan-Baranovsky   Donetsk National University of  Management   Donetsk Institute for Artificial  Intelligence Universities participating in the program:  44       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine I never thought such big companies as Ernst & Young could be   so close to students. Now it doesnt seem so scary to start looking   for a job there.   One of the participants of the Open Door Day event Meetings with accounting   and audit professors  in Donetsk In 2010 we started a new initiative for Do- netsk universities. The Donetsk office of  Ernst & Young opened its doors to professors  of accounting and audit from leading local  universities. The first event was an introduc- tory meeting, while the second one had the  B2Universities format – Olena Lyakh, Senior  of Audit department, prepared a presenta- tion about hot points in auditing. We consider  it important that academics who are respon- sible for the new generations development  should be updated about changes in audit  standards and procedures. We hope these  meetings between practitioners and teachers  will become regular ones.  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       45 Christmas gifts for orphans Charity work Ernst & Young Ukraines charity program took  shape back in 2006 and its main trends have  remained unchanged since then. Volunteering  is an important part of our culture, and we  dont only provide an extra pair of hands. We  contribute more to our communities and give  our people more meaningful experiences by  tapping into our professional skills and capabili- ties. FY 2010 strengthened the Ernst & Young  volunteers team. The scope of volunteers en- gagement has expanded and the relationship  with the beneficiaries of charity programs — kids in orphanages, kids with cancer who un- dergo long, costly treatment — has deepened;  the charity foundations that work in these  same areas have become our true partners. The 2010 New Year holidays were especial- ly warm for participants in the charity   program. The charity committee proposed   a detailed template for a childs letter   to St. Nicholas for kids in the three orphan- ages: Ivaniv, Boyarka and Snizhne. The chil- dren told St. Nicholas about their achieve- ments, confessed their sins and shared  their dreams. How surprised the children  were when they saw their cherished wishes  had come true! Heres how St. Nicholas  worked: the childrens letters were sent to  the attention of Ernst & Young Ukraine em- ployees, many of whose hearts melted.  Ernst & Young mothers and fathers had one  more task on their pre-Christmas to do  lists. Some joined visiting teams and went  to hand their gifts to the children in person.  More initiatives for orphans In 2010 the Best Pupil contest was   re-launched at the three orphanages.   Though in lot of cases good marks in school  are only subject of a self-belief to be rebuilt  in a child. Good marks in school, however,  can rebuild a childs self-esteem. The  rewards that this Ernst & Young contest  brings provide stimulus towards academic  achievements.  Charity donations FY2009 FY2010 Orphanages and projects for orphans 76,782 117,917 Help to children with cancer and projects in healthcare 134,607 209,265 Charity, other* 54,000 125,900 Totally charity donations 265,389 453,086  46       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine Here are the winners for 2009/2010   and their prizes:   Natalia Rudenko, Boyarka, 15: a shopping  tour to Kyiv; she chose a nice dress and  shoes for her graduation party along with  her Ernst & Young friends;    Zhenya Gerasimenko, Boyarka, 10:  a new school suit and a set of toy cars;   Kristina Bekher, Snizhne, 10:   nice clothing of Kristinas choice;   Margarita Gavrilyuk, Ivaniv, 15:  a mobile phone;   Sergiy Buts, Ivaniv, 14: a mobile phone We usually visit kids at the end of the school  year and organize various entertaining and  educational activities. In 2010 a master class  on tissue painting, where each participant  produced an original t-shirt, was organized   at the Boyarka orphanage, while children in  Snizhne played pirates with their friends from  Ernst & Young and enjoyed shashlyk. A monthly birthday celebration was orga- nized this year by Ernst & Youngs Donetsk  employees for the children at the Snizhne  orphanage. Kids got gifts of their choice,  plus sweets, music and a party with real  guests — their friends from Ernst & Young. This year Ernst & Young employees have  announced a books drive for Snizhne kids.  Dozens of encyclopedias, scholarly and  fiction books were gathered and enlarged  the orphanages library. The amateur movie 5 years of friendship  was produced by Ernst & Young volunteers  and shown at the Ivaniv orphanage during the  Christmas visit. Picnics, concerts, excursions,  master classes, contests, journeys, subbot- niks — unforgettable moments from these and  other events from the friendship between  Ernst & Young and the Ivaniv kids were   on display and made a great impression.  Support to graduates For three years we have been providing  input into the Pryiateli Ditey Fund program,  which is aimed at supporting orphanage  graduates during their student years. This  year we sponsored 10 students to partici- pate in the program. The monthly stipend  allows students to pay for extra classes and  purchase books, clothes and food. The  meetings and training courses the Fund   organizes are of great value for program  participants. At one such meeting in April  2010, Ernst & Young presented PCs to the  students who were recommended by the  programs coordinator as most deserving  for their engagement with Fund projects  and excellent academic results. At the same  meeting Natalia Krivtsova of the Human Re- sources department gave an interesting and  important for all students training session  on CV writing and employment hints. Way to Success summer   camp for orphans In 2010 Ernst & Young supported the Way to  Success summer camp for orphans in  Skadovsk. The camp was organized by the  charity fund of Edinstvennaya magazine.   Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       47 the opportunity to demonstrate their artis- tic talents and offer their handmade mas- terpieces for purchase by colleagues. The  amazing photos, paintings, knitted goods  and stationary decorated in decoupage  style sold out in one day. Some 3,000 hryv- nia were raised for Vadym. COMMUNITY — targets for 2011: we plan  to stay committed to the targets set in our  corporate responsibility program, develop  existing and new partnerships that will add  efficiency to our community-related pro- grams. Ongoing surveys on community  needs and Ernst & Young people engage- ment will help us pursue our priorities.   Ernst & Young has been supporting the pro- gram since it was launched in 2007. The goal  is to teach the children to plan their future,  believe in success, work in teams and   resolve conflicts in a healthy manner. The  camps curriculum included psychological  training aimed at overcoming communica- tion barriers, computer literacy training,   artistic molding activities, hairdressing and  master classes in photography, journalism,  cinematography, make-up and other sub- jects. This year the program included over  100 boys and girls from orphanages in Kyiv,  Chernigiv and Cherkasy regions. Leaders  who showed their worth in 11 nominations  defined by Ernst & Young received special  prizes. The young person who won the Ac- tors Talent category, for example, received  a book of biographies of popular modern ac- tors; the Paparazzi winner received an mp3  player with a voice recorder. We hope that  the children, having tasted success during  those unforgettable summer days, keep on  striving throughout their challenging lives,  and that the prizes they won help them cul- tivate their favorite pursuits. New developments   of the oncology group Targeted help to children with cancer is on  one of the main support channels for Ernst &  Young Ukraine charity group. This year the  number of Salary Deduction Program partici- pants grew to 80, which is twice as many as  before. This means that more children got our  help in their cruel fight for life. The funds are  being spent on medication, diagnostics, treat- ment costs, surgeries and sometimes food  and toys for children staying in onco centers  in Ukraine. Apart from targeted financial sup- port to children, we also provided assistance  to hospitals and charity funds implementing  projects in the oncology sphere. We have es- tablished regular deliveries of consumables  (disposable syringes, gloves, detergents) to  the transplant department at Okhmatdet.   We are also continuing to support the Krona   foundation with the Tochka Zhyttya project.   In 2009 we have given our support for a labo- ratory for bone marrow donor diagnostics to  be open. In 2010 we made our input into pro- viding chemical reagents for the laboratory.  In December 2009 the oncology group vol- unteers held a charity sale for Vadym Gre- ben, who had undergone an auto bone mar- row transplantation and needed medicine  for his rehabilitation period. Employees had   48       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine This is the second Corporate Responsibility  Report prepared for Ernst & Young practice  in Ukraine.  It covers the activities of the three offices  located in Kyiv and Donetsk during the   financial year 2010, i.e. the period from  July 1, 2009 to June 30, 2010.   Prior report was inssued in March 2010   and covered the period from July 1, 2008  to June 30, 2009. Lead Committee has been established to:   define the format of the report and report  preparation schedule   agree on approach to scope for the Report  with regard to GRI criteria   evaluate results of feedback survey   for the Report 2009   ensure accuracy, completeness, and   reliability of the information collected.  Representatives from corporate responsi- bility committee, Human Resources   department division, procurement team,  marketing/PR department have entered   the Lead Committee. The structure of the report corresponds to  Ernst & Young overall approach to corporate  responsibilty and represents information   in four chapters: : Workplace, Marketplace,  Environment and Community. The Report  presents companys performance in eco- nomic, social and environmental areas  wherever the effect may be considered    as significant. It is prepared in accordance  with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative)   G3 sustainability guideline. The Report was reviewed by companys   specialists in the area of non-financial   reporting and sustainable development.  Our intention is to contuinue reporting   on corporate responsibility on a yearly   basis.     Your feedback on the Report is important for us. We look forward receiving your comments and will be ready to answer your questions at the following address:  cr@ua.ey.com   Report parameters Contact information  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       49 GRI disclosures  and indicators Short description Page,   comments UNGC   principle 1.1 Statement on corporate responsibility strategy from the chief executive 2-4 I, II 2.1  Name of the organisation 5 2.2  Primary brands, services 6 2.3 Operational structure 7 2.4 Location of organizations headquarters 5 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 2.7 Markets served 6 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 6,7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or  ownership There were no significant   changes apart from partners   number changed from 15 to 16 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 30 3.1  Report period 48 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 48 3.3 Reporting cycle 48 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 48 3.5 Process for defining report content 48 3.6 Boundary of the report 48 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report No limitations  3.8 Basis for reporting on other entities that can significantly affect comparability  from period to period No other entities 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier  reports 34 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary,   or measurement methods No significant changes 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standards disclosures  49,50 4.1  Governance structure of the organization 7, 11 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 6 GRI G3 disclosures and performance indicators, UNGC principles table  GRI disclosures  and indicators Short description Page, comments UNGC   principle 4.3 The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent   and/or non-executive members No independent or non- executive members of  governance body 4.4 Mechanism for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction  to the highest governance body 15, 16 I, II, III 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles  relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance 3,4,11,12,24,31,39 4.13 Membership in associations and (inter)national advocacy organizations 28,29 4.14  List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10 EC1 Economic performance 7 EC5 Relevant comparison of wages  19 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided  primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement 39,45 EN1 Materials used 33,34 EN 4 Energy used 32 EN5 Energy saved 32 VII, VIII, IX EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of services 32-38 VII, VIII, IX EN27 Percentage of materials collected for recycling 32-34 VII, VIII, IX LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 13 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 13 V LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees 13,19,20 IV LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 18 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development  reviews 17 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according  to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 14 I, II LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men  to women by employee category 14 VI SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organizations anti-corruption policies and  procedures 25 X SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 27-29 PR5 Practice related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring  customer satisfaction 25  Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine       51 GRI application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self declared  Optional Third party checked GRI checked  52       Corporate responsibility report 2010. Ernst & Young Ukraine List of abbreviations used in the Report ACCA  Association of Chartered Certified Accountants AmCham  American Chamber of Commerce ASQ  Assessment Service Quality CCaSS  Climate Change and Sustainability Services CEO  Chief Executive Officer CFA  Chartered Financial Analyst  CIA  Certified Internal Auditor CIMA  Chartered Institute of Management Accountants CISA  Certified Information Systems Auditor  CISM  Certified Information Security Manager  CISSP  Certified Information Systems Security Professional CPA  Certified Public Accountant CR  Corporate Responsibility CSR  Corporate Social Responsibility EBA  European Business Association EHS  Environment, Health and Safety EOY  Entrepreneur of the Year  EU   European Union EYU  Ernst & Young and You FIDS  Fraud Investigation and Dispute Services  FSC  Forest Stewardship Council FY  Fiscal year GICT  Global Independence Compliance Team GMC  Global Management Challenge GPS  Global People Survey GRI  Global Reporting Initiative HR  Human Resources IAASB  International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board IFAC  International Federation of Accountants ISO  International Organization for Standardization IT  Informational Technologies KMA  Kyiv Mohyla Academy KPI  Key Performance Indicator LNU  Lviv National University MAC  Multi-stakeholder Advisory Council MAKE  Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise NFR  Non-financial reporting NGO  Non-governmental Organization PAC  People Advisory Council PC  Personal computer PMP  Project Management Professional  SIFE  Students in Free Enterprize TAS  Transaction Advisory Services UNGC  United Nations Global Compact  Ernst & Young Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in assurance, tax,  transactions and advisory services. Worldwide,  our 141 000 people are united by our shared  values and an unwavering commitment to quality.  We make a difference by helping our people,  our clients, and our wider communities achieve  potential.  For more information, please visit: www.ey.com/ua.  In Ukraine Ernst & Young established its practice   in 1991. Ernst & Young Ukraine now employs about  500 professionals providing a full range of services  to a number of multinational corporations and  Ukrainian enterprises.  2011 Ernst & Young  All rights reserved.