Global Compact Communication of Progress Messe Frankfurt 2010/2011  2 3 Building a brighter tomorrow – today  Gain and sustain. www.messefrankfurt.com And build your good business on our good service. Messe Frankfurt has long been committed to the  principles of sustainable, ecological and socially  responsible business; corporate responsibility means  more than just lip service to these practices. We take   on responsibility in a number of ways, including  photovoltaic systems on our exhibition grounds and  numerous other measures related to the environment,  education, social issues and culture. One year ago in June 2010, Messe Frankfurt documented  its commitment to maintaining and expanding this  responsibility by signing the UN Global Compact. We  have officially endorsed the ten principles of this  initiative in the areas of human rights, labour, the  environment and anti-corruption and are committed to  upholding them. Since then, we strive on a daily basis to integrate these  principles in our company, whether practically,  strategically or culturally. Tried-and-true practices have  been retained and further developed, while new  projects have been introduced and integrated. The  future undoubtedly holds exciting challenges for us.  Our achievements in corporate social responsibility in  the past year and Messe Frankfurts goals for the future  are documented in the pages that follow. Wolfgang Marzin President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  Messe Frankfurt GmbH Preface from the Executive Board   4 5 About Messe Frankfurt Messe Frankfurts profile    Messe Frankfurt supports exhibitors by opening up international markets for their products. As the worlds  largest trade fair corporation with its own exhibition grounds, we can offer our customers a presence in  more than 150 countries around the globe. Before, during and after the trade fair, we are attentive hosts  who take excellent care of our exhibitors, visitors and guests – everywhere in the world. Our tradition and our vision are the foundations for what could be called a global artisan workshop. Our  successful trade fairs are the result of careful craftsmanship and the outstanding dedication of our  employees. More than 1,700 experts around the world make each of our trade fairs a one-of-a-kind event.  All members of our team contribute their own valuable expertise. At each venue, the event is carefully  planned, prepared and implemented. As a global artisan workshop, Messe Frankfurt unites the highest  quality with proximity and international orientation – at every trade fair, be it with one of our 28 global  subsidiaries, over 50 international Sales Partners or at our headquarters in Frankfurt. Our organisation exemplifies internationalism. Over the course of the year, events made by Messe  Frankfurt take place in more than 30 locations. In 2010 alone, we organised a total of 88 trade fairs,   of which 52 were held outside Germany. Our company is publicly owned, with the City of Frankfurt holding 60 percent and the State of Hesse   40 percent. Frankfurt am Main has always been and will continue to be our home. This is where 31 trade  fairs were held in 2010 with more than 36,700 exhibitors and around 1.47 million visitors – in addition to  93 congresses and conventions with 110,000 participants. Our international flagship fairs left their mark  on markets and trends. In the Consume & Leisure segment, Ambiente, Beautyworld, Christmasworld and Paperworld are the most  important meeting places for the consumer goods sector. In the realm of Textiles & Textile Technology,  Heimtextil, Techtextil and Texcare are international highlights for the textile industry. Our industry  classics and giants also include a number of major technology events within the Technology & Production  and Mobility & Infrastructure segments, from Automechanika for the automotive sector to Light+Building,  IFFA, ISH, Musikmesse and Prolight+Sound for other fields. With all of these trade fairs, we offer individual coverage of the global markets of each industry. We  provide trade fair visitors with a transparent overview of the current range of products and services  available as well as developments within their sector.  Our global reputation as experienced hosts has spread. Internationally famous events such as the IAA  motor show, the Frankfurt Book Fair and Achema, the worlds largest chemistry trade fair, feel at home  with us and value our hospitality. Focus on corporate sustainability As a global trade fair corporation, Messe Frankfurt and its subsi- diaries have a responsibility to operate profitably while conserving  resources and maintaining socially responsible workplaces.     Whether solutions in the field of energy technology, the usage of renewable energy and climate protection  measures at ISH; energy efficiency at Light+Building; recycling and other green office solutions at Paper -  world; conferences, events, green directories and eco-textiles at our textile trade fairs Heimtextil, Techtextil  and Texworld; the labelling of products manufactured in accordance with socially responsible standards at  Interstoff Asia Essential; technologies for water management at Water Expo China; or recycling and waste  disposal as a key topic at the Waste&Recycling Expo: sustainability is a recurring theme at our trade fairs. New sustainable events in Messe Frankfurts portfolio include the Ethical Fashion Show as a platform for  sustainable fashion, the GREENshowroom for high-end eco fashion and an event where recycling of printing  supplies is addressed. Messe Frankfurt is also dedicated to social and cultural sustainability in its complementary programmes  and non-show activities. Our commitment is focused on the following four fields: Environmental friendliness Environmentally friendly operations are a key  issue at Messe Frankfurt. We support the Forest  Stewardship Council and use FSC-certified  paper; visitors ride local transport for free and  employees receive subsidies for using buses  and trains; logistics are co-ordinated in our own  cargo centre and intelligent management  systems ensure a smooth traffic flow; optimised  hall technology conserves resources; three  photovoltaic systems produce electricity for our  own use, and up to 90% of waste after trade  fairs is fed back into the material cycle. Promoting education and science Messe Frankfurt has sponsored an endowed  chair for international economic policy at  Frankfurt University since 2007. The professor-  ship is intended to bridge the gap between  academic research and the international  exhibition industry. The chair is held by Prof.  Matthias Schndeln. Furthermore, Akademie Messe Frankfurt serves  as a comprehensive professional development  network where employees from Messe Frankfurt  and elsewhere undergo targeted training. Social responsibility  For Messe Frankfurt, corporate social  responsibility also means responsibility towards  its employees. Flexible working time models  are offered and employees can keep physically  and mentally fit by joining one of the many  company sports groups.  What is more, Messe Frankfurt offers back-up  childcare services for its staff. Accessibility is another important issue at Messe  Frankfurt: the entire exhibition grounds are  designed with barrier-free access and mobility  in mind. Social and cultural activities  Messe Frankfurts commitment to cultural  activities includes targeted sponsoring of events  and prizes for outstanding achievements in  music, architecture and design. The Frankfurt  Music Prize for example recognises musicians  for outstanding achievements, while the Design  Plus Award honours excellent design.  Off-site events such as Luminale, the Biennale  of Lighting Culture, attract visitors from around  the globe, as does the Rheingau Music Festival,  where Messe Frankfurt is a sponsor.  6 7 Examples of sustainability Since Messe Frankfurt signed the Global Compact last year, it has  not only further developed its CSR activities but also made its  overall operations more sustainable.    Group-wide CSR Advisory Committee created The purpose of the Corporate Social Responsibility Advisory Committee established when Messe Frankfurt  joined the Global Compact is to ensure the systematic integration and deployment of the ten principles  throughout the company; it is constantly working to improve and expand CSR activities. This committee  includes representatives from all company divisions and meets every six months to ensure an active  exchange of ideas and information and ongoing growth in our corporate responsibilities. Charter for Diversity joined In the era of globalisation, we can only succeed by recognising and utilising diversity – in our workforce,  in our customers and in our business partners. People from roughly 30 different countries work for  Messe Frankfurt at our Frankfurt headquarters alone, while our events attract exhibitors and visitors  from 190 countries. Together with the German state of Hesse and 14 other companies and associations in the state, Messe  Frankfurt signed the Charter for Diversity in February 2011. This diversity initiative from the German federal  government aims to recognise, appreciate and integrate diversity in our company culture.  By joining this programme, Messe Frankfurt pledges to create a working environment free of prejudice  and discrimination and to cultivate a corporate culture characterised by mutual respect and recognition,  regardless of age, disability, nationality, religion, sexual orientation or philosophy. Promoting diversity is essential for a global company like Messe Frankfurt; diversity amongst employees  with their distinct abilities and talents paves the way for creative, innovative solutions. New citizen-owned solar power station installed Since 2009, Messe Frankfurt together with Sonneninitiative e.V. and with the assistance of energy  suppliers Mainova AG has been operating citizen-owned power stations for generating climate-friendly  energy on its exhibition grounds. This further emphasises our commitment to using innovative  environmental technologies and promotes electricity from renewable sources. Our employees and  Frankfurt citizens were able to purchase shares in solar power stations to show their dedication to  protecting the environment and reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Following the successful start-up of two photovoltaic systems on the roof of Hall 10, an additional  photovoltaic park was installed on the roof of the Rebstock parking garage in September 2010 – the first  solar carport station on top of a parking garage. The electricity generated can be used on-site, for instance  as a climate-friendly way of charging electric vehicles. But we have even better reasons for pursuing this project: with a guaranteed annual yield of approximately  985,000 kilowatt hours, roughly 780 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions will be avoided which would  otherwise be generated by burning fossil fuels. In fact the premises of Messe Frankfurt boast the largest photovoltaic stations of the Frankfurt urban area.  With more than 1,100 kW maximum output, they will generate enough electricity to power 350 homes in  the coming 20 to 30 years. And thats not all: it is already planned to expand the project by approximately  300 kilowatts. Ethical Fashion Show and GREENshowroom taken over The boom in sustainable products has been apparent at our worldwide events for many years now.  Since 2007 for example, Messe Frankfurt has organised special forums at its textiles fairs to show the  importance of ecologically and socially responsible textiles, thereby creating an unparalleled platform  for sustainable materials and accessories. In April 2010, Messe Frankfurt expanded its portfolio with an event dedicated exclusively to the  ecological, sustainable and socially responsible production of fashion, the Ethical Fashion Show in Paris.  The fashion shows and special exhibitions of this annual event established by Isabelle Quh in 2004  feature ethical fashions from more than one hundred brands.  With our expertise as the worldwide market leader in the textiles field, we hope to increase awareness  of this event and plan to launch it internationally. In this way, Messe Frankfurt supports brands that  promote fair trade and ecological production. Following the acquisition of the Ethical Fashion Show, another small but exclusive event will be added   to Messe Frankfurts textiles portfolio in July 2011, sending a strong message to the market for sustainably  produced fashion: during the Berlin Fashion Week, the GREENshowroom will present environmentally  friendly high-end fashion, accessories and lifestyle products produced in accordance with socially  responsible standards. Founders Magdalena Schaffrin and Jana Keller will continue to direct the  GREENshowroom while leveraging Messe Frankfurts profound expertise in textiles.   Messe Frankfurt GmbH Ludwig-Erhard-Anlage 1 60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Tel. +49 69 75 75-56 61 Fax +49 69 75 75-66 00 csr@messefrankfurt.com www.messefrankfurt.com V.i.S.d.P. Kai Hattendorf  Editor Pauline Weber The UN Global Compacts ten principles Human rights  Principle 1:  Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed   human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.   Labour Principle 3:  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition   of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.   Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.