8 IStORIjAt Hypo Alpe Adria se na srpskom tritu prvi put  pojavljuje kao lizing kompanija. Hypo Alpe -Adria-  Leasing d.o.o. Beograd, i pionir je u ovoj oblasti  poslovanja u Srbiji. Odmah je stekla poziciju lidera i  ouvala je sve do danas.   Odmah zatim joj se pridruuje i Hypo Alpe- Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd koja posluje u Srbiji od  2002. godine, kao deo Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank  International, najuspenije regionalne banke  alpsko-jadranskog regiona. Za samo osam meseci  poslovanja ostvarila je stopu rasta od ak 853%, to  je u tom momentu prevazilo sva oekivanja.  Zahvaljujui konstantnom i vrlo snanom rastu,  danas je banka jedna od pet najznaajnijih  finansijskih institucija u zemlji, prisutna u svim  veim privrednim centrima u Srbiji, pa samim tim  ima vrhunski portfolio, preko 800 zaposlenih i  razgranatu poslovnu mreu. Centrala Hypo Alpe- Adria-Bank a.d. nalazi se u beogradskom PC Ue. U proteklim godinama uloili smo puno truda i  znanja kako bi graani stekli poverenje u nau  profesionalnost i sposobnost. Danas smo ponosni  to moemo da kaemo da smo u tome uspeli,  jer smo pre svega partner koji klijentima prua  apsolutnu sigurnost i poverenje, a u svemu tome je  najznaajnije obostrano zadovoljstvo.  17 DeFInIeMO VISOKe StAnDARDe  POSlOVAnjA, KORPORAtIVne  KUltURe I KOMUnIKACIje Hypo Banka u svom poslovanju primenjuje Kodeks profesio- nalnog bankarskog ponaanja. Banka nastoji da primenjuje  visoke standarde poslovanja, ne samo kada je u pitanju obav- ljanje radnih zadataka, ve i interna i eksterna komunikacija,  korporativni identitet, kao i ponaanje zaposlenih na radnom  mestu. U tom smislu, procedure poslovanja sadre i Pravilnik o  ponaanju i odevanju svih zaposlenih, Pravilnik o ponaanju i  odevanju zaposlenih u mrei filijala, kao i Pravilnik o internoj i  eksternoj komunikaciji, a kao deo navedenih standarda.  U skladu sa evropskim standardima poslovanja, rad se odvija  u fleksibilnom radnom vremenu koje omoguava naim za- poslenima da se bolje organizuju u okviru zakonski utvre- nih pravila. Bolja organizacija radnog vremena podrazume- va i veu efikasnost zaposlenih, uz obavezu da se sa svojim  rukovodiocima dogovore o izboru radnog vremena koje e  omoguiti da radni proces tee neometano.  Puenje u kancelarijama banke strogo je zabranjeno. Za- posleni imaju pravo da se petkom, uz potovanje osnovnih  pravila pristojnosti, odevaju neto oputenije, jer taj dan je  casual Friday KOnStAntnO PROFeSIOnAlnO USA- VRAVAnje I RAZVOj ZAPOSlenIH Kao i u prethodnim godinama svim zaposlenima Banke bilo  je omogueno struno usavravanje i razvoj. Poseban na- glasak bio je na usavravanju zaposlenih iz mree filijala. Od  ukupnog broja dana treninga koje su zaposleni pohaali to- kom godine najvei broj je bio posveen specifinim bankar- skim i profesionalnim temama, kao i vetinama zaposlenih,  kako na nerukovodeim tako i na rukovodeim pozicijama. U 2010. prosean broj trening dana po zaposlenom iznosio je  3,15 to je u okvirima okvirima evropskih standarda, kao i stan- darda Hypo Grupe kada su u pitanju trening i razvoj zaposlenih.  U odnosu na prethodne dve godine broj treninga, seminara i  radionica u organizaciji Grupe, banke ili eksternih provajdera,  koje su zaposleni pohaali u 2010-oj, vei je u proseku za 6% Broj kurseva koje su zaposleni HBSE pohaali 2008 - 2010.: 2008. 215 2009. 223 2010. 232 Pregled odranih treninga u 2010. godini Pored velikog broja treninga u organizaciji eksternih trening  provajdera (NBS Akademija za bankarstvo i finansije, Udruenje  banaka Srbije i drugi) koje su zaposleni pohaali, tokom godine  organizovan je znaajan broj internih i in house treninga.  Business Risk Analysis & Corporate Finance trening Ovaj trening u organizaciji Hypo Grupe imao je za cilj uspo- stavljanje jedinstvene biznis i risk kulture izmeu upravljanja  odnosima s klijentima i upravljanja kreditnim rizikom. Trening  se sastojao iz tri modula se iz tri modula (Basics, Advance  and Strategic Client Presentation) u trajanju od sedam dana.  Tokom godine pohaalo ga je vie od 1000 zaposlenih irom  Grupe. Treneri nemakog trening instituta Korn & Korn u  Austriji su obuili preko 350 zaposlenih (iz Hypo Srbija 47  polaznika). Vie od 650 zaposlenih obuku je pohaalo interno  u trening centrima u Beogradu, Zagrebu i Udinama.  U ulozi predavaa na internim treninzima u trening centru  u Srbiji nali su se zaposleni koji su prethodno obueni od   28 jednake mogun raunar za svakoga Savremeno doba gotovo da se ne moe ni zamisliti bez raunara i inter- neta. Nekima od naih sugraana potrebna je posebna obuka da bi bili u  mogunosti da koriste raunar. Akademija Forum ve godinama organizuje  program  kolovanja za rad na raunaru i internetu, nemenjen slepim i slabo- vidim osobama, koji je nastavljen i ove godine zahvaljujui podrci Narodne  kancelarije predsednika Republike Srbije i Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beo- grad. Ovakvo kolovanje podrazumeva primenu posebnog plana i programa,  metodologije rada kao i korienje specijalne tehnike opreme i softvera bez  kojih nije mogue kolovati slepe i slabovide osobe za rad na raunaru.   31 hypo grupa obradovala maliane Doma za nezbrinutu decu Drinka Pavlovic Povodom novogodinjih i boinih praznika, predstavnici Hypo Grupe  posetili su Dom za nezbrinutu decu Drinka Pavlovi na Senjaku i obradovali  sve maliane prazninim paketiima i dobrim raspoloenjem. U nameri da  pomognu i razvesele decu koja detinjstvo provode u ovom domu, zaposleni  u Hypo Grupi proveli su prepodne u druenju sa malianima koji su uivali u  novim igrakama i drugim poklonima, ali i u pozorinoj predstavi humanitar- ne organizacije Mali Veliki ljudi. Vreme novogodinjih praznika je vreme radosti, veselja i darivanja i elja za- poslenih u Hypo Grupi bila je da poklonima obraduju maliane doma Drinka  Pavlovi i da na taj nain daju svoj doprinos ustanovi koja ima preko 125  godina dugu tradiciju privremenog zbrinjavanja dece svih uzrasta. hYPo lizing za treu sigurnu kuu u beogradu Kompanija Hypo lizing ukljuila se novanom donacijom u akciju RTS za  izgradnju tree sigurne kue u Beogradu, iju realizaciju je organizaciono  pomogla Narodna kancelarija predsednika Republike. Aktuelna donacija, upuena za akciju izgradnje tree Sigurne kue u Beo- gradu, predstavlja nastavak dobre tradicije humanitarnih projekata koje  podrava ili samostalno inicira i sprovodi Hypo lizing. Ovo je jo jedna u nizu  akcija koja svedoi o trajnom opredeljenju kompanije da pomogne i podri  ljude u svom okruenju da uzmu  budunost u svoje ruke i svoje planove,  elje i snove pretoe u stvarnost.  www.hypo-alpe-adria.rs  together 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd Going forward  3 Supportive. Friendly. Fair.  5 Responsible. Clean. Sustainable.  7 Safe business tradition of more than 100 years of experience  8 Sustainable growth – formula of successful business  11 We work and study  13 Call Centre of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank  13 Winning team  15   We respect the rights of our employees  15   Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd up close  16   We are equal team players  16    We define high standards of business, Corporate culture and communication 17    Constant professional education and development of employees  17    We nourish excellent human relations and appreciate hard work and effort 18   Plans for 2011  19 Formula of success  20 Active partner - safe foothold  24 We stimulate preservation and development of cultural values  25 We aid young talents to realize their dreams  26 We are there in the hardest of times  27 Equal opportunity for everyone  28 Children delight in children  30 Health is priceless  33 Growing ecologically  34 Education for a better future  36 Support for supreme sports achievements  38 Pro Futuro Fund  40 Contents  Vladimir upi, Chairman of the Executive Board of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd  5 Dear friends and colleagues, we present the Communication on Progress, representing results of implementing principles  of Global Compact of the United Nations in the past year. This compact is of immeasurable importance for the society, especially at the moment  when the world is recovering from the economic crisis and its lasting effects reflected in  unemployment and poverty.  By acting as we do and being responsible to our society and individuals we wish to express our  strong support to this compact and out strategic orientation towards helping the community  we operate in, by observing all ten principles of the Global Compact related to observing  human and labour rights, protection of the environment and anti-corruption.  In the past year our engagement was especially strong in strengthening capacity for  expansion of education.  We opened the door to interesting art projects, we helped the most needy to have a new,  better start.  Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd wants to make an example of active corporate social  responsibility in the coming years and thus continue successful business operations. We are faced with a period full of challenges and we want and plan to do many more things  that would make living in our country better. We hope that the number of our partners in  the Global Compact of the United Nations will keep growing and that all of them will keep  supporting this project. Yours sincerely Vladimir upi, Chairman of the Executive Board Supportive. Friendly.  Fair.  7 Ladies and gentlemen, Principles of corporate social responsibility are key to healthy and sustainable business. Because of that we are proud to  present you in this Communication on Progress all that Hypo bank does continually for its community. We hope that our engagement in the area of human and labour rights, protection of the environment and anti-corruption  will contribute to better quality of life of citizens of this country.  We have signed the Global Compact of the UN which represents one of the strongest initiatives to decrease poverty, to  protect the environment and realize rights to more rightful and better life. In cooperation with other members of the Global  Compact we exchange experience, knowledge and make joint efforts to achieve tasks we have set to do business and to live  in a better environment. We have demonstrated our strong support to the Global Compact of the UN through numerous activities, which could not  have been achieved without selfless efforts of all our employees. Executive Board of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd Responsible. Clean. Sustainable.  8 HiStory Hypo-Alpe-Adria appeared in the Serbian market  for the first time as a leasing company. As a  pioneer in this area, Hypo Alpe-Adria-Leasing d.o.o.  Beograd immediately positioned itself as a leader,  remaining one until today. In 2002 Hypo Alpe-Adria-Leasing is joined by Hypo  Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd, as a part of the Hypo  Alpe-Adria-Bank International, the most successful  regional bank in the Alps-Adriatic region. Hypo Alpe- Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd achieved a growth rate of  as much as 853% in just eight months, exceeding all  expectations event in a moment like that. Thanks to its constant and very strong growth, the  bank was among the top five financial institutions  in the country as of December 31, 2010, present in  all major economic centres in Serbia, with top-of- the-class portfolio, more than 800 employees and a  wide business network. Head office of Hypo Alpe- Adria-Bank a.d. is located in the business centre  "Ue" in Belgrade. In the past years we invested a lot of efforts and  knowledge to win the trust of the population in  our professionalism and capabilities. Today we are  proud to say that we have succeeded in it, because  first of all, we are a partner offering absolute  security and trust to our clients, with satisfaction of  all as the most important goal.  9 Hypo Alpe Adria was founded in 1896 in Klagenfurt (Austria), started its expan- sion for the first time in 1988, by opening a Hypo Alpe-Adria-Leasing branch  in Udine. Today Hypo Alpe Adria has a network of 380 branches. In accordance  with its system of values acquired through long years of experience and modern  banking principles it operates in the Alps-Adriatic region in 11 countries: Austria,  Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Germany,  Hungary, Bulgaria and Macedonia. Our presence in the ex-YU countries has been  very important to us and we consider it to be a large responsibility.    Member companies of the Hypo Alpe Adria Group employ around 8000  people, and more than 1.2 million people use its services in all group markets. In December 2009 the Republic of Austria became the sole and 100%  shareholder of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG. Hypo Alpe Adria is  a strong financial institution dedicated to economic growth of the Alps- Adriatic region. Our goal is to become a leader in the most efficient and best  quality financial services in all markets we operate in. Core of our activities is  based in long term relationships with clients based on loyalty and discretion,  which we gain through constant effort to become the best in the market, to  comprehend the market and needs of clients. Hypo Alpe Adria is a powerful financial group dedicated to  economic success in the Alpine-Adriatic region. Our goal  is to become a leader in providing most efficient and top  quality financial services in all markets where we operate.  The core of our activities consists of the long-term relation- ships with clients based on loyalty and discretion, that  arise from constant effort to be the best on the market, to  understand market and customer needs. Hypo Alpe Adria  Safe business   tradition More than 100 years of experience  11 Sustainable growth –  formula of successful  business  One of the most important strategic goals of Republic of Serbia is to become  a member of the European Union, and one of the basic EU principles is  solidarity, representing a general goal of all European societies. All countries  aspiring to this principle, including the Serbian Government, participate  actively in the process of social inclusion in order to improve quality of life of  all citizens of Serbia. Realization of this goal demands changes that should  accelerate the social and economic development of our country and lead  to improvement of material standing of all social groups, families and every  individual. Having in mind the basic principles of sustainable business, the goal of  corporate social responsibility of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd is to  contribute to development of the society and decrease of poverty through  its activities in Serbia by adhering to two key strategies: 1.  Providing support and aid for development of education, culture, art and  sport in Serbia in order to strengthen capacity for generating new work  places, increasing employment capacity of young people and promoting  healthy life style. 2.  Mitigation of effects of bad social and economic situation in the country  by aiding the most affected social groups and most affected areas.  These two key corporate social responsibility strategies of Hypo Alpe- Adria- Bank a.d. Beograd are realized through the following activities:  Supportingorganizationsandinstitutionsengagedinprojectsinareasof education, culture, art and sport   Supportingtalentedandsuccessfulindividuals  Humanitarianaidforurgentinterventions  Donationsandhumanitarianaidforthemostaffectedsocialgroups It is our opinion that such activities contribute to inclusive society and  decrease poverty, at the same time fulfilling the Millennium Development  Goals the Republic of Serbia accepted as its obligation. MArkEt oVErViEw  13 Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd is an active participant in professional confer- ences whose goal is to find solutions for economic and social problems in Serbia  and in the region. This year we were a general sponsor of the kopaonik Business Forum, one  of the best known professional conferences. Goal of this traditional econom- ic event is to study and analyze contemporary economic issues in the coun- try and exchange of opinions among the most relevant experts and decision- makers in the country and abroad. Since we have been operating in the Serbian market we have also sponsored  the Management forum of SE Europe Bled-kopaonik. Forum participants  are the highest representatives of regulatory bodies and government agen- cies, financial experts and representatives of scientific institutions from Serbia,  Slovenia and the region.  In the financial segment we support the professional community and we are  partners of the Serbian Government with purpose of improvement of the  Serbian economic development, exchange of opinions and resolving prob- lems , but one of the equally important parts of the engagement are personal  finance management workshops.  This project is managed by members of the work group for social responsibil- ity in banking and finance working as the Global Compact in Serbia, with the  subject of planning and management of personal finance. Workshops are for all citizens, regardless of their income, because higher in- come does not necessarily mean better management of personal budget. Aside from financial education as one of key targets of these workshops, great  significance belongs to mutual cooperation of bank members and business en- tities involved in organization and realization of this project, whose focus are citi- zens and their education, all with the purpose of not only better knowledge of fi- nancial services, but also strengthening of trust into the banking sector. CALL CEntrE oF   Hypo ALpE-ADriA-BAnk We are listening! Call Centre was founded to achieve the  best possible communication and  exchange of all sorts of information: 1. between the bank and its clients 2.  between departments and sectors in  the bank who use services of the Call  Centre for sales, i.e. processing banks  products and services  Providing information to clients represents  an exceptionally important and responsi- ble task. Employees of the Call Centre are  first of all demanded to provide precise,  clear and correct information, to respond to  client calls i.e. queries timely, to be kind and  to represent the company and its values  gained through long years of experience  and successful work adequately.  Aside from providing information the  client needs, a very important function of  the Call centre is to provide insight to the  bank how to meet clients needs in the  best possible way. Employees collect  complaints and suggestions from clients  sent afterwards to the Compliance  Department. Each compliant is discussed  individually, and sent to responsible units.  Purpose of these analyses is to change our  business in accordance with our  clientsneeds by responding to complaints  and suggestions, if justified. Call Centre is a very important part of the  bank, our ears to listen to our clients, take  care of them and improve our business  through their suggestions and remarks. We work  and study BuSinESS CoMMunity   14 Winning  team EMpLoyEES  15 Our bank is made of people. Our employees, whom we are  proud of, are key to our success. Individual efforts of each  individual translate into big joint results. Mission, vision, goals  – all that is important, but it takes people to achieve business  results. Our work environment upholds to the highest  professional standards. Pleasant and stimulative work  atmosphere is our priority.  For us it is very important to:   Observetherightsofouremployees   Definehighstandardsofbusiness,corporateculture and communication    Enableouremployeestohaveconstantprofessional education and development    Nourishexcellentmutualrelationshipsandappreciate effort and work    Beequalteamplayersandobservetheopinionof each employee wE rESpECt tHE riGHtS oF   our EMpLoyEES Banks Labour Rules are in compliance with the Labour Law,  while provisions of the General Collective Agreement are ap- plied directly, so that employees realize all rights guaranteed  to them by labour regulations. Labour rules are available to all  employees, and they can get informed about the rights they  can realize on the basis of their employment every day in the  Human Resources Management Department. Equal treatment of all people who seek employment in the  bank, and all employees regardless of their race, colour of  their skin, gender, marital status, family obligations, age, lan- guage, confession, political orientation, national and so- cial background, is not only a legal obligation but one of the  founding principles the bank adheres to in its operations. Principle of gender equality and non-discrimination is one of  the founding principles of human rights. Specific characteris- tic of the banking sector, our bank as well, is the gender struc- ture expressed though the ratio of 70:30 for women. Gender  equality implies that all our employees are awarded accord- ing to their knowledge and work, and not gender and that  they all have equal opportunities.   16 65 babies were born in 2010, and for each baby employees –  parents received a one-off cash present. Last year Hypo Santa  prepared gifts for children of our employees younger than 10. Aside from the annual holiday, according to the rules, the  employees also have the right to paid an unpaid leave, salary,  food expenses, holiday compensation. In 2010 the total of 18  solidarity aids were paid. The bank participates in expenses  of medical treatment in the country and abroad, for buying  medications in the event of a long and heavy illness in the  amount determined on the basis of medical documents and  appropriate bills. Aid is also given to ease effects of cata- strophic natural events or other extraordinary events. Employees are given longer leave than stipulated by the  law for preparation of professional exams. All employees  of our bank are ensured 24 hours, while monthly payments  are made for bank employees for voluntary pension fund  contribution. The bank applies legally stipulated regulations with regards  to protection at work and security of work places and per- forms regular control of legally stipulated measures, such  as measurement of the level of computer radiation and  quantity of oxygen in the work place. Once a year the bank  organizes a course of fire-fighting protection and security at  work for all employees. wE ArE EQuAL tEAM pLAyErS Hypo bank researches satisfaction of its employees.   Internal dialogue and exchange of opinion improve the  quality of communication necessary for good functioning  of the business community. We take into consideration the opinion of employees when  defining the strategy and organizational culture we all  create, nourish and apply in everyday work together. intranet – our internal network facilitates our work a lot.  It has modern design, its easy to search and simple to  navigate. Intranet is interactive; it enables all employees  to participate in its creation. It collects data about bank  products and contacts and data about our colleagues.   The section – information for employees – is a place to get  informed about education, discounts, internal job   and other ads.  We also have internal newspaper Hypo news, gladly read  source of important information. It always has a issue  theme, interviews with very interesting people, we can  always find out interesting news from various departments  of the bank and other members of the group. It also  includes news from the region and from the bank head  office. Hypo news always describes each of our New Years  and summer parties, and praises our best colleagues. Each  of the issues gives us an opportunity to take a walk and  get to know people from one of our branches in Serbia. Hypo ALpE-ADriA-BAnk A.D.  BEoGrAD up CLoSE As of December 31, 2010 the bank employed 816  employees, out of those 240 men and 576 women. In  our environment ratio of men and women in managing  positions is 71% to 29% on behalf of women. The bank  also employs 50 people older than 51. Age structure in the bank as of December 31, 2010: Younger than 30 175 From 31 to 40 438 From 41 to 50 151 From 51 to 60 50 Older than 60  2 Professional education of employees as of December 31, 2010: Unqualified 2 Crafting school 1 High school 250 High school plus 2 College degree 139 University degree 422  17 wE DEFinE HiGH StAnDArDS oF  BuSinESS, CorporAtE CuLturE   AnD CoMMuniCAtion In its operations Hypo Bank applies the Code of professional  banking behaviour. The bank aspires to applying high stand- ards of business, not only when it comes to work tasks, but also  the internal and external communication, corporate identity, as  well as behaviour of employees in the work place. In that sense,  operational procedures also include the rules of behaviour and  attire of employees, Rules of behaviour and attire of employees  in branch network, as well as Rules of internal and external com- munication, as a part of the above standards. Pursuant to European business standards, work is done with  flexible business hours, which enables our employees to be  organized better within the legally established boundaries.   Better organization of business hours also implies higher  efficiency of employees, with an obligation to agree with their  superiors about business hours that would enable the work  process to flow undisturbed.  Smoking in offices is strictly forbidden. Employees have the  right to dress casual on Fridays, of course, with observing  basic rules of decency. ConStAnt proFESSionAL  EDuCAtion AnD DEVELopMEnt   oF EMpLoyEES As in all the years before, all bank employees were enabled  to get educated and to develop professionally. Special  emphasis was placed on training employees form the  business network. Out of the total number of training days  employees attended during the year, the largest number  was dedicated to specific banking and professional topics,  as well as employees skills both in non-management and  management positions. In 2010 average number of training days per employee  stood at 3.15, within limits of European standards, as well as  standards of the Hypo Group when it comes to training and  development of employees. In comparison to the previous  two years number of trainings, seminars and workshops  organized by the Group, bank or external providers the  employees attended in 2010 increased by 6%. Number of courses Hypo employees attended from 2008 - 2010: 2008 215 2009 223 2010 232 overview of trainings held in 2010 Aside from a large number of trainings organized by external  training providers (NBS Academy for banking and finance,  Association of Serbian banks etc.) attended by the employees,  a significant number of internal and in house trainings was  organized as well.  Business risk Analysis & Corporate Finance training Goal of this training organized by Hypo Group was to set up a  unique business and risk culture between client management  and credit risk management. Training was composed from  three modules (Basics, Advance and Strategic Client Presen- tation) lasting seven days. During the year it was attended by  more than 1000 employees throughout the Group. Trainers  from the German training institute Korn & Korn trained more  than 350 employees in Austria (47 from Hypo Serbia). More  than 650 employees attended internal training in training  centres in Belgrade, Zagreb and Udine.  18 wE nouriSH EXCELLEnt  rELAtionS AMonG pEopLE  AnD wE ApprECiAtE EFFort  AnD work The bank organizes various events for employees, stimu- lates fellowship and good relations among employees.  To us it is very important to value the work of our employees.  At least once a year we hold procedurally established talks  between each employee and her/his superior, when  performance is evaluated through self appraisal and  appraisal by the superior, as well as appraisal of manage- ment of the superior.  Recognizing work is one of the requirements to achieve  even better results, as well nourishing good-quality  communication among people. The bank also tries to make arrangements with organizers  whenever possible to offer its employees more favourable  tickets for culture and sports events, discounts in stores selling  clothes, toys, discounts for buying plane tickets or for realiza- tion of travel arrangements. Information about current events  and discounts are available to all employees in the Intranet. In internal trainings in the training centre in Serbia employees  were taught by employees-trainers trained by Korn & Korn  training institute. Training in Belgrade was attended by 140  participants, among whom employees of Hypo bank Serbia,  colleagues from Hypo Leasing and Hypo Rent Serbia as well  Hypo bank and Hypo Leasing Montenegro. Aside from this training in the field of risk management, bank  employees also attended Group training risk Early warn- ing Signals in Corporate Business, internally organized Risk  Workshop implementation of Basel ii standards, attend- ed by bank employees, colleagues from the Group and audit  companies, enabling good quality exchange of knowledge  and experience among peers. workshops CrM-Corporate and CrM-SME Workshops were organized in the banks training centre,  attended by 40 employees. They were organized to improve  quality of business processes, professional communication  and cooperation of employees in the Credit Risk Management  Sector and Corporate Sector, as well as those in positions of  SME advisors. Workshop participants were led through the process of  development and improvement of skills of corporate  negotiations, communication, resolving issues in a group and  making group decisions. This training enabled creation of a  plan of activities whose goal was systematic development  and improvement of decision-making skills and negotiating  skills, as well as to achieve more efficient inter-sectoral  communication and cooperation. internal training Client care and sales skills This training was created to perfect communication skills of  employees who are in direct contact with clients but also to  clear our dilemmas in everyday work. During the year it was  attended by more than 240 employees from the branch net- work who work as teller and senior teller officers, retail advi- sors and branch supervisors. Training consisted of three seg- ments: client care, sales techniques and presentation of the  new anti-stress catalogue – resolving employees dilemmas,  with the first training appearance of internal lecturers from  the Retail and Private Banking Sector and HRM Department,  who previously attended Train the trainer programme for  preparation and execution of this type of training. Positive evaluation of the training by the participants has  proven that training fully responded to their needs, that such  trainings should be organized in the future, but first of all  with internal lecturers, once again proven to be an important  factor of quality of training and development of employees in  both roles, as well as transfer of acquired knowledge. training skills of advisory sales – salesperson advisor It was attended by all bank employees who work with com- panies and entrepreneurs. Contents of the training were de- signed with an idea to perfect employees skills necessary  for acquisition of new clients and keeping existing clients, to  achieve long term trust and provide clients loyalty. In order to perfect and develop skills of effective communi- cation with a specific type of clients and to enable more effi- cient work, employees of the Collection Department from the  Rehabilitation Sector attended the training telephone com- munication with debtors. Training Anty-money Laundering prevention (AML) was  attended by more than 450 employees whose work implies  direct contact with clients. Aside from the training centre,  these training sessions were held in branches and sub- branches visited by internal lecturers from the Anti Money  Laundering Department.  19 pLAnS For 2011 We plan to continue our intensive work in perfecting and  developing our employees by improving their knowledge  in the areas of risk management, perfecting their  professional and social competence and skills, improving  their communication, cooperation and support among  different organizational units of the bank, continuing  development of employees in managerial positions  through individual and team programmes. In cooperation with the NBS Academy for banking and  finance the bank organized for its network employees the  training Forged money, characteristics and ways of rec- ognizing it to enable employees to expand their knowledge  about characteristics and elements of protection of original  banknotes, the acquire new knowledge about characteristics  of forged foreign and local banknotes and ways to recognize  them, as well as to get to know characteristics of banknotes  coloured by protective paint most often originating from  criminal activities.  Management training During the year more than 45 bank managers participated  in some of the development programmes the bank and the  group organize for employees in management positions –  development centre, programme for development of top  managers, programme for development of middle managers  with potential to become top managers, as well as pro- grammes within the Hypo management academy (System  Oriented Management).  20 LiDijA oVi Works in Corporate Sector as Senior Officer in the Project and  Structured Finance Unit. After finalizing her studies in June  2006 she started working in Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beo- grad as a trainee. She said about that experience: I was intro- duced to the concept of trainee programme abroad, because  it is not very often seen in our country. I am glad that after all  the tests and interviews i became part of the programme, be- cause it enabled me to gain insight into operations of indi- vidual sectors and functioning of the bank as a whole. I think  that afterwards it really made my work and progress easier,  especially understanding of a large system. After the Faculty of economy, major in finance, banking and  insurance, Lidija enrolled in master studies in the Faculty of  organizational sciences, major in management, currently near  finalization. During her studies she worked four months in  GTZ Beograd. She was also educated in Germany as an intern  in Sparkasse in Gelsenkirchen, and thanks to the Fund Dr  Zoran ini, in Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. jASnA popoVi Works as Senior Officer for Control, Compliance and Data  Quality in Network Steering Department in Retail and Private  Banking Sector. She joined Hypo team in 2006 as Retail Advisor, and then be- came personal banker. We have to stress that Jasna is one of  internal trainers in the training Client care and sales tech- niques where she shares her wide experience. She trans- ferred to her colleagues a lot of knowledge she acquired in  Formula of  success intEr ViEwS: younG, HArD-workinG AnD tALEntED 20 They are part of our Hypo family. Lidija ovi, Jasna  Popovi and Nenad Sofroni are a true example of the  thesis that hard work always pays off. various positions in the bank, which is precious to her col- leagues now in those positions. She said about her department: Although the Network Steer- ing Department is a sort of back office, we are in everyday  contact with colleagues from the network, and though them  with clients. The most important fact is that we get to achieve  better and better results every year because of team work. She is Faculty of economy graduate, major in finance, bank- ing and insurance. nEnAD SoFroni Has been with us since 2003. He was Senior Officer in Ac- count Management Department, Corporate Sector, then the  Head of that department. Afterwards he headed the Large  Clients and Cross-border Financing Department. After the po- sition of the Advisor to the Director of the Corporate Sector  he became a member of the Hypo team in Austria in the posi- tion of Head of Group Department Credit Rehabilitation Ser- bia. Department he heads is in charge of Serbian clients fi- nanced by Hypo International, as well as large clients of the  Hypo bank and Hypo Leasing Belgrade. The department is  also responsible for a number of clients from Montenegro  and Croatia.  He was educated in the country and abroad in the following  universities: Montclair State University, New Jersey, USA; MBA  Finance, BK University, Belgrade – trade and banking; Brook- dale Community College, New Jersey, USA – Business Administration.    21 Lidija ovi Senior officer in project and   structured finance unit   22 Biggest Hypo challenge Lidija: There were many, but they make work more interesting. Each day at work  brings new situations with it. The largest challenge is to find adequate solution  for a certain situation and to reach information and knowledge that can aid in  successful realization of work within given deadlines.  Jasna: Everyday contact with clients is a challenge in itself. They expect us to  help them find solutions that would satisfy their wishes and needs adequately.  I also try to provide support and help to colleagues from the network in their  everyday tasks. All of us together are responsible for the impression we make  on clients, because we thus directly influence forming of their opinion about  the bank. Nenad: Having in mind that I have been working in Hypo bank since it came  to the Serbian market, I have faced many challenges during its development.   I would put forward working in the Corporate Sector in the first few years of  its existence. As a member of a small team I contributed to the banks taking  a significant portion of the market and offering its clients our recognizable in- novativeness, quality and professional banking service. Another challenge  was going to work in the head office in Klagenfurt, where I was faced with a  different culture and business environment I had to adapt to.  personal and professional success Lidija: I think that people you work with and  you work for are an important factor of your  satisfaction. I am happy my colleagues are al- ways ready to help whenever I need it. Pro- fessional success would be much harder if I  didnt have people by my side who are hard  working and successful. Everyone gives their  best and thus we contribute to achieving our  common goal. Jasna: I am very proud of the fact that I  have extraordinary cooperation with my col- leagues. Satisfied clients are also a big confir- mation that your work is a success. Of course,  all that is possible when your work in an en- vironment offering possibilities for educa- tion and with people ready to pass on their  knowledge. Nenad: Regardless of the dynamic life envi- ronment, I have recently celebrated ten years  anniversary of a happy marriage and made a  family I find all my happiness in, which is my  biggest personal success.  My biggest professional success is my contri- bution to creation of one of the largest and  most professional financial institutions in our  region, creation of a pleasant work atmos- phere, and selfless help to others, all with the  interest of the organization I work for and  its clients in mind. In all situations I have al- ways tried to do the right thing, I gave my  best and I was persistent in it regardless of  the fact that my efforts and my investment  did not always provide visible short term re- sult, but with faith that long term success is  imminent. Most interesting part of work Lidija: Work I do is not monotonous and dull.  It implies getting to know a large number of  people, meeting different god and bad ideas,  facing obstacles you have to jump over and  rejoicing successful realization of work. All  those are elements making work interesting  and constantly different. Jasna: Retail and Private Banking Sector has  a wide spectre of tasks, and each client is  an individual, je implying that a special ap- proach is necessary to find the best possi- ble combination of products and services of  the bank. It is a challenge to recognize that  best combination for a client or to be of help  to colleagues in their work, which motivates  you to learn and progress every single day. nenad Sofroni Head of Group Department Credit  rehabilitation Serbia   23 Nenad: Adapting everyday activities and  set tasks to dynamic environment, daily fac- ing with complex tasks, whose solutions de- mand creativity, knowledge, persistence and  interaction with other people.  Balance between work and private life   Lidija: All I can say is that I admire people, es- pecially women, who balance their work and  family obligations successfully, because that  is not simple at all. Jasna: Balancing ones business and pri- vate life nowadays represents a true chal- lenge. Dedication is important in any case.  That means that at work one needs to stay  focused on current obligations, while time  spent with the family and friends should be  reserved only for them. Good organization is  key to success.  Nenad: I do not consider my time spent with  my family, or my time at work to be an obli- gation, but I enjoy each truly, and find pleas- ure in both. I think such interpretation is key  to success. No matter how silly that could  seem, I have not finished a single work day,  no matter how stressful and hard, without  finding some pleasure in it that would mo- tivate me to go home with a smile, spend  quality time with my family, and return to  resolving business tasks the next day with  even more energy. A man has to find a pas- sion, to dedicate himself to it every day for  at least a few moments and to give it huge  significance. in five years i see myself... Lidija: Successful both in my business and  private life, I hope. Jasna: I would like to work in positions that  would enable me to learn and get educated  further, and to contribute to success of the  Hypo bank with my knowledge.  Nenad: As much as I fantasize sometimes  about a relaxed position and short work- ing hours, I cannot see myself walking back- wards, and I think I am not ready yet to re- tire either. I think that in five years I will work  even harder in more dynamic, more complex,  more responsible and more interesting jobs,  which would provide additional satisfaction.  I am programmed to enjoy in the summer  and beautiful weather only after a long and  cold winter, so that I can enjoy vacation and  free time only after hard days work. Aside  from that, I believe that the Serbian financial  market will keep growing in the upcoming  period, which would open numerous possibilities and make the entire indus- try even more interesting.    For you, Hypo means... Lidija: Even in my student times, and I chose finance, banking and insurance  major, I wished I could work in Hypo bank, because it was different than all  the other banks present in the market at that time. I was lucky that at the time  when I finished my studies and started looking for a job, I saw a newspaper ad  for Trainee program in the Hypo bank. I did not send my resume to any other  ad until the final selection, thinking that this programme was made for me. I  never regretted rejecting some jobs in the meantime. Jasna: Security, trust, professionalism, team work. Nenad: My second home, second family. jasna popovi Senior officer for control,   compliance and data quality  24 Active partner –  secure foothold CoMMunity  Each country we operate in to us is not only one of the  economic markets, its a new home. It is Hypo Bank vision  to help others to achieve success and to share our success  with them. Every year we make numerous positive answers  to requests from people we live with in the same commu- nity, from culture and sports societies, from educational  institutions and other organizations. In the past year Hypo  bank set aside significant funds for numerous projects she  recognized as precious and useful for our community.  25 chet, and to engage unemployed women around the country  to produce these unique traditional products.  Childrens voiCes  Youngest members of our community have a special atten- tion of Hypo bank. One of the projects whose importance our  Bank recognized was the project of our music artist Aleksan- dra Kova, realization of a music album of the choir Belgrade  voice. Album consists of songs Aleksandra composed to lyrics  of anthology Serbian poets such as Jovan Jovanovi Zmaj and  Duko Radovi. We supported this project because of its idea to  offer good quality music to children and lyrics that would make  positive influence on their musical and general education.  Festival oF ChoreographiC  miniatures Festival organized for 14 years in arrow by the Association  of ballet dancers of Serbia, hosted many well-known and  respected artists from the country and abroad, also thanks to  support of the Hypo bank, which provided money rewards for  winners of the Festival.   Best tV series Hypo Bank continued supporting film and TV art in Serbia,  carefully choosing projects on the basis of their artistic values  and messages emitted to viewers. After huge success of the  series Stork will return, we  decided to help realization  of another local series, Her  mothers sin. This series  represents screening of the  novel written by Mir Jam,  adapted and directed by the  famous master of Serbian  cinematography, Zdravko  otra. Series was broadcast- ed in the channel one of RTS  from November 2009, with  exceptional ratings. We stimulate  preservation and  development of  cultural values As an international company respecting differ- ences, Hypo bank has always helped projects whose  goal was to preserve cultural inheritance of a commu- nity, promotion of new artistic trends, as well as support  to extraordinary talents. Projects Hypo bank supported last  year stand out as original, inspiring and useful achieve- ments in the field of culture in Serbia. 100 Women For Cultural  inheritanCe Promotion of women entrepreneurship and revitaliza- tion of cultural inheritance were the reason Hypo bank  joined the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, Secretar- iat for the economy and National agency for regional  development and aided the Ethno network to  realize its first exhibition called 100 women – 100  miniatures. This exhibition was created by skilful  women from various parts of Serbia who represent- ed extraordinarily made handicrafts, reviving a part of tradition  of Serbian culture. The association Ethno network has existed  since 2005, gathering 1000 women, whose goal is to preserve  from such as embroidery, weaving, lacing, special techniques  of making textile out of wool, and special techniques of cro-  26 what does music mean to you? My best expression in music is in notes. It is much harder to find proper words  to express all the feelings music provokes in me. Still, my first association of mu- sic is escape into a perfect world, world with different rules, principles, colours...  I like fantasizing through music about another life which is sometimes so real  that it could be superior to the one I live. Music is like a universal language of  faith, love fear, honesty, the elusive and eternal. How did you feel when you were invited to go to one   of the most famous conservatories in the world?  Going to the Conservatory was a chance to expand my views and face my   own potential. I realized it is much easier to find ones own place than to take it.   And Moscow and professionalism nourished in the Russian capitol remind me  of that constantly. How close are you to realizing your dreams, at least professional ones? While I play, I always try to express what I feel and think happiness is in the  process of creation. Still, my goal is never to think that art is there to achieve any  goals. And if you ask me about my relationship with my own art, I would say  that I am not pleased with myself. I wasnt that yesterday, either. And I wont be  tomorrow either. what public appearance you remember as special? It is not always pleasant to appear before a large audience. I had a few appear- ances in the open, before an audience not musically educated and those seem  to be concerts to remember.  Do you plan a concert in Belgrade?  when was your last appearance in Serbia and where? I plan a few concerts during the summer season. Last year I appeared in the   Cello fest in Belgrade. We help young  talents to realize  their dreams MuSiC, lAnguAge oF FAith And love  Mina Zaki is one of exceptional individuals who enrolled the prestigious Moscow Conservatory thanks to her extraordinary talent. With  a wish to enable this young artist to educate, and to become one of the worthy modern music artists of Serbia, Hypo bank decided to  pay the Conservatory scholarship to Mina Zaki. Mina, currently in her second year of studies, thinks that work of crucial importance for  success in any art. Read what does music mean to Mina, about her studies and plans for the future.  27 Real friends are recognized by helping in hardest times, which  we can always confirm. We are always there for those who need  help and support the most, especially in crises.  AiD For tHE ASSoCiAtion oF   MuLtipLE SCLEroSiS pAtiEntS  We aided the association of multiple sclerosis patients,   which was unable to transport the commodity donation  from Swedish donors to Serbia. Hypo bank provided funds  for costs of transport of the donation to Serbia. AiD For trGoVitE Another natural disaster hit Serbia in May 2010. The river of  Pinja flooded out of its banks, which resulted in a large flood  That hit the municipality of Trgovite. Flood caused huge  damage to residential and commercial buildings, roads,  bridges and crops. Hypo bank donated two cargo trucks of  construction material necessary for reconstruction of a part  o damage. AiD For puBLiC kitCHEnS In 2010 we once again aided our poorest citizens, who live  in municipalities of Doljevac, Majdanpek, Vladiin Han and  Sjenica.  Local Red Cross offices in these municipalities were  donated four cars Jugo, which are now used for the needs  of public kitchens. In these municipalities 1300 people use  public kitchens, among them many old and disabled citizens. One of the hardest situations Serbia found itself in in 2010 was facing the damage caused by the earthquake that hit Kraljevo.  Aside from houses and other residential objects, huge damage was suffered by pubis institutions, so that in the first stage  of reconstruction the most needed aid was in form of construction material.  Hypo bank reacted immediately in this difficult  situation, helping citizens whose houses were damaged in the earthquake with a donation of construction material. Aside  from construction material, we also donated money to the neediest citizens of Kraljevo. We are there in   the hardest of times AiD For krALjEVo  28 equal opportuniti a computer for everyone Modern times cannot almost be imagined without a computer and  internet. Some of the people living among us need special training to be  able to use a computer. Academy Forum has been organizing programme  of education for work on the computer and the internet for blind and  low-vision people for years. This programme continued this year as well  thanks to support of the Peoples office of the President of the Republic  of Serbia and Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd. This sort of education  implies application of a special plan and programme, methodology and  use of special technical equipment and software which have to be used to  educate the blind and low-vision people to work on computers  29 s for all Many developed countries are also faced with a problem of  social inclusion. This situation demands that awareness of the  importance of inclusion is raised in all levels of society by pro- moting projects whose goal is to improve social and economic  conditions of marginalized groups. By supporting such activities  Hypo bank contributed to the process of progress of this segment  of the community. In 2010 we cooperated with the Peoples office  of the President of the Republic of Serbia in realization of three  important projects in this field. a home disabled adults  Thanks to our donation conditions of the residents of the  home for disabled adults in Doljevac have somewhat impro- ved. In the home some of its residents use work therapy in the  form of making wooden objects. Because of inexistence of  proper conditions the residents could not apply the therapy  adequately. After their request sent to the Peoples office of  the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Hypo bank  donation complete carpentry equipment and tools were bo- ught, fully equipping the carpenters workshop for the home  residents. rehabilitation Pupils and students of the primary and secondary school  Milan Petrovi from Novi Sad, and other disabled people as  well, will have an opportunity to use new equipment in the  physical rehabilitation block thanks to the donation of Hypo  bank and the Peoples office of the President of the Republic  of Serbia in the value of RSD 2.3 million.  Purpose of this rehabilitation block is to enable rehabilitati- on and adequate therapy to pupils and students and other  children and young people with disability.  Project of donation for rehabilitation equipment resulted  form joint efforts of Hypo bank and the Peoples office of the  President of the Republic of Serbia to increase availability of  primary and secondary school education to disabled persons  and to stimulate their inclusion into the society in a better  and more equal manner. Fund laza Kosti By buying tickets for the concert of the pianist Pierre Lane  we aided the Fund Laza Kosti, which used income from sold  tickets for the budget for awards to young people for literary  works and the primary school Milan Petrovi from Novi Sad.  30 Capacity to respect and feel empathy for people around us  is learned and nourished from the youngest age. For that  reason we think that we need to help whenever possible, ad  also give positive example to influence our youngest ones  to develop this capacity and apply it in interaction with  their community. KolevKa (the Crib) In 2010 Hypo bank decided to organize as a part of the  World Childrens Day an educational and precious action  for the children of our employees and for children with spe- cial needs from the home Kolevka (Crib) in Subotica. As a  part of the action Children to children kids of Hypo bank  employees visited their peers from  Kolevka with their  parents, giving them gifts they made themselves, and the  bank provided funds for buying diapers this home needs in  large quantities. The home for children with special needs  Kolevka is the home of 185 children of different ages at  this moment. Care and love form their environment is what  they need most, especially form their peers, which was  confirmed by the Home director Mirjana abri, express- ing her gratitude to Hypo bank for the wonderful initia- tive and valuable donation. Rade Vojinovi, member fot he  Executive Board of the Hypo bank, who visited the kids in  Kolevka, expressed his satisfaction with the fact that em- ployees of Hypo bank celebrated the World Childrens Day  in such way and that employees children enjoyed mak- ing presents for their friends, because they knew that they  were doing a nice and noble thing, and that children from  Kolevka would be happy because of them. Children  delight in  each other  31 For sWeet sChool days In 2010 we tried to bring joy to as many kids as we could.  Beginning of the school year is surely one of the most impor- tant events for all kids. We used 1st September as an oppor- tunity to bring joy to primary school kids from homes for chil- dren without parental care in Kruevac and Kragujevac, with  packages of school books and candies, with greeting cards  wishing them the best grades in their school booklets. hypo alpe adria brought joy   to Kids Form the home For  Children Without parental   Care drinKa pavlovi For New Years and Christmas holidays representatives of Hypo  Group visited the home for children without parental care  Drinka Pavlovi in Senjak, Belgrade, bringing joy to all kids with  holiday presents and good mood. With an intention to hep and  rejoice children spending their childhood in this home, Hypo  Group employees spent an afternoon making friends with kids  who enjoyed their new toys and other gifts, but also the the- atre play of the charity organization Mali Veliki ljudi (Little Big  People). New Year holidays are the time of joy, happiness and  giving , and Hypo Group employees wanted to bring happi- ness to kids from the home Drinka Pavlovi with their gifts,  and thus give their contribution to the institution with 125  years of tradition of taking care of children of all ages. hypo leasing For the third saFe  house in belgrade Hypo Leasing participated with a money donation in the RTS ac- tion to build the third Safe house in Belgrade, whose organization  was helped by the Peoples office of the President of the Republic  of Serbia. Problem of violence in the family was not spoken about a  lot, bringing the victims of abuse into a situation of not having an- yone to turn to for help. Now when this problem is receiving suffi- cient attention, enough Safe houses need to be built to provide ad- equate help for all victims.  For that reason Hypo Leasing joined the  action We are building a Safe house and donated money for fin- ishing the works as soon as possible, so that the third Safe house in  Belgrade can soon become a shelter for victims of family violence.  33 health is  priceless Because of dynamic pace of life forced upon us by the modern  time, we often forget our top priorities. Its usually only when we  face a health problem that we realize that health is our biggest  wealth, necessary for achieving goals we aspire to in our lives.  As a responsible member of the community, Hypo bank cares for  people whose health is in danger. Aside from donations to indi- viduals, who needed money aid for medical interventions, Hypo  bank participates with its employees in a string of activities for  improvement of health conditions in the community every year.  better health Conditions in   the Community One of the activities we do to improve health conditions in  the community, now a tradition, implies voluntary blood do- nations of our employees. Frequent appeals of responsible  units motivated us to face this constant problem by offer- ing help of our employees who regularly answer the actions  of the Institute for blood transfusion. One of our employ- ees is a sort of a record holder when it comes to this selfless  act.  Rade Vojinovi, member of the Executive Board of Hypo  bank has donated blood for as much as 25 times, thus sav- ing lives. By donating blood we help health institutions to al- ways have sufficient blood for the most urgent cases, because  when ones life is threatened, each second counts, pointed  out Rade Vojinovi.  From heart to heart Vanja Pilipovi, nineteen year old from Sonta near Sombor,  student of high school of economy, was facing a difficult situ- ation. Vanja was diagnosed with a serious heart disease at the  beginning of the year, because of which she needed a heart  HEALtH transplant in Vienna urgently, and she needed funds for that  operation. Hypo bank joined the charity action of collecting  funds for Vanjas operation, also participated by the Peoples  office of the President of the Republic of Serbia. Money need- ed for her operation was collected in a record time, in three  weeks, so that Vanja was placed on the transplant waiting list  and in May she had a successful operation. humanitarian ConCert oF  the braa baruh Choir Health of the youngest members of our community is of spe- cial significance for us as well. One of the actions designed to  hep the youngest, supported by Hypo bank, was the chari- ty concert of the Braa Baruh choir. Our bank donated funds  necessary for lease of the hall of Kolarev narodni universi- ty (Kolarac peoples university) in Belgrade, where the concert  was held. All funds collected by selling tickets for this concert  we directed to aid medical treatment of children – cancer pa- tients, as well as to support the CSR project of the B92 fund  Food for everyone. hypo leasing donated Computers  to the CliniCal Centre oF serbia Hypo Leasing, as a socially responsible company, an absolute  leader in leasing business, donated computer equipment for  the entire IT system to the daily clinic of the Clinic for Vascular  surgery of the Clinical Centre of Serbia. Donation of computer  equipment is important for reception, triage, diagnostics and  post-op treatment of patients. Aside from that, it is also impor- tant for scientific work, because this clinic is a teaching base of  the Medical faculty in Belgrade.  34 growing  ecologically ECoLoGy  35 This age is facing huge ecological challenges, when green econ- omy has become a must for responsible individuals. We aspire  to making care of preservation and improvement of the envi- ronment an integral part of everyday life and work of our em- ployees. In all countries it operates in Hypo bank not only makes  no negative effect on the environment, but also supports vari- ous projects and organizes internal activities to contribute to im- proving quality of its environment.  eCologiCal  aWareness  oF employees  Our employees are trained to do their everyday tasks in an eco- logically efficient way. Electric energy is spent in all offices in a ra- tional way, and we use long life light bulbs to light our premises.  We print two-sided, and used paper is not thrown away, but col- lected and sent for recycling. Car park of Hypo bank is in accord- ance with EU ecological standards. reCyCling eleCtroniC Waste Only four days after opening of the e-waste recycling plant in  Nis, E-recycling, we became their first clients. First 1.5 t load of  electric and electronic waste such as monitors, servers, air condi- tioners, phones and other written-off fixed assets of Hypo bank  were recycled pursuant to all ecological standards. Our posi- tive example had effect to other companies. After only a month,  more than 30 IT companies made agreements with this recycling  plant for free transport of electronic waste, getting involved in  the action Write off waste.  Aside from personal effort not to influence the environment by  our work, and to contribute to its preservation, we gladly sup- port when other organizations initiate similar actions. GrEEn oASiS in City CEntrE Bulevar kralja Aleksandra (King Alexanders Boulevard) is the  longest street in Belgrade, with a London plane tree lane mak- ing it beautiful for decades, and being its integral part for many  citizens. After it was estimated that plane trees became dam- aging to the environment due to their age, due to which they  had to be removed, any citizens of Belgrade could not ac- cept the new look of the Bulevar. A few months later, after  the official decision of the City to grow a new tree lane, Hypo  bank joined the action for collecting funds to buy new young  London plane trees, a new string of jewels in the Bulevar kralja  Aleksandra since November.  36 education for   a better future Nowadays, when lifelong education and learning is promoted globally, in- vestment into education represents to us one of the most important forms  of donating. Time ahead will show that we have stepped into the age when  talent and knowledge will be highly valued in the market. Because of such  forecasts one needs to redefine strategies of the educational system and har- monize them with needs of the market. Hypo bank therefore supports ed- ucational projects stimulating creation of the community of educated and  talented human resources, pursuant to European values.  summer sChool oF eu integration Hypo bank has been supporting the ASSEi Alpbah summer  school of European integration for years, along with oth- er important institutions, such as Central European Initiative  (CEI), European Fund for Balkans and the Embassy of the  Republic of Austria in Serbia. This summer school, organized  since 2007, gathers students and post graduates from the  faculties around the SEE region, with the goal of deepening  knowledge of European integration, and achieving regional  dialogue and cooperation of the future experts in law, econo- my, and political sciences. Since Hypo Group Alpe Adria op- erates in the entire region, we support with great interest im- provement of cooperation and understanding of countries,  necessary for common progress. Aside from providing finan- cial aid necessary for organization of this school, Hypo bank  also participates in the programme of the school, f irst of all in  professional panel discussions.   EDuCAtion  37 the EU countries. Hypo bank provided pocket money and a  part of accommodation costs in Vienna for 40 children with- out parental care and 10 of their custodians. In the media event  before the trip, in the presence of the Vice President of the  Government of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Boidar eli, adult  custodians were given cards with pocket money for children. neW booKs For the university   library in ni In 2010 we also helped students of the University in Ni. For the  occasion of five years of operation of the Hypo bank branch in  Ni we donated funds for buying new books for the University  library in Ni. Around 300 different professional books enriched  the corpus of the University library. New books brought t joy to  students, first of all, but to other citizens as well, who love sci- ence and art. laptop For the best student  This was not the only jubilee we celebrated in Ni.  The  Engineering faculty of the Ni University celebrated the 50th  anniversary of its work on February 2, 2010. For that occasion  Hypo bank awarded the best student of the Engineering facul- ty with a laptop PC. 100 oF the best travelling   to europe Lets travel to Europe is a project of the European move- ment in Serbia, which awards 100 of the best students of local  universities with a possibility to get to know countries of the  EU and acquire intercultural experience. The project is motivat- ed by evident inexperience of the young generation in Serbia  with regards to knowing Europe first hand. Many young peo- ple now studying in universities in Serbia who should be carri- ers of development of this country in the upcoming years and  decades, did not have a chance due to social circumstances to  travel abroad in the past years, and thus exchange experience  with their peers in different cultural atmosphere, which makes  an important contribution to raising awareness of young peo- ple. The project is realized in cooperation with the Embassy of  the Republic of Austria in Serbia and the Assembly of the City  of Belgrade, and in 2008 Hypo bank joined the project as well.  Our bank has supported this project traditionally, by giving gift  cards of the Hypo bank with pocket money to one hundred of  the best students taking part in the project. Until now we have  awarded 300 Serbian students to whom this was their first en- try into the EU. Europe for everyone is another project organized togeth- er with the European movement in Serbia and cabinet of the  Vice President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in  charge of Euro-integration, supported by Hypo bank as well.  Purpose of this project is to give a chance to as many children  from the endangered social groups as possible to visit one of   38 support for supreme  sports achievements Since its beginnings in Serbia, Hypo bank has been investing in  sport and young sport talents. Significance of sport for welfare of  the community is multiple, especially for a community rarely  celebrating large sport success, and where such success is cause  for rejoicing and pride of the entire nation.  DAVis Cup One of the events which marked 2010 in Serbia was certainly the  victory of our tennis players in the Davis Cup finals. Hypo Bank did  not wait for our tennis team to reach such a success to recognize  its quality, but proved its trust into the team before their winning  the famous salad bowl. Hypo bank has been supporting the  Tennis association o Serbia for years, sharing its success with  success of brilliant Serbian tennis players. BeACh VolleyBAll Hypo bank has also supported sports not generating a big fan  and follower basis, but deserving attention for promoting true  sports values. Popularity of beach volleyball as a sports  discipline in Serbia has been growing lately. Without big  Sport  39 cheering tension and compromising events, characteristic of  traditionally most popular sports in our country, volleyball in  general, and especially beach volleyball unite traditional sport  values such as enjoying the game and team spirit, in the best  possible way. For those values in 2010 Hypo bank supported  the Serbian beach volleyball championship.  Both ZVeZDA AnD pArtiZAn Hypo bank is the official sponsor of the rowing club Partizan,  most successful in the country and one of the most frequent  winners in the entire region. Members of the RC Partizan have  won more than 30 medals in world and European champion- ships in the past 20 years, and in 2000 and 2001 they were the  best sports collective in Belgrade. In 2010 we also supported the rowing club Crvena Zvezda  Rugby 13 federation of Serbia, handball club Zvezdarac from  Belgrade, young tennis player Marko Tepavac from Belgrade,  volleyball club NIS Vojvodina, and the Skiing Association of  Serbia we have been sponsoring since 2008.  FutsAl As sChool In 2010 our employees had a chance to show their sport  readiness. By taking part in the tournament Futsal as school  organized by UNICEF and the magazine Ekonom:east,  members of our team Hypo eagles have proven themselves as  excellent amateur football players and also participated to  provide funds for buying football balls for Serbian schools in  the programme School without violence.  sport For eVeryone We would also like to emphasize another interesting and  important sport enterprise that signified the year behind us.  Cyclist and publicist Duan Milojkov and Dalibor Todorovi, a  blind person, rode the cycling tour in a tandem bike from  Belgrade to Trieste, where they attended the World Volleyball  championship. Purpose of this cycling tour was to attract  attention of the public to needs of the people with disability  and to stress that disabled people also like sports and practise  it, although they often do not have adequate conditions for  that. Because of the awareness of the importance of such  actions Hypo bank covered complete costs of the trip and  spare parts and other necessary equipment for this braver and  noble enterprise.  40 Pro  Futuro  Fund  At the very end of 2010 Hypo bank started the humanitarian program Hypo  Pro Futuro, supporting projects for children in 7 countries in operates in.  Projects realized just before Christmas in Austria, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia,  Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republic of Srpska, Montenegro and Serbia were a  beautiful way to wish a happy New Year to these children.  In Austria Hypo bank helped the family of a six-year-old boy Sebastian who  has cancer, due to which he has trouble moving. Because of that situation his  father realized they has to move to apartment in the ground floor near the  hospital. With help from other donors they moved to a new apartment and  Hypo bank donated money for furniture. In Croatia Hypo bank donated  didactic facilities to a primary school for children with special needs in  Vukovar. In Bosnia and Herzegovina we supported homes for children  without parental care Bjelave in Sarajevo and Majino selo in Meugorje.   We donated 1500 books to schools and children from the four poorest  Montenegrin villages in the north. In Slovenia we brought joy to 60 children  from the poorest families by giving them an opportunity to enjoy Winter  camp and sports events and activities in snow. In Italy we aided childrens  hospital A.B.C. del Burlo by equipping a special unit for residence of  mothers of children in medical treatment, so that they can be with them all  the time. In Serbia Pro Futuro campaign involved organization of visit of  children of the employees to the home for children with special needs  Kolevka in Subotica, who received presents. CHiLDrEnS SMiLE   AS A nEw yEArS GiFt  41 "Philanthropic and humanitarian activities  Hypo Group Alpe Adria supported have a single  common topic – creation of a possibility for  a better future. Our future are children and  they need our love and support most. For that  reason our Christmas campaign was directed at  humanitarian projects helping children in seven  European countries, Dr. Gotwald Kranebitter, Chairman of the Executive Board, HYPO ALPE- ADRIA BANK INTERNATIONAL AG Austria Bosnia and herzegovina  Croatia italy Montenegro serbia slovenia  Issued by:    ImageTeam d.o.o.  Vojvode Prijezde 32,  11000 Beograd  Phone/fax: +381 11 308 97 37, 308 97 38  www.imageteam.rs In cooperation with:    Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd  PC Ue, Bulevar Mihajla Pupina 6  11 070 Novi Beograd  Phone: +381 11 222 6000 Chief editor:    Bojan Filipovi  Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank a.d. Beograd Editors:   ImageTeam d.o.o.   Radmila Romanelli, Marta Raki, Vida Putnik Equipped and designed by:   ImageTeam d.o.o. impresum  www.hypo-alpe-adria.rs