Sustainability  Annual   Report 2010  REDECARD   Sustainability Annual Report 2010 02 / Summary  IntroductIon 04 18 redecard ProfIle 08 executIve Summary 06 - REDECARD, THE MERCHANTS FRIEND - CAPTURE TECHNOLOGY - PRODUCTS AND SERVICES - ENHANCEMENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2010 meSSage from the Board  of dIrectorS 16 Strategy 20 meSSage from the PreSIdent - PARTNERSHIP AND CLOSENESS TO CLIENTS - MULTI-bRAND - SECURITY - INNOVATION - STRATEGIC PLAN - A YeAR of PRogReSS dIalogue wIth StakeholderS  26 / 03 -  PRoceSS of InteRnAl And exteRnAl InquIRY InnovatIon 70 - new technologIeS And new hoRIzonS IntangIBle aSSetS 72 - PeoPle MAnAgeMent - Knowledge MAnAgeMent - BRAnd MAnAgeMent - AwARdS And RecognItIonS - ABout the RePoRt – level of gRI APPlIcAtIon - MAIn IndIcAtoRS foR RedecARd - gRI cRoSS RefeRence Index And RelAtIon wIth the gloBAl coMPAct - BAlAnce Sheet (IBASe And nBct15) - lIMIted ASSuRAnce RePoRt BY IndePendent AudItoRS - APPlIcAtIon level checK  - coRPoRAte InfoRMAtIon corPorate governance 30 -  oRgAnIzAtIonAl PRIncIPleS  conStAntlY evolvIng - MAIn PRActIceS - tRAnSPARencY And ethIcS In RelAtIonShIPS - RISK MAnAgeMent SocIo-economIc and  envIronmental develoPment 42 - econoMIc ScenARIo - fInAncIAl PeRfoRMAnce - SuStAInABIlItY In RedecARd - gloBAl coMPAct - the RedecARd InStItute - IncentIveS foR cultuRAl ActIonS,   SPoRtS And SocIAl ActIon - envIRonMentAl PRActIceS clIent focuS 66 86 annexeS - PRefeRence And SAtISfActIon  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 4 / IntroductIon F or the second year in a row Redecard is publishing its Sustainability Annual  Report, thus confirming its social commitment towards transparency and  ethics. This report takes a look at Redecards main achievements, challenges  and targets on the economic, social and environmental fronts. The report is aimed at encouraging the dialogue of Redecard with its  stakeholders: analysts, associations, issuing banks, brands, clients, board  members, suppliers, employees, and investors. The building of a materiality  matrix was an important step for Redecard in this dialogue process, as it allowed  external expectations to be aligned with the Companys targets. Concluded in  December 2010, the study was based on consultation with the stakeholders.  During the seminars that were held the stakeholders indicated the priority  themes for Redecard. The results were aligned with the Companys strategic  planning, creating the base for the content of this report. GRI 3.5 and 3.8 Redecards Sustainability Annual Report follows the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) guidelines, providing information that upgraded the level of the report to  B+ in 2010 from C+ in 2009, complying with the new demands of the G3 version  of the GRI model, which were established in February 2010.GRI 3.11 The content was checked by the independent auditors of  PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), who used the AA1000 assurance guidelines,  which includes the collecting of information, the audit and the social and ethical  report, with the focus being on the dialogue with the stakeholders. There are four ways to access the information contained in this report: (i)  the complete and printed version; (ii) the content available through Redecards  internet portal (www.redecard.com.br/ri), which can be accessed in full or by  means of a browse by audience function, aimed at the stakeholders indicated by  the materiality process; (iii) audio podcasts are available on the same portal, which  present a summarized version of the report and are accessible to people with  visual special needs; and (iv) a magazine, which is distributed to the employees,  with a summary of the information. The financial statements, which in 2010 began  to be published in accordance with the international financial reporting standards  (IFRS), will only be available through Redecards internet portal.  Enjoy your reading!  / 7 REDECARD    Relatrio Anual de Sustentabilidade 2010 / 7 In order to strengthen its commitment to ethics, Redecard made widespread  disclosure of the Code of Ethics and Conduct in 2010 to the Companys employees.  This code was reviewed in 2009, with the purpose of aligning the code with the  Companys new identity, with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and  market requirements, such as the Business Sustainability Index (ISE)of the So Paulo  Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa, and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index – DJSI  World), among others.  Another important step was the classification of all previously mapped risks.  The Company prioritized the tracking of those regarded to be unacceptable by  monitoring actions aimed at mitigating the accurance of such risks, classified  within the various key-areas in Redecards sectors. The main risks monitored include:  business continuity in the Companys capture processes; the processing and  settlement of transactions; and invasion of the Companys systems, which could lead  to unauthorized disclosure of data. Innovation has also been a key element in bringing  Redecard closer to its Clients. At the forefront in terms of  bringing mobility to its current Clients and expanding the  use of electronic payment means, the Company launched  Redecard Celular, a system that allows a mobile handset to  be used like a credit card, as a substitute for plastic.   The Company also showed its innovation with the launch of  Redecard Mvel, a product that turns a mobile handset into  a POS terminal. As a market leader, the product is mainly  aimed at those segments which require mobility and where  credit cards still have a limited penetration. The growth in affiliation was also fueled by the new  partnerships with Caixa Econmica Federal, banco Safra,  Tribanco (a financial institution that is part of Martins  wholesaler group) and bancoob (Credit Cooperative in  Midwestern brazil), coupled with the start of transaction  capture of credit and debit cards bearing the Visa brand   and the substantial portfolio of brands, which in December  31, 2010 totaled 22 brands (the largest among acquirers in   the brazilian market). This resulted in a net income of   R$ 1.4 billion, which represents a 0.3% increase over the  amount registered in 2009. Following Redecards inclusion in the  Dow Jones Sustainability World Index – DJSI  World – and in the Business Sustainability  Index (ISE) of the So Paulo Stock  Exchange – BM&FBovespa, in 2009 the  Company made a number of significant  commitments and expanded its initiatives.  It set up the Redecard Institute, the mission  of which is to take part in educational  actions and projects aimed at developing  entrepreneurship. In 2010, the institute  produced and developed two professional  training programs: Social Entrepreneurship  and Sustainable Enterprise. The institute  also set up a workgroup, in conjunction  with MasterCard and the Brazilian  organization Sebrae (Brazilian Support  Service for Micro and Small Businesses), for  the purpose of studying and presenting  suitable payment solutions for micro and  small entrepreneurs.  For the second year in a row, Redecard  was the only company from the electronic  payment industry to be included in  the investment portfolio of the ISE of   BM&FBovespa, and of the DJSI World.  In order to reinforce its actions on  behalf of sustainable development, the  Company made a commitment to monitor  its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.  In addition, in December it joined the  first portfolio of the So Paulo Stock  Exchange – BM&FBovespa Carbon Efficient  Index (IC02) and of the National Bank  for Economic and Social Development  (BNDES), in its 2011 edition.  As the result of all these actions,  the Company ended 2010 receiving a  significant amount of recognition from  Brazilian society. Among the awards  received were the following: The 150  Best Brazilian Companies to Work  For awarded by Guia Voc S/A-Exame;  the Ranking of Brazils 500 Largest  Companies awarded by the magazine  Isto Dinheiro; and The 100 Most  Innovative Companies in IT, which is  sponsored by the magazine Information  Week and by Deloitte. ethIcS and SecurIty SuStaInaBIlIty economIc Performance InnovatIon 6 / executIve Summary  the main highlights of Redecards  Sustainability Annual Report 2010  are the expansion of what was  already the largest portfolio of  brands in the electronic payment  sector, the opening up of the  market, ending the exclusivity   that the visa brand had in Brazil,  and the increased client focus.   the company always sought to  offer products and services that  added value to the clients business,  but as a result of the increase in  the level of competition, in 2010  this guideline became part of the  companys strategy. Redecard, a multi-brand acquirer of credit, debit and  benefit cards, is one of the leaders in the electronic  payment industry in the brazilian market. In addition  to its activities of merchant acquiring, capturing,  transmission, processing and settlement of credit  and debit card transactions, it offers prepayment  of receivables to merchants resulting from sales  made by means of MasterCard, Visa, Diners Club  International, Sicredi and Cabal credit cards. The Company also offers Clients the rental of point  of sale (POS) electronic equipment for electronic  transaction capture, check verification services  by means of the aforementioned POS electronic  equipment, and capture and transmission services   for transactions carried out with vouchers and   private label cards. With the end of exclusivity agreements  between brands and acquirers, Redecard,  which had been a multi-brand organization  right from the start, incorporated Visa into its  portfolio, starting on July 1, 2010. Transactions  with the worlds most accepted brand began  to be processed by Redecard terminals at  midnight on the previous day, without Clients  needing to make any adjustment or update. The new scenario in the electronic payment  market resulted in increased competition and  demanded new strategies. Given this new  environment, in order to remain among the  market leaders, the Company undertook a  series of initiatives aimed at improving the  quality of the services offered to its Clients.  Teams in the commercial and business  support areas were strengthened, which  involved investments in personnel. As part of  the strategy to create its own sales team, over  the course of the year, Redecard increased the  number of its employees from 790 to 1,455. In  order to strengthen the relationship with its  Clients, the Company set up various customer  service channels, reformulated its internet  portal and expanded its sales force. Redecards investments in 2010 were  concentrated mainly on the purchase of  electronic equipment for capturing card  transactions (POS terminals), reaffirming  its strategy of permanently renewing and  updating its equipment base. The Company  made significant investments in software  developed in-house, which is necessary to  serve the new brands that are part of the  Redecard System. The Company also reinforced its value  proposition, which consists of four pillars  that differentiate it on the market:  innovation, security, a multi-brand platform  and prepayment of receivables. At the same  time as it signed partnership agreements  with new brands, it intensified its brand  positioning and increased investments   in marketing, by means of a new advertising  campaign. It launched its mascot, a   POS terminal that turns into a puppy, and   in this way positioned the Company as   the merchants friend. ProfIle IncreaSed comPetItIon REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 Redecard,   the merchants friend 8 / redecard ProfIle The Company carries out the capture,  processing, transmission and settlement  of credit and debit card transactions made  by consumers during the course of their  purchases. As a multi-brand acquirer,  Redecard is one of the leaders of the  Brazilian electronic payment industry.  At the end of 2010, the Company was  licensed to process 22 brands**, the largest  portfolio in the Brazilian market. Redecards main activities are: rental of  point of sale (POS) electronic equipment  to merchants; the discount rate on the  value resulting from sales with debit and  credit cards; prepayments of receivables  to merchants from credit card sales  (RAV); check verification services; and the  Redecard S.A. is a Brazilian company that is present  throughout Brazil with 1.145 million PoS terminals  distributed in 100% of the municipalities with electric  power and telecommunications. It is considered one of  the worlds ten largest electronic payment companies,  and is among the the top 20 most liquid companies in  Ibovespa (the So Paulo Stock exchanges Index), with  a market value of R$ 15 billion*. GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6, 2.8 and 3.6 capture and transmission of transactions  carried out with vouchers and private  label cards. GRI 2.7 e 2.8 For the second consecutive year, it  was the only company in the electronic  payment industry to be included in the  investment portfolios of the Dow Jones  Sustainability Index and the Business  Sustainability Index (ISE) of the So  Paulo Stock Exchange. GRI 2.10 Redecard is a publicly traded company.  The Companys headquarters is Avenida  Marcos Penteado de Ulha Rodrigues,  939, Loja 1 – 12th, 13th and 14th floors, in  the municipality of Barueri, So Paulo.  GRI 2.3, 2.4 and 2.6 *Base value at 30/12/2010   **Visa, Hipercard, China Union Pay, Sorocred, Coopercred, Sicredi and Avista  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 11 RedecARdS Role on the PAYMent MARKet In BRAzIl the way for the Company to strengthen its  position in parts of the country where it  previously had a limited presence. During  the year, Redecard also signed partnership  deals for the capture of a further six  brands: Hipercard, China Union Pay,  Sorocred, Coopercred, Sicredi, and Avista.  Redecards portfolio reached a total of 22  brands* in 2010, making it the largest in  the Brazilian market. The new partnerships  added even more value for Redecard  Clients, which began to benefit from the  acceptance of regional and international  brands, resulting from domestic as well  as foreign tourism. The acceptance of the  new international brands becomes even  more significant in light of the fact that  Brazil will be hosting the World Cup and  the Olympic Games, which will bring yet  another group of consumers to Brazil.    GRI 2.2 e DMA-PR *Visa, Hipercard, China Union Pay, Sorocred, Coopercred, Sicredi and Avista S Merchants Issuers (cardholders bank) Card brands Transaction  data $ Transaction value  (-) Merchant discount $ Transaction value (-) Interchange fee $ Transaction value Card   invoice Goods/services Credit/debit cards Cardholder base Acceptance Merchant acquirers S S S S S S Cardholders S S S $ 10 / redecard ProfIle our history The Companys history dates back to the  1970s. It was set up according to Brazilian  Corporate Law for Publicly-Held Companies  in a partnership with Citibank, Itaucard  and Unibanco that founded Credicard; the  activities of this company included those  of a credit card brand, an issuer and of a  merchant acquirer. In 1987, the Company  began to issue MasterCard branded cards  and launched the Brazilian markets first  debit card-brand, called Redeshop. In 1996, the controlling shareholders  decided to specialize in merchant  acquiring and payment processing  services and founded Redecard, by  spinning off these activities from which  maintained the issuance of Credicard. In  the same year, MasterCard International  also became a shareholder in Redecard.  Since then, Redecard became the  main merchant acquirer and payment  processor for MasterCard and Diners  Club International branded credit and  debit cards in Brazil. GRI 2.5 and 2.6 From the outset, Redecard was set up  under Brazilian Corporation Law, with  the members including the controlling  shareholders and Redecard itself. When the  Redecard Consortium ceased to exist on  March 31, 2007, Redecard assumed all the  Redecard Consortiums rights and obligations. In June 2007, Redecard was listed on the  So Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa,  with its shares being listed on the New  Market (Novo Mercado), a segment  that is reserved for companies that are  committed to differentiated practices in  terms of the relationship with minority  shareholders and the highest level of  corporate governance that is found in the  Brazilian capital markets.Upon the listing,  MasterCard sold its stake in the Company.  In January 2008 Citibank sold part of its  stake and exited the Company entirely in  March 2009. Consequently the Company  underwent a shareholding restructuring.  As a result of this, the Ita Unibanco Group,  which had recently been created by the  merger between these two banks, became  Redecards controlling shareholder. Brands  Redecard has always had a multi-brand  profile and has always valued free  competition in order to be able to offer  its services in a democratic way to its  Clients. For this reason, it never signed  any exclusivity contracts with any credit,  debit or voucher card brand. With the  opening up of the market on July 1 2010,  Redecard began to capture debit and credit  transactions of the worlds most widely  accepted brand, namely Visa, which paved  with a broad portfolio  of products and services,  Redecard meets the needs  and expectations of clients  from all Brazilian cities. GRI 2.3 Redecard serves  about 20 thousand  self-employed  professionals.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 13 12 / redecard ProfIle wireline PoS terminals This technology is mainly used for  merchants and small business owners  who receive payment over the counter.  Redecard owns these wireline POS  terminals, which are rented out to  merchants. The Company guarantees  competitive prices and offers services  that can be downloaded remotely, such as  service software and security updates. wireless PoS terminals  The wireless POS terminals also belong  to Redecard. These compact, wireless  terminals go wherever the cardholder is,  making electronic payments easier and  meeting the needs of those segments  that require mobility, as they do not need  a conventional fixed line terminal. For  instance, these wireless POS terminals  are ideal for restaurants and gas stations,  where this capture method offers  efficiency for the merchants and greater  convenience for cardholders. Pdv tef electronic terminais  Unlike the electronic POS terminals  that are rented out by Redecard, this  equipment is owned by the merchant, and  is generally used by large retailers, such  as supermarket chains. The equipment  consists of Electronic Transfer of Funds  (TEF) software that connects the  merchants network to Redecard, allowing  it to capture electronic transactions.  Redecard offers different TEF solutions  according to the volume of transactions  and the size of the merchant. Komerci  Technology developed by Redecard for  e-commerce merchants, this product is  integrated with internet solutions and  enables the capture of online transactions by  the merchant, and in this way prevents card  information from circulating in the virtual  store environment. As a result, the merchant  does not have to worry about implementing  controls and systems to ensure the security  of this information. Komerci captures online  transactions with MasterCard, Visa and  Diners branded credit cards.  Redecard Mvel An innovative technology, Redecard  Mvel is a solution that turns a simple  mobile handset into a Redecard electronic  POS terminal. Using a mobile handset,  a door-to-door salesman, for instance,  is able to make their sales and receive  payment made by means of Visa,  MasterCard and Diners Club credit cards.  In order to expand receipt of electronic payments by its Clients,  Redecard provides capture means that are increasingly up-to- date in technological terms and suitable for the needs of each  segment. The Company has one of the worlds most advanced  technological bases and uses state-of-the-art technology  in order to offer the latest transaction capture methods in  merchants throughout the whole of brazil, by means of 1.145  million electronic POS terminals. Capture Technology Redecard's technology  is one of the most  modern in the world,  comprising over 1.1  million PoS terminals.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 15 Benefit cards (vouchers) The transactions with benefit cards  enable Redecard Clients, with just an  electronic POS terminal, to serve the main  Brazilian benefit card segments including  meals, food, fuel, drugstores and gift- cards. Redecard provides capture service  to Brazils main benefit card companies  including: Ticket, Sodexo, PlanVale,  Nutricash, Green Card, SaporeBenefcios,  Verocheque, Sorocred Vale, Cabal Vale, BNB  Clube, and Valecard.   Private label cards These cards serve the needs of high sales  volumes and high frequency purchases,  such as department stores, supermarkets,  and home furniture stores. These cards  bear the merchants name, but can also  carry a brand, which makes it possible to  use them at other affiliated merchants  belonging to the Redecard Network.  check verification Redecards electronic POS terminals  are a straightforward means to make a  quick online inquiry to the Brazilian check  verification entity, called Serasa Experian.  Redecard understands that it needs to be  aware of its Clients needs. And for those  merchants that accept checks, it provides  security support services by means of its  POS terminals. Pre-paid mobile top-up This service is available on POS  electronic terminals for the electronic  topping-up of credits for pre-paid  mobile phones, by using MasterCard and  Visa Electron debit cards. This product  increases the use of POS electronic  terminals and makes it possible for  merchants to increase their consumer  traffic flow, as well as to provide them  with an additional source of income for  this incremental service. cash-back A service that allows debit cardholders  to withdraw up to R$ 100 in cash when  they make purchases of at least R$ 20  at Redecard affiliated merchants by  means of the POS electronic terminals.  No discount rate is charged to the  participating merchants on the value of  cash-back transactions. 14 / redecard ProfIle credit and debit Redecard is responsible for the activities  of capture, transmission, processing and  settlement of transactions made with  domestic and international branded credit  and debit cards. With regard to credit cards, the merchant  can make sales at sight or in installments,  with or without interest, with total security  in terms of receiving payment. In the case  of debit cards, sales are either for cash or  are pre-dated for periods of up to 60 days.  The transactions are 100% PIN based, and  the transaction value is debited to the  consumers bank current account. In 2010,  transactions made with credit cards totaled  of R$ 1.6 billion, while those with debit  cards totaled R$ 449.2 million. Rental of PoS terminals The electronic POS terminals belong  to Redecard, which rents them to its  affiliated merchants. With a single  terminal, the merchant can carry a whole  range of services, including credit and  debit transactions, check verification  and the top-up of mobile phones. The  rental value also includes software and  hardware maintenance, paper supply, the  periodic update of the equipment, the  access to the Customer Service Centers  and to the internet portal, which offers  the Client more than 40 self-service  options, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. With the objective of increasing merchant sales by attracting  more consumers, Redecard offers an ever increasing variety  of products and services. This strategy has been intensified  since the start of the second half of 2010, and a multi-services  platform began to take shape. Products and Services Indicators 2007 2008 2009 2010 Credit Cards Transaction Value (R$ thousands) 68.641.394 82.941.488 98.651.470 123.865.579 Number of Transactions (thousands) 781.491 897.956 1.017.161 1.194.415 Debit Cards Transaction Value (R$ thousands) 33.702.471 42.273.469 49.305. 526 60.205.329 Number of Transactions (thousands) 704.934 851.302 968.757 1.125.935 with a single PoS  terminal, the client  has access to  several services.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 17 The sustainability actions in Redecards  corporate governance helped the Company  to overcome the challenges of 2010. In  addition to producing benefits for Brazilian  society, the maintenance and expansion  of this type of activity increased the  Companys visibility with strategic investors  both in Brazil as well as in the rest of  the world – a market that increasingly  acknowledges Redecards commitment to  sustainable development.GRI 1.1 The Company also implemented social  inclusion actions as a result of the signing  up of new Clients for its services. It is  Redecards belief that the simple act of  delivering a POS electronic terminal to a  merchant contributes to the process of  formalizing the Brazilian economy and to  the social-economic development of its  merchant base. Among the Companys other  achievements were the investments in  geographic expansion, with the aim of  increasing Redecards market share in  regional markets over the medium- to  long-term. We continue to foresee a scenario of  progress and geographical expansion  for 2011 and 2012. Redecard should  continue with its task of developing a  market that has gained greater visibility,  while seeking to preserve franchises  and market share, making these actions  render positive financial results for the  Companys shareholders. We continue to  have a very positive view regarding 2011,  although we are well aware that the  market agenda is very intense and that  this will demand extra efforts not only by  Redecards Executive Board but also from  the Companys Board of Directors.  Starting in April of this year, this  challenge will be conducted by Claudio  Takashi Yamaguti, who takes over the  position of Chief Executive Officer (CEO).  On behalf of the Board of Directors, I  would like to take this opportunity to  thank Roberto Medeiros, who has held  this position since 2008, for the decisive  contributions he has made in preparing  the Company for the new regulatory and  competitive environment. 16 / meSSage from the Board of dIrectorS Mrcio de Andrade Schettini  Chairman of the Board of Directors T he year was marked by the start of  a new period for Redecard: a cycle  of intense competition, which was  triggered by the opening up of the market  and by the end of brand exclusivity. In order  to reinforce its talent for leadership, the  Company combined efforts, skills, resources  and know-how, for the development and  adaptation of a business model that  consists of growth and the maintenance of  its affiliated merchant acquirer base.  Redecard ended the year with success  in relation to its main strategic planning  targets along with various other  achievements, such as the retention of the  markets largest portfolio of brands, 22 in  total, and the Companys inclusion for the  second consecutive year in the Dow Jones  Sustainability World Index and in the  Business Sustainability Index (ISE) of the  So Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa. During this process there were  challenges and conquests. The sectors  new self-regulatory framework was an  undeniable step forward for the electronic  payments industry, with positive changes  in the rules governing competition, in the  view regarding what type of relationship  to establish with Clients and what the  responsibilities of the issuing banks of the  brands are in this process. GRI 1.1 e 1.2 Preparing the Company for this new market  dynamic was one of the major challenges of  2010. This was a process that began a year ago,  which demanded investments in planning  and a marked increase in the Companys  employee headcount. Historically, Redecard has always  positioned itself as an innovative company,  with a high level of automation, participating  in the modernization process and which  produces efficiency gains for its Clients.  The new competitive environment has  speeded up this process and influenced the  Companys decision to invest in additional  structures, which have been set up not  just for the purpose of covering business  opportunities and maintaining Clients, but  also to increase Redecards processing and  customer service potential, and to improve its  ability to respond to the new demands of the  electronic payments industry. GRI 2.9 Sustainability  actions in Redecard's  governance have  helped the company  to overcome its  challenges in 2010. Enhancements and  achievements in 2010  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 19 18 / meSSage from the PreSIdent Another relevant development was the  expansion of the Companys sustainability  practices. 2010 saw the start-up of the  Redecard Institutes programs, the creation  of the Sustainability Committee as well  as Redecards inclusion, for the second  consecutive year in a row, in the Dow Jones  Sustainability Index and the Business  Sustainability Index (ISE) of the So Paulo  Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa. GRI 1.1 Redecard remains committed to the UN  Global Compact, which it first adhered  to in December 2009. This Sustainability  Report lists the practices related to the  principles of the UN Global Compact that  were carried out in 2010, as well as the  objectives defined for 2011 in relation to  issues of human rights, labor relations, the  environment, and corruption. GRI 1.1 The entire process of preparing for the  new market scenario ended up reaffirming  the talent of Redecard, which has always  been ready to understand the needs of  its Clients, to anticipate market needs  and offer safe and efficient solutions. The  Company is well aware that its success  will always be linked to that of its Clients. the 2016 Olympic Games, Redecard also  signed an agreement with the Chinese  brand China Union Pay (CUP), which has  an impressive volume of 2.2 billion cards  issued. GRI 2.7 and 3.11 Another point worthy to highlight is  the partnership deal that has been signed  with Multiplus, which allows users to  use points from this rewards program to  make purchases or to use credit points in  merchants that are affiliated with Redecard  and associated with this program.  Innovation was also present in 2010.  The large-scale launch of Redecard  Mvel, a technological solution  that makes it possible to process  transactions via mobile handsets, was  one of Redecards major achievements,  which enabled it to reach segments  that required mobility. This strategy  guaranteed the addition of over  20,000 self-employed salesmen to the  Companys Client base. The Companys  mobile platform was complemented by  the launch of Redecard Celular, which  turns a mobile handset into a credit card,  replacing so-called plastic.  Redecard has  attained an  expressive progress in  its portfolio with the  signing up of brands;  this consolidated the  strategic planning  of geographic  expansion and  regionalization. Roberto Medeiros CEO A year of progress  T he Brazilian electronic payments  industry underwent significant  changes in 2010, and Redecard rose  to meet the new challenges. During this  adjustment process to the new business  environment, the Company combined  efforts, skills, resources and know-how,  for the development of a business model  that would allow it to grow its affiliated  merchant acquirer base throughout the  whole of Brazil. GRI 1.1 and 1.2 The results achieved during the year  were nothing short of remarkable:  Redecard captured R$ 184 billion in terms  of debit and credit transactions in 2010,  achieving the Companys forecasts,  with a 25.6% growth in the financial  volume of credit transactions and a 22.1%  increase in that of debit transactions.  Net income remained stable at a figure  of R$ 1.4 billion, notwithstanding the  increase in investments. The opening up of the market led to  an increased level of competition among  companies in the electronic payment  industry, which demanded a great amount  of planning, the hiring of employees and  a repositioning of Redecards identity. On  the other hand, it enabled the Company  to reinforce its excellence in the areas of  innovation, security, multi-brand portfolio,  prepayment of receivables to merchants as  well as in the diversification of products and  services that make Redecard much more  than just another merchant acquirer. The capture of the Visa brand was a  significant step, due to the size of the  brand, but it was not the Companys only  achievement in 2010. Redecard obtained a  significant expansion in its portfolio, with  the adhesion of six new brands, which  evidenced the implementation of the  Companys Strategic Plan for geographical  expansion as well as regionalization.  Among these, we highlight Hipercard,  which enabled the Company to expand  its coverage in Brazils Southern and  Northeastern regions; Sorocred, which  strengthened Redecards operations in  the interior of So Paulo state; and Sicredi,  in the interior of Midwest and Southern  regions. In anticipation of the increased  flow of foreign tourists at the main global  events that are scheduled to be held in  Brazil, such as the 2014 World Cup and   REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 order to provide them with an enhanced  customer service.  Invested in tools and systems for  Client relationship management.  Began the development of a multi- service platform. GRI 2.9 In 2011, Redecard is continuing with its  strategy of greater Client Focus based on  four pillars of activities: GRI 4.8 20 / Strategy the more competitive  scenario in 2010 contributed  to reinforcing and  consolidating Redecards  business strategy, which  has always been focused  on client satisfaction. the  opening up of the market  has given merchants the  possibility of choice, and they  can now choose between  the merchant acquirers,  according to their needs.  Partnership and   closeness to Clients client vision:  to establish a new  level of relationship with the client,  aligned with each stage of the clients  life cycle. Innovation: to provide  innovative and  differentiated products and services, such  as Redecard Mvel and Redecard celular,  which offer clients greater mobility and  allow them to explore new markets. operational excellence:  to optimize and streamline processes,  systems and skills, taking advantage  of our scale capacity to provide our  clients with continued improvements  in customer service. Multi-services: to develop new  services which generate more business  for our clients. For Redecard, the change meant among  others, the start of capture of transactions  made under the Visa brand, which helped  boost Redecards regional presence. In persuing its strategy of Client  Focus, Redecard:  Continued to expand its portfolio  of brands and to invest in security,  innovation, and in the prepayment of  receivables to merchants.  Recognized the difference in terms of  the needs, expectations and aspirations  of its different Clients, segmenting its  commercial strength and channels in   REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 23 Another important factor in the success  of the multi-brand strategy was the  entry of Hipercard, the largest Brazilian  brand, which helped Redecard increase its  presence in regions such as the Northeast  and the South. Similar examples are  provided by Sorocred (interior of So Paulo  state), Coopercred (Midwest region), Avista  and others, which enabled the Company to  provide the best regional offers.  The regionalization process led to the  expansion of Redecards sales force, with  the inclusion of around 550 service officers,  trained to set a frequent contact agenda with  Clients all over Brazil. This new workforce  complemented the traditional approaches  used by the Company, primarily via banks, and  suported Redecards regional service strategy. By the end of 2010, roughly 50% of  Redecards new affiliated merchants came  from its sales force. In previous years, 75% of  new affiliated merchants came as a result  of the banking channel. This expansion of  the sales force did not discourage advances  using the traditional affiliation methods for  new Clients through banks. GRI 2.9 Redecards strategic vision was not limited  to the geographical expansion and building  itssales force of service officers, but was  also aimed at entering into partnership  agreements with international brands – in  anticipation of the flow of foreign tourists  that are expected as a result of the major  events that will be held in Brazil between 2014  (the World Cup) and 2016 (the Rio de Janeiro  Olympic Games). In this context, Redecard  signed an agreement with the Chinese brand  China Union Pay (CUP). GRI 2.9 22 / Strategy Multi-brand by working with several brands, Redecard multiplies the  opportunities for Clients to increase their sales, by accepting  different plastic brands. In AddItIon to the nAtIonAl PReSence, we SeeK PARtneRShIPS wIth MAjoR RegIonAl cARd BRAndS NATIONAL COVERAGE Redecard believes in free competition  and in the self-regulation of the market;  because of this, from the very outset, it  launched itself as a multi-brand platform,  carrying out transactions made with  both MasterCard and Diners Club  International branded cards. At the end  of 2010, the Company had incorporated  seven new brands, bringing the total  number of brands in its portfolio to 22.  The experience that Redecard has gained  Security of transactions, internal  controls and prevention of fraud are  all within the scope of the Companys  work. In addition, it is important to  stress that the acceptance of electronic  means of payment, by itself, also gives  Clients security, by removing the risk  of delinquency in checks and providing  merchants with payment guarantee,  given that the risk of non-payment by the  cardholder is borne by the issuing bank. Redecard also directs efforts to  improve the security of the largerst  merchant networks. This action  is  undertaken via a communication  channel that deals with security issues  with roughly 300 merchant networks.  Redecard participates in industry  initiatives for the electronic payments  market, such as the Secure Internet  Movement, which promotes best security  practices for e-commerce, and also  operates in conjunction with eight of the  largest merchant networks, supporting  them in their adherence to the industry  security standards defined by PCI. DMA-PR Security Speed and security in sales  are fundamental principles  to the activities of Redecard,  South Americas first  merchant acquirer to achieve  the international PCI DSS  (Payment Card Industry  Data Security Standard)  certification, which evidences   the Companys commitment to  security in electronic payment  transactions. running a multi-brand operation means  that it is able to rapidly incorporate new  brands. This ability was a key factor in  the success of its acceptance of Visa, in  July 2010. It is the Companys opinion  that this positioning gives its Clients the  opportunity to accept the widest possible  range of domestic and international  cards that are now found in the Brazilian  market, thus boosting the chances of  increasing their sales.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 25 Always leading  innovation,  Redecard  launched  Redecard Celular  in 2010. 24 / Strategy Building the Plan is preceded by  a series of assessments which are  coordinated by the Planning and Strategy  Executive Board in together with the  Companys departments which takes  into consideration: the external scenario,  which results in a plan of action to limit  the possible threats and identify market  opportunities; and the internal scenario,  which verifies the opportunities to improve  preocess in the Company. All the various  aspects are continuously monitored,  since for each change in scenario new  assessment is made as to whether or not  there is a need to change direction. Based on this Strategic Plan it is possible  to define the strategic objectives and, then,  actions, projects and resources that will be  allocated. At the end of the year, this Plan  provides the base for assumptions and  the budget for the following period, which  is submitted for approval by the Board of  Directors. The Strategic Plan and its translation  into the years targets, indicators and  budget are monitored on a regular basis  in different instances:  Regularly, the Project Office monitors  the implementation (expected deadlines,  costs and functionalities) of the  Companys strategic projects.   Weekly, at the Executive Committee  meetings which brings together the CEO,  along with the Executive Directors and  eventual Directors invited.  Monthly, at each areas Monthly  Process Meetings (Remaps) with  the CEO and a Finance and Strategy  this is a practical and rapid resource,  which is offered to Redecard clients,  that helps managing cash flow and  access to working capital for merchants Autonomy, flexibility, convenience  and speed are the main attributes  of Redecards RAv, which enables  clients to receive advance payment for  receivables in relation to sales made  by credit card, either in at sight or in  instalments, using the Mastercard,  visa, diners club International,  Sicredi and cabal branded cards. for  this service the company charges a  discount, which is negotiated directly  with the merchants. Prepayment of Receivables (RAv) the merchant may also opt for  Automatic Prepayment, which  entails the programming of the  prepayment; daily, weekly, bi-monthly  or customized in accordance with the  merchants cash flow. Redecard was  the pioneer in terms of prepayment of  receivables, with its launch in 1987. for  the purpose of managing chargeback  risks, the company has a sophisticated  system for monitoring the merchants,  by setting limits on prepayments  as  well as tracking the chargeback track  record of the merchants. It should be  highlighted that the credit risk of the  cardholder is the responsibility of the  cards issuing bank. Strategic Plan representative, for the purpose of  monitoring the performance of each  areas key performance indicators.  The areas are as follows: Strategic  Planning, Human Resources, Commercial,  Marketing and Products, IT & Operations,  Finance, Legal and Audit. GRI DMA-EC, DMA- EN, DMA-LA , DMA-HR, DMA-SO and DMA-PR  Monthly, at the Results Monitoring  Meetings chaired by the CEO with  executive Directors, Directors and  managers.   Monthly, at the Board of Directors  Meeting by means of the Executive  Summary of the Companys main  numbers and indicators.  Quarterly, after earnings release to the  CVM (Brazilian Securities Commission), all  the employees are informed of Redecards  performance. In the next cycle of 2011, other aspects  of sustainability (based on the protocol of  GRI indicators) will become a formal part  of this management system (by means of  the Monthly Processes Meetings with each  department). Some managers will need to  be aware of this demand when planning  projects, as this will have an impact on  their performance within the Companys  operations: their indicators, their goals, and  their remuneration. GRI 4.5 In order to turn its value proposition into results, Redecard updates its Strategic  Plan, which sets objectives, actions and targets to be achieved by the Company.  The starting point is the quest to ensure that shareholders, Clients and  employees are all satisfied. Innovation Innovation is another key  element in Redecards business  strategy. It is synonymous with  technology and a pioneering  approach. The Company was  the first merchant acquirer  in brazil to launch a wireless  POS electronic terminal, which  provides the mobility that many  Clients need in their stores. Redecard also showed innovation in its  initiative to offer its Clients prepayment  of receivables, thus helping to develop  Brazilian commerce. The launch of an  institutional campaign aimed at the mass  media was another pioneering initiative,  which added value to the brand and  reinforced its market positioning. Redecard remained at the forefront  in 2010, attempting to provide existing  Clients with mobility and to expand the  use of electronic payment methods to  new business segments. To this end, the  Company launched Redecard Celular, a  payment system that allows a mobile  handset to be used like a credit card,  thus replacing so-called plastic. Another  innovation was the launch of Redecard  Mvel, a product that turns the handset  into a POS terminal, in order to make  sales with speedand with security. The  market leader, this product is aimed at  those segments which require mobility  and where credit cards only have a limited  penetration at present. A good example  of this would be direct sales and delivery  services. In order to improve the product,  in 2010 the Company launched Redecard  Mvel Tudo Pronto–a mobile handset  rented to the merchant or professional  person; this already includes a data  package, without any need to download  the software application.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 Process of  internal  and external inquiry 26 / dIalogue wIth StakeholderS In order to identify the themes that  are important to the companys  sustainability, Redecard held a dialogue  with its stakeholders. the discussions  took place in december 2010, by means  of two open panels with stakeholders.  Since this was the second year that the  company had held these meetings,  the objective was not just to apply  the materiality test for the purpose of  extracting the important themes, but  also to consult with stakeholders as  to what could be done to improve this  Sustainability Report.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 29 28 / dIalogue wIth StakeholderS  Corporate governance  Socio-economic and environmental development  Focus on the Client  Innovation In order to inform strategic audiences about the themes  considered as most relevant, these four major themes guide the  contents of the next chapters of this Report. external   Stakeholders Panel In 2010, Redecard increased the  number of stakeholder participants in its  dialogue process from 32 to 49. Divided  into five groups, the guests were able to  express their opinions in relation to the  Companys initiatives as well as its targets.  The Executive Directors and the Board  Members were consulted by means of  individual interviews and the utilization of  questionnaires. GRI 4.16 Executive officers and members of  the Board of Directors were individually  interviewed, and responded to specific  questionnaires. The main result of the discussion with  the stakeholders was the identification of  four themes that cover the most important  subjects in relation to sustainability  management in Redecard (see chart below).  This content will serve as the basis for  consolidating a future sustainability policy  in the Company. GRI 4.17 Stakeholders were defined in accordance  with the following criteria: GRI 4.14 and 4.15 Employees: various hierarchies, areas,  gender and age. Clients: members of the Clients  Council – which consists of a group of 15  Clients chosen by commercial area – and  representatives from all the Companys  Client groups.  Suppliers: Redecards 15 largest suppliers  (including service providers).  Investors: analysts, in addition to the  controlling shareholders representative.  Partners: brands and issuing banks.  Associations: the Brazilian Credit Card  and Service Association (Abecs), the  Brazilian Wholesalers and Distributors  Association (Abad) and the Federation of  Chambers of Merchants of the State of So  Paulo (FCDLESP). Internal Stakeholders Panel AttendeeS The main Themes highlighTed in  This process were as follows: 1. Ethics  2. Transparency 3. Client Satisfaction 4. Corporate Governance Policy 5. Risk Management 6. Incentives for Recycling 7. Investments in Innovation 8. Fraud Prevention  9. Sustainability Policy 10. Strategic Commitment   to Sustainable Development Employees Associations Issuing Banks Brands Investors/Analysts Suppliers Clients 3 7 5 4 3 3 24 GRI 4.14 GRI 4.17  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 Organizational Principles  constantly evolving 30 / corPorate governance In order to accompany and reflect the new environment  in the payments industry, Redecard decided to  reformulate its business drivers. the aim was to align  the company with a more competitive environment,  but without abandoning its commitment to ethics and  transparency. the reformulation of the vision and Mission  Statements was concluded in 2010, as shown below. vision we believe that electronic transactions  can foster our clients business. GRI 4.8 Mission to provide the best payments and  services experience in electronic means. values Redecard values:   Sense of urgency in relation to Client  satisfaction;  Security in operations;  Be an agent of social, environmental  and economic transformation;  Teamwork;   Integrity, transparency and coherence;  and  Innovation in electronic payment  solutions. 2010 also saw the start of a process  of constructing new values that  would help with the execution of  the strategy and the achievement  of results, in addition to reinforcing  the companys identity. this  construction was carried out based on  a questionnaire sent to all employees  about what values were perceived  in Redecard, what their personal  values were and what values they  thought Redecard should have. After  compiling this information, discussion  groups were held with leadership  professionals (from different levels  and areas). the conclusions were  comunicated and discussed with the  executive committee and with the  Board of directors in order to define  the new values, to be disclosed in 2011.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 33 32 / corPorate governance abide by corporate governance practices  and disclosure requirements over and  above those required under brazilian  legislation, such as a minimum of 20% of  independent board Members, exclusive  issue of common shares, a minimum of  25% of shares in circulation (free float)  and 100% Tag-Along Rights.  Redecards shares are included in  indices that are characteristic of the New  Market, such as the Index of Shares with  Differentiated Tag-Along Rights (Itag)  and the Index of Corporate Governance  (IGC). The first of these consists of  shares of companies that offer minority  shareholders the best terms in the event  of a change in control. The second of  these is a theoretical portfolio of shares  of companies that exhibit high standards  of corporate governance. Relationship with Investors Redecard is an attractive investment  alternative for investors who believe in  the growth potential of the electronic  payments industry in brazil and who  have confidence in Redecards operational  efficiency and its capacity to take  advantage of market opportunities  and offer high returns. The Company is  committed to generating the highest  possible added value for its shareholders.  To this end, it always tries to invest in the  brands growth, exercise caution in its  decision-making and recognize that it is  managing the shareholders assets. Redecards has strong risk management  controls and compliance with regulations  in its business process. It also renders  accountability to and interacts in a  transparent way with the shareholders,  investors, market analysts, regulatory  bodies and capital market entities. investors and analysts at its head office in  the city of barueri, State of So Paulo, which  was open to members of the Association of  Capital Markets Analysts and Investment  Professionals (Apimec). The event was  granted the Carbon Free seal and the  Company encouraged its Commuter- Sharing Program aimed at reducing GHG  (green house gases) emissions. The Investor Relations website provides  financial information, management analysis  of results, announcements, material facts,  historical data, earnings, conference calls  transcripts, Annual Sustainability Reports,  policies, along with other items. The site is  available in Portuguese and English, and  serves as an important communication  channel with shareholders. dividends One of Redecards main objectives is to  provide its shareholders with a healthy  return on their investment. According  to brazilian Corporate Law for Publicly- Held Companies the minimum dividend  payment is 25% of the adjusted net profit  reported in the non-consolidated financial  statements. In the Companys bylaws, in  each financial year Redecard is required to  distribute a mandatory dividend of at least  40% of the adjusted net profit reported in  the non-consolidated financial statements.  In addition, the board of Directors can  recommend that shareholders approve  the payment of additional dividends out  of other funds that have been legally  available for distribution since the  Companys listing. In practice, Redecard has one of the  highest payouts in the market having  distributed approximatelly 95% of  the Companys profit in dividends and  interest on equity since its listing. The Company also ensures that its  operations are carried out without  benefiting any special interests, in  an ethical and transparent way. Total  secrecy is maintained in relation to  all information about projects, deals,  activities and results that has not yet  been disclosed to the market, and which  could interfere in the share price and  influence market movements. All communication with shareholders  and investors is carried out and  accompanied by the Redecards Investor  Relations Department. This department is  totally dedicated to taking care of foreign  and local investors. Redecard seeks to constantly improve its  relationship with analysts and investors,  with the focus on transparency and  equality. To this end, at regular intervals  the Company carries out surveys to  evaluate the attendance and the quality of  the service provided to these stakeholders. Since its listing, the Company has  taken part in numerous conferences  aimed at the capital markets, promoted  by local as well as international banks;  its head office is also open to visits by  investors and shareholders who are  interested in learning more about the  Companys activities. 20 financial institutions are currently  following Redecards performance and  publishing detailed research reports, which  include investment recommendations for  both individual Clients and institutional  investors. These reports are published on  the Companys Investor Relations website. In November 2010, Redecard held  its fourth Annual Public Meeting with  Redecard seeks to adopt the following policies of corporate  governance recommended by the IBgc:    Exclusive issue of common shares;  Policy of one share, one vote;   Hiring of independent auditors to analyze the balance sheet and  financial statements, although the same company is not hired to  provide any other services that could compromise its independence;   Clear Bylaws regarding the ways for calling General Shareholders  Meetings, the duties of the Board of directors and the executive  Board, the voting system, the election, removal from office and  mandate of the Board of directors and executive officers;  Transparency in the publication of managements annual reports;  Calls to meetings and the pertinent documentation being available  from the first date the meeting is called, with detailed information  regarding the issues included in the order of business for the day,  always with the aim of holding the meetings at times and venues that  enable the presence of the greatest possible number of shareholders;   Make note, when requested, of dissenting votes in the Minutes of  general Shareholders Meetings;  Prohibit the use of privileged information and the existence of  policies to disclose relevant information;  Make statutory provision for arbitration as a means of solving  possible conflicts between shareholders and the company;   Board members with experience in operational and financial matters;  Make statutory provision to prohibit Board Members access to  information and their right to vote in situations involving a conflict  of interest;  The offer to purchase shares that results in the transfer of control  should be made to shareholders, who will have the option to sell their  shares on the same terms as the controlling shareholder, including  participation in the premium paid for control, if there is one;   The number of members of the Board of Directors should vary  between five and nine members;  Adoption of Regulations for the Board of Directors;  Segregation of the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors  and that of the ceo.  Main  practices Redecard seeks to maintain the  best practices in terms of corporate  governance and improve its  performance based on the guidelines  contained in the Code for best  Practices of Corporate Governance,  which is published by the brazilian  Institute of Corporate Governance  (IbGC). This code indicates the best  ways to add value to society, improve  performance, facilitate access to  capital at lower costs and contribute  to business continuity. According to the IBGC, corporate  governance is the system by which  companies are guided and monitored,  which involves relationships with  shareholders, the Board of Directors,  executive officers, the independent  auditors and the Audit Committee.  The main basic principles inherent to  this practice are transparency, equality,  accountability and corporate responsibility. the So Paulo Stock exchange – BM&fBovespa and new Market Redecard has been listed on the So  Paulo Stock Exchange – bM&Fbovespa  in the New Market since 2007, to  guarantee greater transparency in  relation to the Companys activities and  its economic situation, giving minority  shareholders the power to take part in  the Companys management and ensure  that Redecard continues to exhibit the  highest standards in terms of corporate  governance. Companies that are listed in  the New Market voluntarily undertake to   GRI 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 and 4.9  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 35 34 / corPorate governance Jos Roberto Haym and Marcelo Fernandez Trindade  were elected as new Board Members by the Board of  Directors at a meeting that was held on March 31, 2011. StRAtegIc   PlAnnIng And  clIentS loYAltY BOArD   Of DIrECTOrS ChIEf ExECuTIvE  OffICEr ExECuTIvE  LEGAL AffAIrS DIrECTOr ExECuTIvE  huMAn   rESOurCES  DIrECTOr ExECuTIvE  MArkETInG AnD  PrODuCTS DIrECTOr ExECuTIvE  COMMErCIAL  DIrECTOr  – SMALL CLIEnTS ExECuTIvE  TEChnOLOGy AnD  OPErATIOnS DIrECTOr ExECuTIvE  fInAnCES DIrECTOr ExECuTIvE  COMMErCIAL  DIrECTOr – LArGE  AnD MEDIuM CLIEnTS  AudIt   coMMIttee AudIt 1 Replaced on April 15, 2011 by Claudio Takashi Yamaguti. 2 Appointed on January 3, 2011 or business which involves a conflict of  interest with the Company. Decisions  made by the board of Directors are taken  in accordance with the majority vote of  the board Members who are present at  any given meeting. GRI 4.1 and 4.6 Redecard publishes a Meetings  Manual, which contains procedures and  explanations regarding the resolutions  to be decided by all shareholders at the  Annual Shareholders' Meeting. GRI 4.4 The board of Directors is also  responsible for choosing and supervising  the actions of Redecards CEO, executive  directors and managing directors, who  handle the day-to-day management and  the implementation of the policies and  general guidelines set by the board of  Directors.  The executive directors are elected  by the board of Directors for a two-year  term, with reelection being permitted. The  executive directors may be removed from  their positions by a decision of the board  of Directors. According to the Companys  bylaws, the Executive board should consist  of a minimum of three members and a  maximum of ten.  GRI 4.3 Shareholder structure The ownership structure consists of Ita  Unibanco as the controlling shareholder  and minority shareholders holding shares  that are traded on the So Paulo Stock  Exchange – bM&Fbovespa The chart below  indicates the number of common shares  held by Redecards shareholders. Management of the Companys  business policies and definition of its  long-term strategy is the responsibility  of the board of Directors, which currently  consists of six members, three of  whom are independent. The number  of members of the board of Directors  is defined at a shareholders meeting  by a majority vote of the Companys  shareholders. The Companys directors  are elected for a period of two years,  after which they may be reelected.  Members of the board of Directors are  required to own at least one Redecard  share and may only be removed  from their positions as the result of  a decision taken at the Companys  Annual Shareholders Meeting. At  least 20% of the board Members must  be independent members. All board  Members are prohibited from voting at a  meeting or taking part in any transaction  50,0% 50,0% ShAReholdeR BReAKdown1 1 On 12/31/2010 2 Comprising shareholders: Banestado Ptd.Adm.Serv.LTDA, Dibens Leasing Arr.Mercantil, Unibanco Participaes Societrias S.A., Ita Unibanco S.A. 3 Lazard is a foreign legal entity based in New York, USA. 336.485.355 shares ITA UNIBANCO2 336.485.350 shares FREE FLOAT    Lazard3 Asset Management LLC3 – 79.483.650 (11,8%) Other shareholders – 257.001.700 shares (38,2%) roberto Jos Maris de Medeiros1 Chief Executive Officer Alessandro Tavares raposo Executive Marketing and Products Director  Claudio Eduardo vianna de Oliveira Executive Commercial Director –   Large and Medium Clients ramon Gmez Executive Commercial Director – Small Clients Elisabete Szabo Executive Human Resources Director Marcelo kopel Chief Financial Officer Marcelo habice Motta Executive Legal Director nicolas Alfredo Wservolojskoy Managing Director of Strategic Planning Plnio Patro2 Executive Technology and Operations Director  viviane Behar de Castro Investor Relations Officer and Sustainability RedecARdS executIve BoARd Mrcio de Andrade Schettini Chairman Caio Ibrahim David Vice-President fernando Jos Costa Teles board Member Alessandro Giuseppe Carlucci Independent board Member Larcio Jos de Lucena Cosentino Independent board Member horcio Lafer Piva Independent board Member StRAtegIc PlAnnIng And cuStoMeR loYAltY GRI 2.8 GRI 4.1 GRI 4.3  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 37 Disclosure and Trading Committee  Redecards Disclosure and Trading  Committee was created in accordance with  the Companys Policy of Stock Trading and  is headed by the Investor Relations Officer.  Its duties include: advising the Investor  Relations Officer; deliberating on doubts  regarding the interpretation of the text of  Redecards Business Policy and Disclosure  regarding the Companys Securities;  determining the actions required for  the disclosure and communication of  this policy; examining and reaching a  decision in cases of a breach in policy; and  analyzing official requests for information  from the regulatory and self-regulatory  bodies. This committee also draws up the  answers to these questions and analyzes  the content of press releases, as well  as those resulting from meetings with  investors and analysts, conference calls  and public presentations that contain  material information about the Company.  GRI 4.7 and 4.9 human resources Committee  It is the duty of the Human Resources  Committee to examine and assess  proposals for human resources policies  and practices that have been drawn up  by the Companys Board of Directors or  the Executive Board or by government or  regulatory bodies. The committee is also  responsible for drawing up succession  plans for the executives and for proposing  guidelines in relation to recruitment,  career management and assessment. The  committee is also responsible for defining  leadership development programs and  monitoring training programs for trainees  and talented individuals. GRI DMA-LA Technology Committee  The Technology Committees main  function is to discuss proposals for the  adoption of new technologies – or the  improvement of existing ones – that have  a marked impact on the business. For each  proposal the committee points out the  inherent risks and advantages. It is also the  job of this committee to discuss possible  risks from technology presented by the  Companys representatives, giving advice  regarding the paths that should be taken  and analyzing a mitigation plan. fiscal Committee  The Fiscal Committee analyzes relevant  taxation questions and recommends  the procedure that should be followed  in each case. The decision regarding the  adoption of legal measures and the hiring  of lawyers to support the action, along  with the decision as to whether or not  to set up accounting provisions, are also  the tasks of this committee. In addition,  the committee evaluates the Companys  interface with the tax authorities and  the indicators in terms of clearance  certificates and rulings resulting from  fiscal amnesty.  Legal Committee This committee analyzes relevant legal  questions and suggests proceedings  and solutions. It deals with the most  significant contracts and with the legal  strategies regarding specific matters and  monitors developments in relation to  administrative or legal proceedings. The  committee may also suggest external  consultants and request the opinion of  specialists in order to support its own  analyses or recommendations. Sustainability Committee This committees job is to advise  the Board of Directors on all matters  regarding sustainability and to monitor  and implement policies, strategies and  actions that relate to the sustainability of  the Companys business. Its members can  recommend the revision of policies and  strategies at the Companys environmental  and social levels, and strategies and  policies aimed at its relationship with  stakeholders, its image, and its reputation.  The committee is also responsible  for defining Redecards sustainability  policies and strategies and deciding on  the composition of the Sustainability  Commission, made up of the Companys  employees. The Sustainability Committee  holds quarterly meetings. GRI 4.1, 4.7 and 4.9 Quality Committee This committee monitors Redecards  quality policy and ensures the excellence  of the services provided by the Company  to its Clients. Its tasks also include the  recommendation of targets in terms of  levels of services, satisfaction and other  quality indicators. This committee is  responsible for developing projects aimed  at improving the internal processes of the  business.  Audit Committee It is the task of this committee to  ensure (i) the quality and integrity of  the financial statements; (ii) compliance  with legal and regulatory requirements;  (iii) the performance, independence and  quality of the work of the independent  audit companies; (iv) the performance,  independence and quality of the work  of the Internal Audit department; and  (v) the quality and effectiveness of the  internal control and risk administration  systems. This committees  recommendations are reported to the  Board of Directors, which can also  choose and dismiss the independent  auditors. GRI 4.6 and 4.9 In December 2010, the Audit Committee  had four members – three representatives  from the controlling shareholder and one  independent member, with a mandate  that is valid until 2011. remuneration and Options  Committee This committee examines and assesses  proposals for employee compensation  and Stock Option Plan policies and  practices that have been drawn up by  the Companys Board of Directors or  the Executive Board or by government  or regulatory bodies. The committee  is also responsible for approving the  compensation of the main executives  along with proposing a figure for  global annual compensation and to  give  an opinion regarding the interest  of directors and employees in the  Companys profits. It is also the task of  this committee to manage Redecards  Stock Options Plan and clarify doubts in  relation to its interpretation. 36 / corPorate governance One of the innovations in 2010 in  Redecards corporate governance was the  creation of new committees by the Board  of Directors. They were set up with the objective  of allowing a preliminary analysis by  technical bodies of the various matters  that are under the Boards responsibility,  to help it and give the required support  for to the Board to deliberate in relation  to these issues. From the 11 committees  composing the structure, eight include  at least one member of the Board of  Directors. These are: Disclosure and  Trading, Fiscal , Human Resources, Quality,  Remuneration and Options, Strategy,  Sustainability and Technology.  Strategy Committee The Strategy Committee, which was  created by the Board of Directors at  a meeting that was held on August  26, 2010, is headed by the CEO. The  committee is responsible for outlining  the Companys global business strategy  and permanently revising it in light of  scenario changes. GRI 4.3 risk, fraud Prevention and  Compliance Committee The Risk, Fraud Prevention and  Compliance Committee was created in  August 2010. It is responsible for the  following tasks: assessing the Companys  risks; accompanying its control structure;  monitoring the external and internal  fraud and information security indicators;  recommending the adoption of preventive  measures in relation to risk management,  information security and the prevention of  fraud; and accompanying the development  and the results of projects that lead to  improvements. It is this committees job  to provide the Board of Directors with  performance indicators and plans for  corrective action that may reduce risk  exposure. GRI 4.9 and SO4; GC 10 StRAtegY   coMMIttee RISK, fRAud  PReventIon And  coMPlIAnce  coMMIttee  technologY  coMMIttee dIScloSuRe   And tRAdIng  coMMIttee fIScAl   coMMIttee SuStAInABIlItY  coMMISSIon legAl   coMMIttee quAlItY   coMMIttee huMAn   ReSouRceS  coMMIttee SuStAInABIlItY  coMMIttee ReMuneRAtIon   And oPtIonS   coMMIttee AudIt   coMMIttee BOArD   Of DIrECTOrS GRI 4.1 and DMA-EC, EN and PR  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 39 ethics GRI 4.8 Redecards Code of Ethics and Conduct  is the highest expression of how the  Company, represented by its employees,  should behave in a wide variety of  situations. It is also a guide to the  Companys moral parameters, its long- term objectives, and its way of doing  business and of interacting with its  various stakeholders.    In order to strengthen its commitment  to ethics, in 2010 Redecard made  widespread disclosure of the Code of  Ethics and Conduct, obtaining acceptance  from all the Companys employees. This  process was initiated in 2009, with the  revision of the document. This was a result  of the revision of the Companys identity,  its adherence to the ten Principles of the  Global Compact and the need to meet  market requirements, such as the Business  Sustainability Index (ISE) of the So Paulo  Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa, and the  Dow Jones Sustainability World Index –  DJSI World), among others.  Upon the revision of the Code and  in  addition to updating all the employees with  regard to the changes, the Company trained  the new employees. The training took place  by means of an e-learning system, a type of  internet course which makes it possible to  learn at a distance. GRI SO3; GC 10 The updating of the Code of Ethics  entailed the inclusion of clauses  regarding family links between  employees, competitors, business partners  and service providers and protection of  internationally recognized human rights.  The Code of Ethics and Conduct is split  into three areas: the Companys principles,  the management of ethics and conduct,  and the term of responsibility.  GRI 4.8, HR6 and HR7; GC 1, 2 and 3 In 2010, the Company registered just  one case of a breach of its Code of Ethics  and Conduct. The Ethics Committee was  summoned and it applied sanction in  accordance with the Companys policy in  connection with instances of rule breaking.  Among the goals for 2011 is the creation  of a specific Code of Ethics and Conduct for  suppliers and service providers.GC 1, 2 and 5 Relationship with suppliers GRI HR2, HR6 e HR7; GC 1,2,3, 5 e 6 The suppliers are important  stakeholders in Redecards processes,  as they operate in essential stages of  the Companys value chain. Redecard is  committed to establish relationships  with its suppliers that are based on trust,  transparency and ethics. For this reason,  the Company tries to work only with  partners who share the same principles  and values. DMA-HR The Company does not tolerate any of its  partners being associated with any form of  exploitation or conduct that entails forced,  slave or compulsory labor and, most of all,  child labor, in any activity linked with its  business. For this reason, it only operates  with partners who accept the rules and  procedures that are contained in Redecards  Code of Ethics and Conduct and in  contractual clauses related to these themes  and values. DMA-HR Among the goals for 2011 is the  publication of a specific Code of Ethics  for Suppliers which will establish the  Companys guidelines on this matter and  will encourage suppliers to adhere to the  Principles of the Global Compact. Redecard does not have any specific  policy for the development and hiring of  local suppliers, but it does purchase or  contract all the equipment, supplies and  services based on their technical capacity,  quality, and price. Redecards active  supplier base includes regional companies  that provide logistics services along with  those of a commercial nature in various  parts of the country, boosting the economy  in these areas. The Company safeguards  the privacy of its commercial partners,  maintaining that their information always  confidential and secure. Relationships with associations  GRI 4.13 and DMA-HR Redecard believes that it is extremely  important that the Company participates,  through its employees, in various entities  and associations. The Company actively participates in  associations related to its operation, such  as the Brazilian Association of Credit  Card and Service Companies (ABECS),  the Brazilian Association of Publicly-Held  Companies (Abrasca) and the Brazilian  Investor Relations Institute (IBRI). Redecard also believes in maintaining  a good relationship with the unions  representing the category and its  employees. The readjustments of salaries  every year is achieved by means of a  collective bargaining process between  the employers associations and the  employees unions (Collective Agreement).  GRI DMA-LA 38 / corPorate governance Transparency and ethics  in relationships Denouncements to Redecard can  be made using specific forms or by  using the following channels: – Disk Denncia: external line  (55 11) 2121-1500; – E-mail: Internal Audit:  canaldedenuncias@redecard.com.br  or the President of the   Internal Audit Committee:   comitedeauditoria@redecard.com.br; – Mailing address for  correspondence: Canal de Denncias,  Caixa Postal 667 – CEP 01032-970,  So Paulo/SP, Brazil;  – In person: to schedule an  appointment with any of the  aforementioned channels. Internal Audit Another important instrument for  ensuring transparency in Redecards  processes is the Internal Audit area. In 2010,  the department completed the planning  for the areas to be audited, which are  classified into three risk categories: high,  medium or low. These areas are reviewed  periodically, in accordance with the risk  analysis methodology used by the Internal  Audit department. GC 10 whistle-Blowing channel   This channel complements  Redecards other activities in  relation to transparency. It handles  all denouncements related to any  suspicion or knowledge of possible  frauds, breaches of the legislation or  of standards of ethics and conduct,  accounting irregularities, internal  controls or corporate governance, among  other items. This channel is open both  to internal as well as external parties.  The Company prohibits any kind of  retaliatory action against employees who  utilize this channel. GRI 4.6 In cases where fraud is proven, the  Company applies administrative and legal  sanctions. Breaches of the Code of Ethics  and Conduct are subject to disciplinary  action, regardless of the hierarchical level,  as well as to the penalties established  under the Consolidated Labor Laws (CLT).  There were no cases of fraud during the  period covered by this report. GRI SO4; GC10 Ensuring transparency in its business activities is one of Redecards  commitments to all its stakeholders. It is Redecards belief that  sustainable companies are among the most transparent ones. As evidence of the Companys  commitment to transparency, the Board  of Directors Regulations, which describes  the Boards duties together with those  if its Committees were published on the  Companys website, with details regarding  the composition, election, investiture,  workings, structure, organization of the  Board of Directors and of its Committees,.  Redecards website also includes the  Companys Reference Form. This document  was established by the Brazilian Securities  Commission (CVM) and compiles the  Companys most important information,  such as that related to the management  of the business, the composition of its  capital, management and their respective  remuneration, risk factors and business  with related parties. GRI 4.6 Most transparent companies The fact that Redecard moved up 21  positions in the ranking of the 2010  edition of Ibovespas Study of the Most  Transparent Companies provides further  proof of the Companys commitment to  this theme. The analysis is carried out by  means of the content of the companies  websites, which are assessed according  to 123 different criteria, split into three  areas: corporate social responsibility  (RSC), corporate governance (GC), and  sustainability. In the 2010 ranking, which  was undertaken by the management  consultancy firm Management &  Excellence Amrica Latina (M&E),  Redecard achieved the 13th position.   REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 41 Security is a  primordial element for  Redecard's business.  The Company has  an internal control  environment aimed at  supporting electronic  payment operations. software and the destruction of specific  parts of the device. GRI PR1; GC 1 Security and certification  Redecards entire electronic terminals  park is renewed at regular intervals  and updated with the latest versions of  software in order to avoid fraud. In the  case of merchants who have their own POS  electronic terminals, Redecard monitors  the situation and indicates the security  practices to be adopted, in accordance  with the PCI Payment Card Industry Data  Security Standard (PCI DSS) international  security standard. In the case of those  merchants who rent the POS electronic  terminals, Redecards logistics area is  responsible for the collection, maintenance  and technical support of this equipment,  in accordance with the contact made with  Clients using Redecards customer service  channels. GRI PR1; GC 1 In 2010, the logistics sector made  roughly 1.8 million field visits to 5,000  Brazilian cities. This process was carried  out in order to guarantee the security of  Redecards main channel for interaction  with its Clients.  PcI dSS certification In 2010, Redecard maintained its PCI  DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security  Standard) certification. The standard  was created by the PCI Council, which  is the council founded by the largest  international payment card brands for  the purpose of increasing the security of  electronic transactions and protecting  cardholders data. In order to obtain  certification, companies need to meet  a series of demands and make various  adaptations to their internal systems to  ensure that the transaction data in their  networks is not violated. Redecard obtained PCI certification  in 2009 and, in order to continue to  warrant certification, it revised more  than 5,000 security control measures and  implemented another 1,100 in 2010. The  Company also began to provide consultancy  services to its large Clients in relation to  security and obtaining PCI DSS certification.  As an example, the retail network Casas  Bahia became Brazils only retail chain to  have PCI DSS certification. Throughout the  entire process Casas Bahia counted on the  support and experience of Redecard, and as  a result becamethe first merchant acquirer  in Brazil and in Latin America to obtain this  recognition. GRI PR1; GC 1 fraud prevention All of Redecards POS electronic terminals  are equipped to read smart cards with chips,  which eliminates the risk of fraud when a  purchase is made with a card that has this  system. With the growth in the number  of chip cards in Brazil, the focus of fraud  continues to be the cloning of magnetic  cards, a practice that Redecard combats by  means of very advanced preventive systems,  specialized staff and training given to Clients. The program Selling with Security  reinforces Redecards commitment to  advising its Clients as to the best ways to  prevent fraud. By means of lectures, Clients  learn about the behavioral characteristics  of fraudsters, how to identify a forged  card and also how to make a secure sale.  Using this program, around 5,200 training  sessions were facilitated over the course of  the year. Trainings were held at the Client's  facilities or through Redecards internal  portal. According to availability and size,  the Client may be trained more than once.  For small scale merchants Redecard also  give the option of receiving this training  via the internet, thus increasing the level of  awareness among its Clients.  The Company also acts in a preventive  way, notifying both the card issuing  bank as well as the merchant, whenever  it detects a possible risk situation. To  this end, the Company relies on state- of-the-art technology to help in the  identification of attempted fraud and of  improper or fraudulent use of transaction  capture devices. The POS electronic terminals are  replaced in cases of: GRI PR1; GC 1 e 8 1 – Technical obsolescence, when  the software no longer meets the  processing needs of Redecards data  transmission system or when the  hardware can no longer cope with  the aforementioned demands; 2 – If any suspicion of fraud in the  security system is confirmed; 3 – When maintenance is no  longer practical.  This integration is aimed at preventing  fraud, thus avoiding losses for cardholders,  merchants and issuing banks.GRI 4.11 and  PR1; GC 1 Money laundering prevention In 2010, Redecard, in compliance with  the laws and the relevant regulations,  formalized guidelines for monitoring,  analyzing and reporting evidence of  money-laundering and connections  with terrorism – or the financing thereof  – identified in the movements of its  affiliated merchants – to the Financial  Activities Control Council (Coaf). GC 10 40 / corPorate governance Mitigation of risks Redecard reinforced its structure for  treatment of critical situations with  the creation of a Crisis Management  Committee, the purpose of which is  to act as a decision making forum,  prioritizing actions and communication  with the various internal and external  stakeholders, establishing priorities for  containing the problem, and determining  risk management action that minimizes its impact. In  the absence of critical situations, this  committee engages in the discussion  of strategies and actions aimed at the  continuation of the essential processes  that sustain Redecards business. DMA-PR Another risk mitigation action is the  evaluation of all merchants prior to their  affiliation to the Redecard System. This  screening is carried out in accordance  with the rules of the card brands and  takes into account the business sector, the  region and the merchants size. It defines  the risk that this merchants affiliation  represents and what products and services  can be offered. Redecard does not affiliate  merchants that are involved in any type  of illegal, unethical or undesirable activity,  which in any way is at odds with the  Companys Code of Ethics or its statement  of commitments. It is also unnacceptable  to Redecardare activities where there is  any evidence of child labor, forced labor or  anything related to slave labor. GRI HR2, HR6  and HR7; GC 1, 2 and 3 The disposal of Redecards POS  electronic terminals also follows security  and risk management protocols against  fraud. This process takes place by  means of the total decoding of the POS  electronic terminal, with the removal of  the logo, the complete removal of the  In 2010, Redecard classified all the previously mapped risks and  prioritized the tracking of those regarded as unacceptable. This  monitoring effort was focused for the most part on actions aimed  at avoiding the materialization of such risks. Among the main risks  monitored are the following: the continuity of business by means of its  capture processes, the processing and settlement of the transactions,  and the breach of the Companys systems. GRI 4.11, PR1 and PR8; GC 1 the staff of  Redecard's  Monitoring center  (cMR) manages  the service level in  the company and  contributes to the  management of risks.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 The labor market was one of the  highlights in 2010, with the net creation  of 2.5 million formal registered jobs,  concentrated in services and in commerce,  producing an increase in the aggregate  wage which, coupled with consumer  confidence, resulted in a marked level  of demand for consumption on the part  of households. It is estimated that retail  commerce posted a growth of close to 10%  in real terms, according to the preliminary  figures released by the IBGE (Brazilian  Institute of Geography and Statistics). The global scenario also ended 2010  on a positive note, with the most mature  economies showing a consistent recovery  while the emerging economies were  Economic scenario  42 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment at the forefront of global growth. In  2011, we should see a continuation of  the growth consolidation process in  the developed economies and, at the  same time, a slowing down in the pace  of growth registered by the emerging  economies, including Brazil. In fact,  the Brazilian government has already  withdrawn a significant number of the  incentives that were adopted during the  crisis and is likely to pay more attention  this year to controlling inflation and  public spending. Redecard on the market It is Redecards belief that it has made  a significant contribution to Brazils  economic development, given that its  Brazil ended 2010 with a gdP growth of 7.5%, which was the  best result since 1986. this figure reflects the consolidation  of the recovery of the domestic economy, following the  very pronounced, although relatively brief impact of the  global financial crisis. this recovery was mainly due to the  sound performance posted by investments and domestic  consumption, which were fueled by the governments  incentive measures. Among the measures adopted, highlight  goes to the temporary tax cuts (reduction of Industrial  Products tax) for a few segments, the increase in public credit  and the incentives provided for private sector credit. GRI 1.2  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 45 coMPoSItIon of totAl gRoSS Revenue Prepayment  of credit card  transactions Rental of capture equipment Capture,  processing and  settlement  of credit card  transactions Capture and  transmission of: – Private Label  transactions – benefit Card  transactions – Check  verification  Capture,  processing and  settlement of debit  card transactions Credit cards Equipment  rental Others Debit card Prepayment 45% 17% 12% 23% 4% 1 A basis point corresponds to 0.01 of a percentage point financial performance net Income In 2010, Redecard posted a net income  of R$ 1.4 billion, 0.3% higher than obtained  in 2009.  The changes in processes employed in  light of the new regulatory framework and  the new competitive environment resulted  in a recurring net margin of 41.2%, which  represents a 4.2 percentage point drop by  comparison with 2009. Acknowledged by the market as a  company with strong cash generation  and high payment of dividends, Redecard,  complying with its dividend payment  policy, paid dividends and interest over its  capital throughout 2010. This meant the  distribution of 95% of its results in 2010. Redecard captured R$ 184 billion in  debit and credit transactions in 2010, in  line with the Companys expectations,  with a 25.6% growth in the financial  volume of credit transactions and a 22.1%  growth in debit transactions. The net  merchant discount rate was 134 bps1 for  credit and 77 bps for debit. The volume of  prepayment of Receivables was equal to  23.1% of the financial volume of credit card  transactions, while investments in the year  came to a total amount of R$ 262 million. gross operating revenue The Companys main source of revenue is  from the capture, transmission, processing  and settlement of transactions made  with credit and debit cards. This revenue  is calculated by applying a percentage  negotiated with the merchants, which  is known as the merchant discount rate.  This rate is applied to the value of the  transactions captured, being allocated to the  result at the date on which the respective  transaction is processed, net of the value of  the interchange rate due to the issuers and  the rate due to the brands. These revenues are booked when the  Company receives the value corresponding  to the captured transaction, from the issuer,  net of the interchange rate. On average,  this takes place 28 days after the date the  transaction was captured in the case of  credit cards and one day afterwards in the  case of debit card transactions.  The Company makes payment to the  merchants of the value corresponding  to the transaction made by means of  credit card, net of the merchant discount  rate, on average within the space of 30  days, after processing the respective  transaction. In the case of debit card  transactions, payment is made on the day  following that of the transaction.  In addition, the Company has revenues  from rental of its POS equipment. Redecard  also has other sources of income as a result  of services that the Company provides,  such as: services to capture transactions for  44 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment actions were aimed at allowing a greater  leveraging of retail sales. The utilization  of electronic payment methods produces  greater security, reduces the risk of  default and favors the growth of the  official economy, with new segments and  self-employed professionals becoming  a part of it. The spread of multi-brand  POS electronic terminals across the  whole of Brazil has given merchants the  chance to accept more card brands, which  has benefited the countrys regional  development. GRI 1.2, 2.2 and DMA-EC The end of exclusivity contracts  between merchant acquirers and brands  on July 1, 2010 changed the competitive  environment between the companies in  Brazils electronic payments sector, with  positive results for the domestic economy  as well as for Redecard. Actions such as  geographic expansion, new partnership  agreements and increased own sales  force, for example, helped to create jobs  and to improve the economy. GRI 2.9 Redecard Clients could still count on  the Companys support to create cash  flow and working capital, by means of  prepayment of receivables (RAV). In return  for the payment of a discount rate over  the funds to be received in the future,  merchants could replenish their supplies  or even reform their stores with the help  of Prepayment. The actions outlined in the Companys  strategic planning along the year resulted  in significant gains in terms of the capture  of transactions with credit and debit cards,  particularly those bearing the Visa brand.  At December 31, 2010, Redecards portfolio  totaled 22 brands, the largest supply  available among acquirers on the Brazilian  market. The growth in affiliation was also  fueled by the new partnership agreements  signed with Caixa Econmica Federal, Banco  Safra, Tribanco (a financial institution that is  part of the wholesaler Grupo Martins) and  Bancoob (Credit Union in Midwestern Brazil).  Over the course of the year six  partnership agreements were signed, in  addition to that which was signed with  the Visa brand:  Coopercred – capture of transactions  with credit and debit and benefit cards.  This brand has a significant presence in  the State of Paran.  Sorocred – a marked presence in the  interior of So Paulo state.  Sicredi – capture of transactions with  credit and benefit cards. Sicredi has 128  credit cooperatives, 12,000 employees  and more than 1,000 service points,  spread across ten Brazilian States, with  a significant presence in the countrys  Midwestern and Southern regions.   Avista – a brand with a presence in the  States of Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais.  China Union Pay – capture, processing  and settlement of the credit and debit  made in Brazil by means of the Asian  brands cards. CUP has roughly 2.2 billion  cards issued, making it one of the largest  card brands in the world.  Another important partnership  agreement signed was that with Multiplus,  aimed at future business activities in  relation to the redemption, accumulation  or checking of the number of points with  the fidelity program in Redecards affiliated  network, which shows the start of a multi- service positioning, which will guide the  Company in 2011. Redecard presents its financial results in accordance with the  International Financial Reporting Standards, which, together  with the other information provided in this report, allows for  an evaluation of the Companys performance, guaranteeing its  investors a broad and accurate vision. 2009 2010 1.396 1.400 net IncoMe (R$ MIllIon) Services provided  by Redecard help  to leverage the  sales of clients,  thus promoting  economy.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 47 net discount rate from 1.47% to 1.34%, due  to negotiations with merchants. When we  account for partnerships with affiliated  banks, the average net merchant discount  rate came out to a figure of 1.32%. 2 – Revenue from debit card  transactions: this came to a total of  R$ 449.2 million in 2010, representing  an increase of R$ 59.9 million in year- on-year terms, or 15.4% higher than in  2009, as a result of (i) a 22.1% growth in  the transaction value and (ii) a negative  change in the average net discount  rate from 0.79% to 0.77%, on account of  negotiations with merchants. When we  account for partnerships with affiliated  banks, the average net debit rate came  to 0.75%. 3 – Revenue from equipment rental  (POS): this came to a total of R$ 792.5  million in 2010, representing an increase  of R$ 45.1 million in year-on-year terms,  or 6.0% higher than in 2009. Some  significant changes in the management  of the customer base and negotiations  with merchants contributed to this result.  At the end of December 2010, the POS  equipment installed base showed a figure  of 1,145 thousand units, which is a 16.1%  increase vis--vis the figure in December  2009, of 987 thousand units. The average  POS electronic terminal rental price in 2010  was one of R$ 62.28 which represented  a 9.6% decrease by comparison with  2009, when the average value was one  of R$ 68.89. This decline was the result of  negotiations with merchants as well as  merchant loyalty programs. 4 – Other revenues:  these came  to a total of R$ 142.3 million in 2010,  representing an increase of R$ 23.3 million  in year-on-year terms, or 19.6% higher  than in 2009. These revenues include:  (a) revenue from lock-in bank domicile  charges from issuing banks, (b) revenue  from capture of transactions with benefit  cards (food and meal vouchers, etc.), (c)  revenue from check verification services,  (d) revenue from capture of transactions  with private label cards, among others. 2010 2009 2010 x 2009 Debit Transaction Value (R$ Million) 60,205 49,306 22.10% Number of transactions 1,126 969 16.20% Average ticket (R$/transaction) 53 51 5.10% Net MDR * before Partnerships 0.77% 0.79% -0.024 p.p Net MDR after Partnerships 0.75% 0.79% -0.044 p.p +15.4% r$ 389 r$ 449 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 87 90 96 116 103 102 109 135 +6.0% r$ 747 r$ 792 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 183 182 186 196 207 211 205 169 46 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment Note: based on the  financial volume of  credit and debit card  transactions in 2010 dIveRSIfIcAtIon of MeRchAntS food T&E vehicles health Education Accomodation 25% 2% Others 8% 18% Clothing 17% 12% 11% 6% benefit card issuing companies (for example  food and meal vouchers), services to capture  transactions for the issuers of credit cards  which are only for use at chains of specific  retail stores (private label cards), along with  Redecards check verification service and the  top-up of pre-paid mobile phones using the  Companys POS electronic terminals. diversification of Merchants 1 – Revenue from credit card  transactions: this came to a total of R$ 1.6  billion in 2010, representing an increase of  R$ 191.8 million in year-on-year terms, or  13.3% higher than in 2009, as a result of (i)  a 25.6% growth in the transaction value  and (ii) a negative change in the average  2010 2009 2010 x 2009 Credit Turnover (R$ Million) 123,866 98,651 25.60% Number of transactions 1,194 1,017 17.40% Average ticket (R$/transaction) 104 97 6.90% Net Rate before Partnerships 1.34% 1.47% -0.123 p.p Net Rate after Partnerships 1.32% 1.47% -0.143 p.p +13.3% r$ 1.445 r$ 1.637 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 314 348 362 422 370 447 409 411   cRedIt cARdS revenue (r$ Million)   deBIt cARdS revenue (r$ Million)   equIPMent RentAl revenue (r$ Million) new MARKetS Debit and credit revenue 2010 x 2009 variation new Markets 31.9% Civil construction 2857.7% Taxi drivers 171.5% Komerci 79.9% Education 43.1% Doctors + Dentists  + Clinics 39.6% Distribution 28.1% Redecard Mvel 24.6% GRI 2.7 * Merchant Discount Rate  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 49 The costs of services provided came  to a total of R$ 679.5 million in 2010,  representing an increase of R$ 168.8  million in year-on-year terms, or 33.1%  higher than in 2009, while the volume  of credit and debit card transactions  registered a growth of 16.8% during  the same period. This increase is due to  the Client service strategy and the new  initiatives taken by the Company in the  new competitive environment. depreciation of capture  equipment Depreciation expenses in connection  with the equipment used for the capture  of card transactions came to a total  amount of R$ 133.7 million, representing  an increase of R$ 16.9 million in year-on- year terms, or 14.5% higher than in 2009.  This increase is mostly due to the growth  and renewal of the equipment park. 48 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment net operating revenue Net operating revenue came out to  R$ 3.4 billion in 2010, representing an  increase of R$ 322.9 million in year-on- year terms, or 10.5% higher than in 2009.  Net operating revenue had the following  breakdown: roughly 40% from large- and  medium-sized merchants (by comparison  with the figure of around 39% in 2009)  and, approximately 60% from small  merchants (by comparison with the figure  of 61% in 2009). Meanwhile the credit  and debit transactions value is made up  as follows: roughly 66% from large- and  medium-sized merchants (compared to  65% in 2009) and about 34% from small  merchants (compared to 35% in 2009). net financial revenue Net financial revenues increased by R$  9.9 million in year-on-year terms, or 1.7%,  to R$ 604.6 million in 2010, compared  with R$ 594.8 million in 2009, mainly  due to the result from the prepayment of  receivables (RAV) to affiliated merchants. 149 147 138 166 148 162 139 154   ReSult fRoM PRePAYMent, net of fInAncIAl exPenSeS (R$ MIllIonS) +0.6% r$ 599 r$ 603 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10   net fInAncIAl Revenue (R$ MIllIon) +1.7% r$ 595 r$ 605 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 148 145 137 164 148 162 139 155 Analysis of prepayment of  Receivables Result (RAv) The result obtained from the prepayment  of receivables, net of financial expenses,  was R$ 602.6 million, 0.6% higher than that  recorded in 2009, as is shown in the chart  below. The composition of the Client mix,  the increase in the base capture rate and  the partnership with the affiliated bank  all had an influence on the prepayment of  receivables result. The pre-paid volume totaled R$ 28.6  billion in 2010, which represented 23.1%  of the total credit card transaction value  for the period, by comparison with 23.4%  in 2009. costs of services provided The main items in terms of costs of  services rendered relate to (i) fees paid  to the brands; (ii) expenses with the  maintenance of establishments; (iii)  expenses with the transaction capture  network, processing and telephone  operators; (iv) customer service and  telemarketing center; and (v) affiliation of  new merchants and other parties. volume Greater number of transactions   (+16.8% in credit and debit) Greater quantity of installed equipment  (+ 158 thousand POS electronic terminals  or +16.1%) More calls answered by customer service  (+36%) Services Strategy Improvement in level of call center service Maintenance new Initiatives Acceptance of the VISA brand   (brand fee) New affiliations (488 thousand in 2010  versus 342 thousand in 2009) 2009 2010 0.351 0.316 totAl coStS PeR tRAnSActIon (R$) 2010 x 2009 total costs of services rendered The total cost of services rendered (which  includes depreciation), of R$ 813.2 million in  2010, represents a 29.6% increase vis--vis the  previous year, while the total number of credit  and debit card transactions rose by 16.8%  during the same period. The result was a total  cost of services provided per transaction of  R$ 0.351, representing a nominal increase of  10.9% in comparison to 2009. If we are to exclude the costs in relation  to the Client service strategy and the new  initiatives under taken by the Company in  2010, Redecard would show a total cost of  services rendered per transaction of R$ 0.3156,  which represents a slight 0.1% decrease by  comparison with 2009. The change in the  total costs of services provided in 2010 can  be attributed to volume, the Client service  strategy and the new initiatives taken by the  Company, as is shown below:  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 51 and Adolescent Statute, which resulted in  income tax deductions; and (iii) incentives  for affiliation. Adjusted eBItdA Adjusted EBITDA consists of operating  income plus the amounts for depreciation  and amortization, minus the value of the  net financial result, except for the net  financial revenue obtained as a result of  the prepayment of receivables to affiliated  merchants, given that it is the Companys  opinion that this activity is a part of its  operational result. Adjusted EBITDA (r$ Millions) 2010 2009 change (2010 versus 2009) Operating Result 2,075.70 2,069.50 0.30% (+) Depreciation and amortization 143.2 125.3 14.20% (-) Net financial revenue -604.6 -594.8 1.70% (+) Prepayment of receivables result 602.6 598.9 0.60% Adjusted EBITDA 2,216.80 2,199.00 0.80% Adjusted EBITDA Margin 65.20% 71.50% -6.3 p.p cAPex tABle Investments (r$ Millions) 2008 2009 2010 Transaction Capture Equipment 135.1 119.3 169.7 IT/Network Equipment 5.3 5.3 39.6 New brands - - 21.4 buildings - - 12.3 Others 10.2 11.4 18.7 Total 150.6 136.0 261.6 taxes Taxes on operating revenues came  to a total of R$ 225.8 million in 2010,  representing an increase of R$ 7.0 million  in year-on-year terms, or 3.2% higher than  in 2009, as a direct result of the increase  in net operating revenue. Investments Redecards investments are mainly  directed to  the purchase of equipment  for capturing card transactions (POS  terminals), in accordance with its  strategy of renewing and updating its  equipment park. During the 2010, the  Company made substantial investments  in the in-house development of software.  These investments were necessary to  meet requirements of new brands that  became part of the Redecard System. The  remaining period for the amortization of  these assets is between four and five years. operating expenses Redecards operating expenses came to  a total of R$ 511.1 million in 2010, which is  an increase of R$ 131.1 million in year-on- year terms, or 34.5% higher than in 2009.  The change in the Companys operating  expenses last year can be attributed to  volume, the Client service strategy and the  new initiatives taken by the Company, as  shown below: number of employees per area 2009 2010 Administrative, Financial and Others 173 235 Commercial, Marketing and Products 299 842 Operational and Technology 321 378 Total 793 1.455 Administrative The main administrative expenses are  related to (i) buildings, including rent  and maintenance; (ii) maintenance and  development of administrative systems;  (iii) outsourced professional services,  such as auditors, consultants and law  firms; (iv) travel and transport and (v)  corporate telecommunications. Administrative expenses for 2010 came  to R$ 133.6 million, which represents  an increase of R$ 30.4 million, or 29.5%  higher than in 2009. Marketing Marketing expenses result from: i) the  advertising campaign to position the  Redecard brand and ii) the promotion of  the use of credit and debit cards, including  merchandising material and promotional  actions at the point of sale. The marketing expenses of R$ 82.3  million in the year represented an increase  of R$ 11.2 million in year-on-year terms, or  15.7% greater than in 2009, as a result of  the advertising campaign.  Other operating revenues and expenses These expenses came to a total of R$  68.8 million in 2010, representing an  increase of R$ 27.1 million compared to  2009, as a result of: (i) the change in  provisions for bad debts between the two  periods as a result of the intensification  of charging rental for inactive POS  electronic terminals; (ii) the increase  in the amounts allocated to cultural  actions (under the Rouanet Law), projects  promoting sport (Amateur Sports Law)  and projects approved under the Child  Personnel Personnel expenses came to R$ 186.7  million in 2010, a 44.5% increase in  comparison to 2009, as the result of an  additional 662 employees who were taken  on during the year, mainly for the Companys  own sales force, bringing the headcount to a  total of 1,455 at year end of 2010.  volume Increase in the number of employees in  various areas (e.g. commercial) Collective Agreement (6%) Services Strategy Increase in the number of employees   for the Commercial, Marketing and  Products areas, mainly for the   dedicated sales force. new Initiatives Media campaign for the start of capture  of the Visa brand. chAnge In oPeRAtIng exPenSeS (R$ MIllIonS) 2009 2010 511 380 50 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 53 Market indicators On December 31st 2010, Redecards  shares were quoted at a price of R$ 21.05,  giving the Company a market value of  roughly R$ 14.2 billion. Redecards common  shares registered a 27.4% drop in value in  2010. The Ibovespa (the So Paulo Stock  Exchanges Index) posted a 1% increase in  2010, with a figure of 69,304 points. GRI 2.8 In 2010, the average daily trading  volume in Redecard shares is shown in the  following graph: 2009    2010 Price/earnings (P/E) 14.0 10.1 Dividend payout 100% 95% Dividend yield 5.9% 9.4% Closing Price  R$ 21.05 Maximum R$ 33.70 Average R$ 26.12 Minimum R$ 20.31 Average daily trading volume  R$ 52.1 million Number of shares (000s shares) 672,970.7 Earnings per Share 2.0803  Market value R$ 14.2 billion RedecARd on the So PAulo   StocK exchAnge In 2010 AveRAge dAIlY tRAdIng voluMe (In R$ MIllIon) Description filled out in r$ thousands   (nEGATIvE vALuES In BrACkETS) Direct economic value generated Revenues 2,812,150 Economic value Distributed   Operating Costs (505,558) Employees salaries and benefits (185,584) Payments to the government (934,314) Payments to providers of capital (for example, shareholders) (717,176) Investments in the community (17,327) Economic value accumulated   (economic value generated minus economic value distributed) 1 – REVENUES 2,812,150  1.1) Sales of merchandise, products and services 2,844,062  1.2) Provision for bad debtors – Reversal/constitution (33,266) 1.3) Non-operating 1,354  2 – INPUTS ACQUIRED FROM THIRD PARTIES (includes ICMS and IPI taxes) (750,357) 2.1) Raw materials consumed (505,558) 2.2) Cost of merchandise and services sold -    2.3) Materials, energy, outsourced services and others (244,799) 2.4) Loss/Recovery of asset values -    3 – GROSS ADDED VALUE 2,061,793  4 – RETENTIONS (143,162) 4.1) Depreciation, amortization and depletion (143,162) 5 – NET ADDED VALUE PRODUCED bY THE ORGANIZATION 1,918,631  6 – ADDED VALUE RECEIVED IN TRANSFER 608,784  6.1) Equity accounting result - 6.2) Financial Revenues 608,784  7 – TOTAL ADDED VALUE FOR DISTRIbUTION 2,527,415  8 – ADDED VALUE STATEMENT (AVS)* (2,527,415) 8.1) Personnel and labor charges (185,584) 8.2) Taxes, charges and contributions (934,314) 8.3) Interest and rentals (7,555) 8.4) Interest on equity and dividends (717,176) 8.5) Retained earnings/loss of the fiscal year (682,786) Added vAlue StAteMent* *this AVS is Based on the GRI Model and Incorporates the Companys Social Investments 2009 2010 2008 77.3 50.4 52.1 Redecards shares have registered  consistent trading volumes and are among  the 20 most liquid shares on the So Paulo  Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa. GRI 2.2 and EC1 52 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 55 SuStAInABIlItY goveRnAnce In RedecARd formation Organizational Level Accountability    Sustainability  Committee board of Directors + CEO + Executive  Director of Legal Affairs+ Investor Relations  and Sustainability Officer Defining sustainability policies and  strategy for Redecard Sustainability  Commission Executive  board + Area  Representatives  Investor Relations and  Sustainability  Legal  Human Resources   Technology and Operations  Logistics  Risks and Controls  Administration of Supplies  and Infrastructure  Strategy  Marketing  Innovation  Internal Audit   Ombudsman  Controllership  Treasury Department  Commercial  Customer Service  Products  Implementing the sustainability policies  and strategies at Redecard  Spreading sustainability concepts and  practicesin the Company  Investor Relations and  Sustainability Area board Coordinating the implementation and  communicating Redecard's Sustainability  Policies, Strategy and Concepts Sustainability in redecard SEP 2010 DEC 2009  FEB 2010 MAY 2010 jUN 2010 AUG 2010 OCT 2010 NOV 2010 DEC 2010 APR 2010  Formally established the  Department of Investor  Relations and Sustainability,  which is in charge of managing  sustainability at Redecard.  Redecard published its  Sustainability Annual  Report of 2009 –the first  such publication based on  the guidelines contained  in the Global Reporting  Initiative. For the second consecutive year, Redecard  was included in the So Paulo Stock Exchange  – bM&Fbovespa business Sustainability   Index (ISE). The Company launched a marketing  campaign aimed at employees and Clients  regarding Redecards commitment to the  United Nations Global Compact. Redecards Sustainability Committee held  its first meeting to evaluate sustainability  management in the Company and to  establish targets and projects for 2011.GRI 4.9 The first class of the Redecard Institutes  Program Sustainable Enterprise was held. Redecard was included in  the Dow Jones Sustainability  World Index – DJSI World – for  the second consecutive year. The second group of the  Redecard Institutes Program  Social Entrepreneurship is  launched. Redecard held the  second round of  Stakeholder Panels for  the Sustainability Annual  Report of 2010. The Company became  a constituent of the  first portfolio of the  Carbon Efficient Index  (IC02), created by the So  Paulo Stock Exchange –  bM&Fbovespa.  Redecard held the first round of  Stakeholder Panels – dialogues that  were held with Clients, suppliers,  investors, partners and employees in  order to find out what themes they  regarded as the most important  for the sustainability of Redecards  business and their accountability by  means of the Sustainability Annual  Report of 2009.  Two sustainability workshops were  held for employees from various  areas in Redecard.  The Sustainability Commission was  set up.  Redecard voluntarily adhered to the  United Nations Global Compact.  Redecard revised its Ethics Code,  incorporating social-environmental  themes.  Redecards Sustainability Commission met  six times to carry out a joint evaluation of  sustainability management in the Company  and to monitor the main projects that were  in progress.   Redecard moved up 21 positions in the  ranking of the Ibovespas Study Transparency  in Sustainability in Companies, which  was carried out by the consultancy firm  Management & Excellence Amrica Latina  (M&E) in partnership with the magazine  Razo Contbil and IbRI (the brazilian  Investor Relations Institute).  Redecard Institute launches its first Program  Social Entrepreneurship.  Redecard Institute held focus groups to  discuss the Program Means of Electronic  Payments. After Redecards inclusion in   the Dow Jones Sustainability  World Index – DJSI World – and  in the business Sustainability  Index (ISE) of the So Paulo  Stock Exchange – bM&Fbovespa  in 2009, the Company  developed new initiatives  focused on the theme.  The initial step was to structure the  governance for sustainability in the  Company. In 2009, the Sustainability  Commission was set up and in 2010, a  Sustainability Committee was elected  and the Area of Investor Relations and  Sustainability was formally established,   as can be seen in the chart below: one of the main enhancements to  Redecards sustainability management is  the publication in this report of its targets  for 2011.  After the process of evaluating the  companys main practices, which involved  both the Sustainability commission as  well as the Sustainability committee,  the following sustainability targets were  established:  Formalize the Companys Sustainability  Policy (including a commitment to the  environment and climate change).   Include sustainability targets in  Redecards strategic processes.  Monitor Redecards sustainability  indicators at regular intervals.  Hold Sustainability e-learning courses for  employees.  Publish a Code of Ethics and Conduct for  Suppliers.  Expand the 360o evaluation, which is  currently only applied to directors, in order  to include managers.  Initiate the structuring of Redecards  succession plan.  Formalize the Companys Corporate  governance Policy.  Carry out the mapping of the Companys  greenhouse gas emissions.  Launch new classes of the Redecard  Institutes Programs of Sustainable  Enterprise and Social Entrepreneurship. Redecards Sustainability targets for 2011  DMA-EC, DMA-EN, DMA-LA and DMA-PR 54 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 57 PRIncIPleS cuRRent PRActIceS tARgetS foR 2011 businesses should support and respect the  protection of internationally proclaimed   human rights. Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.8 (Community  and the Environment) Formalize a Code of Ethics for Suppliers businesses should ensure that their own  operations are not engaged in human rights  abuses. Ethics Committee and Code of Ethics and Conduct –  Item 1.8 (Community and the Environment) Revise Redecards Policy in terms of  Penalties for Infractions businesses should support the freedom of  association and the effective recognition of the  right to collective bargaining. Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.3 (Employment  Practices) Include the themes freedom of  association and collective bargaining in  the Companys Human Resources Policy  GRI DMA-LA businesses should support the elimination of  forced or compulsory labor. Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.5 (business  Partners); Redecard Contracts (specific clauses) Include the theme forced or compulsory  labor in the Companys Human  Resources Policy  businesses should support the effective abolition  of child labor. Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.5 (business  Partners); Redecard Contracts (specific clauses)  Include the theme child labor in the  Companys Human Resources Policy businesses should support the elimination of  discrimination in respect of employment and  occupation. Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.3 (Employment  Practices) Include the themes equality of  remuneration and elimination of  discrimination in the Companys Human  Resources Policy businesses should support a preventive approach  to environmental challenges. Redecard Institute (the Sustainable Enterprise course  deals with the challenges as a result of climate  change) Include a commitment to the  environment and climate changes   in the development of Redecards  Sustainability Policy businesses should undertake initiatives to  promote greater environmental responsibility. Code of Ethics – Item 1.8 (Community and the  Environment); Disposal and Recycling of POS  terminals; Association of Analysts and Investment  Professionals in the Capital Markets (Apimec) with  Carbon Free Seal and Commuter Sharing Initiative;  Waste Sorting Carry out mapping of Greenhouse Gas  Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) Obtain declaration from the Company  recycling the POS terminals to disclose  the destination of hazardous materials businesses should encourage the development  and communication of environmentally friendly  technologies. Redecard Data Center meets Green IT principles  (Energy Efficiency) Set up a workgroup to analyze the  measurement model of the energy  consumption of Redecards Data Center businesses should work against all forms of  corruption, including extortion and bribery. E-learning of the Code of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.1  (Conflicts of Interest) and item 1.6 (Governmental and  Regulatory bodies) of the Code of Ethics; e-learning  of Competition Ethics and e-learning of Prevention of  Money Laundering Update and apply: e-learning of the Code  of Ethics and Conduct – Item 1.1 (Conflicts  of Interest) and item 1.6 (Governmental  and Regulatory bodies) of the Code of  Ethics; e-learning of Competition Ethics  and e-learning of Prevention of Money  Laundering The global compacT and redecards TargeTs In December 2009, Redecard became  a signatory to the Global Compact,  a voluntary commitment that was  developed by the former Secretary General  of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, to  mobilize the international business  community to adopt as a part of its  business practices, fundamental values  that are internationally recognized in  the areas of human rights, labor, the  environment and corruption.  GRI 4.12 Currently, more than 5,200 institutions  are signatories to the Compact, in 150  networks spread across the world. In  order to reinforce its commitment to  this initiative, Redecard promoted the  Global Compact in its main discussion  channels with employees and Clients  and, in addition to this, is publishing in  this report its main practices in 2010  in relation to the Global Compacts ten  principles, along with the Companys  targets for 2011. Global Compact "Sustainability in  your Business", a  Sustainable enterprise  Program for micro- entrepreneurs in the  city of Salvador (BA). 56 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 59 business concepts – such as strategy,  project management and marketing  – with applied practice, creating an  environment for the development of a  guided action plan. This plan must be  formally implemented by the organization  at the end of the course, with the support  of Redecards voluntary employees, who  act as social consultants throughout the  entire program. Sustainable enterprise One group concluded the program in  2010, with content and methodology  developed by SEI Consultoria and by  Artemisia. This initiative was aimed at  training entrepreneurs of small- and  medium-sized businesses, whether they  are Redecard Clients or not, who are  looking for a competitive differential for  their businesses. The program consists  of a cycle of four meetings, two of  which are conceptually oriented and the  other two which are experience based,  including a lecture on a case study given  by a businessman who incorporated  sustainability into his business model and  achieved a competitive advantage. Payment methods adapted  to small- and medium-sized  companies  The objective to adapt payment  methods to make them suitable for micro  and small companies and individual  entrepreneurs resulted in the creation  of a workgroup, in partnership with  MasterCard and the Brazilian organization  Sebrae (Brazilian Support Service for Micro-  and Small Companies), for the specific  purpose of carrying out a collaborative  study of the segments problems,  difficulties and opportunities. The surveys  were conducted with representatives from  micro and small businesses (MSBs) and  individual entrepreneurs (MSIs), and led  to the identification of an opportunity  to offer greater mobility for making  transactions through the use of mobile  phone handsets, in order to improve the  entrepreneurs cash flow conditions. The  surveys also revealed opportunities for  holding courses and training related to  management and a greater knowledge of  the roles and responsibilities of players  involved in the segment of electronic  means of payment. These surveys were  carried in focus group meetings in the  cities of Belo Horizonte, Campo Grande,  and Salvador. The workgroup is already  fully committed to presenting concrete  solutions in 2011. The second year of the Institutes  activities will see a continuation of  the Social Entrepreneurship programs,  with two new groups. The Sustainable  Enterprise program will be held in other  Brazilian state capitals, in accordance  with Redecards Client relationship  strategies. In addition, there is also  a planned schedule to activate and  strengthen the Redecard Institute  Internet Portal to be launched before the  end of 2011. All of these goals are part of  the Companys sustainability planning. To begin this task, the institute  called upon various players from within  Redecards value chain to take part in its  plan, in order to identify opportunities  and synergies in accordance with its  mission. Redecards Clients, business  partners, suppliers, teaching institutions  and representatives of civil society were  interviewed.  DMA-EC  In 2010 the Institute produced and  developed two professional training  programs: Social Entrepreneurship and  Sustainable Enterprise. The Institute also  set up a workgroup, in conjunction with  MasterCard and the Brazilian organization  for Support Service for Micro- and Small  Companies – Sebrae - ), for the purpose  of studying and presenting payment  solutions that are suitable for micro and  small entrepreneurs. In 2011, all Redecard  Institutes initiatives will count on the  support of an internet portal, which will  act as a tool to disseminate content,  strengthen relationships and publicize the  Institutes programs. GC 8 Social entrepreneurship In partnership with the Gesc Institute,  Artemisia and GS1, the Redecard Institute  trained two groups in 2010, creating 18  social managers. The purpose was to train  those who work for non governmental  organizations – NGOs -  and cooperatives  in project management techniques, with  a focus on fund-raising. The programs  methodology combines theoretical  The redecard Institute This analysis indicated three main  themes for the Redecard Institute: GC 8 1) Support for social  entrepreneurship practiced by non  profit organizations in the third sector; 2) Sustainability concepts applied to  small- and medium-sized companies; 3) Adaptation of payment method  services and products to small- and  medium-sized companies and to  individual entrepreneurs. In order to reinforce its  commitment to sustainability,  in 2010 Redecard initiated  the operations of the  Redecard Institute, a non- profit association aimed at  promoting education projects  focused on developing  entrepreneurship. Its mission  is to contribute to increased  competition and efficiency  on the part of brazils  entrepreneurs. GRI EC9 58 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 61 Environmental practices Redecard wishes to reduce the impacts of its operations and provide  clean technological solutions.  GRI 3.9, EC2, EN3, EN16, EN17, EN18 and DMA-EN; GC 8 Protocol is the most widely used document  in the world for the purpose of quantifying  corporate emissions, while the IPCC  supplies emission factors and guidance for  estimating various kinds of greenhouse gas  emissions. In 2010 Redecards direct emissions  (Scope 1) came to a total of 836.6 tons of  CO2 equivalent (tCO2e), while its indirect   emissions ofelectricity purchases (Scope  2) and outsourced activities  without  Redecards operational control (Scope  3) emissions totaled 297.4 and 2,034,5  tCO2e, respectively. The table below  shows a detailed breakdown of the types  of sources recorded and their respective  contributions to the final result. emissions inventory Aware that it is partially responsible  for global Greenhouse Gas Emissions  (GHG), Redecard has made a commitment  to monitor its annual greenhouse gas  emissions, despite the fact that it has a  low annual energy demand, as a tool to  help the Company mitigate its impact on  climate change. The Companys adherence to the  Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) in 2010 was  the first step towards making this goal a  reality. The index was created by the So  Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa  in partnership with the National Bank  for Economic and Social Development  (BNDES), and consists of the shares of the  42 most liquid companies listed on the  So Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa  – that are part of the IBrX-50 index.  The portfolio of ICO2 shares is related  to the GHG emissions efficiency of the  companies that are included in the index.  In 2010, Redecard presented an estimate  of its emissions related to 2009 and  committed to the goal of publishing in  this Sustainability Annual Report the  result of its emissions inventory for 2010. For the purpose of guaranteeing the  quality of the figures reported, Redecard  relied on the assistance of the consultancy  firm ICF International, which is specialized  in climate change, to develop the GHG  Emissions Inventory based on the GHG  Protocol and on the guidelines contained  in the IPCCs (Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change) 2006 report. The GHG  Scope Activity Energy Emissions GJ ton CO2 ton Ch4 ton n2O ton CO2e Scope 1 Stationary sources 94.5 6.8 0.0003 0.0001 6.8 Mobile sources 6,541.1  372.8 0.2 0.1 397.8 Waste management - - - - - Executive travel - - - - -  Air cargo transport - - - - - Fugitive emissions - 0.4 - - 0.4 Scope 2 Stationary sources 29,085.7  414.3 - - 414.3 Scope 3 Stationary sources 1,550.8  100.8 0.003 0.001 101.1 Mobile sources 9,332.4  650.2 0.1 0.0 665.1 Waste management - - - - - Executive travel -   621.7 0.007 0.02 628.0 Air cargo transport -   443.7 0.001 0.01 448.1 Fugitive emissions - - - - 192.2 Culture is valued at Redecard. In 2010,  the Company invested R$ 11.8 million,  through incentive laws designed  specifically to encourage cultural  development (Rouanet Law), in projects  that promoted music, with highlight  going to the cultural project Redecard  Connection, which promoted a large  cultural gymkhana. Redecard also invested R$ 2.2 million in  sport, via the law designed to promote  amateur  sport (Amateur Sports Law), with  highlight going to the former professional  Incentives for   cultural actions, sports   and social action basketball player Marta Sobrals Lance Livre  project; the Travessia dos Fortes project  in Rio de Janeiro; and the Jump Festival,  which was held in So Paulo. The Company invested R$ 2.9 million  in social projects supported by the  Statute for Children and Adolescents.  Out of the associations which were  supported by the Company, highlight  goes to Association for Support Children  with Deficiencies (AACD) and the Group  Supporting Adolescents and Children  with Cancer (GRAAC). GRI EC1 Redecard supports  cultural and sports  projects aimed  at children and  adolescents. Musical concert as a part of the cultural project  Conexo redecard, sponsored by the Company. 60 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 63 implications related to the activities for  dealing with climate change. However,  at the start of 2011, during the project to  map out 2010s emissions, two awareness  workshops were held for employees  and Directors of various areas, which  covered the following topics: the impact  of climate change, the reasons to do an  inventory of GHG emissions, the reasons  that shareholders care about this theme,  and how climate change affects the  Companys business. green It Another highlight on the sustainability  front is the Datacenter, which follows  Green IT principles. It records all the  electronic purchase and sale transactions  made with cards via Redecard POS  terminals in Brazil. The Green Datacenter  was designed to ensure total security  for transactions and, at the same time,  comply with a series of energy efficiency  rules and best environmental practices,  such as low heat generation, which in  turn reduces the need for equipment  refrigeration. The indices achieved are  measured by the supplier contracted  by Redecard that is responsible for the  Datacenter service. GRI EN6 The adherence to Green IT practices  was the result of the PCI DSS (Payment  Card Industry Data Security Standard)  certification. In order to obtain this  certification, Redecard revised more than  5,000 security control measures and  complied with a series of demands as  well as making adaptations to its internal  systems to ensure that transaction data in  its networks was not violated.  GRI PR1, PR8, DMA-PR and DMA-EN The adaptation to these rules  caused significant modifications  in the Datacenter, among them:  rack configuration, aerial cabling,  heat dissipation by hot and cold  corridors, improved air circulation and  differentiated window positioning  (reflecting heat outwards). Having  complied with all the security factors  and best practices, the company aims for  energy efficiency. Energy consumption  has registered a stong drop since  the implementation of this system  throughout the entire Datacenter. Sustainability solutions in place at  Redecards head office in Barueri (in the  state of So Paulo)   GRI EN5 and EN26; GC 7, 8, 9 and 10 1 – Elevators with a pre-call system,  which avoids wasting energy and which  prolongs the useful life of the equipment;  2 – Reuse of water in toilet basins and for  maintaining the gardens; 3 – Utilization of high performance and  low energy consumption lamps; 4 – Combating building facade heat,  thus preventing this heat from affecting  the environment, and therefore reducing  energy consumption; 5 – Sustainable carpet with a recycling  process and a cool carpet system (climate  neutral process).   The inventory of  greenhouse gases  is the first step  of the Company  to manage its  emissions in   the future. It should be noted that, since this is the  Companys second GHG quantification,  Redecard has been expanding its emissions  inventorys coverage as the reliability of  the primary figures increases. All the Scope  1 sources (Redecards own generators,  own vehicle fleet and refrigerant gases  with Redecards operational control) were  included in the Inventory. Scope 2 included  the electricity consumption by Redecards  Data Centers and offices. Meanwhile, Scope  3 included the logistics stages of product  distribution and executive air travel (the  Companys largest emission sources),  in addition to the electricity generators  and the refrigeration systems of the  condominiums where the units   are installed. Redecard has relatively low absolute  emissions by comparison with other  companies, given that its activities have a  low energy demand and that part of this  demand is supplied by electricity from  the Brazilian National Interconnection  System. Since there is a considerable  percentage of hydroelectric energy in this  system, the emissions associated with the  generation of each MWh are regarded as  low, which contributes to Redecards low  Scope 2 emissions. Another way of assessing annual GHG  emissions is by means of performance  indicators. These indicators are chosen  by the Company and are not susceptible  to economic fluctuations, due to the  fact that the emissions are weighted in  relation to the activities effectively carried  out in the year in question. In Redecards  case, the table below gives a summary of  a few of the indicators chosen. Another characteristic of the Company  is the greater percentage of Scope 3  emissions in its profile. Due to the fact  that the Company has activities that are  remotely operated by use of electricity  from the network or generators, the  greater part of the emissions are produced  by outsourced transport services, or  either employees or products. The higher  percentage of Scope 3 emissions is a  common fact that can be noted in banks  and service companies.  This mapping out of emissions will  be the first of the Companys step  towards the strategic management of  its emissions, establishing a base line  from which its emissions will be reduced  in the future. In 2010 Redecard did not  complete an assessment of the financial  Gross intensity   of GhG Emissions Scope Gross intensity of Emissions tCO2e per m2 tCO2e per employee tCO2e per POS terminal distributed Scope 1  0.03 0.57 0.73 Scope 2  0.28 0.20 0.26 Scope 3  0.35 1.40 1.78 62 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 65 Description 2008 2009 2010 Consumption in R$ 2,290,087 1,813,915.03 2,395,210.00 Kilometers driven 381,681.17 3,023,191.72 3,992,016.67 Liters per year (using an average vehicle  consumption of 10 km/l) 381,681 302,319 399,201 Recycling In 2010, Redecard made an average of  1,800 visits per day to Client establishments  in order to replace and maintain of POS  terminals. For this purpose, the Company  determines all the logistics, which consists  of the routing, which is the way in which the  Companys POS terminals are withdrawn or  replaced by other units. Obsolete models of  POS terminals are sent for recycling. non-hazardous waste (t) 2009 2010 Destination Cardboard 20.7 3.8 Recycling Iron 77.6 0.5 Plastic 92.4 6.9 Wires 56.6 7.5 Electronic components 50.5 1.5 Others  - 0.8 Total 297.8 21.0 Parts of obsolete  POS terminals are  sent for recycling  and feed the  production cycle. Due to the fact that Redecard has  a constantly renewing POS park, the  Company has taken adequate steps to  ensure the disposal of obsolete equipment.  GRI EN26 and EN27; GC 8 and 9 The process follows protocols dealing  with security and risk management  against fraud. It begins with the  removal of POS terminals from  commercial establishments, followed  by the depersonalization of the POS  electronic terminal and the removal of  any visual identification; the software  is uninstalled and specific parts of the  device are destroyed.  The POS terminal is  dismantled, and the remaining material  are recycled. The heaviest components –  including circuit boards, batteries, wires,  metal parts, plastic and cables – are sent  for recycling. In the case of circuit boards  and batteries, these are exported to  countries such as the United States, due  to the fact that there are no companies  in Brazil who complete the separation of  these heavy materials.  GRI EN2; GC 8 and 9 Overseas, the more valuable materials  such as copper, silver, tin and gold are  extracted, and the final recycling of  components is carried out. GRI EN22 Redecard has been recycling its POS  terminals since 2008, thus guaranteeing  that this equipment does not go astray.  The service is realized by an outsourced  ISO 9001/2008 certified company, and the  contract with this company imposes strict  clauses regarding information security. No charge is made for this service. The  contracted company takes away the POS  terminals and sells the scrap from the  equipment. This company has drawn up  an official statement, which lists their  clients and gives details of which specific  types of scrap they each purchase. other recycling and  sustainability actions at Redecard recycled paper and its corporate use All the paper used by Redecard has  the Forest Stewardship Councils (FSC)  SW-COC-1388 certificate. Monthly paper  consumption comes to a figure of roughly  253 thousand pages, which represents  506 reams, which is equal to an average  annual volume of 3,036,000 pages, or  6,072 reams. GRI EN2; GC 8 and 9  Since 2006, all the Companys  computers have been programmed to  use both sides of a sheet for printing.  Employees are encouraged to only  print documents when it is absolutely  necessary. Trash bins are separated by type  of waste, for later recycling.   fuel With regard to the energy consumed  via automobile fuel, between January and  November 2010 the Company spent a  total of R$ 2,290,087.00 on fuel. GC8 Estimated fuel consumption relates to  the executive and commercial fleets as  well as employees expenses with going to  and from work in their own vehicles: Carpool  With the aim of reducing carbon  dioxide emissions into the environment  and making it easier for employees to  go to and from work, since 2009 the  Company has been encouraging Carpool  (Carona Solidria) at its public meetings  with analysts and investors. These  meetings are attended by members of the  Association of Capital Markets Analysts  and Investment Professionals (Apimec), as  well as shareholders and other interested  parties. The event received the Carbon  Free Seal, on account of the fact that  in 2009 the Company compensated 1.33  tons of GHG emissions produced as a  result of this event, by planting trees  that are native species from Atlantic  Forest. In 2010, Apimec compensated the  emission of 1.20 tons of GHG emissions by  continuing its reforesting actions using  are native trees from Atlantic Forest. EN7 Electronic statements  The Company stimulates the  replacement of printed statements for  electronic ones, as  an easier way for  Clients to access the information, as well  as contributing to the preservation of  the environment and reducing operating  costs. In 2010, the online version of  statements enjoyed an 83% adhesion  level among the Companys Clients, which  represents savings of R$ 12.5 million/year. Direct and indirect energy  consumption  The monthly contracted demand for  energy in 2010 at Redecards unit in So  Paulo was one of 1.04GJ, or 10.36GJ a year.  This demand exhibits the same pattern as  in 2009. GRI EN4; GC 8 and 9 64 / SocIo-economIc and envIronmental develoPment  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 client satisfaction is one of Redecards  strategic pillars. with the end of brand  exclusivity contracts on july 1st 2010, this  factor took an even greater importance,  and now permeates the entire company. Preference   and satisfaction 66 / focuS on the clIent  Redecard got ready for the opening up  of the market and the new competitive  environment by promoting a series of  initiatives aimed at improving the quality  of the services offered to its Clients. To this  end the Company created two executive  boards, one for large- and medium-sized  Clients and one for retail Clients. In  addition, the teams in the commercial  and business support areas were  strengthened, which involved investments  in personnel. Another important element of  Redecards sound Client satisfaction  practices was the continued operation of  the Ombudsmanship, which is structured  to solve possible failings that may arise  in terms of the Companys performance.  Highlight also goes to Redecards  Monitoring Center (CMR), which is  responsible for managing the level of  service between Redecard, the brands,  the issuing banks, the processors, and the  partners. GRI PR5 and DMA-PR  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 69 Replacement   of PoS terminals  GRI PR1 and PR5; GC 1 Redecard made a major change to  its logistics department. the new  practice, which has been in place  since june 2010, established that  new equipment would be provided  without any additional costs for   the merchants.  the items replaced are forwarded to  Redecards reprocessing unit in Barueri,  and are evaluated by the companys  suppliers. the disabled terminals are  then forwarded for recycling. In 2009, the substitutions and  maintenance index achieved by  Redecard was one of 80% – between  the date of complaint and the  customer service. As a result of  the new work methodology, the  company raised its customer service  performance index to 81%. Managing  rapidly the network, which increased  the average monthly distribution  of wireline PoS terminals from  30 thousand to 50 thousand, and  of wireless PoS terminals from  15 thousand to 20 thousand, was  another challenge for the company.  Center, in order to be able to meet growing  demand, was in accordance with the  requirements of Redecards Code of Ethics.  GRI HR2; GC 1, 2, 3 and 4 The Redecard Internet Portal is an  important Client relationship channel, as  it provides more than 40 online services,  offering access at a click. By means of  Redecards internet portal, the Companys  Clients can check their statements of card  sales, track their financial movements,  obtain prepayment for receivables, place  requests for sales materials and a lot more. Pricing practices In 2010, Redecard also established new  pricing options, as part of a strategy  that already existed prior to the market  opening up – whereby, the greater the  value of the transactions made by the  Client using Redecards payment methods,  the lower their discount rate is.  client council The Client Council continued its  activities in 2010. The aim of this  68 / focuS on the clIent The signing up of  new national and  regional brands,  in addition to the  improvement of  service structures,  has benefited  Redecard Clients all  over the country. Aimed at providing constantly  increasing sales to the Client, Redecard  developed new technologies, an expanded  line of products, services and brands,  new price modalities and prepayment  of receivables (RAV), and the customer  service channels.  Products, services and brands It is Redecards belief that in order to  never miss the chance to make a sale,  merchants have to have the best products  and services at their disposal, in addition  to being able to accept the greatest  possible number of cards. For this reason  the Company offers a wide selection of  products, ranging from traditional credit  and debit cards to check verification  services and top-up for pre-paid mobile  phones, for example. In addition to this,  in 2010 Redecard signed partnership  agreements with seven more brands, four  of which were regional ones, demonstrating  how important that regional Clients are  to the Company, as well as one domestic  brand and two international ones, in  anticipation of the two major sporting  events that will be held in Brazil in the  coming years, namely the 2014 World Cup  and the 2016 Olympic Games to be held in  Rio de Janeiro. customer service channels Among the main actions taken in 2010,  highlight goes to the restructuring of the  Customer Service Executive Board and the  tripling in the number of personnel in this  area, which was due to the increase in the  number of calls, which occurred after July  1st. These calls were requests for information  regarding the New Market systematics,  whereby all Redecard POS terminals also  began to capture purchases with cards  bearing the Visa brand. These customer  services were provided both to existing and  new Client establishments. GRI PR5 In the first week after capturing the Visa  brand, the Company carried out 2.35 million  credit and debit transactions. As a result  of its Client Focused strategy, Redecard  made investments to improve its customer  service processes and practices. Contracting  new suppliers for the Customer Service  for self-employed professionals, Redecard provides quick receipt of payments. the client council contributes  with suggestions to improve  the company's management. initiative is to create an interactive and  personal channel to hear suggestions  from Clients, by means of quarterly  meetings. This council is made up of 15  Clients who have a mandate of one year  and can only be removed from office in  the case of formal resignation, estoppel  or continued or unjustified absence.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 showed a base of around 20,000 self- employed professionals. It is available in  two versions: Turnkey (Tudo Pronto) and  Do It Yourself (Voc Faz). These options  allow the self-employed professional to  program his mobile phone to work as a  POS electronic terminal, or alternatively  to rent a handset from Redecard that has  already been programmed. In the case of Redecard Mvel the sales  procedure is simple. All that you need to do  is to type into the mobile phone handset  the Clients credit card data, the form of  payment (either cash or in six installments  without interest) and the value of the  purchase. Once the transaction has been  approved the salesperson receives a  message confirming the sale. The Client  may also receive a purchase notice, via  SMS, on their mobile phone handset.  This system allows for the payment of  sales made using the MasterCard, Visa  and Diners brands with the possibility of  interest free installments.  A partnership between MasterCard, the  mobile phone operator Vivo, Ita Unibanco  bank and Redecard made it possible to  launch a third mobile payment platform,  namely MasterCard Mobile, which is an  unprecedented product in the world. The  pilot project was launched in the midst of  30,000 consumers and 1,000 commercial  establishments in the city of So Jos dos  Campos, interior of So Paulo state.  employed professionals, such as door- to-door salesmen and taxi-drivers. The  procedure for making a sale is a simple  one: all that you need to do is to type into  the mobile phone handset the Clients  card data, the value of the purchase and  the form of payment. Once the transaction  has been approved the salesman and  the consumer receive a message on their  mobile phones confirming the sale. For  the consumers security, his card data is  not stored in the salesmans mobile phone  handset. At the end of 2010 the system  In 2010, two products stood out in  connection with this strategy: Redecard  Celular and Redecard Mvel. The first  of these turns the mobile handset  into a credit card, replacing so-called  plastic At the present time, 600,000  of the Companys POS terminals are  programmed to receive payments made  via mobile phone handsets.    In order to be able to pay via Redecard  Celular, the credit card holder needs to  register his mobile phone number with the  bank and, when making purchases, type in  two passwords to confirm the transaction.  This combination ensures the security of  the service, which is based on the simple  exchange of text messages (SMS). Redecard Mvel is another service which  is offered as part of the Companys mobile  platform, which turns a mobile phone  handset into a POS electronic terminal.  The system has been in operation for  a year and a half and is aimed at self- New technologies  and new horizons 70 / InnovatIon Turnkey   (Tudo Pronto) Do It yourself   (Voc Faz) In return for a monthly  fee, Redecard provides  a mobile phone  handset that has 3G  technology and which  has been programmed  to work as a POS  electronic terminal The salesman  downloads the  software application  free of charge – via  SMS – and installs  it in his own mobile  phone handset in  order to enable it to  carry out credit card  transactions Always a pioneer on the technological front, Redecard is  continually seeking innovations in order to be able to offer  its clients better services. Being a company with cutting  edge technology and quality customer service is in the  companys dnA. An example of this is the solution for  electronic payment using a mobile phone handset.  redecard Mvel transforms a cell phone   into a redecard POS terminal. From innovative services  to cutting-edge solutions,  the Company's goal is to  provide Clients with safe  solutions, adding value to  their business.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 Personnel Management 72 / IntangIBle aSSetS Redecard is committed to value not only financial and  business performance, but  to also cultivate ethical  principles, maintain the brands strength, continue research  for innovation and maintain the knowledge resulting from  its risk management and personnel management activities  that drive its performance.  Intangible assets are important sources  of value for companies and go beyond  the balance sheet, as they have the  potential to generate future benefits and  add value to the culture and dynamics  of the companys relationship with the  community. This is why the management  of these factors is a focus of the Company. The recognition for performance  above targets and the remuneration  of employees skills are the basis for  Redecards Management of Intangible  Assets. The Company seeks to recognize  and reward employees whose  performance stands out. The incentives  follow three formats: short-term –  monthly commission for employees in  the commercial area who have client  portfolios; medium-term – Annual Bonus  (Profit Sharing Program), which rewards  all the employees who achieve and exceed   targets which are correlated to the  Companys business objectives; and long- term – in the form of the Stock Option  Program. This last practice is granted  annually and is aimed at directors and  members of the Executive Committee.  It consists of the option to purchase  Redecard shares, granted in accordance  with the rules established by the Board of  Directors. GRI 4.5, DMA-LA; GC7  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 75 26-30   years old 36-40  years old 20-25  years old 31 a 35 years old 46-50  years old -20 years old 51-55 years old 56-60 years old +60 years old 41-45   years old The chart below shows the distribution  of the Companys direct employees by  gender and by age bracket. dIRect eMPloYeeS – BReAKdown PeR Age Age employees % male % female % Under 30 7 4 3 2 4 2 between 30 and 50 145 85 93 55 52 31 Over 50 18 11 12 7 6 4 Redecard acknowledges  the importance of  managing its intangible  assets and endeavors  to create value to all  stakeholders. 74 / IntangIBle aSSetS As a result of its strategy to increase  its own sales team, the number of  Redecard employees rose from 793 in  2009 to 1,455 in 2010. Sales promoters  were hired, between March and July,   to operate in various parts of Brazil  using a home office model, whereby  the employees work remotely, which  is a practice that has been used by the  Company since 2009. GRI LA1;GC 6 In 2010, Redecard established a policy  of self-statement of race, reinforcing  the Companys commitment to equality,  ethics, respect and professionalism with  all stakeholders. number of employees   by functional level   and by region 2009 2010 Executive board 28 34 Management 105 125 Senior Management/ coordination 136 170 Technical/supervision 64 125 Administrative 442 523 Operational 18 478 Outsourced 2,649 4,634 Apprentices 0 0 Trainees 0 0 Interns - 4 Total 3,442 6,093 Southern Region 15 97 Southeast Region 750 1,196 Midwesten Region 9 49 Northeast Region 15 96 Northern Region 4 21 Total 793 1,455 There are no employees with  temporary work contracts employees are  one of the major  intangible assets  of Redecard. Below 20 years old 3 9 20 to 25 years old 84 86 26 to 30 years old 189 158 31 to 35 years old 216 194 36 to 40 years old 140 124 41 to 45 years old 84 56 46 to 50 years old 46 31 51 to 55 years old 20 18 56 to 60 years old 7 0 Above 60 years old 1 1 dIRect eMPloYeeS – BReAKdown PeR Age functional Category women men under 30 Between 30  and 50 over 50 board 29 71 0 76 24 Management 38 62 5 88 7 Administrative 45 55 25 71 3 Production 54 46 66 34 0 Interns 25 75 100 0 0 dIRect eMPloYeeS eMPloYeeS wIth dISABIlItIeS board of Directors 0% Executive board 0% Management 0% Head/coordination positions 2.35% Technical / Supervision 1.60% Administrative 6.88% Operational 2.09% Apprentices 0% Trainees 0% Interns 0% Total 3.5% As for the inclusion of People with  Disabilities (PCDs), in 2009 there were 29  individuals in the Company, which was  equal to 3.66% of the Redecard work force.  This figure increased to 52 employees  in 2010, which was equal to 3.5% of the  Companys total headcount. The drop in  the percentage of disabled employees  was due to the 84% increase in the  Companys total number of employees. For  2011, Redecard intends to have 5% of its  positions held by PCDs. GRI LA13; GC 1 and 3 If we only analyze managerial positions,  which include managers, directors and  Board Members, then we get the following  breakdown of employees by age: 844 789 793 1,455   RedecARd eMPloYeeS 2007 2008 2009 2010  GRI LA1 GRI LA1 GRI LA1 GRI LA13; GC 2 and 3  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 77 language Program All employees who have been with the  Company for more than six months are  eligible and the rules for taking part and  enrolling are available on the Companys  intranet. A total of 50 employees took part  in these programs in 2010, with 29 new  enrollments and 21 renewals.  GRI LA11; GC 6 training of Sales Promoters   (in-house and outsourced promoters)  With the objective to train 500 sales  promoters for the Retail Department and  the preparation of a thousand outsourced  professionals, Redecard held workshops  in 2010 for 43 groups of in-house sales  promoters and 26 groups of outsourced  sales promoters. GRI 2.2 and LA10; GC 6 compensation policies   and practices Every year Redecard carries out a  compensation survey, the purpose of  which is to ensure that its remuneration  packages, which include fixed salaries,  variables salaries and benefits, are  competitive. In 2010, the Company  adjusted its remuneration structure and  the variable multipliers, in addition to  All Redecard employees receive salaries in  excess of one minimum salary. The ratio of  the minimum salary paid to the minimum  national salary 1: 1.33. The previous year this  ratio was 1: 2.32. GRI EC5; GC 1 structuring its profit sharing program,  with the aim of realigning the indicators  with the Companys objectives and  strategies. Another differential was the personnel  adjustment process, which resulted in 45%  of the Companys employees receiving  salary increases or promotions. Proportion of base-salary between men  and women, by employment category:  14 salaries a year, paid monthly in the  form of 1/12 of the fixed salary;  Medium-term incentives – in the form  annual bonus, to all employees;  Short-term incentives – in the form of  monthly commission – to employees in  the commercial area;   Long-term incentives – in the form of  Stock options, which are granted on an  annual basis to directors and members of  the executive committee; the compensation and benefits package is made up of:  Differentiated benefits – Private  Pension Plan, Medical health Plan with  affiliated network, dental Plan, group  life Insurance, Reimbursement of  transportation costs for employees who  opt to use the chartered bus service,  Meal and food vouchers, complementary  Assistance for Illness and Accidents at  work for all employees and a Program  for Personal Support and guidance  (Papo), which is a direct channel offering  personal support that is free of charge  and totally confidential.  GRI LA3 76 / IntangIBle aSSetS Intern and trainee programs Redecard has two training programs  aimed at attracting young talent: the  intern program and the trainee program.  In 2010, 3,477 individuals applied for the  Companys intern program for a total of  eight positions. The trainee program which starts in  January of each year, is aimed at identifying  recent young graduates with a differentiated  profile and qualifications, in addition to a  high development potential. The aim is to  structure the professional training process  of these young talents and to produce new  leaders over the medium term. In 2010, the  year when the program was launched, 5,876  young graduates applied for the recruitment  and selection process. GRI LA10; GC6 training and development All employees who have been with the  Company for more than six months are  eligible for subsidies for  Graduation and Post- Graduation (lato sensu) Courses, and the rules  for enrollment are available on the Company's  intranet. A total of 50 employees took part  in these programs in 2010, with 29 new  enrollments and 21 renewals. GRI LA11; GC 6 2009 2010 Employment  Category Total  workload Total number  of employees  in the category Number of  hours per  employee Total  workload Total number  of employees  in the category Number of  hours per  employee Directorate 1,135  37  21.0  847  34 24.9 Management  and  Supervision 7,485  245  30.6  6,236  420 14.8  Other  employees 10,787  511  43.1  20,669  1,005 20.6 For the employment categories given, we utilized the following breakdown:  Directors: GF Career Path – Executive Manager and GG – Manager of Managers Management and Supervision: GP – Personnel Manager and GC – Client Manager – Services Processes Other employees: CI – Independent Contributor Programs (LA11 3.9) 2010 Number of  employees benefitted Value invested  (R$ thousands) Number of  scholarships  granted In-house courses requiring person   to be present 1,068  1,050 1,068 E-learning courses 1,126 510 1,126 Financial support for training or external  education courses 167 661 178  Redecard has  invested R$  2.2 million in  the training of  employees in 2010. Proportion of base-salary between men  and women, by employment category: 2009 2010 Directors 81 84 Management 94 92 Administrative 93 95 Production ND 98 Interns 100 100 NA – Not available GRI LA14; GC 1, 2 and 3  LA11  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 79 Survey of satisfaction at work For the last three years Redecard has  been carrying out a survey every six  months to monitor the satisfaction level  of employees and evaluate its leadership,  with 94% of the Companys employees  taking part in the survey. This evaluation  is segmented by areas and locations. The  result makes it possible to evaluate key- points in terms of motivation, satisfaction  and loyalty and thus devise plans to  improve the areas in which the Company is  regarded as being most vulnerable.   Among the main measures adopted in  2010 are the following:   Conducting two processes of career  development, merit and promotion analysis,  resulting in 45% of Redecards employees  receiving salary increases between 2009  and 2010; GRI LA12   Revision of the Professional Training  policy and changes in the rules for new  enrollments in professionalization courses,  which included roughly 150 employees who  were qualified to enroll, in addition to those  who had been included the year before;  and an increase in the percentage of fees  reimbursed, from 50% to 70%. This new  revision also included an increase in the  number of places available from 20 to 40. definition of key positions  and people: the process of mapping key  positions and people in the  organization was continued in 2010,  in addition to holding discussion  groups to obtain an in-depth  analysis of employees performance.  As part of Redecards succession  planning – which is the structured  planning to find replacements  for critical key-positions –, three  factors were considered in defining  a successor: 1 – what the candidate is able to do  really well – skills 2 – what the candidates interests   are – personal preferences on career 3 – What the organization   needs – Redecards needs 360o evaluation 2010 saw the start of the new annual  360 Evaluation Process, a program that  measures five of Redecards ten Skills:  Entrepreneur of Change, Communicator,  Personnel and Team Manager, Results  Oriented and Client Oriented. This tool  makes it possible to get a complete view  of the profile of the employees regarding  the way in which they achieve results for  the Company, in addition to identifying  strong points along with others that  require further development. GRI LA12 outsourced professionals In 2010 Redecard increased the number  of outsourced professionals from a figure  of 2,500 to one of more than 4,600.  The logistics area was one of the main  highlights, with an increase in the number  of technicians to install and maintain  Redecards POS terminals. The customer  service area also showed  growth in the  number of outsourced professionals,  reinforcing the work of acquiring and  affiliating merchants. The Company is  responsible for the proper professional  and ethical treatment of its outsourced  workers, and at regular intervals carries  out verifications in these companies to  confirm that they are solid corporations  complying with Redecards ethical  standards. An initial census is carried out  on the managers of the contracts, and this  constitutes the base for the information  to be updated.  The Corporate fitness  contributes to the health and  well-being of employees. 78 / IntangIBle aSSetS the differentiated actions   are as follows:   corporate fitness  Appointments with a nutritionist  at Redecards facilities  Availability of a personal trainer  for running and walking groups   quick Massage service available  at Redecards facilities  A day-off on the date of the  employees birthday  organization of sports  tournaments (volleyball, soccer,  table tennis and dodge ball)   discounts at gyms  various lectures throughout  the year corporate citizenship As part of its social responsibility  project, in August 2010 Redecard joined  the Corporate Citizenship Program, and  increased its women's maternity leave  from 120 to 180 days. As a result of this  new program, the mother will spend  more time with the baby, enabling the  child to be breast-fed for a longer period  and, consequently, to have a healthier  development. GC1  complementary pension plan In 2010, the Company received approval  for the new Defined Contribution Private  Pension Plan, one differential of which is  the possibility to retire from the age of  50 onwards and the option on the part of  the employee to contribute between 1%  and 9% of their salary, with the Company  contributing an identical amount, in  addition to options in terms of investment  portfolios so that the employee can  choose the one which is most suitable for  their profile. GRI EC3 and LA1 health and Safety Since 2010, the Company has had its  own Health and Safety team, consisting  of a company doctor, a nursing technician  and a Work Safety technician. The purpose  of this is to look after the safety of  people in the workplace and to ensure  that facilities are adequate in terms of  preventing accidents and occupational  illnesses. GRI LA7 and LA8; GC 1, 2 and 3 TL – Injury Rate   TDP –Total Number of Days Lost *The rules applied for recording and reporting accident  statistics follow the rules stipulated by the relevant  governmental bodies, which adhered to the ILO's work  conditions agreement Indicators of health and  safety in the workplace* 2008 2009 2010 TL  0.76% 1.26% 0.40% TDP  197 49 329 Total number of deaths  during the period 0 0 0 quality of life For the purpose of improving the quality  of life of its employees, Redecard offers a  quality of life program called Programa  Equilbrio. The aim of the program is to  promote the health and well-being of  employees, with the emphasis being on  the practice of sport, the dissemination of  nutritional information and on employees  maintaining a balance between their  personal and professional lives.   GRI LA8; GC 1, 2 and 3 GRI3.9  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 81 at regular intervals with employees and  managers, during the employees first 12  months with the Company. This initiative  ensures the alignment of expectations and  improves the recruitment process. GRI LA12 Research partnerships In order to expand its constant quest for  innovation, Redecard has also established  partnerships with a number of research  institutions. The main research centers  that act in alignment with the Companys  Research Center are the State University of  Campinas (Unicamp) and Rio de Janeiros  PUC University (PUC/Rio). In Redecard's Business  School, employees take  technical and behavioral  training, and share this  knowledge with others. 80 / IntangIBle aSSetS knowledge management The first stage in the activities of the  Business School is to review the necessary  specific knowledge of the Company to  carry out this project and, at the same  time, identify those who have this  knowledge so that, in addition to utilizing  this resource in designing the training, the  construction of a knowledge management  model that is relevant and important to  Redecard is started. Starting in 2011, it will be Redecards  job to multiply the content so that  everyone can have acces to the  knowledge, in addition to recording  information that is important over the  long-term so that this knowledge is  retained within the Company. In addition to its Business School,  Redecard invests in training and  refresher courses for all its employees.  Last year, 1,068 of the Companys  employees took some form of course  to increase their knowledge, whether  independent contributors, interns   or managers. Internal course Redecard held a variety of internal  training courses in 2010, with highlight  going to Academia de Lderes (Leadership  Academy), MBTI and Communication  Style Workshops, Training for New Sales  Promoters, which is aimed at sales  promoters who have recently joined the  Company, and the online education tool  (Click Desenvolvimento). GRI LA10 and LA11 Support for formal education Redecard encourages and supports  investments made by its employees  in formal education programs such as  degree courses, extension courses and  non-degree post graduate courses. In  2010 a total of 49 employees took part in  these programs, with 22 new enrollments  and 27 renewals. GRI LA11 Project My 1st Year in Redecard The second semester of 2010 saw the  start of the project My 1st Year in Redecard,  which is designed to assess the adaptation  of new employees, as well as the efficiency  of the recruiting process. The follow-up is  made by means of surveys and interviews  In 2010, the Company developed the plan for the Redecard business  School project. The aim is to increase the Companys competitiveness  by means of providing technical or behavioral content. These themes  are in alignment with the Companys business strategy, with an  emphasis on developing and training employees throughout their  period of employment with the Company. GRI LA11; GC 6 The initiatives for  training employees  are in line with the  Company's growth  strategy.  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 83 Other initiatives aimed at  strengthening the brand occurred as a  result of the sponsorship of TV Globos  transmission of the World Cup, which  was held in South Africa in July 2010,  with the airing of the film Faturation.  Redecard also sponsored other important  events such as So Paulo Fashion Week  that generated significant exposure  for the brand in major newspapers and  magazines  throughout Brazil. visa card Communicating the fact that credit  and debit cards bearing the Visa brand  would be accepted by Redecards POS  electronic terminals from July 1st,  2010, onwards was one of the biggest  communication challenges for the  Company during the year. Roughly  two months beforehand, the Company  began to direct communications with  Clients, in order to have everything  ready for the start of the acceptance  date. A major campaign was launched in  the printed press in June, highlighting  the acceptance by Redecards POS  electronic terminals of Visa cards along  with the other significant cards in the  market. All of this was done so that  merchants felt that Redecard was truly  a partner in their businesses. Relationship with the press Redecard actively manages its  relationship with the media, looking  after the Companys institutional image,  its corporate reputation, as well as the  Companys brand and its products. All  contact with the media is handled by the  Companys press advisory department  and by its advertising agency. Within  the Company only the marketing area  is authorized to supply information  about the Company, and to authorize a  spokesperson to give interviews. GRI PR6 In dealing with the press, the  recommendation is that all requests be  answered promptly and that all media  professionals are given equal treatment,  regardless of the press organization that  they work for. With regard to its advertising campaigns,  the Company places great importance on  respect for the public and complies with all  laws, rules and regulations that are in force,  such as the National Council for the Self- Regulation of Publicity (Conar). GRI PR6 It is Redecards belief that, in light of the  new scenario of increased competition,  the brand that truly provides a differential  in terms of the service it offers its Clients  will be the one that prevails. This was  the focus of all of Redecards marketing  campaigns and brand management  activities in 2010. DMA-PR Prizewinning PoS terminal The more you use Redecard, the  higher your chance of winning Between june and September  of 2010, Redecard carried out  the Prizewinning PoS terminal  promotion, which handed out prizes  to merchants and their employees  (store cash desks). Participation in  the prize draws took place as follows:  each transaction accepted in a  Redecard PoS terminal automatically  produced an electronic voucher.  every sale made with credit, debit  and voucher cards during the period  gave the merchant one voucher for  the prize draw. 18 clients received  prizes, including one fiat fiorino  car and various honda motorcycles,  prizes especially thought of to help  the client in their day to day life. the  salespeople also received prizes, such  as digital cameras, flat screen tvs, and  appliances. campaign, the POS terminal, in addition to  being the merchants friend, is the one that  accepts the markets largest brand, Visa. All the stages in these campaigns  contained consistent planning directed  towards strengthening the brand. The  main communication actions of the  Redecard brand were aimed at programs  on Brazilian television that have large  audiences, such as Domingo do Fausto,  and insertions in the commercial breaks of  Rede Globos Jornal Nacional (Brazils major  news program), and on other segmented  programs shown on open TV.  The choice of the color yellow for all  the marketing materials was another  novelty. This change in the layout was  designed to give the campaigns a more  vibrant, positive touch, an inclusion that  represented a break with the segments  historical standard.  The entry of new brands, such as  Hipercard and Sorocred, was presented  with a broad marketing campaign in  the printed press, with advertisements  in Brazilian magazines such as Veja,  poca and Isto and in large circulation  newspapers such as the Folha de S.Paulo,  O Estado de S.Paulo and Valor Econmico. One of the most important actions  in terms of brand management in  2010, was the decision to simplify the  communication language used with  Clients. Redecards purpose was to  convey to the merchants, in a clear and  direct way, all the changes that the cards  industry was undergoing. The focus of  these campaigns was to present Redecard  as a multi-brand company and that it  was ready for transactions with the Visa  brand. 2010 was marked by the launch  of the Redecard slogan, as the company  which is the Merchants Friend.  These actions were based on three  major marketing campaigns. The first  presented the transformation of a  POS electronic terminal, which is used  for the capture of transactions, into a  puppy, linking Redecard – the merchants  best friend – with mans best friend.  The second campaign was designed  to reinforce relationships between the  Company and its Clients, and created  a humorous interaction with the POS  terminal which turns into a puppy  dancing to the song Faturation. The  third campaign took advantage of the  timing when the market opened at the  start of the second semester,   and new  brands were being affiliated, to reinforce  the multi-brand characteristic. In this  The launch of Redecards new mascot, the transformer puppy,  marked the start of the campaign The Merchants Friend. This  action directed the Companys institutional communication of Focus  on the Client. GRI PR5 and DMA-PR Brand management 82 / IntangIBle aSSetS The campaign The Merchants  Friend was based on four topics:  Multi-brand    Proximity    Technology   Security   The messages conveyed reinforced  the idea that Redecard offers:  Security for merchants to make  their sales.  Cash flow when the merchant needs  it (Prepayment of receivables).  Services that increase the traffic  flow of clients, such as check  verification and the top-up of pre- paid mobile phones.  The largest variety of cards in the  market, including visa, Mastercard,  hipercard and diners club.  redecard Clients in  South Africa's World  Cup (2010).  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 85 valid from 03/01/2011 to 29/12/2011 and  includes 47 shares from 38 companies.  The companies included in this portfolio  represent 18 sectors and have a combined  market value of R$ 1.17 trillion, with  Redecard being the only company from  the electronic payment industry to be  included for the second consecutive year. Ico2 – carbon efficient Index In December 2010 the Company was  included in the first portfolio of the Carbon  Efficient Index (ICO2) created by the So  Paulo Stock Exchange – BM&FBovespa in  partnership with the National Bank for  Economic and Social Development (BNDES),  for the 2011 edition. Recently created, the  index is made up of the shares of companies  that adopt transparent practices in relation  to their greenhouse gas emissions (GHG).  Only 39 companies from the IBrX-50 (which  is made up of the 50 most traded shares on  the So Paulo Stock Exchange) are part of  this project, which encourages best practices  for fighting climate change. These achievements in terms of the  sustainability indices reinforce the  Companys commitment to transparent  behavior in its business activities, sound  corporate governance practices and  social-environmental responsibility,  and this has begun to be recognized  internationally. Itasa Investimentos and  Ita Unibanco Holding, the latter of which  is Redecards controlling shareholder, are  also included in the investment portfolios  of these indices. GRI 2.10 Redecard ceo receiving  the award "As Melhores  da Dinheiro". 84 / IntangIBle aSSetS Redecard's work has brought several awards  and recognition in 2010. GRI 2.10 recognition and awards program management process, the role of  IT and the budget reserved for innovation. Apras Award 2010 top of  category  The Award Top of Category 2010 was  promoted by Apras (the State of Paranas  Supermarket Association). In the Services  category Redecard was given a grade of 10.  The prize rewards the best suppliers in the  segment. The aim is to reward companies  that make an effort in improving  techniques, in professional qualification  and in the quality of the services sold. dow jones Sustainability Index For the second year in a row, in  December 2010 Redecard was selected  to be included in the portfolio of  the Dow Jones Sustainability World  Index (DJSI World). The DJSI 2010/2011  portfolio consists of a select group of  318 companies, from 27 countries, in  the Americas, Europe, Asia and Africa,  only seven of which are Brazilian, with  Redecard being the only one from the  electronic payments sector. ISe – Business Sustainability  Index  Also for the second year in a row, in  November 2010 Redecard was selected  to be included in the portfolio of the  Business Sustainability Index (ISE)  of the So Paulo Stock Exchange –  BM&FBovespa. The new portfolio is  the 150 Best Brazilian companies  to work for  Awarded by the magazine Voc S/A  – Exame, this is the main ranking of  this category that is published in Brazil.  Among the items considered by the  magazine, positive points for Redecard  were its internal recruitment program,  its benefits package and the constant  concern in relation to the well-being of  the employees.   Ranking Brazils 500 largest  companies The Melhores da Dinheiro Yearbook,  which is published by the magazine Isto  Dinheiro, is in its seventh edition and is  regarded as one of the most complete  surveys of the management practices of  companies operating in Brazil. In 2010,  Redecard received the award in the Diverse  Services category. the 100 Most Innovative  companies in It Promoted by the magazine Information  Week and by Deloitte, the tenth edition  of the award The 100 Most Innovative  Companies in IT elected Redecard as the  most innovative company in IT for the  category of Innovation. The award is part  of a single study, which is recognized by  the market as the most important one  in the area of technology on behalf of  business innovation. The award considered  factors such as innovation process,   REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 of the Internal Audit departments  assessment was presented to the  Sustainability Committee. Over the  course of 2010, the Sustainability  Commission held meetings to assess  Redecards performance in relation to the  sustainability indices. At these meetings  strong points as well as opportunities for  improvement were discussed and  based  on this discussion, the sustainability  targets for 2011 were defined. These are  published in this Report. Among these  targets is the periodical monitoring of the  GRI indicators.  In addition, the scope of the external  verification conducted by PwC includes an  assessment of sustainability management  in Redecard in accordance with AA1000  guidelines, as well as verification of  the   adherence to the indicators reported to  the GRI protocol.  Level of GrI application – According  to GRI, this publication reaches the level  B+ of the reporting guidelines. It complies  with the requirements defined in 2011: all  profile items, information about disclosure  management approach and a minimum of  20 essential performance indicators, and  also follows the principle of materiality.  The addition of indicators in this second  publication attests to our evolution in the  process of continuous improvement in our  management of sustainability in Redecard.  Scope – This publication presents  information related to Redecard S/A.  GRI 3.6 and 3.7 Internal verification – All the  information related to economic data and  GRI indicators was checked by the Companys  Internal Audit department. GRI 3.13 External verification – The  information contained in the Annual  Sustainability Report 2010 was checked  by the independent auditors PwC, in  accordance with the AA1000 guidelines  of stakeholder commitment. The scope of  this verification included the adherence  to GRI methodology, the assurance of  the information regarding the disclosure  management approach and performance  and the declaration of the application level.  Contact – For more information  about sustainability, access the internet  site www.redecard.com/RI or write to  sustentabilidade@redecard.com.br. GRI 3.4  Structure – The organization of the  chapters was made in accordance with  the themes regarded as most relevant by  Redecards stakeholders. These themes are  also in line with Redecards three strategic  pillars, which are: Client Focus, Innovation  and Operational Excellence. Therefore, the results achieved by  Redecard can be observed in four  main themes which are relevant to  the sustainability of the Companys  business. These are as follows: Client  focus, innovation, social-economic and  environmental development, and corporate  governance. GRI 3.5 Indicators – Partially or in full, we have  reported 32 GRI essential performance  indicators and 12 additional indicators. Disclosure management approach  – Redecard seeks to constantly enhance  its transparency and corporate governance  practices. The 2010 GRI indicators  are the result of a dialogue process  with the Companys stakeholders and  were submitted to the Internal Audit  department, which, in conjunction with  the responsible areas, established action  plans to improve the monitoring of the  aforementioned indicators. The result  In order to read our report The aim of this publication is to present  Redecards evolution regarding matters of  sustainability in an objective, transparent  and easy-to-understand way. GrI Guidelines – For the second  consecutive year, we are publishing our  Annual Sustainability Report in accordance  with the guidelines of the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI), in its G3 version. Global Compact – Our activities, as  described in this Report, are aligned with  the principles of the Global Compact, an  initiative created by the United Nations  Organization (UNO) to which we have  been signatories since 2009. The index  presented from pages 89 to 95 will help  locate the information corresponding to  the principles of these commitments. The  Sustainability Annual Report 2010 serves as  a Communication on Progress (COP) of the  Global Compact.  Period – This edition covers the  period from January to December 2010.  Redecards reporting processes observe  annual cycles, with the report for the  period from January to December 2009  published in June 2010. GRI 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 Introduction and reporting process About the report   GRI Application level 86 / annexeS C C+ B B+ A A+ GRI Profile Disclosure Report on:  1.1 2.1 - 2.10 3.1 - 3.8, 3.10 - 3.12 4.1 - 4.4 , 4.14 - 4.15 Report on all criteria listed for  Level C plus: 1.2 3.9, 3.13 4.5 - 4.13,  4.16 - 4.17  Same as requirement for  Level b  G3 Management  Approach Disclosures Not Required Management Approach  Disclosures for each Indicator  Category Management Approach  disclosed for each Indicator  Category G3 Performance  Indicators &  Sector Supplement  Performance  Indicators  Report on a minimum of  ten Performance Indicators,  including at least one from  each of: social, economic, and  environment. Report on a minimum of  20 Performance Indicators,  at least one from each of:  economic, environment,  human rights, labor, society,  product responsibility. Respond on each core G3 and  Sector Supplement* indicator  with due regard to the  materiality Principle by either:  a) reporting on the indicator or  b) explaining the reason for its  omission. Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured redecard's annUal reporT complies wiTh The reQUiremenTs for gri's leVel b+ of applicaTion / 87  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 89 88 / annexeS GrI Indicator Description EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. EN8 Total water usage by source.  EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.  EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. LA10 Average hours of training per year. LA11 Programs for development of skills and ongoing learning that support the continued employability. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group  membership, and other indicators of diversity. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction. PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption.  SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. During the dialogue process with Redecards  stakeholders and sectoral analysis the materiality  matrix produced by the consulting firm Management  & Excellence (M&E) identified the following material  indicators for the improvement of sustainability  management in Redecards business: Main indicators   for redecard GrI Index and corresponding   Global Compact principles Item Page Situation  remarks 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Message from the President 16-19 - 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.  16, 42 and 44 - 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 8 - 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services.  8, 44, 52 and 77 - 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 8 and 10 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 8 - 2.5 Countries where the organization operates where its major  operations area. 8 and 10 - 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 8 and 10 - 2.7 Markets served. 8, 18 and 47 - 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 8, 34 and 52 - 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 16, 20 and 44 - 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 8, 85 and 86 - 3. report Parameters  3.1 Reporting period.  86 - 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 86 - 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennal, etc). 86 - 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 87 - 3.5 Process for defining report content. 4, 26 and 86 - 3.6 boundary of the report.  8 and 87 - 3.7 Statement of any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of  the report. 87 - 3.8 basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities,  outsourced operations. 4 Redecard has no subsidiaries or controlled  parties which could significantly affect the  comparability of information. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 61, 78 and 93  (LA11) - 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information  provided in earlier reports. 4 and 18 There was no merger or acquisition or change  in the nature of the business, nor in its  methods of measuring. 3.11 4 and 19 - 3.12 Significant changes from previous reporting periods   in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied   in the report. 89-95 - 3.13 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures   in the report. 87 - geneRAl IndIcAtoRS Complete Partial  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 91 90 / annexeS PeRfoRMAnce IndIcAtoRS Indicator Page Situation remarks Global  Compact economic Indicators Disclosure on Management Approach   (DMA-EC) 25, 36, 44,  54 and 56 by aspect: Economic performance (45), Market presence (46),  Indirect economic impacts (58)   Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value  generated and distributed. 52 and 60 - EC2 Financial implications and other  risks and opportunities for the  organization's activities due to  climate change. 61  - 7 EC3 Coverage of the organization's  defined benefit plan obligations. 78  - 7 Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard  entry level wage compared  to local minimum wage  at significant locations of  operation. 77 1 Complete Partial Item Page Situation  remarks 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 36 and 37 - 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body. 28 and 30 - 4.3 Members of the highest governance body that are independent  and/or non-executive members. 34-36 The board of Directors and the Executive  board play distinct roles in the Company. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide  recommendations. 28 and 32 - 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organization's  performance (including social and environmental performance). 25 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 38 - 4.7 Qualifications of the members of the highest governance body. 37 - 4.8 Mission and values, codes of conduct, and relevant principles. 20, 30 and 39 - 4.9 Responsibilities for implementing economic, environmental, and  social policies. 36, 37 and 55 - 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's  own performance, particularly with respect to economic,  environmental, and social performance. - Redecard still does not have a self-evaluation  practice in the board of Directors. In 2011, the  Human Resources and Legal Departments will  review the theme with deeper consideration  for possible implementation. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach. 40 and 41 - 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles, or other initiatives. 56 -  4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international  advocacy organizations. 39  Redecard's CEO Roberto Medeiros was  the Vice-President for the brazilian Cards  Association –Abecs, in 2010. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 28 e 29 - 4.15 basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom  to engage. 28 - 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 26 - 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through  stakeholder engagement. 29 - Indicator Page Situation remarks Global  Compact EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion  of spending on locally-based  suppliers at significant  locations of operation. - While there is no specific policy for contracting local suppliers,  Redecard has in its supplier base some companies which operate  in specific locations where their head offices are. There is no  measuring or monitoring system for the percentage of spending  on suppliers with this profile. Indirect Economic Impacts EC9 Understanding and describing  significant indirect economic  impacts, including the extent   of impact.  56 In 2010, the Redecard Institute developed a strategic partnership  with Redecard, MasterCard, and Sebrae for working on the  understanding and development of applicable electronic  payment solutions for micro and small companies and individual  entrepreneurs. The result of the work, which was guided within  the concept of Social Intelligence, will be extended throughout  products, services and transfer of knowledge in 2011. Six meetings  were held with the work group and three focus groups in several  regions of brazil–in the states of MS, MG, and bA. The work  group managed to identify the context and discuss the proposal  of strategies and an action plan for 2011 aimed at individual  entrepreneurs and micro and small enterprises. environmental Disclosure on Management Approach   (DMA-EN) 25, 36, 54,  61 and 83 Materials (64, 65 and 91), Energy (61, 62, 65 and 91), Water (90),  biodiversity (considered as non-material, since Redecard's  business is concentrated in urban areas and has no significant  impact over biodiversity), Emissions, Effluents and waste (61, 64  and 90), Products and services (64 and 90), Compliance (non- material), Transport (not reported).   Materials EN2 Percentage of materials  used that are recycled input  materials. 64 and 65 In 2009, the monthly consumption was approximately 270 pages,  which represents 540 reams. This can be summarized in an  average annual volume of 3,240,000 pages, or 6,480 reams. 8 and 9 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by  primary energy source. 61 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption. 62 8 and 9 EN5 Energy saved due to  conservation and efficiency  improvements. 61 Redecard's head office in barueri (SP) counts on eco-efficiency  differentials detailed on page 61 of this Report, but since the  Company is in a condominium with other companies, it does not  monitor the energy saved. 8 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy- efficient or renewable energy  based products and services. 61 The facilities infrastructure for the Datacenter complies with the  Tier 3 requirements of the Uptime Institute, resulting in a high  level of energy efficiency which can be seen from a PUE (Power  Useful Effectiveness) ascertained at 1.65 in 2010, due to more  efficient equipment in the electric and refrigeration systems. This  represents a significant improvement if compared to a 2.14 PUE as  of six years ago. Information is measured by the Datacenter contracted as a  service by Redecard, and relates to the whole structure of the  Datacenter managed by the service provider. In addition, we  highlight our reduction of 0.02 in 2010 (1.65 PUE) in comparison  to 2009 (1.67 PUE). - EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect  energy consumption and  reductions achieved. 65 -  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 93 Indicator Page Situation remarks Global  Compact Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by  source.  - The water consumption is controlled by the condominium. Up  to this date we have no information on the tenant breakdown  regarding the m3 quantity consumed by Redecard. For 2011, we intend to get the information from the condominium  where Redecard is located. 8 and 9 EN10 Percentage and total volume of  water recycled and reused. - With the implementation of Redecard's head office in Edifcio  Castelo branco building in barueri (SP), the Company began to  have the following conditions: reused water for toilets and garden  maintenance. For 2011, Redecard will check with the condominium, which is  responsible for managing the water consumption, whether the  information specific for Redecard may be made available. 8 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect   GHG emissions by weight. 61 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect   GHG emissions by weight. 61 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse  gas emissions and reductions  achieved. 61 Redecard does not control this indicator yet. Initiatives to reduce  emissions will be defined after the first mapping of emissions,  since based on this the Company will be able to measure the main  reduction processes. 7, 8 and 9 EN22 Total weight of waste by type  and disposal method.  64 This indicator is considered as partially reported since Redecard  does not have measuring systems for hazardous waste. 8 EN25 Identity, size, protected status,  and biodiversity value of water  bodies and related habitats  significantly affected by the  reporting organization's  discharges of water and runoff.  - Redecard business is carried out in urban areas, and has no  significant impact on biodiversity. The whole water used is  discarded to public sewage collection utilities. - Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate  environmental impacts of  products and services, and  extent of impact mitigation. 64 In 2010 there was no reduction in the absolute volume of recycled  terminals because of a strategic decision for discontinuing (or not)  POS terminal models. There were 21 tons of recyclable materials  coming from terminals. However, since 2008, 100% of POS  obsolete terminals have been recycled. 7, 8 and 9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and  their packaging materials that  are reclaimed by category.  64   8 and 9 Social: labor practices and decent work Disclosure on Management Approach   (DMA-LA) 25, 54   and 72 by aspect:  Employment (74, 75 and 78), Labor/management  relations (37, 39, 57, 92 and 98), Occupational health and safety (78  and 92), Training and education (76, 77 and 79-91), and Diversity  and equal opportunity (74 and 75).   Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment  type, employment contract,   and region. 74, 75   and 78 - LA3 Comparison between benefits  provided to full-time and  temporary or part-time  employees. 75 There is no differentiation in terms of work-loads. There are no  employees with temporary labor contract. 6 Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees  covered by collective bargaining  agreements. - 100% of employees are covered by collective bargaining  agreements. This emcompasses 1,455 employees. 1, 2 and 3 92 / annexeS Indicator Page Situation remarks Global  Compact LA5 Minimum notice period(s)  regarding significant  operational changes. - Redecard has no representatives elected for negotiations. As such,  the Company follows the collective bargaining agreement defined  by the union of employers and employees, and notices are disclosed  after approval by the category's union. Redecard discloses the final result of conventions through its  electronic channels, and applies in whole the clauses and benefits  instituted by this convention. The convention is disclosed to  employees as soon as approved by the category's union. - Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce  represented in formal joint  management-worker health  and safety committees.  - All employees have been represented in formal health and safety  committees (CIPA) in 2010: 19.65% of them in the JK unit, and  80.35% in the barueri unit. 1, 2 and 3 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational  diseases, lost days, and  absenteeism, and number of  work-related fatalities by region.  78 There is a control of absenteeism for employees in leave because  of diseases or occupational accidents. This is made after the  formal leave given by the National Social Security Institute. The  follow-up is made by the medical department and recorded in  the ADP – Administrative Intranet roll system. In 2011, after the  implementation of the electronic timecard system, the Company  will implement the control of absenteeism by absences and delays  of employees who are eligible for the electronic timecard. The  Company has not yet implemented the control of absenteeism for  absences or delays for employees who are exempt from work-load  control. Example: managers, directors, commercial area employees,  home office employees. 1 LA8 Education, training, counseling,  prevention, and risk-control  programs in place to assist  workforce members, their  families, or community  members regarding serious  diseases. 78 In 2010, Redecard provided programs on education, training,  prevention and control of risks for employees as a means of  fighting serious diseases. There were no employees involved in  activities with incidence or risk of diseases in 2010. 1 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per  year. 76 and 77 Note: in 2011, the Company will provide the indicator per employee  and not only per category. 6 LA11 Programs for skills management  and lifelong learning that  support the continued  employability.  76, 77   and 80 The remuneration of statutory directors was not considered for  the analysis of this indicator. - LA12 Percentage of employees  receiving regular performance  and career development  reviews. 79 and 81 In 2010, 94% of the total workforce received performance and  career development reviews. This process is systematized and  annual. - Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance  bodies and breakdown of  employees according to groups  and gender. 74 and 75 1 and 3 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to  women by employee category. 75 1, 2 and 3 Social: human rights Disclosure on Management Approach   (DMA-HR) 25 by aspect: Procurement practices (40, 68 and 93), Non- discrimination (93), Freedom of association and collective  bargaining (non-material), Child labor (93), Forced and compulsory  labor (39, 40 and 93), Security practices (non-material), and  Indigenous rights (non material).   Procurement Process HR2 Suppliers and contractors that  have undergone screening on  human rights and actions taken. 40 and 68 Redecard contracts have clauses on human rights. 1, 2, 3 and 4 Complete Partial  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 95 94 / annexeS Indicator Page Situation remarks Global  Compact HR3 Total hours of employee training  on policies and procedures  concerning aspects of human  rights that are relevant to  operations, including the  percentage of employees  trained. - Regarding e-learning training on the Code of Ethics and Conduct,  Competition Ethics, and Safety and Fraud Prevention, Redecard  provided 8,300 hours of training to 74% of its employees. There  is no specific e-learning system on human rights. However, the  theme is covered by the Code of Ethics and Conduct e-learning  course for around 10 minutes and 30 seconds, with the following  topics: business partners, sanctions and penalties, and conflicts of  interest. non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of  discrimination and actions  taken. - In 2010, Redecard had one case of discrimination.  The Ethics Committee was put in charge of the case. The policy  on penalties for infringement of rules comprises this type of case,  and the breacher was disciplined according to the policy (formal  advertency). The case is concluded. 1, 2 e 3 Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having  significant risk for incidents of  child labor, and measures taken  to contribute to the elimination  of child labor.  39 and 40 There is no risk of child labor in Redecard's operations. There could  be a risk of hazardous work in companies contracted by Redecard,  but Redecard's contracts contain prohibitive clauses concerning  child labor. 1, 2 e 3 forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having  significant risk for incidents  of forced or compulsory labor,  and measures to contribute  to the elimination of forced or  compulsory labor.  39 and 40 There is no risk of forced and compulsory labor in Redecard's  operations. There could be a risk of forced work in companies  contracted by Redecard, but Redecard's contracts with such  companies contain prohibitive clauses concerning this theme. 1, 2 e 3 Social: Product Responsibility Disclosure on Approach Management   (DMA-PR) 23, 25, 34,  54, 66, 82  and 83 by aspect: Customer safety and health (40, 41, 69 and 94), Product  and service labeling (66, 68 and 69), Marketing communications  (38, 83 and 94), Customer privacy (non-material), and Compliance  (non-material).   Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health  and safety impacts of products  and services are assessed for  improvement, and percentage  of significant products and  services categories subject to  such procedures. 40, 41   and 69 Fraud Prevention Committee, and certification of safety regarding  the POS and Redecard's Datacenter system. 1 Product and service labeling PR5 Practices related to customer  satisfaction, including results  of surveys measuring customer  satisfaction. 66, 68   and 69 Every semester, Redecard carries out a survey to identify customer  satisfaction on a general basis as well as per process. This survey  has a quantitative aspect, with a telephone approach (Cati), and is  conducted in all regions and markets where Redecard operates. 76% of customers are satisfied or very satisfied with Redecard's  services. For more information, see Redecard's Internal Portal:   www.redecard. com.br. - Indicator Page Situation remarks Global  Compact Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to  laws, standards, and voluntary  codes related to marketing  communications, including  advertising, promotion, and  sponsorship. 83 - PR8 Complaints regarding breaches  of customer privacy and losses  of customer data. 38 There were no cases of complaints regarding breaches of  customer privacy and losses of customer data. - Social: society Disclosure on Management Approach   (DMA-SO) 25, 40 and  95 (SO2) by aspect:  Community (non-material), Corruption (95), Public  policy (39 and 95), Anti-competitive behavior (36, 38 and 95), and  Compliance (95).   Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of  business units analyzed for risks  related to corruption.  -  Redecard invests in preventive actions related to the awareness  and prevention of corruption. The Company's Code of Ethics and  Conduct approaches this theme, and all employees are aware  of this document, and sign it on a annual basis. In order to  reinforce the understanding of the Code's contents, all employees  in JK and barueri offices have taken the e-learning course  which also approaches this theme. In addition, Redecard has a  denouncement channel which receives communications of any  type of violation to the code, including corruption. The Internal  Audit manages this channel, and all reports are informed to the  Auditing Committee. We believe that actions adopted by Redecard represent an  evaluation of corruption-related risks. An evidence of its efficiency  is the fact that to the extent of our knowledge there were no  corruption-related reports in 2010. There is no formal risk evaluation specifically aimed at corruption. 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained  in organization's anti-corruption  policies and procedures.  39 In 2010, all employees at Redecard have taken the e-learning  course on the Code of Ethics, which comprises corruption. New  employees have a 30-day term after their hiring to conclude the  training. 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to  incidents of corruption. 36 and 38 In 2010, there were no cases of employees involved in corruption  at Redecard. If any case like this happens, the Ethics Committee is  put in charge and decides on the matter. 10 Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Number of legal actions for  anti-competitive behavior, anti- trust, and monopoly practices  and their outcomes.  - The Company did not receive significant fines for non-compliance  with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of  products and services.  However, there is an administrative process  registered by the Secretary of the Economic Rights (SDE) in 2009  to investigate reports of supposed breaches to the economic order  based on a representation made by the brazilian Association of  Internet Access, Services and Information (Abranet). In the process,  Abranet indicates a supposed inclusion of anti-competitive  commercial clauses and conditions to affiliation contracts  proposed by Redecard to intervening companies (sub-acquirers  associated with Abranet). The Company presented its defense in  August 2009, rejecting the claims. During 2010 the process was  handled by SDE. - Complete Partial  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 97 96 / annexeS 1 – Calculation Basis 2010 - thousand r$ 2009 - thousand r$ 2008 - thousand r$ Net Revenues (NR) 2,618.,268  2,423,344  2,059,509  Operational Results (OR) 2,075,651  2,069,189  1,695,590  Gross Payroll (GP) 154,379  106,212  105,957  Total Added value (TAv) 2,527,415  2,450,755  2,157,382  2 – Internal Social  Indicators R$ '000 %   over  GP %   over   NR %   over  TAV R$ '000 %   over  GP %   over   NR  %   over   TAV R$ '000 %  over  GP %   over   NR  %   over   TAV Food 6,762  4.4% 0.3% 0.3% 4,013  3.8% 0.2% 0.2% 3,790 3.6% 0.2% 0.2% Mandatory payroll taxes  and benefits 40,373  26.2% 1.5% 1.6% 29,385  27.7% 1.2% 1.2% 28,740 27.1% 1.4% 1.3% Private pension plan 4,200  2.7% 0.2% 0.2% 3,712  3.5% 0.2% 0.2% 1,393 1.3% 0.1% 0.1% Health 7,578  4.9% 0.3% 0.3% 5,146  4.8% 0.2% 0.2% 5,105 4.8% 0.2% 0.2% Safety and Health 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Education 541  0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 604 0.6% 0.0% 0.0% 750 0.7% 0.0% 0.0% Culture 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Training 2,592  1.7% 0.1% 0.1% 1,983 1.9% 0.1% 0.1% 1,701 1.6% 0.1% 0.1% Crches or financial  assistance for crches 27  0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 66 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 81 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% Sports 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Profit sharing 30,391  19.7% 1.2% 1.2% 26,555 25.0% 1.1% 1.1% 26,260 24.8% 1.3% 1.2% Transportation 789  0.5% 0.0% 0.0% 798 0.8% 0.0% 0.0% 286 0.3% 0.0% 0.0% Other 4,349  2.8% 0.2% 0.2% 3,926 3.7% 0.2% 0.2% 2,277 2.1% 0.1% 0.1% Total  97,602  63.2% 3.7% 3.9% 76,188 71.7% 3.1% 3.1% 70,383 66.4% 3.4% 3.3% 3 – External Social  Indicators R$ '000 %   over  OR %   over   NR  %  over  TAV R$ '000 %   over  OR %   over   NR  %   over   TAV R$ '000 %  over  OR % over NR  %   over   TAV Education 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0,0% 0 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% Culture 11,777  0.6% 0.4% 0.5% 13,105 0.6% 0.0% 0.5% 8.212 0,5% 0,4% 0,4% Health and Sanitation 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% Sports 2,223  0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 2,530 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 1.000 0,1% 0,0% 0,0% Combat to hunger and  food basket payments 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% Sector Indicator 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% Other 2,941  0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 2,863 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 2.250 0,1% 0,1% 0,1% Total contributions to  society 16,941  0.8% 0.6% 0.7% 18,498 0.9% 0.0% 0.8% 11.462 0,7% 0,6% 0,5% Taxes   (excluding payroll taxes) 903,963  43.6% 34.5% 35.8% 894,343 43.2% 0.0% 36.5% 805.628 47,5% 39,1% 37,3% Total 920,904  44.4% 35.2% 36.4% 912,841 44.1% 0.0% 37.2% 817.090 48,2% 39,7% 37,9% 4 – Environmental  Indicators R$ '000 %   over  OR %   over   NR  %   over  TAV R$ '000 %   over  OR %   over   NR  %   over   TAV R$ '000 %  over  OR %   over   NR  %   over   TAV 4.1 – Investments related to the production/operation of the company Appropriation of Land N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Liabilities and  Environmental  Contingencies N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Program for Technological  and Industrial  Development ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Balance Sheet (Ibase and nBCT15) N/A – Not Applicable ND – Not Available N/A – Not Applicable ND – Not Available Conservation of Energy ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Environmental Education 0.51 ND ND ND 31 0.0015% 0.0013% 0.00001% ND ND ND ND Sector Indicator ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Other ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Total 0.51 ND ND ND 31 0.0015% 0.0013% 0.00001% ND ND ND ND 4.2 – Investments in external programs and/or projects Environmental Education ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Preservation and/or  recovery of degraded  environments NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA ND ND ND ND Other ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Total ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Total investment (4.1 + 4.2) 31 0.0015% 0.0013% 0.00001% ND ND ND ND Distribution of  investments in R$ '000 % sobre total em mil R$ % sobre total em mil R$ % sobre total Total investment  in environmental  preservation ND ND ND ND ND ND Total investment  in environmental  maintenance ND ND ND ND ND ND Total investment  in environmental  compensation 0.51 ND 31 100 ND ND Administrative and judicial  processes 0 0 0 Fines and indemnity 0 0 0 In terms of establishing  annual targets to  minimize waste, the  overall consumption in  production/operation, the  amount spent to increase  the efficiency of the  companys use of natural  resources: (x) no targets   ( ) complies with 0 to 50%   ( ) complies with 51 to 75%   ( ) complies with 76 to 100% (x) no targets   ( ) complies with 0 to 50%   ( ) complies with 51 to 75%   ( ) complies with 76 to 100% (x) no targets   ( ) complies with 0 to 50%   ( ) complies with 51 to 75%   ( ) complies with 76 to 100% 5 – Employee composition  indicators 2010 In unItS 2009 In unItS 2008 In unItS No. of employees 1,455 793 789 No. of hirings 950 172 180 No. of layoffs 288 168 235 No. of indirect employees 4,634 2,649 ND No. of interns 4 29 44 No. of employees over 45 109 78 78 no. of employees per age under 18 0 0 0 between 18 and 35 1,024 446 445 between 36 and 45 343 269 266 4 – Environmental  indicators (continued) R$ '000 %   over  OR %   over   NR  %   over  TAV R$ '000 %   over  OR %   over   NR  %   over   TAV R$ '000 %  over  OR %   over   NR  %   over   TAV 4.1 – Investments related to the production/operation of the company (continued)  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 99 Profit sharing includes: ( ) top-level executives   ( ) top-level executives and mid-level  management (X) all employees ( ) top-level executives   ( ) top-level executives and mid-level  management (X) all employees ( ) top-level executives   ( ) top-level executives and mid-level  management (X) all employees Regarding the suppliers,  the standards on  ethics and social  and environmental  responsibility of the  company ( ) are not considered   (X) are suggested   ( ) are required ( ) are not considered   (X) are suggested   ( ) are required ( ) are not considered   (X) are suggested   ( ) are required 98 / annexeS % of complaints   answered and resolved: in the company Ombudsman/ Customer   Service Center in the company 100% in the company 100% in Consumer  Protection body 100% in Consumer  Protection body 17% in Consumer  Protection body 0% in Courts 100% in Courts 12% in Courts 10% Fines and indemnity  payments to clients in Consumer  Protection body 75.6 in Consumer  Protection body 0 in Consumer  Protection body 0 in Courts 1,194.9 in Courts 787.0 in Courts 574.6 Actions taken by the  company to mitigate  or minimize causes of  complaints Those are: 1. Set up of Quality Work Groups  (focused on reducing complaints); 2. Restructuring of the Customer  Service Center (new Service model) Those are: 1. Alteration of the Technical Assistance  Model to repair machinery with problems; 2. Improvements in Redecards Merchant  Affiliation Program;  3. Implementation of Relationship Project  2.0 at the Call Centers. Those are: 1. Alteration of the Technical Assistance  Model to repair machinery with  problems;  2. Improvements in Redecards Merchant  Affiliation Program. number of labor cases: Against the company  138 141 94 With legal grounds 12 14 19 Ruled not to have legal  grounds  35 41 31 Total value of indemnity  payments and fines as  ordered by the courts: 576.6 472.9 320.9 Total Added Value to  distribute (in R$ '000): 2,450.7 2,157.3 Distribution of Added  Value in R$ '000 % over total in R$ '000 % over total in R$ '000 % over total      Government 934,314 ND 913,886 37.3% 824,556 38.2%      Employees 185,584 ND 135,822 5.5% 128,985 6.0%      Shareholders 717,176 ND 686,466 28.0% 993,159 46.0%      Third parties 7,555 ND 6,487 0.3% 7,721 0.4%      Retained 682,786 ND 708,094 28.9% 202,961 9.4% 7 – Other Information Due to changes in the accounting rules (IFRS), we have changed the following information: in line (4) the information relating to 2009 and 2008, and in lines  123 and 125 the information relating to 2009. 2010 2009 2008 5 – Employee composition  indicators (continued) 2010 In unItS 2009 In unItS 2008 In unItS N/A – Not Applicable ND – Not Available N/A – Not Applicable ND – Not Available between 36 and 60 88 78 78 over 60 - 0 0 no. of employees according to their level of education Unable to read and write - 0 0 Junior School completed  28 7 13 High School/Technical  College completed 293 226 292 Higher Education  completed 895 427 432 Post-graduated  239 133 52 No. of women 677 358 367 % of management  positions held by women 5% 39% 41% No. of men 778 435 422 % of management  positions held by men 9% 61% 59% No. of black employees ND ND ND % of management  positions held by black  employees ND ND ND No. of employees with  disabilities or special needs 52 29 29 gross compensation divided by the number of Employees ND ND ND Management Staff ND ND ND Difference between the  lowest salary paid by  the company and the  minimum legal wage 1.33 2.33 2.26 Source Payroll DEC/2010 Payroll DEC/2009 Payroll DEC/2008 6 – relevant information  relating to the exercise  of corporate citizenship 2010 2009 2008 Ratio of highest to lowest  remuneration at the  company 49.88 ND ND Total number of work- related accidents 6 10 6 Social and environmental  projects by the company  were selected by: ( ) top-level executives   (X) top-level executives   and mid-level management   ( ) all employees ( ) top-level executives   (X) top-level executives   and mid-level management   ( ) all employees ( ) top-level executives   (X) top-level executives   and mid-level management   ( ) all employees The company's standard  for safety and cleanliness  at the workplace were  set by ( ) top-level executives   and mid-level management   ( ) all employees   (X) all employees + CIPA ( ) top-level executives   and mid-level management   ( ) all employees   (X) all employees + CIPA ( ) top-level executives   and mid-level management   ( ) all employees   (X) all employees + CIPA Concerning freedom of  association, the right to  collective bargaining and  internal representation,  the company: GRI DMA-LA ( ) is not involved   (X) follows ILO standards   ( ) encourages and follows   ILO standards  ( ) is not involved   (X) follows ILO standards   ( ) encourages and follows   ILO standards  ( ) is not involved   (X) follows ILO standards   ( ) encourages and follows   ILO standards  The company's pension  plan covers ( ) top-level executives   ( ) top-level executives   and mid-level management   (X) all employees ( ) top-level executives   ( ) top-level executives   and mid-level management   (X) all employees ( ) top-level executives   ( ) top-level executives   and mid-level management   (X) all employees  REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 / 101 100 / annexeS PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes CRC 2SP000160/O-5  Manuel Luiz da Silva Arajo Contador CRC 1RJ039600/O-7 S SP PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes CRC 2SP000160/O-5  Manuel Luiz da Silva Arajo Contador CRC 1RJ039600/O-7 S SP So Paulo, April 29, 2011. So Paulo, May 27, 2011. that supports the quantitative and qualitative  data of the engagement Process.  Scope and limitations The objective of our engagement was to  verify whether the data included in the Annual  Sustainability Report for 2010, with respect to  obtaining qualitative information, measurement  and calculation of quantitative information, is  presented in accordance with the criteria and  guidelines for sustainability reports from the  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) and whether  the Process of stakeholder engagement  followed the Principles of the Accountability  1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000APS),  in accordance with the criteria defined in the  paragraph Criteria adopted above. Opinions,  historical information, descriptive information  and information resulting from subjective  evaluations are not included in the scope of the  work performed. conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement,  we are not aware: (i) of any significant  modification that should be made to  the information included in the Annual  Sustainability Report of Redecard S.A. for  the year ended December 31, 2010, for this  information to be fairly presented, in all material  respects, in accordance with the criteria used,  as described above (Scope and limitations),  and (ii) on any information that would lead  us to believe that the Process of complying  with the Principles of the Accountability 1000  Principles Standard 2008 (AA1000APS) has  not been carried out in compliance with the  criteria described in the paragraph Scope and  Limitations above. Additional considerations In regards to the definition of the Contents  of the Annual Sustainability Report for 2010, in  accordance with the principles of GRI-G3, we  noted an increase in the number of indicators  reported as compared to the previous year,  which demonstrates a higher degree of  transparency in the Companys social and  environmental management. In the process of stakeholder engagement,  Redecard used two panels for consultation,  one internal and another external. In addition  to defining the most significant topics and  indicators to be covered in the report, the  stakeholders were able to provide their opinions  on the previous years Sustainability Report. December 31, 2010, which was issued on April  29, 2011, we are not aware of any significant  modification that should be made to the  information included in the Sustainability  Report for 2010 of Redecard S.A., for this  information to be fairly presented, in all  material respects, in relation to the criteria  used for Application Level B+. Independent Auditors Limited Assurance report on  the Annual Sustainability report for 2010   of redecard S.A. Independent Auditors Limited Assurance report on the  GrI-G3 Application Level of the Annual Sustainability report  for 2010 of redecard S.A. was subjected to an internal audit at the same  time that the reporting process started. The  process resulted in a report with risk analysis,  recommendations and action plans so that the  report of Redecard could be improved within the  GRI standards and more closely adapted to the  principles established by the AA1000 standard. Procedures Applied Our limited assurance engagement  was performed in accordance with the  Brazilian Standard NBC TO 3000, "Assurance  Engagements Other than Audit and Review",  issued by the Federal Accounting Council  (CFC). This standard requires that we comply  with ethical requirements and plan and  perform the assurance engagement to obtain  limited assurance that no matter has come  to our attention that leads us to believe that  the objects (Report and Process) are not in  accordance with the criteria described below  (Scope and limitations), in all material respects. In a limited assurance engagement, the  evidence-gathering procedures are more  limited than those performed in a reasonable  assurance engagement; therefore, less  assurance is obtained than in a reasonable  assurance engagement. The procedures  selected depend on the practitioners judgment,  including the assessment of the risks of  material noncompliance of the Sustainability  Report with the criteria described below (Scope  and limitations). Within the scope of our work,  procedures conducted included the following,  among others: (a) For limited assurance on the Report:  (i) planning the work, taking into  consideration the materiality and the volume  of information presented in the Annual  Sustainability Report for 2010 of Redecard S.A;  (ii) obtaining an understanding of the  internal controls;   (iii) examining, on a test basis, evidence  that supports the quantitative and qualitative  data in the Sustainability Report; and (iv) (iv) interviewing the managers  responsible for the information. b) For limited assurance of compliance with  the Process:  (i) obtaining an understanding of the  controls and procedures of the engagement of  the stakeholders through interviews with the  managers responsible for such information; (ii) examining, on a test basis, evidence  therefore, less assurance is obtained than  in a reasonable assurance engagement.  The procedures selected depend on  the practitioners judgment, including  the assessment of the risks of material  noncompliance of the Sustainability  Report with the criteria described  below (Scope and limitations). Within  the scope of our work we performed,  amongst others, the following procedures:  (i) planning the work, taking into  consideration the materiality and the  volume of information presented in the  Sustainability Report; (ii) obtaining an  understanding of the internal controls;  (iii) examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting quantitative and qualitative  data in the Sustainability Report; (iv)  interviewing the managers responsible  for the information; and (v) comparing  information of a financial nature with  that in the accounting records. These  procedures were deemed sufficient to  allow a limited level of assurance and,  consequently, do not include all those  required for issuing a broader assurance  report, as set forth in  said standard. Scope and limitations The objective of our engagement was  to verify the GRI Application Level of the  Annual Sustainability Report for 2010,  with respect to obtaining qualitative  information, measurement and  calculation of quantitative information,  an fair presentation of this information,  in accordance with the criteria and  guidelines for GRI Application Level of  sustainability reports from the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3). Opinions,  historical information, descriptive  information and information resulting  from subjective evaluations are not  included in the scope of the work  performed. conclusion Based on our limited assurance  engagement, together with our limited  assurance engagement report of the  Annual Sustainability Report for 2010 of  Redecard S.A., referring to the year ended  To the Board of Directors Redecard S.A. Introduction We have been engaged to perform a limited  assurance engagement on the following objects:  Annual Sustainability Report for 2010 of  Redecard S.A. (Report);  Compliance with the process of stakeholder  engagement (Process) based on the  information disclosed in the Sustainability  Report above. Both objects have been prepared under the  responsibility of the management of Redecard  S.A. This responsibility includes designing,  implementing and maintaining internal  controls over the proper preparation and  presentation of the Sustainability Report. The  Companys management is also responsible for  complying with the Process, in accordance with  the criteria described below. Our responsibility  is to provide a limited assurance report on  the information disclosed in the Annaul  Sustainability Report for 2010 of Redecard S.A.  for the year ended December 31, 2010, and a  limited assurance report on the process of  stakeholder engagement (Process).  criteria adopted The Annual Sustainability Report for  2010 was prepared in accordance with the  guidelines for sustainability reports of the  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3). The process of stakeholder engagement  based on the information disclosed in  the Sustainability Report was carried out  in conformity with Accountability 1000  Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000AS) type 1,  which evaluates the level of adherence to the  Principles of the Accountability 1000 Principles  Standard 2008 (AA1000APS). This standard  establishes the following procedures:  The Process of engagement should  consider the main stakeholders;  There should be a transparent procedure  in relation to the determination of materiality; The process of Capacity to Answer should  present a well-defined structure in the  Sustainability Report. Aiming at improving the structure of its  Sustainability Report and its capacity to meet  the demands of the main stakeholders and,  therefore, implementing in the most adequate  manner the criteria adopted, Redecard S.A.  To the Board of Directors Redecard S.A. Introduction We have been engaged to perform a limited  assurance engagement on the GRI Application  Level, in accordance with the guidelines for  sustainability reports issued by the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3), of the Annual  Sustainability Report for 2010 of Redecard  S.A., prepared under the responsibility of   Redecard S.A. management, on which we  issued a limited assurance report on April 29,  2011.  Redecards management responsibility  includes designing, implementing and  maintaining internal controls over the  proper preparation and presentation of the  Sustainability Report.  Our responsibility is to  provide a limited assurance report on the GRI  Application Level of this report for the year  ended December 31, 2010. criteria adopted The Sustainability Report for 2010 was  prepared in accordance with the guidelines  for sustainability reports of the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) for Application  Level B+. Following these guidelines,  Redecard S.A. reported 46 essential and  additional performance indicators. Procedures Applied Our limited assurance engagement  was performed in accordance with the  Brazilian Standard NBC TO 3000, "Assurance  Engagements Other than Audit and Review",  issued by the Federal Accounting Council  (CFC). This standard requires that we comply  with ethical requirements and plan and  perform the assurance engagement to  obtain limited assurance that no matter  has come to our attention that leads us to  believe that the Sustainability Report for  2010 of Redecard S.A. is not in accordance  with the Application Level B+, in accordance  with the criteria described below (Scope and  Limitations), in all material respects. In a limited assurance engagement,  the evidence-gathering procedures are  more limited than those performed in  a reasonable assurance engagement;   REDECARD    Sustainability Annual Report 2010 credits General Coordination Redecard - Investor Relations and Sustainability Area; Marketing Area Sustainability Consulting and GRI Stakeholder Panels and Materiality Matrix – Management & excellence  collection of Indicators – Investor Relations and Sustainability department  Review of Indicators – Redecard Internal Audit Texts and Editing Report comunicao – www.reportcomunicao.com.br Assurance Pwc  English version vrtice translate Graphic Design and Editorial Report comunicao – www.reportcomunicacao.com.br Photographs: Redecards Image Bank Marcelo Min  Rogrio Assis  Pisco del gaiso  veer Distribution: this report will be distributed to shareholders, investors, employees, clients, suppliers,  third-sector entities, class associations, press, government and universities. If you have any questions, comments or suggestions, write to: sustentabilidade@redecard.com.br  we would like to thank all those who authorized the use of their image and to all internal partners   who contributed to the production of this Report. corporate information Redecard S.A. Avenida Marcos Penteado de Ulha Rodrigues, 939 Loja I – 12, 13 e 14 andares 06460-040  Barueri - SP, Brazil Investor Relations email: ri@redecard.com.br www.redecard.com.br/ri Services to Shareholders Available at any branch of Banco Ita S.A., of which the head office is at Praa  Alfredo egydio de Souza Aranha, 100 – torre Itasa,   So Paulo, SP, Brazil tel.: 55 11 50297780 email: investfone.investimento@itau-unibanco.com.br Redecard Customer Service Service center Tel.: 55 11 4001 4433 (Capitals) 0800 784433 (Other locations in Brazil) Ombudsmanship: 11 3133-1880 fSc  www.redecard.com.br