2010 BUSINESS AND CORPORATE SOCIAL  RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  SHARING SMILES In 120 countries around the world, Bel brings  smiles to families everyday through its en- joyable products, made with dairy goodness.  Its brands, suitable for gourmet tastes and  adapted to a wide variety of eating habits,  y  the colors of enthusiasm, a fundamental Bel  value. Whether choosing Bels universally recognized  brands, The Laughing Cow, Mini Babybel,  Kiri, Leerdammer, and Boursin, or its  25 local brands, consumers appreciate the  healthy pleasure and cheerfulness o ered  by these cheeses. Bels story is a family story. The companys  family-controlled ownership structure and  the commitment of its 11,300 employees al- low the Group to blend long-term vision with  sustainable performance. In 2010, Bel gen- erated consolidated sales of 2.4 billion,  up 8.9% over the previous year. CONTENTS 04  Message from Antoine Fivet,  Chairman and Chief Executive Offi  cer   07  Corporate Social Responsibility,  a meaningful project 08  Sound corporate governance  with a long-term view 10 Earnings up sharply 12 CONSUMERS 14 Brands close to consumers  16  Dairy goodness   18  Actively involved brands   20   International aims in tune  with local expectations   24   Humor and creativity at La Maison  de La vache qui rit  26 EMPLOYEES 28   Social charter, the cornerstone  of a mutual commitment 30   A company committed  to all employees   32   An international community 34 ENVIRONMENT  AND COMMUNITIES 36  Reducing the environmental footprint 39  In the heart of communities 42  DASHBOARDS 44   Groups CSR commitments  and outlook 54  Summary management report 56 Consolidated income statement 57  Consolidated balance sheet 58  Consolidated cash fl ow statement  4 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT MESSAGE FROM ANTOINE  FIVET, CHAIRMAN AND CEO Bels goal is to bring smiles  to one billion consumers by 2020 I n 2010, Bel cheese consumers  numbered 400 million strong. Put  another way, Bel — in line with its  mission — brought smiles to 400 mil- lion men, women and children around  the world, delivering enjoyable products  made with dairy goodness. That is an  impressive number, and it underscores  the years great accomplishments, of  which the companys 11,300 employees  can be proud. A RECORD YEAR Bel had a record year in 2010, despite  an enduring economic recession in a  number of countries where we operate,  and renewed volatility in the dairy raw  materials market. Our sales increased  8.9%, driven by higher sales volumes in  nearly all world regions where we are  active. North America, Asia, the Middle East,  and Africa all reported excellent per- formances during the year, while growth  steadily recovered in Western Europe  against more challenging economic  conditions. Eastern Europe was the only  region to su er deeply from the crisis,  but its performance did not signifi- cantly impact the Groups strong, overall  momentum. Strides were also made in  terms of pro tability. In 2010, consoli- dated net pro t reached 116 million,  moving us closer to the target we set and  enabling us to look forward to the future  with con dence and determination. THE FRUIT OF A CONSISTENT  STRATEGY Beyond the individual accomplishments  of each and everyone during the year,  2010 needs to be put into perspective.  The years performance is fully in line  with the strategic and operational deci- sions taken over time, with the implemen- tation of those decisions strengthening  the Group. FY 2010 can also be viewed  as a launch pad for preparing the Groups  path to growth over the next decade.  Bels performance stems  rst and fore- most from our remarkable portfolio  of universal brands, including The  Laughing Cow, Mini Babybel, Kiri,  Leerdammer, and Boursin, and the  quality national brands that e ectively  complement our product range. Always  contemporary, these delightful and  gourmet brands appeal to all genera- tions. Further, Bel has always been an  innovator, annually introducing prod- uct innovations in the market that meet  consumer expectations. In 2010, prod- uct innovations launched within the past  three years accounted for over 8% of the  years sales, clearly demonstrating our  capacity for innovation.  Successful international growth also  contributed to Bels performance in  2010. Our products are now sold in  more than 120 countries, and we have  subsidiaries in over 30 nations.  This geo- graphical breakdown helps spread risk  and, above all, enables us to seize growth  opportunities wherever they may arise.  Remarkable growth is now being gen- erated in the North American market,  for example. African and Asian markets  remain strong bases for us — markets  where we are accelerating our growth  — and numerous territories remain to  be conquered.  THE ENTHUSIASM  AND DRIVE OF OUR  EMPLOYEES ARE  POWERFUL ENGINES  OF GROWTH  5 Lastly, over the past few years, Bel has  spearheaded major projects to stream- line its organizational structure and  improve the quality of its manufacturing  base and information system — e orts  that have borne fruit. As a result, we are  able to manage our business activity and  environmental conditions more closely,  while being more e  cient and produc- tive in our functions and decision-mak- ing processes.  Mobilizing the entire Group around  speci c, consistent and shared strategic  priorities is an advantage we can count  on for our growth. A MEANINGFUL PROJECT What future are we building for Bel? The  short-term outlook is rocky. Once again,  there is a great deal of volatility in the  raw materials market, a situation stretch- ing from the second half of 2010 and  one generating higher costs in 2011 than  initially anticipated. However, thanks to  our family-like culture, the Group knows  how to blend everyday management  with long-term vision and sustainable  performance. By 2020, our goal is to reach one bil- lon consumers worldwide. That means  attracting new customers in numbers  equivalent to the population of France  each year, given the 400 million con- sumers we currently serve. One could ask, why be so ambitious and  how can we succeed?  OUR SUCCESS  IS DERIVED FROM  THE SIMPLICITY  AND EFFECTIVENESS  OF OUR GROWTH  MODEL 8.9% advance  in 2010 sales 400  million  consumers around  the globe 116 million in consolidated  net profi t – Group share Antoine Fivet, Chairman and Chief Executive Offi  cer.  6 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT Bels mission is to bring smiles and dairy  goodness to families. The direction is  clear, but there is still some way to go.  To that end, we will continue to build on  our current operations and grow in new  geographical regions. We are also inten- sifying our e orts to make our products  more accessible to consumers, notably  in terms of manufacturing performance  and innovation. In particular, our teams  are working to develop an innovative  product aimed at consumers with very  modest purchasing power, people for  whom the bene ts of dairy products are  currently out of reach. We plan to launch  a product in Vietnam at the end of the  year that is speci cally tailored to local  needs in terms of price and nutritional  bene t.  This project is emblematic of the busi- ness model we want for Bel, i.e. a com- pany driven by a desire to make its  e orts meaningful and to be respectful  of its consumers, employees and the  communities where we operate. We  formalized this desire in the  ve pillars  of our Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) policy, and all Bel functions and  subsidiaries have begun making prog- ress in those areas.  CSR lies at the heart of our strategy, at  the same level of importance as  nancial  imperatives. Respecting CSR guidelines  is a primary and necessary condition for  all our development, investment and  product-launch projects. By our meeting  these demands, consumers will continue  to prefer Bel brands, and all our employ- ees can remain enthusiastic and proud  of their contributions.  PEOPLE FIRST The  ve pillars of our CSR policy are  demanding. I would like to highlight one  of them in particular, the one about being  a company that listens to its employees, because it  ts perfectly with Bels fam- ily values. In this spirit, our People  First human resources policy is aimed  at ensuring that the smiles we seek to  share are shared  rst with our employees  and their families. The draft ing in 2010  of a social charter applicable to all Bel  employees around the world marks a  major step towards meeting this com- mitment and has inspired several prom- ising projects in the areas of employee  safety, bene ts and training, etc. All of  these e orts contribute to helping all  employees use their talents and skills  to the fullest extent, and help promote  their well-being and performance. MY COMPLIMENTS  TO A PERSONALITY  90 YEARS YOUNG Before closing, allow me to note an  important anniversary for all those  who share in the Bel adventure. In2011,  we will be celebrating the  90th anniversary of The  Laughing Cow, the  Groups emblematic and  founding brand. The  event will be held at La  Maison de La vache qui rit  (The Laughing Cow House) in  Lons-le-Saunier (Jura - France),  where the brand was  rst established  in 1921, and the celebration will be  extended to our consumers and all  our employees as well. The anniver- sary con rms The Laughing Cows  success in blending tradition and  modernity to perfection. The brand  has consistently adapted to consumer  generations, tastes and cultures in time  and around the world, while maintaining  its friendly, authentic and good-natured  personality. I am convinced that The  Laughing Cow will continue to elicit  countless smiles for years to come, along  with all of our brands. CSR IS FACTORED INTO  ALL OUR PROJECTS  FOR DEVELOPMENT,  INVESTMENT AND  PRODUCT LAUNCHES  7 CSR, A MEANINGFUL  PROJECT Bel has formulated its Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) policy in a manner  consistent with its culture and mission,  drawing on the support of in-house  experts within its various functions and  the contribution ofexternal stakeholders.  Shared by all Bel entities, this policy is  based on five pillars of commitment,  which together cover more than 20 key  areas of progress. To coordinate the field deployment  of the policy, a network of 17 key  CSR advisers was set up among the  Group functional departments. These  experts act as the guardians of progress  within their respective departments.  Furthermore, their role is to lead imple- mentation e orts for actions delegated  to local advisers in Bel regions and  countries, and at Bel production sites. At the heart of our company policy lies  adesire to blend business development  with respect for people and the environment. FIVE PILLARS OF COMMITMENT Accessible products that  are nutritionally benefi cial Develop nutritionally benefi cial  products adapted to everyones  needs and accessible to the  greatest number of people. A company that listens  to its employees Ensure that our employees enjoy  working conditions in which  they can develop and fulfi ll  their personal potential.  Responsible, actively  involved brands Establish a role for our brands as vehicles  for social progress through responsible  marketing and communications, and active  involvement in the issues facing society.  Activities that reduce our  environmental footprint Reduce of the environmental  footprint of all our activities,  regardless of whether these  activities are directly linked  tothemanufacture of our  products or not.  A company actively  committed to the communities  in which it operates Work with communities tofurther  sustainable economic, social  andenvironmental development. http://www.smilesfortheplanet.com/  sets out the approach to CSR and the advances  by Bel entities in area of CSR. Dedicated website The tables for tracking CSR progress are presented on pages 44 to 53 of this report. Bel is a member  company of the United  Nations Global  Compact.  8 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT SOUND CORPORATE  GOVERNANCE WITH  A LONG-TERM VIEW F romageries Bel is a French  corporation (socit anonyme)  listed on the Euronext Paris stock  exchange. At December 31, 2010,  the Unibel holding company and mem- bers of the Bel/Fivet family, descen- dants of the companys founders, held  a combined 71.2% of Fromageries Bels  share capital.  Unibel, which is 98.2% owned by mem- bers of the Bel/Fivet family group, is  the Bel Group holding company.  In that capacity, Unibel defines the  long-term vision and sets the major  strategic guidelines to ensure the  Groups development, pro tability and  independence. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Antoine Fivet has served as Bels  Chairman and CEO since May 14, 2009.  He is assisted by Bruno Schoch, Deputy  General Manager, Group Finance, Legal  A airs, Information Technology Systems,  and Development.  The Board of Directors includes seven  members, four of who are independent  directors, in accordance to stock market  rules. The Board approves all decisions  concerning the Bel Groups major stra- tegic, economic, social,  nancial, and  industrial directions. It is assisted in its  work by two specialized committees,  both of which meet an average of four  times a year. The Audit Committee, operating under  the responsibility of the Board of  Directors, monitors the preparation of   nancial information and the e ective- ness of internal control systems, risk  management, and the statutory auditing  of the annual company and consolidated  accounts by auditors. It also ensures the  independence of auditors. The Appointments and Compensation  Committee notably issues proposals to  the Board of Directors concerning the  selection and compensation of Group  managers, o  cers and directors. It also  takes part in implementing the Groups  strategic plan for human resources  management. GROUP MANAGEMENT  COMMITTEE Working under the authority of CEO and  Chairman Antoine Fivet, the Group  Management Committee is in charge  of the operational management of the  Bel Group, implementing the strategy  as established by the Board of Directors  for the company as well as for all of its  subsidiaries, ensuring the coordination  between the various Group entities,  and monitoring operating results and  directives. Its membership includes  the deputy general manager and eight  vice-presidents, each one individually  responsible for a business activity or an  operational region, and all upholding the  Groups strategy and mission. In March  2011, the Bel International region, which  has seen remarkable growth over the  past years, was geographically reorga- nized into two separate regions, Greater  Africa and the Near and Middle East,  to be closer to market. The Asia-Paci c  region was reassigned to the Americas  region, with the combination now called  the Americas, Asia-Paci c region. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Antoine Fivet, Chairman and CEO Michel Arnaud*, Director Philippe Deloff re, Unibels Permanent  Representative James Lightburn*, Director Luc Luyten*,  Director Florian Sauvin,  Director Johnny Thijs*,  Director AUDIT COMMITTEE Philippe Deloff re,  Chairman James Lightburn* Johnny Thijs* APPOINTMENTS  AND COMPENSATION  COMMITTEE Luc Luyten*,  Chairman Antoine Fivet Ernst Pankert (non-director, committee  expert) *Independent directors DEPUTY GENERAL  MANAGER Bruno Schoch Bel has existed for over 100 years and is still managed by the descendents  of the companys founders. Its corporate governance structure is designed  to continue the Groups long-term view of the business by focusing on  sustainable and profi table growth.  9  Francis Le Cam   Vice-President Bel Western Europe.   Patrick Longuechaud   Vice-President Human   Resources and Organization.   Antoine Fivet   Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer.   Guillaume Jout   Vice-President Communications, Public Affairs   and Corporate Social Responsibility.   Bruno Schoch   Deputy General Manager.   Hubert Mayet   Vice-President Group Manufacturing   and Technical Division.   Pedro Fernandes   Vice-President Innovation   and Brands.   Frdric Nalis   Vice-President Bel Greater Africa.   ric de Poncins   Vice-President Bel Americas, Asia-Paci c.  GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE  Joe Tayard   Vice-President Bel   Near and Middle East.   2010 EARNINGS  UP SHARPLY 32 COUNTRIES  WITH A GROUP  PRESENCE 30 INTERNATIONAL  AND LOCAL BRANDS 25  PRODUCTION SITES OVER     120  COUNTRIES, IN WHICH  BEL PRODUCTS ARE  DISTRIBUTED  11,300 EMPLOYEES 49 NATIONALITIES ROBUST SALES GROWTH In 2010, Bel Group sales exceeded 2.4  billion, up 8.9% overall versus 2009, and  up 7.3% at constant exchange rates and  scope of consolidation. The perfor- mance stemmed primarily from the dou- ble-digit sales growth generated in the  high potential regions of Bel Americas  and Bel International. While business  in Eastern Europe continued to su er  from the e ects of the economic crisis,  sales in Western Europe were remark- ably strong. These results underscore  the power of Bels international brands  and the e ective adaptation of the com- panys sales and marketing strategies to  conditions in all local markets. STRENGTHENED  BALANCE SHEET Bels operating income and net pro t,  Group share, advanced 31.2% and  37% respectively, notably underscoring  Bels capacity for generating a return  on investment and cutting expenses,  in particular its  nancing costs. For the  second year in a row, the Group pursued  an active policy to decrease debt, with  net  nancial debt falling 33% to 240  million, from 357 million in 2009. Bel  reinforced its balance sheet by strength- ening its equity. A CHALLENGING 2011 In the short term, an abrupt increase in  raw material costs and political unrest  in some Group countries have created  turbulent conditions that will weigh  on 2011  nancial results. Bel, however,  remains con dent in its human, sales  and marketing, and  nancial resources,  and rea  rms its objectives for grow- ing the business and attracting new  consumers. 2009 2010 2,221 2,418 2009 2010 149 195 SALES in millions of euros OPERATING  INCOME in millions of euros 2009 2010 85 116 +8.9% +31.2% +37% CONSOLIDATED  NET PROFIT -  GROUP SHARE in millions of euros Bel reported remarkable results in 2010,  thanks to strong business growth and  continued eff orts to improve operating  profi tability. In 2011, against harsher  conditions, the company has the resources  to continue along the path to profi table  growth. 10 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT  AMERICAS 9% WESTERN EUROPE   47% INTERNATIONAL  (Asia-Pacifi c, Near and Middle East, Greater Africa) 38% BRANDED CHEESE SALES  VOLUMES BY REGION* EASTERN EUROPE  6% *In 2010, prior to reorganization of operational regions. 11  12 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT  13 Sharing smiles with families through the pleasure of dairy  goodness is Bels mission. In 2010, Bel brands spread cheerfulness  around the globe, with over 12 billion cheese portions eaten. 12  BILLION  SMILES! 5  universal core  brands, including   The Laughing Cow,  MiniBabybel, Kiri,  Leerdammer andBoursin. 25  international  and local brands. 12  billion portions  eaten in 2010.  14 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT BRANDS  CLOSE TO  CONSUMERS Always attentive to consumer desires,  Bel consistently uses the unique  personality of its brands to convey  their contemporary appeal. N o matter where they are in  the world, consumers change,  just as their demands for  products and brands do.  To be closer to families and to o er  them products in sync with new eating  habits, Bel continuously tailors its  product range to its various markets. LISTENING TO CONSUMERS Bels local presence makes it easier  to listen to consumers and to gain a finer  understanding of their expectations.  To that end, the Group relies on  its brands, whose adaptability to a  diverse range of market conditions,  generations of people and a variety  of cultures has been proven time and  time again.  In developed countries, the economic  crisis has led to profound changes in  purchasing behavior, with consumers  turning away from hyperconsumption  and rethinking their priorities.  Consumers are trending toward more  responsible and sustainable food —  products that are natural, traditional,  simple, environmentally friendly, and  practical. Developing countries are  facing di erent challenges. Because  weak purchasing power continues at  times to limit access to a varied and  balanced diet, the focus is on a ordable  products with nutritional bene t.  Bel brands offer solutions to all of  these needs, as underscored by the  robust sales growth achieved in 2010. AN EFFECTIVE SALES  AND MARKETING STRATEGY With cheese sales up nearly 9% in 2010,  the years remarkable performance  can be explained by the efficiency  and energy deployed at each step in  the sales and marketing process. The  steps include constant research to  understand consumer needs, efforts  to improve distribution and product  visibility at points of sale, customer  bond-building advertising campaigns,  which Bel has always used, and launches  of new products in tune with local tastes,  cultures and customs. The results of  this strategy can be seen in nearly all  countries and across all of Bels core  brands. CONSTANT DRIVE  FOR INNOVATION Products launched during the year  annually account for a signi cant share  of Bels sales. Innovation, a fundamental  Bel value, is the answer to meeting  new expectations from consumers in  the Groups regions. The quality and  relevance of new products constitute  Manufacturing  teams  working for  the customer Boost, a program  to improve production  processes inspired by lean  manufacturing practices,  was rolled out at three pilot plants  in 2010. It involves employees  directly in a shared eff ort to fi nd  the most effi  cient solutions  andtocreate new value added  for the customer. The Boost project  will be implemented at fi ve new  plants in 2011. Blind taste tests were used in South Korea  to introduce consumers to new Belcube  fl avors.  15 real competitive advantages, enabling  Bel to win new customers and even  create new ways of eating its products.  In the U.S. market, Bel successfully  launched several new  avors in 2010,  including three original recipes for  The Laughing Cow. Other examples  include Boursin Tartine spreads, a  new way of serving the cheese, and  the launch of Picon miniature cheese  blocks for toasting in Lebanon. Both  products re ect Bels e orts to develop  cooking uses for its cheeses.  Research e orts for tomorrows products  are focused on ensuring nutritional  balance and blending dairy with other  ingredients and new flavors, to the  bene t of the widest possible number  of people. A SPECIAL RELATIONSHIP The digital revolution has led to major  changes in the way messages are  conveyed to consumers. The Internet  is a wonderful way for traditional  brands, used to addressing customers  through retail channels and traditional  media, to establish a direct dialogue  with consumers. Furthermore, it o ers  unlimited opportunities for customization  and reaching out. Bel has always sought  to maintain close ties with consumers.  It responded to the Web early on, and  has continued to invest in this area,  with its digital communications budget  tripling from 2009 to 2011. The initiatives  are mushrooming. Each brand has its  own site, as well as its own Facebook  page. In just a few months time, La vache  qui rit became one of the most popular  brands on the social networking site in  France, sharing a variety of content, such  as recipe ideas, news and special o ers,  with over 400,000 Facebook friends. 591 metric tons   of Boursin Tartine were sold  following the products 2010  launch in France. x 3 Bel has increased its digital  communication budget threefold  from 2009 to 2011. 400,000 friends on La vache  qui rit Facebook page in  France. 3 new recipes  for The Laughing Cow  were introduced in the U.S.  market in 2010.  16 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT DAIRY   GOODNESS More than 400 million people consumed  Bel cheeses in 2010. That impressive  fi gure confers a signifi cant responsibility  on the Group — ensuring the quality  and food safety of the millions of cheese  portions eaten each day around the world. H ealth and well-being, essential  consumer motivations, have  always been a core theme  at Bel. QUALITY, AN ESSENTIAL  PREREQUISITE O ering dairy goodness is  rst and  foremost a matter of ensuring  awless  food safety and quality. Bels promise  is guaranteed in the main by all the  tracking processes and production  rules in place at Group plants. Meeting  that challenge is made even greater by  rising production volumes. In 2010,  Group production units operated  at full capacity with no concessions  on product quality. The new Mini  Babybel plant in Slovakia met Bels  quality demands from its  rst day of  operation, as did the new production  lines successfully started up in Canada  and Algeria during the year.  All our sites meet Bels food safety  and quality demands and comply with  recognized international standards  and benchmarks, such as ISO 9001,  ISO 22000, BRC, and IFS. NUTRITIONAL RESPONSIBILITY A balanced diet is a key challenge  for society. Well aware of its  nutritional responsibility, Bel has  always researched its recipes to meet  the dietary needs of its customers,  while continuing tosatisfy consumer  expectations for taste and enjoyment.  For Bel, thepleasure of eating well  derives from a consumer-friendly  andbalanced eating experience that  goes hand inhand with nutrition. The Group pays particular attention  to calcium, fat and salt, three nutrients  present in its products and considered to  have a signi cant impact on public health.  Bels  rst move has been todetermine  the average value for all three nutrients  Rich in proteins, calcium and  vitamin D, The Laughing Cow  Formule Plus is designed to meet  the specifi c nutritional needs  of seniors in care facilities.  A version of The  Laughing Cow  marketed in Algeria is  enriched with calcium,  vitamin D and vitamin B12. Rich in proteins, calcium and   17 The attention that Bel pays to  quality, nutrition and the acces- sibility of its products is structured  around four key areas that take  into account the varying social  and cultural contexts within which  the Group operates as well as the  local eating habits. Accessible,  nutritionally  bene cial  products ibl The  importance  of nutritional  information Increasingly  concerned about  nutrition, consumers want  clear and relevant information  about the products they buy.  Health offi  cials, child care  professionals and restaurant  operators also need such  information. Bel is committed to  providing accurate information  about the nutritional composition  of its products, mainly on its  packaging but also via its  websites and customer services,  to answer questions that enable  consumers to make informed  purchasing decisions. For Bel, nutrition goes hand in hand  with a consumer-friendly and balanced  eating experience. themarkets they serve. To achieve its  goal of attracting a billion consumers  around the world by 2020, Bel must  continue those efforts and cross  an additional threshold to make its  products even more accessible. Poor  living standards prevent a large share  of the worlds population from enjoying  the nutritional benefits of dairy.  To reach these people, the Group  is working on a completely new  business model in terms of recipe,  product presentation, manufacturing  process, and sales and marketing  organization. The  rst product launch  resulting from this work will take  place in Vietnam at the end of 2011.  The product, rich in dairy protein,  will be manufactured and marketed  at an attractive sales price per portion.  Aft er Vietnam, other countries may be  targeted in the near future. observed in the cheese market. Secondly,  based on those averages, it has set target  values for each nutrient in the nutrition  passport developed for its core brands.  The goal of the program is to ensure  that all recipes conform to the nutrition  passport by 2015. In addition, to maintain the natural  characteristics of its products, Bels  research and development teams  are working to reduce the number  of additives in each recipe whenever  possible and without diminishing food  safety. In 2010, headquarters recruited  a team of nutritionists. It will lead  a network of local correspondents  to guide and coordinate the recipe  work, the commitments undertaken  with public authorities and the training  of in-house personnel. FROM 400 MILLION TO ONE  BILLION CONSUMERS Product quality and the Groups  marketing and advertising skills  have contributed significantly  to the success of Bel cheeses  to be sure. But they are not  the only factors. The Groups  plants strive constantly  to streamline  production,  to keep sel- ling prices  in line with   18 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT ACTIVELY INVOLVED BRANDS Bel brands forge strong and lasting bonds with  consumers. The trust created by these ties opens  the door to using the brands for promoting  responsible behaviors. T he search for meaning, a widely  observed consumer trend, is  re ected in purchasing behavior.  Consumers are increasingly  attracted to products and brands that  are actively involved in tackling some of  the challenges facing todays society. Bel  understands this notion and intends to  have its brands play a true societal role. RESPONSIBLE  COMMUNICATION Bel invests heavily in advertising.  Itsbrand messages are seen by millions  of people every day, including a vast  number of children, an audience  susceptible to advertising and promotion.  As a result, Bel draft ed a Responsible  communications charter to establish  a code of conduct for the Group and  to ensure that company ethics are  upheld. Brand advertising must first  and foremost be honest. It should not  promote disrespectful behavior, incite  unreasonable consumption or make  any unsupported claims, in particular  about nutrition. The charter is enforced  at Bels subsidiaries around the globe.  It is included and binding in contracts  that Bel signs with advertising agencies.  All advertising is now examined in light  of this charter before public release. INVOLVEMENT IN SOCIETYS  CHALLENGES Through its brands, Bel also seeks  to encourage responsible behavior  to meet such societal challenges  asgood nutrition, healthy living, physical  exercise, environmental protection,  andsupport for worthy causes. Bygetting  involved in an active and lasting  way, andinline with its own values,  Belbelieves itsbrands can help promote  consumer behaviors that are bene cial  both individually andcollectively. Bels advertising  code of conduct is  spelled out in the  Groups Responsible  communications  charter. t t u h n A t u In Lebanon, the Picon brand  gets school kids involved  in solidarity and sustainable  development eff orts.  19 In 2010, Bel Foodservice put together  a canteen program called Lets get  moving, together, to promote physical  exercise and awareness of peoples  individual capacity for making changes  in their lives and their environment. In the UK, Mini Babybel is a loyal  partner of Red Nose Day, an annual  charity event. A contribution is made to  Comic Relief, a charitable organization  active in the UK and Africa, with each  purchase of Mini Babybel. Several  public relations events and internal  actions accompany this widely followed  and worthy cause. Another example is the partnership  between the Arc-en-ciel NGO and  Picon in Lebanon to encourage school  kids to be Happiness Ambassadors in  their local communities by getting them  involved in solidarity and sustainable  development efforts. Other similar  programs are currently under study,  notably in France and Portugal. The relationship established  between the brands and their  consumers represents a great  responsibility. In response, Bel  has established its Responsible  communications charter and  committed to using the power of  its brands to promote behaviors  that are bene cial to consumers  individually and the community  as a whole. Responsible  and actively  involved brands ibl Bel websites play  an active role in the area  of nutrition and healthy living,  off ering information and advice.  In the U.S., The Laughing Cow  and Mini Babybel have their  own blogs, which are maintained  by recognized professionals in  the fi elds of nutrition and fi tness  (www.thelaughingcow.com/blog). Promoting  well-being  at Group  websites THE LAUGHING  COW HAS BEEN  AN OFFICIAL  PARTNER OF THE  ROYAL DUTCH  SWIMMING  FEDERATION IN  THE NETHERLANDS  SINCE 2007  20 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT INTERNATIONAL  AIMS IN TUNE WITH  LOCAL EXPECTATIONS Bel cheeses are eaten in over 120 countries.  In all of them, Bel follows a growth strategy  tailored to local conditions and cultures. n Western Europe, Bels 2010  sales were up 4.7%, versus the  previous year. Thats an excellent  performance, one of the years best  in the consumer products sector  and one achieved despite lackluster  economic conditions. Western Europe,  thebirthplace and starting point of Bels  expansion continued to grow for the  Group in 2010. During the year, priority  was given to growing volumes and  market share to win customer loyalty in  a period of declining purchasing power,  to maintain close ties to retail partners  through the growth momentum of Bels  brands, and to keep the companys  plants operating at a high level of  production. All core brands and  Apricube bene ted from the support  of promotional-o er campaigns and  targeted product innovations in 2010,  generating record volumes and market  share in most markets, particularly in  Germany, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland,  and France. The event of the year  was the new advertising campaign  for The Laughing Cow, putting  a new sheen on a brand that will  celebrate its 90thanniversary in 2011.  The 2010 growth momentum was  further enhanced by new product  launches, notably in the Apricube,  Leerdammer and Boursin ranges. Dubbed the High Farm Musical,  the new The Laughing Cow  commercial opens the door  onTheLaughing Cow cheese  factory, where the famous icon  issurrounded by her friends in  ananimated clip that harks back  to the famous animated fi lms  adored by children and their  parents alike. An old, wellguarded  secret is fi nally brought to light:  TheLaughing Cow laughs  whenthe cheese is just right.  Simultaneously launched in six  Western European countries, as  well as Turkey, the Czech Republic  and Egypt, the commercial was  abig hit. The ad, coupled with  unprecedented promotional-off er  campaigns developed by local  teams, helped boost sales of the  round box some 8%. WESTERN EUROPE An udderly successful ad campaign I Three new fl avors were added  to the Apricube range in 2010.  21 astern Europe was one of the  world regions hardest hit by  the recent economic recession,  which continues to linger there. Ukraine,  one of three countries in the region where  Bel has sales entities, was particularly  a ected. In 2010, Group sales in Eastern  Europe fell 13%. Adaptive measures  were taken during the year, with Bels  core brands made the focus of attention,  while simultaneously supporting strong  local brands. In the Czech Republic,  some activities operating under the  Jaromericka brand were sold in 2010.  In all countries, reducing market access  costs and adapting both the core brand  and local brand ranges were made  priorities. Recipes, packaging formats  and selling prices were revised to make  the products more a ordable for people  hard hit by the sharp decline in their  purchasing power. In addition, the sales  EASTERN EUROPE The core Leerdammer brand  was successfully launched in the  Slovakian market in the summer  of 2010. The cheese won over  consumers by virtue of its unique  fl avor and texture. Customer  preferences were immediately  satisfi ed by Leerdammers light  hazelnut taste. Its innovative  packaging featuring a click open  and close system also set a new,  more practical standard. The new  design generated a great deal of  consumer interest and converted  a number of consumers into loyal  customers. To get the word out  about the brand, a new advertising  campaign highlighted the  products unique taste — A taste  you cant resist. This TV  commercial was accompanied  by numerous promotional events,  such as tastings and sample  giveaways in stores.  In six months time, over 100 metric  tons of Leerdammer were  distributed in Slovakia, making  the brand the biggest selling  prepackaged, sliced cheese  in the market. Bel Slovakia expects  to triple its sales in 2011,  by beefi ng up its advertising and  launching product innovations. Success for Leerdammer in Slovakia BEL FOODSERVICE In c Bel Foodservice serves the  catering market, international  restaurant chains and the food  industry.  In 2010, there were a host of  nutritional initiatives undertaken  in the catering sector, with  a new calcium and vitamin  D-enriched recipe for Kiri and  the launch of The Laughing  Cow Formule Plus, aimed  at improving the diets of seniors  in retirement homes. In addition,  audience specifi c informational  campaigns were rolled out  to highlight the nutritional  qualities of Bel products.  For the European food sector  and large restaurant chains,  Bel Foodservice launched  frozen Boursin, a very  practical product enabling  Quick restaurants in France  and Belgium to put Boursin on  the menu as part of a delicious  salad. Bel Foodservice also  entered into a partnership  agreement with dAucy,  a vegetable specialist, to launch  a retail line of frozen mashed  potatoes fl avored with  The Laughing Cow, Kiri  and Boursin. forces in all Eastern European markets  were strengthened after selected  strategies were locally implemented. 15 COUNTRIES SUPPLIED BY  EASTERN EUROPEAN PLANTS The Eastern European region plays a key  role for Bel via its four production units,  which supply no less than 15 countries  in several Group regions. In 2010, a new  Kiri production line was set up at the  plant in Chorzele, Poland, to meet strong  demand for the brand from around the  world. The Michalovce, Slovakia Mini  Babybel plant, inaugurated in 2009,  continued to ramp up production  throughout the year towards full capacity,  while complying fully with Bels quality  demands. These measures, which will  continue in 2011, should enable the  region to rebuild its results, despite the  uncertain economic environment. E  22 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT n the Americas region, Bel  cheeses found their way into  three million new households  in 2010, with sales advancing 37.8%  overall versus 2009.  Sales in North America accelerated  significantly, despite an economy  that has only now begun to recover.  Effectively positioning three core  brands in distinct and buoyant segments  has been a major boon for the Group  in this region. The Laughing Cow  is now established in the breakfast  spread market, while Mini Babybel has  carved out a place in the healthy and  original snack segment, and Boursin  is now positioned up market as a  more festive cheese. For the  rst time,  theGroup holds the leading position in  the snack cheese segment in both the  U.S. and Canada. This accomplishment  resulted from all the various initiatives  undertaken in the region, including  e orts to improve distribution, boost  investment in promotional o ers and  innovate with the successful launch of  three new varieties of The Laughing  Cow. The year was also marked by  the deployment of the Groups SAP  management soft ware. Sales in Central  America increased  vefold following  an agreement with a local distributor  in Mexico in 2009, and a strong local  advertising presence. The success  ofthis nascent adventure could serve  as a model for new markets. In 2010,  Belinvested in its historical partner  in Chile to increase local market  penetration, while pursuing efforts  to nd the best solution for entering  the very promising market of Brazil. AMERICAS The year 2010 was a milestone  for Boursin in the Americas  region, where Bel led a host of  major initiatives to strengthen  the brands development. The  fi rst production line in Canada  began operating at the end of  2010, capping a successful  capital spending program that  set new records for speed and  effi  ciency.  The Group took  direct control of Boursins U.S.  distribution and entrusted  distribution in Canada to a  long-standing partner, with both  moves having an immediate  positive impact. Lastly, the  positioning of Boursin upmarket  and the supporting advertising  and innovation outlay bore fruit  with a remarkable advance in  2010 sales. Taken together,  these achievements signal a  bright future for Boursin in the  Americas. Fantastic year for Boursin I  23 el International encompasses  Asia-Pacific, the Near and  Middle East and Greater Africa,  world regions where Bel has achieved  double-digit sales growth year after  year, and where significant growth  opportunities still abound. In 2010,  Bel International sales advanced 14.2%.  What sets Bel International apart  from other Group regions is the wide  diversity of cheese eating habits  within the territory, prompting Bel to  develop a variety of responses adapted  to local conditions. In Africa and the  Near and Middle East, Bel has been  developing cooking applications for  Kiri in particular, by offering new  product formats and mounting strong  advertising campaigns. In 2010,  these e orts resulted in an excellent  performance for the brand in Africa,  BEL INTERNATIONAL Japan is a good example  of a market where Bel adapted  to local conditions to spur  growth. Japan has no traditional  cheese eating culture. Yet  despite that reality, Bels local  subsidiary has generated  steady growth for several years  now. In 2010, Japanese sales  increased 29%, thanks notably  to the performance of naturally  fl avored Kiri and the Belcube  brand. To succeed in Japan,  Bel has focused on cheeses  that are in tune with local  tastes. Thats the case for  strawberry-fl avored Kiri stick,  a product launched in 2010,  featuring crisp biscuits to be  dipped in a tub of strawberry- fl avored cheese. This new product was just one  of the years successes. Yokoso strawberry-  avored Kiri* * Welcome to strawberry-fl avored Kiri Group division Bel Industries  is dedicated to food industry  customers, to whom it sells  specially prepared dairy proteins  to meet their needs for  manufacturing such products  as ice cream, yogurt and  dairy-based deserts. In 2010,  against a backdrop of high  price volatility, the division  focused on developing its  business in emerging countries,  where strong economic growth  is driving demand. These eff orts  strengthened Bel Industries  competitive positions and  boosted its sales volumes.  As a result, sales from the rest  of the world surpassed European  sales during the year. In a still  uncertain economic environment,  Bel Industries expects  to continue demonstrating  its vitality by abiding the  expectations of its food industry  customers, using its capacity  for innovation and modernizing  its production means. BEL INDUSTRIES where its sales shot up more than 30%.  Growth was also driven by innovation,  with Bel launching several recipes  tailored to local tastes, such as new  flavors of The Laughing Cow and  Kiri Labneh. Lastly, one of the main  challenges in this region has been  nutrition and accessibility, given local  market realities. In response, Bel o ers  recipes and formats adapted to local  conditions, and even alternatives to  its premium products. Meeting this  challenge is a key focus of the regions  product innovation teams. B  2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT 24 24 Established in 2009 in the center of  Lons-le-Saunier, France, La Maison de  La vache qui rit  (The Laughing Cow House)  welcomed more than 41,000 visitors in 2010.  They came to see how The Laughing Cow  cheese is manufactured, to rediscover  the great commercials that have contributed  to the brands popularity and, of course,  to fi nd out why The Laughing Cow is laughing.  La Maison de La vache qui rit  has become  the second-most visited site in Frances Jura region. HUMOR AND CREATIVITY  AT LA MAISON DE  LA VACHE QUI RIT    V isitors, many of who come to La Maison  de La vache qui rit with their fami- lies, discover the brands history and its  de ning values of conviviality, humor  and innovation. The site is also open to  original and high quality, creative and  experimental works of art. Four temporary exhibits  were held in 2010, including Bidons sans frontires,  a milk can exhibit, Rewind, a show of works by inter- national artists initiated by LabBel, Les doigts pleins  dencre, dedicated to the photography of Robert  Doisneau, and The Laughing Cow From Every Angle,  a collection of mischievous patchworks featuring the  brand. Year-round attractions o ered further enter- tainment fare for children and their parents, such  as learning about processed cheese making, eating   owers, participating in an offb  eat chemistry course,  or rediscovering a wacky and hilarious Cinderella. A SOURCE FOR SHARING SMILES  FOR 90 YEARS In 2011, La Maison de La vache qui rit  will offer a rich and varied program  designed around the 90-year history  of the brand. The weekend of April 16,  The Laughing Cows actual anniversary,  will be dedicated to laughter and good  cheer. Then, in June, art, design and visual  communication students will illustrate the  eternal youth of The Laughing Cow.  These artistic and cultural experiences show  how The Laughing Cow, more than just a cheese,  is an element of daily life and heritage, a source for  sharing smiles.  25 90% of visitors said  they were satisfi ed  with their visit, and half said  La Maison de La vache qui rit  improved their image of the brand. Mission  accomplished  2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT  27  11,300  employees.  49   nationalities. 32  countries with  a Group presence. People First is the name of Bels human resources policy.  It shows that the companys mission of bringing smiles  to families is based  rst and foremost on ensuring  the well-being and commitment of its employees. 11,300 DEDICATED  EMPLOYEES  28 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT SOCIAL CHARTER,  THE CORNERSTONE OF  A MUTUAL COMMITMENT Bels performance depends on its capacity  for making the workplace a place of well-being,  growth and development for its employees.  This conviction is the driving force behind the  Groups new social charter. B el believes the most success- ful companies are also the best  places to work, with personal  well-being being the motivating  factor for employees. Bel already has a  lot going for it. Sharing smiles is its core  mission and enthusiasm is one of its core  values. But making a company the best  place to work is not something that can  be decreed. It requires a shared vision  and drive for constant improvement. For  those reasons, Bel decided to implement  a social charter. A SOCIAL CHARTER BUILT  AROUND FOUR THEMES Called People First, the charter was  draft ed by Group managers, who con- tributed their experiences and views  gained from working in di erent coun- tries and  elds. It led to the identi ca- tion and adoption of four themes around  which Bel managers and employees can  make mutual commitments: Empower everyone!: create an  environment where all employees feel  they contribute in an autonomous and  responsible way; Grow further! : develop talent through  experience, training and exposure to  new opportunities;  Share success! : share value-created  in a transparent and equitable way; Enjoy our workplace!: create working  conditions that make Bel a pleasant and  friendly place to work. A MUTUAL COMMITMENT Each theme in the Bel social charter  serves as basis for a mutual commit- ment within the Bel community. This  means that the company is not alone  in its commitment. Shared success  requires that all managers and employ- ees be accountable as well. In this way,  everybody contributes, moving forward  together.  Bels role is to o er a meaningful envi- ronment, in which its employees can  develop, and to encourage them to  take responsibility. Managers also have  duties, such as serving as role models  with respect to the Groups values and  ensuring that their teams advance.  Employees, in turn, must be respon- sive to opportunities and assume  responsibilities that lead to growth  and development. The company com- mits to recognizing these investments.  THE SOCIAL  CHARTER WILL BE  ROLLED OUT IN  2011, IN THE  32COUNTRIES  WHERE THE  GROUP OPERATES  29 Everybody at Bel has a role to play. Just  like enthusiasm and smiles, commit- ment is something to be shared. ADAPTED IMPLEMENTATION The social charter will be rolled out in  2011, in all countries where Bel is pres- ent. It will be implemented through  action plans and tracked in all countries.  While the charter is global and aimed at  the entire Group and all its employees,  the action plans will be developed and  applied by each entity in accordance  with local realities. For example, the  mandate for conducting performance  reviews at least once a year for all  employees could take di erent forms  better adapted to local conditions,  depending on the entity. In 2011, Bel will conduct  a survey of its employees  worldwide, taking stock of  the new social charters four  themes and measuring views  to assess the best path to follow.  The survey will serve as  a barometer, with subsequent  polls used to analyze the  progress made at all Group  entities in greater detail. Global  employee  survey The Group values the key role  played by employees in reaching  its strategic objectives. Bel sees  itself as a community that must  contribute to the well-being,  growth and development of its  people. Sharing culture and values  is the foundation on which the  Group is seeking to accomplish its  goals. Extending this foundation,  while respecting local diversity  and resources, is therefore a key  priority. Bel is putting the tools  into place to gain a better under- standing of the work-life of its  11,300 employees, along with their  views of the company, their level  of well-being, and their expecta- tions. In this way, the Group can  develop plans to make every em- ployee a success story and, in so  doing, ensure its own success. A company  that listens to  its employees  30 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT Zero accidents  in Evron The Evron, France  plant, which employs  850people and produces Mini  Babybel in the countrys  Mayenne department, reported  no accidents in 2010, in keeping  with the objective of the Zero  Accident Plan. A COMPANY COMMITTED  TO ALL EMPLOYEES Within the framework of its CSR policy and social charter,  Bel focuses on fi ve key commitments to employees  that respond to major societal challenges. HEALTH AND SAFETY,  AIMING FOR ZERO  ACCIDENTS Employee health and safety are prere- quisites to ensuring an enjoyable work- place. Bel has enacted measures at all  its sites to guarantee the safety and  health of all who work there. Actively  pursued for years, initiatives to reduce  accident frequency and seriousness  were accelerated in early 2010, with  the launch of a plan aimed at achieving  the ideal — zero accidents.  A dedicated department was set up  at headquarters to coordinate the  approach, with local managers con- tributing input. Full reviews were made  of all sites to identify improvements  needed in the areas of machine safety,  risk prevention, and employee aware- ness and accountability. Certi cation  is another powerful tool for zeroing in  on a set objective. In 2010, the plant in  Tangier, Morocco, became the Groups  third production unit to achieve  OHSAS 18001 certi cation, aft er the  Pacy-sur-Eure plant in France and the  production site in Cairo, Egypt. PROMOTING WELL-BEING  AT WORK Beyond employee health and safety,  the Group is seeking to promote well- being and, by extension, the growth  of its personnel. To that end, all sites  have been asked to set up relevant pro- grams. Initially, these can take the form  of initiatives to improve working condi- tions and to promote healthy lifestyles.  In Portugal, for example, the Vale de  Cambra plant hosted a psychologist for  six months to assess psychosocial risks.  Helping to determine the right work- life balance is also part of the objec- tives sought. Flexible work hours are  now offered at the UK subsidiary,  while the first telecommuting tests  were conducted in Germany and at  Bels Paris headquarters in 2010.  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS FOR ALL Because everybody has to cope with  lifes ups and downs, the Group has  decided to ensure compensation  and bene ts for employees and their  families, even in countries where such   31 obligations are not mandated by law.  In 2010, the company conducted a  full review of all sites to assess health  insurance, disability insurance, vaca- tion time, and other bene ts. It plans to  take the necessary measures to bridge  any identi ed gaps by 2012. GROWING THROUGH  TRAINING Training is one of the growth drivers  within the company, and it can be a  useful tool for social advancement.  Bels training policy is designed to  meet this dual objective as oft en as  possible. Bel created an internal skills  certi cate for its plant operators. The  training course covers all the neces- sary quali cations for such posts in  terms of hygiene, safety, manufactur- ing process knowledge, and other  skills. Because access to the training  course is restricted to literate employ- ees, Bel intends to take measures in  certain countries to assist candidates  who dont meet that requirement.  The training course is already opera- tional in France, the Netherlands and  Portugal, and may be progressively  extended to other countries. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY  FOR ALL Employees must be assured that they  will not be discriminated against as  they grow by developing and enhanc- ing their talents in the Bel community.  The Group favors local recruiting in  the many countries where it operates.  In addition, it has set goals to diversify  pro les in key management posts, seek- ing to increase the share of women to  reach parity with men and to improve  the representation of other nationali- ties in these positions.  In a related area, the Group has taken  several steps to recruit and improve  working conditions for disabled  employees in France, Portugal and  Slovakia. Everyone  is a player In getting employees  involved with CSR,  Bel is seeking to tie people  to a meaningful project,  to strengthen their motivation,  pride and sense of belonging  to a company that shows its  commitment. The Group seeks to promote the well-being of all employees  by developing the talents of each individual. Th by  32 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT AN INTERNATIONAL  COMMUNITY Bel operates entities in 32 countries, a large  number considering the Groups size.  Organization is fundamental to bringing together  the talent and enthusiasm of all its employees. tence, and cohesion — true compasses  for employee action and commitment.  These values are the original engines  of growth, allowing all employees to  participate through know-how, dedi- cation, ambition, and company spirit,  and to express themselves to move Bel  forward every day. DECISIONS CLOSER  TO MARKET Empowerment is a key aspect of the  People First program. The new orga- nizational structure set up in 2010  moved decision-making centers closer  to market and consumers, placing pre- viously centralized functions under  regional authority. Synergies can be  better optimized in countries where  the subsidiaries have greater  exibility  and faster response times for seizing  opportunities.  Roles are now clearly identified.  Central corporate functions shape  strategy, and originate and guide major  projects. Local teams are responsible  for operations and implementing the  75 expatriated  employees (up 11% vs. 2009). 335  managerial  promotions in 2010, representing  23% of Group managers. 49  nationalities   represented at the Group. T he organizational structure of  an international company like  Bel can no longer be devised in  a centralized manner. Greater  autonomy allows for the implemen- tation of global strategic imperatives,  while adapting to local conditions in  the most relevant way. SHARING VALUES The success of an international com- pany depends on a federating strength,  a kind of common language that enables  everyone to understand each other and  to work e ectively together. At Bel, this  cement is the companys  ve values —  ethics, innovation, enthusiasm, compe-  33 Groups strategy through adapted  action plans.  This sharing of roles is accompanied by  intensive collaboration on cross-sector  projects between headquarters and  the subsidiaries, where experiences  and best practices can be exchanged,  exported and improved upon. Notable  examples include safety-related pro- grams, recipe improvements and lean  manufacturing projects. NEW TALENT FARMS The new organizational structure has  led to increased demand for local  talent, including nutritionists, sup- ply chain specialists and customer- oriented marketers, among others.  Today, the mission of the subsidiaries  is to identify their key skills needs and  to meet the Groups demand for devel- oping an international talent pool. The  subsidiaries are responsible for recruit- ing people with international growth  potential, developing into a kind of  talent exporter to other Group sub- sidiaries in the longer term. Bel o ers  career growth opportunities to talented  people from all walks of life ready to  invest themselves in the companys  success. Particularly active in driving  the Talent factory momentum are  the subsidiaries in Egypt, Morocco,  the U.S. and the Netherlands. A COMMUNITY UNITED  AROUND THE GROUPE BEL  SAILBOAT While racing the high seas lies at the  heart of Bels commitment in sailing,  the Group uses its sailboat to forge  ties among its teams, sharing this great  adventure with its 11,300 employees.  The yacht and its skipper have vis- ited 12 subsidiaries and 14 plants so  far. More than 700 apprentice sailors  have had the opportunity to navigate  the seas with Kito de Pavant, skipper of  the Groupe Bel. In addition, over 7,000  employees, representing 23 nationali- ties, have a  xed their thumbprints to  the ships mast as a symbol of unity  around the world, becoming ambas- sadors of the Bel spirit.  The Sharing Smiles Regatta attracted over  200 employees, representing 21 nationalities.  The enthusiasm and smiles shared at the event  underscored employee involvement in this  unifying program.  2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT  35 Present in many countries, Bel is particularly concerned  about the environmental issues and societal challenges facing  the communities where it operates. Bel invests locally to ensure  that its activity is respectful and a source of momentum  for local growth. 1 SMILE  FOR THE PLANET  10.4% Reduction in water  consumption   at Bel plants per metric ton of cheese  produced from 2008 to 2010. 7.3% Reduction in greenhouse  gas emissions at Bel plants per metric ton of cheese  produced from 2008 to 2010. 33 projects  supported  by the Bel foundation.  2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT 36 REDUCING THE  ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Respecting the environment, a core principle of Bels CSR  policy, is part of a comprehensive approach that involves  every employee. T he Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)  method used by Bel for its  ve  core brands brought to light four  key areas that have a signi cant  impact on the environment:  raw materials production,  product manufacturing,  product packaging,  product storage and transport. Areas of progress have been designated  for each of these steps. ADAPTED PROCESSES LCA showed that the biggest environ- mental impact in product life cycle  stemmed from upstream dairy farming,  i.e. milk and dairy raw materials produc- tion. Which is why it is so important  for Bel to constantly review its own  product manufacturing, composition  and presentation processes, to avoid  all wastefulness. ECODESIGNED PACKAGING A particularity of Bel cheeses, the indi- vidual portions format, helps reduce  waste on the consumption side and  gives the products their recognized  features in terms of food safety, prac- ticality and appeal. Conversely, this  approach requires that packaging be  designed and continuously renewed  to diminish its environmental footprint  at no expense to product safety or qual- ity. Without relinquishing the quali- ties consumers have come to expect,  projects are under way to reduce the  amount of packaging used at source  and to select more environmentally  friendly materials and components,  from upstream production to end  of life.  Bel is committed to encouraging the recycling of its packaging.  37 Bels long-term performance goal  is to achieve sustainable growth,  which explains why the company  is naturally concerned about the  environmental challenges facing  our planet. To that end, the Group  has taken steps to continuously  improve its environmental  performance. AllBel employees  are asked tolend a hand in this  e ort, as part of their professional  activities and throughout their  careers at the company. Activities with  a reduced  environmental  impact h Improvement targets for each type of  packaging will be established with time  frames, similar to the way nutritional  targets have been set for the products  themselves in the nutrition passports.  Another notable initiative concerns the  aluminum used to wrap cheese portions.  Bel, along with Nespresso, is a member  of CELAA (Light Aluminum and Steel  Packaging Recycling Club), an orga- nization dedicated to improving the  collection and recycling of discarded  light packaging in France.  ENVIRONMENTAL  MANAGEMENT AT  PRODUCTION SITES Bel has long operated an e  cient pro- gram for reducing natural resource con- sumption and all types of pollution at  its plants. Under multi-year plans, the  Group sets ambitious, quantitative tar- gets for cutting energy use, water con- sumption, greenhouse gas emissions,  and waste production. The approach is  notably based on two distinct programs,  Wasabel (WAter SAvings Bel) and  Esabel (Energy SAvings Bel), to lower  water and energy consumption. Water  in particular is a rare and precious  resource in certain countries where Bel  Aluminum wraps  for portions are  now recycled Bel uses aluminum  in its packaging because of  the metals unique conservation  properties and light weight.  Aluminum is, in theory, almost  infi nitely recyclable, but it is not  presently reclaimed at household  waste sorting centers due to a  lack of appropriate equipment.  To help tackle this problem,  Bel joined CELAA, an organization  that conducts pilot testing  to validate the economic viability  of recycling household aluminum  and steel micro-waste across  France. The aluminum recycling  process does not alter the metals  qualities and saves 95% of the  energy required for primary  aluminum manufacturing —  two major advantages. All employees are asked to participate in initiatives to continuously  improve the Groups environmental performance. PACKAGING IS DESIGNED  AND CONTINUOUSLY RENEWED  TO REDUCE ITS ENVIRONMENTAL  FOOTPRINT Please remember to  recycle your cheeses  aluminum packaging  by putting it in the  green recycle bin.  2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT 38 operates, and it could become rare and  precious in nearly all Group markets  over the next 15 years. The Syrian plant  near Damascus is the pilot site for the  Wasabel program, dually aimed here  at reducing consumption and solving  water supply and quality problems by  drilling a new well. Signi cant results  have already been achieved. The  amount of water used per kilogram of   nished product was halved in four  years. A comparable result is antici- pated in two more years. The solutions  examined and put into place may be  adopted at other Bel sites in the region.  Lastly, the plant contributes to the local  community by helping to irrigate farm- land in the surrounding area. MORE ENVIRONMENTALLY  FRIENDLY TRANSPORT In some cases, product storage and trans- port all the way to the consumer account  for a signi cant share of greenhouse gas  emissions in the product life cycle. Bel is  studying alternatives to road transport  with its logistics partners. In March 2011,  the Group began testing a piggybacking  solution, the practice of loading trailers  onto trains, to move products from its  manufacturing sites in western France to  its distribution platform in the southern  part of the country. Over 60% of Bels  road transport on the west-south axis  will be carried by rail, cutting CO2 emis- sions by more than a third. Measurement  unit 2008  2009  2010 Change from  2008 to 2010 Water consumption m3/t* 12,530  11,205  11,226 -10.4% Fossil fuel usage TOE/t** 0.128  0.119  0.118  -7.8% CO2 emissions kg/t*** 342  318  317 -7.3% Share of sorted waste % 73  68  73  0% Environmental performance indicators The plant in Damascus, Syria, is the pilot site  for the Wasabel water conservation program. * Cubic meters of water per metric ton of cheese produced. ** Metric ton oil equivalent per metric ton of cheese produced. *** Kilograms per metric ton of cheese produced. ISO 14001  Certifi cation The ISO 14001  standard certifi es that  an eff ective environmental  management system has been  put into place. Eight Group  plants are already ISO  14001-certifi ed, with 10 more  expected to receive certifi cation  by 2012. The goal is to have  all Bel production units certifi ed  by 2013. IN DAMASCUS, THE  AMOUNT OF WATER  USED PER KILOGRAM OF FINISHED PRODUCT  WAS HALVED IN JUST  FOUR YEARS  39 IN THE HEART  OF COMMUNITIES Bels CSR policy is intended to go beyond  the companys doorstep. Bel is seeking to share  it with partners and the communities where  the Group operates. B el maintains a spirit of dialogue  and partnership with all stake- holders concerned by its activi- ties, to make progress together  on the path to sustainable development. A CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE  WITH THE DAIRY CHANNEL Bel collects and transforms more than  1.6 billion liters of milk each year. The  Group thus has a natural interest in help- ing the sustainable development of the  dairy channel. Maintaining an open dia- logue with producers is vital to promot- ing environmentally friendly dairy farm- ing practices. In France, Bel adopted the  Best Farming Practices Charter, signed  by all 1,300 dairy farmers who supply  the Group, and it o ers assistance and  advice for improving milk quality via a  team of eight technical advisers. Bel is  seeking to deepen the partnership it has  forged with farmers in all milk-collection  rights areas and help them develop solu- tions that combine improved operating  pro tability with greater conservation  of natural resources. SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING  POLICY Because the Groups many business rela- tionships around the world constitute  a terri c opportunity for extending the  CSR program, Bel developed a respon- sible purchasing policy to encourage  supplier participation in its sustain- able growth initiative.  The overall plan  is based on a Sustainable Purchasing  Charter prepared by Bel and made  Some 1,300 dairy producers signed the Best  Farming Practices Charter, underscoring  their commitment alongside Bel. available to all new partners during bid  invitations and at the start of business  relations. It also encompasses various  programs, such as purchasing person- nel training, supplier evaluations and  corrective actions plans, implemented  jointly when needed. In 2010, the cam- paign to assess supplier CSR policies  was expanded to include a new sample  of 100 strategic suppliers, with the goal  being to evaluate 350 strategic suppliers by 2012. The Sustainable Purchasing Charter  puts suppliers on the same page as  Bel in the area of CSR.  2010 Business and CsR RepoRt 40 A collAborAtive ApproAch Bel strives to build constructive relation- ships with such stakeholders as experts,  governments, professional organizations,  and NGOs, to spread its initiatives and  broaden thinking about them. At the  end of 2010, Bel established an impor- tant partnership with GAIN, the Global  Alliance for Improved Nutrition. bel FoundAtion working  For children And their  well-being The Bel foundation was established  by Bel and its reference shareholder,  Unibel, in 2008, to perpetuate the  Groups efforts on behalf of children  and their families.  The Foundations  philosophy is to suport a patchwork of  small initiatives in the areas of balanced  nutrition advocacy and environmental  conservation.  In 2010, a new threshold was crossed  in the Foundations development with  the decision to make grants available to  Group employees, to support their initia- tives to help children. Ten projects were  approved with funding of up to 5,000  allocated to each one. A few examples  of the projects include an environmental  awareness program in Slovakia, the devel- opment of a farm school in Madagascar  and a program to improve the nutri- tion of mentally disabled children   in Algeria. By the end of 2010, the Bel  foundation had funded 33 projects in 18  countries. A description of each project  can be found at the Foundations website   www.fondation-bel.org. good corporAte citizenship  Around the world Bel entities are also very active in their  local communities. In 2010, the Shotska  plant in Ukraine strengthened its com- mitment to community with the launch  of Sharing Smiles, Sharing the Future.  This program brought the plants  employees, their children and the   children of Shotska together around   two key local issues — education and  changing eating habits. Bel International teams responded  with urgency in the aftermath of the  earthquake that devastated Haiti,  sending 560,000 portions of The  Laughing Cow to the country in the  three weeks following the natural disas- ter. The teams also decided to partici- pate in a reconstruction aid program  headed by two non-profits, Initiative  Dveloppement and Solidarits  International. lAbbel And the joy oF Art The second focus of the Groups phi- lanthropy policy is contemporary art.  This pursuit has long been in perfect  Fighting  malnutrition Bel partnered with  GAIN (Global Alliance for  Improved Nutrition), an NGO  that fights malnutrition worldwide  and possesses recognized  expertise in assessing the  nutritional needs of the worlds  most disadvantaged  populations. The partnership will  enable Bel to improve its recipes  to contribute in the fight against  the malnutrition plaguing these  populations. Several projects  have been started, including  one aimed at children in  Vietnam. It is expected to be   up and running in 2011. Bel Ukraine established a nutritional education program  for Shotska schools. Employees of Bel China support the Couleurs de Chine association,  to promote childrens education.  41 Located close to its markets, the Bel  Group is naturally interested in the  societal challenges facing dairy   producers, suppliers, retailers, and  other partners with whom it works.  It also works to forge partnerships  with economic players, govern- ments and local associations in   order to move forward together   in contributing to sustainable eco- nomic, social and environmental  development. A company actively  committed to   local communities sync with Bels family business culture,  since artist Benjamin Rabier was com- missioned to produce the very first illus- tration of The Laughing Cow. Bels art laboratory was established  in 2010, to share the joys of art and  to contribute to the companys mis- sion of bringing smiles to families. Led  by Laurent Fivet and Silvia Guerra,  LabBel supports the creation and pre- sentation of contemporary art. The  Rewind exhibit, held at La Maison de  La vache qui rit (The Laughing Cow  House), featured the works of 12 con- temporary artists themed around the  return to childhood. In 2011, LabBel plans to focus on  young artists. The laboratory will nota- bly participate in the international  contemporary art fair in Barcelona in  May, and at La Maison de La vache  qui rit from June to September to  celebrate the first 90 years of the  Groups emblematic brand, The  Laughing Cow. The collaborative  work with La Maison de La vache qui  rit will continue in the fall with the  Orange Rouge association, which has  invited internationally recognized or  emerging artists to create works with  youths who have learning difficulties  or handicaps. Some of the resulting  works will be exhibited at La Maison  de La vache qui rit. Bel foundation including 10 grants approved for  projects initiated by Group  employees.  18 countries   are home to projects funded by  the Bel foundation. The Rewind exhibit featured works from 12 artists as part of an effort to make  contemporary art accessible to more people. In Haiti, Bel International is participating a project led by NGO  Initiative Dveloppement to get children back in school. 33 projects   supported by the Bel foundation,  42 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT  43 44  Groups CSR commitments and outlook 54  Summary management report 56  Consolidated income statement 57  Consolidated balance sheet 58  Consolidated cash  ow statement DASHBOARDS  44 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT GROUPS CSR COMMITMENTS   ACCESSIBLE PRODUCTS THAT ARE NUTRITIONALLY BENEFICIAL  Develop nutritionally benefi cial products adapted to everyones needs and accessible to the greatest  number of people. The attention that Bel pays to quality, nutrition and the accessibility of its products is structured around four key areas  that take into account the varying social and cultural contents within which the Group operates and the local eating habits. Areas of progress  Main achievements at end 2010 1.  Implementing management  systems guaranteeing the  quality of our products  As an international buyer in the food sector, Bel must ensure unassailable food quality and safety  for the millions of portions it produces and distributes each day.  In 2010, the number of manufacturing sites with certi ed management systems for quality,  food safety, environmental protection, and personnel safety continued to grow, with ISO 22000  certi cation of the Syrian site and ISO 14001 certi cation of the site in Portugal.  At end 2010, over 80% of sites had at least one certi cation. 2.Working towards  improving the nutritional  quality of our products  Working with international nutrition experts, the Group has set a course of action for improving  the nutritional quality of its products, notably nutrients identi ed as having a signi cant impact  on public health, i.e., fat and salt, on the one hand, and calcium, on the other hand, as well as  vitamins A, D, B12, among others, and minerals, such as zinc and iodine, for certain countries and  some target populations.  In 2010, all operational regions established plans to renew core brand formulas to reach  the nutrient targets set by the Group.  R&D programs were launched to support the renewal plans.  The  rst renewed formulas were introduced, including:   a calcium-enriched formula for The Laughing Cow in Western Europe;   the calcium and vitamin D-enriched The Laughing Cow Formule Plus, a range adapted  for seniors in care facilities launched by Bel Foodservice. 3.Reinforcing our products  natural qualities  Food additives are oft en needed to make consumer products. Yet they oft en have a negative image,  particularly in the eyes of Western consumers.  A working group dedicated to this issue was set up in 2010, to survey the additives present in  the Groups core brands, and it prepared a critical review of how additives are viewed by consumers.  Following the review, programs were set up to renew the formulas for Kiri and The Laughing Cow,  notably to reduce and even eliminate emulsifying salts. 4.Developing a product  selection accessible to the  greatest possible number  of people  In emerging countries, our recipes and portion format presentations enable the products to be  conserved without refrigeration, making them compatible with local realities and thus accessible  to many consumers. However, purchasing power is still weak for many people in these countries,  limiting access to a varied and balanced diet. In response, Bel launched a highly innovative program  to develop a more a ordable product range.  The  rst project involved Bel employees across all sectors in Vietnam.  Bel partnered with GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition) in 2010, to ensure that the formula  for the range would help  ght de ciencies plaguing Vietnamese children.  In Brazil and Senegal, surveys were launched to measure the expectations of low-income consumers.  45  AND OUTLOOK Commitments and outlook for 2011  Starting in 2011, the Group will retain a single certi cation entity for all sites and certi cations, to streamline certi cation e orts.  The CSR department will play a role in this e ort to ensure that the process contributes to achieving priority CSR goals.  By 2015, all sites will have food safety management systems recognized by the GSFI (Global Food Safety Initiative), with 56% certi ed  in 2011.  Any new site, whether built or acquired, will have to be ISO 22000-certi ed no later than two years aft er its integration into the Group.  In 2011, the  rst consumer testing studies will be conducted to validate the organoleptic performance of the formulas being revamped,  including:   low fat Kiri in Europe and the Near and Middle East;   low sodium The Laughing Cow Light in Europe.  New revamped formulas will be launched in 2011, including:   zinc and vitamin B12-enriched The Laughing Cow in the Middle East;   vitamin A, D3 and E-enriched The Laughing Cow in Ukraine.  The U.S. will continue its program to lower salt content in The Laughing Cow Light and Regular.  In 2011, Bel Foodservice will launch a formula for The Laughing Cow, speci cally tailored to school cafeterias (fat, calcium and vitamin D).  Lastly, in 2011, Bel France will make its commitments o  cial by registering a voluntary charter to enhance the nutritional content of Kiri  and The Laughing Cow.  R&D programs will be strengthened to lower or eliminate emulsifying salts.  In 2011, the  rst consumer tests of the organoleptic qualities of Kiri and The Laughing Cow formulas with fewer additives  (reduced E numbers) will be conducted in various countries.  At the same time, an action plan will be launched to reduce the use of food coloring in Leerdammer cheese rind.  Lastly, a Cheddar Mini Babybel formula without preservatives will be launched in mid-2011.  In 2011, the product range speci cally tailored to the nutritional needs of Vietnamese consumers will be launched.  The GAIN partnership will be expanded to several Group regions, to take advantage of the NGOs expertise and to develop ranges  more in tune with the needs of the populations concerned.  46 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT RESPONSIBLE, ACTIVELY INVOLVED BRANDS   Establish a role for our brands as vehicles for social progress through responsible marketing and  communications, and active involvement in challenges facing society. Everyday, the Groups brands address millions of people, including children and adults through multiple media avenues.  These messages maintain a strong bond of proximity and trust. Such communication requires great responsibility on the part  of the Group, on behalf of all who hear its message. Areas of progress  Main achievements at end 2010 1.  Getting our brands  involved in societal and  environmental actions  The Group initiated research with a communication agency to establish the role of The Laughing Cow  brand in society, as part of a broader e ort to match the positions of the companys brands with societal  commitments. 2.Planning responsible  advertising campaigns  Bels Responsible Communications Charter was issued to all marketing sta  and included in contracts  with external service providers and partners.  Since 2010, a procedure has been in place to ensure that advertising developed for the core brands  is submitted to the CSR department for approval.  In France, where point-of-sale (POS) advertising is widely used, a dedicated CSR committee was set up  to reduce the mediums environmental impact. In addition, France was very active during the year  in the UDA (French Advertisers Association) working group on responsible communication. 3.Providing consumers with  clear and relevant  information  Nutritional information   Increasingly aware of the link between food and health, consumers want to know more about  the ingredients in the products they consume, and their expectations for nutritional information  are growing.   The nutritional information on our packaging and in our communication media has always adhered  to strict and clear rules established by the Group and in compliance with local regulations.   In 2010, the Group looked into possibilities o ered by new technologies. The French team, along with  The ANIA French food industry association, participated in Proxi, a project by the GS1 group to use  smartphone applications to provide consumers with more nutritional information than can be found  on our packaging owing to space limitations.  Environmental information   In France, Bel has actively participated in focus groups on environmental labeling since 2009.  These focus groups are led by Ademe, a French agency for the environment and energy management,  and Afnor, the French standards agency.    Building on the results of its life cycle assessments, the Group actively participated in de ning  product-coproduct allocation methods within the profession.  47 Commitments and outlook for 2011  The respective societal roles of The Laughing Cow, Kiri and Mini Babybel brands will be progressively shared with operational  marketing teams.  A question about consumer views of the societal role of our brands will be included in a tracking survey to be conducted in all major  Group markets. The  rst wave — point zero — will take place in 2011.  As in the past, local actions will be continued. For example, Mini Babybels support for Comic Reliefs Red Nose Day in the UK  will be renewed in 2011.  In addition to the Responsible Communications Charter, CSR concerns all marketing mix elements, including nutrition, ecodesign  packaging, responsible promotional campaigns, and POS ads. It will be progressively integrated into the Belmark training program  for the Groups entire marketing sta .  Ecodesign rules for POS ads will be presented to all French team marketers.  Nutritional information   The nutritional labeling on our products will be progressively changed:   the labeling of calories, fat, carbohydrates, and proteins for 100 grams will be extended to all products by 2015;   nutrients in excess of 100 grams will be listed per portion for Kiri, The Laughing Cow, Babybel, Boursin, and Leerdammer,  as part of the packaging renewals, provided there is enough space on the labels;   the labeling of salt,  ber, sugars, and saturated fat nutrients will be progressively rolled out for Kiri and The Laughing Cow in France.   The collaborative smartphone work with ANIA and GS1 will be pursued.  Environmental information   The Group will continue its collaborative work within the profession to ensure that forthcoming environmental information aimed  at consumers is relevant and accurate.  48 2010 Business and CsR RepoRt Activities thAt reduce our environmentAl footprint  Reduce the environmental footprint of all our activities, regardless of whether these activities are directly  linked to the manufacture of our products or not. Life cycle assessments of our five core brands have enabled the Group to frame its environmental policy in terms of which  footprints should be monitored and what areas of action should be given priority attention. Areas of progress  main achievements at end 2010 1.  Developing ecodesigned  packaging  The Total packaging weight per 100g of packaged cheese indicator was listed on all core brand  products manufactured in France, including The Laughing Cow, Kiri, Boursin, and Mini Babybel.  Throughout 2010, the Groups Packaging CSR Committee continued to guide and instruct several  environmentally challenging source reduction projects and initiated new ones. Most will require  significant changes to production equipment, with the first modifications coming in 2012.  To reduce the environmental footprint of the 900 metric tons of aluminum annually discarded   in the French market, Bel joined the CELAA (Light Aluminum and Steel Packaging Club), to create   a channel for recycling household aluminum micro-waste.  In France, Bel participates regularly in various working groups led by the CNE, the national packaging  council, one of whose missions is to encourage the establishment of a responsible ecodesign policy   for consumer products. 2.Reducing the environmental  footprint of our products  Ongoing efforts to lower environmental impact in four main areas generated satisfactory results.   From 2008 to 2010, water consumption was cut 10% in m3/t, fossil fuel usage was down 7.8% in TOE/t,  greenhouse gases were reduced 7.3% in CO2 kg/t, and landfill waste was cut 8.9% in kg/t.  Two major projects, Wasabel (Water Savings Bel) and Esabel (Energy Savings Bel), were implemented.   In 2010, the plant in Syria was selected for the Wasabel pilot project.  Reducing our environmental footprint was also aimed at raw material selection. In 2010, the Group  committed to buying only RSPO-certified palm oil (excl. Ukraine). 3.Reducing the environmental  footprint of our product  transport and storage  A Supply Chain CSR Committee was formed to specify areas of progress. The committee, which meets  quarterly, includes representatives from all Group regions.  Two priority areas were identified, including reducing the environmental impact of each metric ton  transported and reducing the impact from storage at our sites.  Bel France continued its work with Club Demeter Environnement et Logistique, to promote and  implement concrete and measurable actions in respect of the three sustainable development challenges. 4.Reducing the environmental  footprint of our employees  After implementing selective sorting and adopting recycled paper at the Paris headquarters, a review  was carried out of other eco-friendly actions that could be encouraged at the Groups service entities.  49 commitments and outlook for 2011  An expert will be recruited to strengthen the implementation and deployment of the ecodesign packaging strategy.   Work on building a packaging database will continue, with an extended geographical spread, more product assessments, and the addition   of performance tracking indicators other than weight indicators.  In the longer term, targets will be set for these indicators according to presentation type, e.g., aluminum wrapped portions, tubs,   and combination boxes.  An ecodesign guide for packaging developers, marketing teams and packaging buyers will be prepared and distributed in 2011.  The source reduction projects initiated in 2010 will be continued, with some advancing to the production pilot stage to measure feasibility.  New projects will be initiated by the CSR Packaging Committee.  As part of the CELAA work, Bel will finance a test in Frances Lot department throughout 2011, to encourage citizens to sort aluminum  micro-waste for recycling purposes.  The goal is to deploy Wasabel and Esabel at all sites by 2013:   In 2011, Wasabel will be rolled out at eight sites and Esabel at nine.   By 2013, 20 sites will be ISO 14001 certified, vs. 8 sites now.  In addition, ad-hoc projects will continue to be implemented to help achieve overall aims, including a biomass boiler project in Clry,  France, a wind power energy supply project in Morocco, and a local partnership project to produce and recycle biogas in Sabl, France.  Lastly, R&D work to replace palm oil in our formulas with more environmentally friendly vegetable oils will be beefed up.  The supply chain CSR policy will initially focus on the environmental impact of primary transport, i.e., transport leaving from our plants.  In 2011, a piggyback trailer-train route from our production sites in western France to the Givors depot in the Lyon region will be tested   in partnership with STEF-TFE.  In 2011, all Group employees will receive instructions on good eco-friendly behavior through a dedicated manual.  In France, a carbon footprint review of headquarters and plants will be issued in 2011 or 2012, with the release date depending   on the publication of article 75 of the Grenelle II law, specifying the scope and calculation method.  50 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT A COMPANY ACTIVELY COMMITTED TO THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH IT OPERATES Work with communities to further sustainable economic, social and environmental development. Located close to its markets, the Bel Group has a natural vested interest in the societal challenges facing the  communities where it operates. The Group takes care to forge partnerships with local economic players, governments and  associations, to make progress with them in the areas of sustainable economic, social and environmental development. Areas of progress  Main achievements at end 2010 1.  Promoting the development  of a sustainable dairy  production chain  CSR training and awareness e orts continued in 2010 for dairy production advisers who work with  our producers. 2.Sharing our CSR  commitments with  suppliers and clearly  stating our expectations  A CSR performance and practices review of a sample of our strategic suppliers was launched in 2009,  with the assistance of Eco Vadis. In 2010, 100 new suppliers were assessed, bringing to 150 the number  of suppliers already evaluated.  The Sustainable Purchasing Charter was distributed internally to all Group managers as well as to our  suppliers during consultations, bids or at the beginning of trade relations. A CSR clause was added into  contracts and bid invitations.  In the  rst half of 2010, all Group purchasing teams attended a CSR speci c class, integrated into  the purchasing training course.  Lastly, at end 2010, Bel signed the Charter of the Credit Mediation O  ce and the CDAF, the French  purchasing association, governing relations between large companies and SMEs in France. 3.Working together  with retailers to meet  expectations in the  area of consumer CSR 4.Building trusted  relationships with civil  society stakeholders  In the area of nutrition, the Group opened itself to a host of external stakeholders and formed  a permanent international and  multidisciplinary scienti c committee. Bel reached out to GAIN  (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition) and the ADA (American Dietetics Association), and is  participating in the work of the Institut Fromages et Sant (cheese and health institute) in France.  In packaging, Bel continued to seek the expertise of a variety of partners, including Eco-Emballage,  theCNC national packaging council and, more recently, CELAA (Light Aluminum and Steel Packaging  Recycling Club), an association of stakeholders in the light aluminum and steel packaging channel  interested in promoting aluminum reprocessing and recycling.  Bel is participating in several research projects. In 2010, the company contributed to forward thinking  about sustainable food supplies, as part of the Dualine project initiated by INRA (French National  Institute for Agricultural Research) and CIRAD (Agricultural Research Center for Development).  5.Providing shareholders  with new indicators  to help decision-making  in the area of sustainable  development  A CSR department was set up in 2010 to de ne, promote and implement CSR policy and its areas  of progress within the Group.  The CSR function is now represented on the Group Management Committee. 6.Developing a philanthropic  policy on behalf  ofchildren  Bel foundation was established in 2008, to perpetuate the Groups actions on behalf  of children and their families.   In 2010, for the  rst time, Foundation grants were made available to Group employees to support  their initiatives for helping children.   By the end of 2010, the Bel Foundation had funded 33 projects in 18 countries, including 10 grants  for employee initiatives.  Concurrently, some entities pursued local actions, including Bel International in Haiti, Bel Czech  Republic in pediatric hospital services, Bel UK with the Walking Bus program, and Bel Ukraine  with a school program to develop childrens knowledge about nutrition.  51 Commitments and outlook for 2011  Starting with the main areas of environmental impact reduction identi ed in our dairy workshops, the Groups dairy purchasing department  will review action plans with an outside expert before proposing them to dairy producers in France and the Netherlands.  The third and  nal phase of supplier evaluations will be carried out in 2011, with a new sample of 100 suppliers.  Once completed, we will have met our goal of assessing 350 strategic suppliers in three years.   Improvement plans will be pursued among the supplies sampled in 2009 and 2010.  In 2011, the sustainable purchasing training program will be extended to decentralized buyers.  A review of our main retailers CSR priorities will be conducted to look into possible programs for shared action.  In the years ahead, Bel is seeking to build on trusted relationships and share its view of CSR risks with expert NGOs like GAIN  and Lets Move.  Bel is seeking to strengthen its participation in research work. Starting in 2011, Bel will participate in the work of the IEED  (Institute for Excellence in Carbon-free Energy) and the Climate, Air, Energy project at the Paris Saclay campus.  Bel will continue to participate in all inter-professional committees related to CSR issues, including ANIA (French National Food Industry  Association), IFN (French Nutrition Institute), ILEC (Consumer Industries Liaison and Studies Institute), ATLA (French Dairy Processors  Association), EDA (European Dairy Association), and CNIEL (French National Inter-professional Center for the Dairy Economy).  In addition to the guidance indicators set up by CSR leaders in all company functions, aggregate key performance indicators  will be progressively de ned and proposed to decision-makers to guide and track actions undertaken.  A governance system will be set up to specify arbitration methods for CSR-related decisions within the Group.   In 2011, Bel foundation will continue its e orts, notably for projects initiated by employees.  52 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT A COMPANY THAT LISTENS TO ITS EMPLOYEES  Ensure that our employees enjoy working conditions in which they can develop and fulfi ll  their personal potential. The Bel Group recognizes the key role played by employees in achieving its strategic objectives and believes the company  is a community that must contribute to the well-being, growth and development of its personnel. Areas of progress  Main achievements at end 2010 1.  Promoting diversity  and equal opportunity  Pilot programs to promote the hiring of handicapped persons were launched at six sites. 2.Promoting well-being  at work  Building on their experience and views acquired by working in di erent countries and  elds, a group  of Bel managers draft ed a social charter based on four themes, around which Bel, its managers and  all its employees will make commitments.  Numerous local initiatives were undertaken at various sites, for example:   A Living well at work and psychosocial risks survey was conducted in France. In addition,  an agreement was signed on behalf of senior employees, notably those having worked alternating  eight-hour shift s in a two-shift  system for at least 15 years.   In Portugal, the Vale de Cambra plant conducted a six-month test with a psychologist to evaluate  pyschosocial risks.   The UK subsidiary adopted  exible work schedules to enhance family life, and issued Childcare  Vouchers that can be used to o set daycare expenses. In addition, the subsidiary established  an Employee Assistance Program to help employees with everyday problems, whether personal  or professional (e.g., stress and over indebtedness). 3.Ensuring employee  bene ts and compensation  for all Group employees  The Group is seeking to provide each of the Groups employees and their families with a social  safety net adapted to local labor conditions in all Bel locations. A survey of bene ts and compensation  o ered to all employees in the 32 countries where the Group operates was carried out in 2010, providing  a basis of comparison and basis for de ning action plans.  General management during the year validated a minimal base package for bene ts and compensation,  including death bene ts, vacation pay, healthcare coverage, salary guarantees for illness or work  accidents, and retirement bene ts. 4.Guaranteeing the health  and safety of all who work  at Bel sites  The zero accidents project was launched following a health and safety review conducted in all regions.  A shared health & safety policy was validated for all subsidiaries. The  rst phase of awareness-raising  was carried out, notably via Dailybel, the Groups in-house newsletter, which is translated into 12 languages.  Projects to strengthen risk prevention were developed as several sites, including Poland, Slovakia,  Egypt, Syria, Morocco, France, and other countries.  Lastly, building and equipment safety was beefed up in Poland and at sites in the Middle East,  North Africa, France and the Netherlands. 5.Mobilizing employees  to meet sustainable  development challenges  The CSR e ort was formally organized around  ve pillars and more than 20 areas of progress.  Responsibility for most progress areas will be assigned to professional experts from corporate HR,  marketing, innovation, communication, and industrial departments, who were entrusted with  a CSR mission.  In 2010, the main subsidiaries, which together account for 75% of the Groups sales, prepared their  own CSR roadmaps, underscoring their commitment to the Groups e orts in this area.  53 Commitments and outlook for 2011  In France, an action plan to promote the hiring of handicapped persons will be implemented over a two-to-three year period.  The Group will focus on all local initiatives on behalf of the handicapped.  For executive management, the Groups objective is to move towards French-non-French and male-female parity.  As of 2011, the social charter will be progressively rolled out for all employees.  In France, the  rst action resulting from the Living well at work survey will be implemented in early 2011, with the possibility for managers  at headquarters to telecommute from their homes, under certain circumstances. A report is planned for the end of the year with a view  to extending this possibility.  The Group will seek to de ne work rules aimed at improving the work-life balance of all employees. This subject in particular will be  factored into the rollout of new o  ce tools (i.e., the New Age program) in 2011.  The  rst alignment e orts will get under way in 2011. Alignment with the minimum bene ts base package will be implemented  in all 32 countries by end 2012.  The Groups health & safety policy will be deployed with the rollout of key performance indicators at all our sites.  All employees  will be made aware of and asked to adhere to 10 fundamental best practices.  Health & safety behavior training will be launched in France,  rst for managers and then for all employees.  Lastly, eight new sites are on track to receive OHSAS certi cation in 2011.  In 2011, new tools will be put into place to allow all employees to participate in the CSR e ort, notably the smilesfortheplanet.com website  in English and French, which will relay the Groups commitments and highlight best practices (online as of 2011).  The site has a dedicated space for employees to access information. Experts will make regular contributions to the site, sharing  their knowledge and opinions on a range of subjects relating to sustainable development.   A CSR reference guide will be prepared in 2011, to enable entities to self-assess their progress in the area of CSR. In addition to the  reference guide, a guide will be issued to help operational entities prepare uniform roadmaps.  Local CSR correspondents will be progressively named, starting in 2011 at pilot entities in France, the UK, Germany,  and the Americas region.  These countries will prepare roadmaps in 2011, with local roadmaps required for all entities no later than end 2012.  54 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT SUMMARY  MANAGEMENT REPORT Sales and marketing strategies tailored to the Groups  various markets drove sales and volumes higher in 2010. O rganic sales, i.e., sales  excluding foreign exchange   uctuations and changes in  the scope of consolidation,  grew 7.3%, fuelled by double-digit  growth in markets outside Europe.  Operating income advanced signi - cantly to 195 million, as a result of  improved income from ordinary activi- ties in markets outside Europe and  lower non-recurring costs, which fell  from 47 million in 2009 to 16 mil- lion in 2010.  As forecast in the 2010 half-year report,  operating margin was down sharply in  the second-half of the year, primarily  as a result of a steep and sudden hike  in raw material prices and the recogni- tion of additional impairment losses  on certain assets in Eastern Europe.  Net  nancing costs fell 18% versus the  previous year, mainly as a result of  Group e orts to decrease debt, while  income tax expense was up sharply to  57 million. Aft er taking into account  net  nancing costs and income tax  expense for the year, consolidated  net pro t – Group share totaled 116  million, up from 85 million in 2009.  Bels balance sheet was strengthened  during the year. At December 31, 2010,  the Groups total equity stood at 1,009  million, compared with 902 million  a year earlier, while net  nancial debt  came to 240 million, down 117 mil- lion versus the prior year. This strong  performance was achieved thanks to  tight managment of working capital  requirement and investment, despite a  backdrop of rising raw material prices  and higher income tax expense. DIVIDEND On March 23, 2011, the Board of  Directors voted to propose a dividend  of 6.0 per share, payable as of May  18, 2011. The dividend is subject to  the approval of the Annual General  Meeting scheduled for May 12, 2011. A REMARKABLE  ADVANCE IN  OPERATING  INCOME  55 OUTLOOK FOR 2011 Aft er a remarkable year of growth and  pro tability in 2010, the Group enters  a period in 2011 marked by severe  turbulence. The rise in raw material  prices observed in the second half of  2010 continues apace, while political  and social unrest has cropped up in a  number of countries where the Group  operates.  These market factors could weigh on  the years activity and profitability,  (in millions of euros) 2010 2009 % change Sales 2,418  2,221 +8.9 Operating income 195  149  +30.7 Consolidated net profi t - Group share 116  85 +37.0 Key  gures 2,418  million in sales 195 million  in operating income 116 million in consolidated  net profi t – Group share 2010 Results despite operating measures already  undertaken. Bel, however, confirms  its 2011 goals, with the company seeking  to advance its positions in the branded  cheese market and attract new consum- ers in ever-greater numbers.  To those ends, it will continue to  build on its strong  nancial position,  the dedication of its employees, the  value of its international brands, and  its ambitious and imaginative policy  of innovation. PERFORMANCE BUOYED BY  ROBUST VITALITY OF CORE  BRANDS AND A SHARP  DECLINE IN DEBT FOR THE  SECOND YEAR IN A ROW   56 2010 Business and CsR RepoRt (In thousands of euros) December 2010  December 2009  Sales  2,417,512 2,220,655 Cost of goods and services sold  (1,662,870) (1,517,065) Gross margin  754,642 703,590 sales and marketing expense  (366,125) (340,124) Research and development expense  (15,614) (17,610) administrative and general overhead expense  (162,401) (150,838) other operating income and expense 438 912 Income from ordinary activities 210,940 195,930 other non-recurring income and expense  (16,165) (46,950) Operating income  194,775 148,980 income from cash and cash equivalents  1,816 4,171 Cost of gross financial indebtedness  (19,059) (25,278) Cost of net financial indebtedness  (17,243) (21,107) other financial income and expense  (2,847) (3,479) Pre-tax profit  174,685 124,394 income tax expense  (56,942) (36,770) Net profit of the consolidated group  117,743 87,624 Minority interest  (1,363) (2,670) CONSOLIDATED NET PROFIT - GROUP SHARE  116,380 84,954 Earnings per share (in euros)  17.03  12.43 Diluted earnings per share (in euros)  16.96  12.32 Consolidated  inCome statement  at December 31, 2010 vs. prior year  57 ASSETS (in thousands of euros)  December 2010   December 2009  NON CURRENT ASSETS   Goodwill  389,187 382,523   other intangible assets  305,623 311,234   property, plant and equipment  539,988 549,419   assets available for sale  51,884 38,357   other financial assets  3,975 1,192   Loans and advances  7,178 7,157   trade and other receivables  79 1,721   deferred tax assets  11,128 11,657   non-current assets held for sale  578 Total  1,309,042 1,303,838 CURRENT ASSETS   inventories and work-in-progress 223,923 178,529   trade and other receivables  410,255 386,191   other financial assets  498, 361   Loans and advances  290 177   Collectible tax assets  33,723 27,336   Cash and cash equivalents  139,939 116,281 Total  808,628 708,875 TOTAL ASSETS  2,117,670 2,012,713 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (in thousands of euros)  December 2010   December 2009    share capital  10,308 10,308   additional paid-in capital  21,967 21,967   Reserves  958,203 846,491   treasury shares  -7,390 -7,390 Equity - Group share  983,088 871,376 Minority interest  25,596 30,520 Equity  1,008,684 901,896 NON CURRENT LIABILITIES   provisions  10,577 8,729   employee benefits  38,789 36,105   deferred tax liabilities  151,546 140,816   Liabilities related to assets held under finance lease - over one year  1,180 0   Long-term borrowings and financial liabilities  323,142 409,973    other liabilities  36,344 33,529 Total  561,578 629,152 CURRENT LIABILITIES   provisions  17,520 16,016   employee benefits  2,264 1,947   Liabilities related to assets held under finance lease - less than one year  82   short-term borrowings and financial liabilities  49,754 54,691   other financial liabilities  12,320 11,010   trade and other payables  421,696 364,325   due tax liabilities  37,765 25,085   Current bank facilities and other borrowings  6,089 8,509 Total  547,409 481,665 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES  2,117,670 2,012,713 Consolidated balanCe sheet at December 31, 2010 vs. prior year, before appropriation of earnings  58 2010 BUSINESS AND CSR REPORT CASH FLOW FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES  December 2010   December 2009   Pre-tax profi t  174,685 124,394   Adjustments for:   Depreciation and write-downs  92,272 121,602   Capital gains (losses) on disposals  (370) 5,813   Reclassifi cation of dividends and borrowing costs  18,191 23,876   Other non-cash items on the income statement  5,506 (133) Cash fl ow  290,284 275,552 Increase (decrease) in inventories, current receivables and payables (7,097) (4,990) Increase (decrease) in non-current receivables and payables  3,106 666 Income taxes paid  (44,946) (20,753) Net cash fl ow generated by operating activities  (1)  241,347 250,475 CASH FLOW FROM (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisition of activities (included in the scope of consolidation) (2,956) (1,184) Disposals of activities (included in the scope of consolidation)  270 Acquisitions of tangible and intangible assets (63,856) (78,922) Disposals of tangible and intangible assets  2,533 1,467 Investment grants received  0 2,442 Acquisitions of fi nancial assets (3,554) (1,860) Disposals of fi nancial assets  2,134 1,792 Interest received  0 Dividends received  916 545 Net cash fl ow from (used in) investing activities  (2) (64,513) (75,720) CASH FLOW FROM (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Dividends paid  (40,112) (23,520) Interest paid (19,107) (24,375) Repayment of debt resulting from fi nance lease contracts  (80) (98) Increase (decrease) in current accounts with entities outside the scope  of consolidation (6,875) 431 Borrowings and fi nancial liabilities issued  25,655 13,744 Repayments of borrowings and fi nancial liabilities (109,882) (276,603) Net cash fl ow from (used in) fi nancing activities  (3)  (150,401) (310,421) NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   (1) + (2) + (3)  26,433 (135,666) Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period  107,724 235,051 Eff ect of foreign exchange rate variations (489) (2,147) Other items with no eff ect on cash  0 10,486 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period  133,668 107,724 At the closing date, net cash and cash equivalents comprised the following:   Marketable securities and money market instruments  99,162 62,206   Cash on hand and balances with banks  40,595 54,027   Current used bank facilities including overdraft s and accrued interest (6,089) (8,509) TOTAL  133,668 107,724 CONSOLIDATED  CASH FLOW STATEMENT at December 31, 2010 (in thousands of euros)  BEL GROUP CONTACT INFORMATION   Guillaume Jout, VP Communications, Public Aff airs and Corporate Social Responsibility Tel. +33 (0)1 40 07 72 50 – e-mail: communication@groupe-bel.com   Frdrique Gaulard, Head of CSR Tel. +33 (0)1 40 07 72 50 – e-mail: rse@groupe-bel.com   Fromageries Bel Headquarters: 16, boulevard Malesherbes 75008 Paris - Tel. + 33 (0)140 07 72 50 French corporation (socit anonyme) with a share capital of 10,308,502.50 - RCS Paris B 542 088 06 Design and production:    Tel. +33 (0)1 53 23 35 35; photo credits: Alistair Berg / Getty,  Guilain Grenier / Windreport, Getty, Stphane Remael / La Company, Grard Ufras, Bel Group, DR. This annual report was printed by an Imprimvert printer using paper  that meets PEFC environmental standards. The PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certifi cation) label certifi es  that forests are managed according to sustainable management requirements. FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT BEL www.bel-group.com AND THE CSR POLICY OF THE GROUP www.smilesfortheplanet.com