Living  up to diamonds RepoRt to society 2010 summaRy ReVieW  contents 1 About this report  2 Chairmans introduction  4 Acting CEOs introduction 6 Operating highlights  9 Our approach to sustainability  10 Reporting on our approach  12 Engaging with stakeholders 14 Managing our sustainability risks 16 Economics 24 Ethics 32 Employees 40 Communities 48 Environment 56 Assurance statement 58 Further information For further information on the De Beers Family of Companies and its sustainability performance,   please see the online resources below: www.debeersgroup.com Report to Society 2010   Full Report 1 DeBeersFamilyofCompanies Report to Society 2010 GRI complIance table De Beers Family of Companies Report to Society 2010 At De Beers  we believe in addressing sustainability issuEs  openly and honestly. wE arE committEd to  living up to diamonds  in all wE do. contents 1 About this report  2 Chairmans introduction  4 Acting CEOs introduction 6 Operating highlights  9 Our approach to sustainability  10 Reporting on our approach  12 Engaging with stakeholders 14 Managing sustainability 16 Economics 24 Ethics 32 Employees 40 Communities 48 Environment 56 Assurance statement 58 Further information For further information on the De Beers Family of Companies and its sustainability performance,   please see the online resources below: De Beers Family of Companies Report to Society 2009 1 GRI table Profile - GRI (G3) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Page  reference Extent UN  mechanisms Notes 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker about the relevance of sustainability  to the organisation and its strategy 2, 4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 8-10, 16-17,32- 33, 48-49, 66- 67, 84-85, OFR 2 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Cover, 6, OFR 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services OFR 2.3 Operational structure including main divisions, operating companies,   subsidiaries, joint ventures 6, OFR 2.4 Location of organisations headquarters Cover, 6, OFR 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, names of countries   with major operations or sustainability issues 6, OFR 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6, OFR 2.7 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served and types   of customers/beneficiaries) 6, 23, 28-31, 44,  OFR 2.8 Scale of the organisation, including: number of employees; net sales; capitalisation  and quantity of products provided 18-20, 23, 29,  OFR 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership OFR 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 55, 78 Core indicators Additional indicators  1   UN Global Compact Principles  1   UN Millennium Development Goals Indicator shading UN mechanisms Extent of reporting Partially reported Fully reported This table sets out how the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting  Framework has been applied in our sustainability reporting and how  our reporting links to the UN Global Compact and UN Millennium  Development Goals. It primarily covers the 2008 Report to Society  (RtS), but also makes reference to the 2008 Operating and Financial  Review (OFR) and our online sustainability content. The table has been  prepared in order to demonstrate the highest standards of reporting and  transparency. Application of the GRI Reporting Framework forms a key  part of our commitment to continuous improvement and to achieving the  highest levels of sustainability performance. It is our belief that we have  applied the GRI Reporting Framework to the highest A+ standard. Compliance table www.debeersgroup.com Report to Society 2010   Full Report Our GRI compliance table FEEdback  We appreciate your feedback on this report or any other aspect   of our sustainability performance. Please contact us at:    External and Corporate Affairs  De Beers UK Ltd, 17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA E livinguptodiamonds@debeersgroup.com t +44 (0) 207 404 4444    www.debeersgroup.com Living  up to diamonds RepoRt to society 2010 summaRy ReVieW Miss Chandapiwa Monamati, Cat 789 haul truck operator at Orapa Mine. de beers Family of companies Report to Society 2010 – Summary Review Operating &  Financial Review  2010 ThistablesetsouthowtheGlobalReportingInitiative(GRI)ReportingFramework hasbeenappliedinoursustainabilityreporting,andhowourreportinglinks totheUNGlobalCompactandUNMillenniumDevelopmentGoals.Itprimarily coverstheDeBeersFamilyofCompaniesReporttoSociety2010(RtS)–Living up  to Diamonds–anditscounterpartSummaryReview,butalsomakesreference totheOperatingandFinancialReview2010(OFR).Wehavepreparedthetable inordertohelpstakeholdersquicklyfindtheinformationtheywant. ApplicationoftheGRIReportingFrameworkformsakeypartofourcommitment tocontinuousimprovementandtoachievingthehighestlevelsofsustainability performance.Itisourbelief,andtheindependentassessmentofSGS,an assuranceprovider,thatwehaveappliedtheGRIReportingFramework tothehighestA+standard. RtS – Report to Society 2010. BoththedetailedReportanditscounterpartSummaryRevieware availablefordownloadfromwww.debeersgroup.com/sustainability PagenumberreferencesaretothedetailedReporttoSociety. OFR – Operating and Financial Review 2010.  AvailablebothonlineandasaPDFdownloadfrom www.debeersgroup.com/ofr2010/index.html PagenumberreferencesaretothePDFdownload. Reports referenced SGSUnitedKingdomLtdwascommissionedbyDeBeerstoconductanindependentassuranceoftheDeBeersReporttoSociety,SummaryReview2010. InadditionwehavecarriedoutafullevaluationoftheGRIApplicationLevelagainstGRIG3(2006)andtherequirementsoftheGRIMiningandMetalsSectorSupplement.This evaluationincludesthecontentsoftheSummaryReview2010,GRIcompliancetableonthewebsite,thefullReporttoSociety2010andtheOperatingandFinancialReview2010. WeareoftheopinionthatDeBeersreportingisinlinewithApplicationlevelA+. OurfullassurancestatementcanbefoundintheDeBeersReporttoSociety,SummaryReview2010. Independent   Assurance Our GRI compliance table  From its mining operations across Botswana, Namibia, South Africa   and Canada, De Beers produces and markets approximately 35% of   the worlds supply of rough diamonds by value. Together with our joint  venture partners, De Beers operates in more than 20 countries across   six continents, and employs more than 16,000 people.  Our values are encapsulated by the concept of Living up to Diamonds.  We aim to achieve this by making a lasting contribution to the  communities in which our people live and work. In this Summary Review,  we demonstrate how we live up to diamonds by addressing material risks  along the entire diamond pipeline, from mine to consumer. 05   This Summary Review, and its counterpart  Report to Society 2010: Living up to Diamonds,  together comprise the sixth annual  sustainability report produced by the   De Beers Family of Companies. Both Report  and Summary Review are available for  download from www.debeersgroup.com.  The Report and Summary Review include  performance data for those businesses   that De Beers either owns or has a  shareholding in, and that have significant  economic, social and environmental  impacts. They also include narrative  content on management approaches for  independently managed companies such  as De Beers Diamond Jewellers (DBDJ)   and Element Six (E6). Use of our or we in  the Report and Summary Review therefore  relates to the De Beers Family of Companies,  a collective term used for both wholly- owned and joint-venture business entities.  More information on De Beers structure,  operations and performance can be found  in the 2010 Operating and Financial Review,  available online or as a PDF download at:  	 	www.debeersgroup.com/ofr2010/ index.html Coverage Diamond	demand We are involved in diamond   retail through De Beers   Diamond Jewellers (DBDJ), an  independently managed retail  joint venture, and Forevermark,  our proprietary diamond brand.  Through Element Six (E6), our  industrial synthetic diamond  supermaterials business, we  supply tool and application  manufacturers across a diverse  range of global markets. Start of  production 2010  Tonnes  treated  000 2010  Carats  recovered   000 Total 54,544 32,997 De	Beers	Canada 3,602 1,751 Snap Lake 2007 869 925 Victor 2008 2,733 826 Namdeb 9,434 1,472 Land 1936 9,434 492 Sea (m2 000) 1990 – 980 Debswana 24,439 22,218 Orapa 1971 12,928 9,527 Letlhakane 1975 3,307 1,221 Damtshaa 2002 – –  Jwaneng 1982 8,204 11,470 DBCM	 17,069 7,556 Kimberley mines and contractors 1980 5,493 823 Finsch 1961 4,483 1,583 Namaqualand mines and contractors 1928 41 97 Venetia 1992 4,036 4,288 Voorspoed 2008 3,016 732 SASA (m2 000) 2007 – 33     A Snap Lake  B Victor C Atlantic 1  D Alluvial Contractors  E  Elizabeth Bay  F  Mining Area 1  G Orange River  Canada De	Beers	CaNaDa 100% owned.  Established 1998.  Namibia* NaMDeB 50/50 joint venture with   the Government of the   Republic of Namibia.   Established 1994.    Botswana DeBswaNa 50/50 joint venture with  the Government of the   Republic of Botswana.   Established 1968.  South Africa De	Beers	CoNsoliDaTeD	MiNes 74/26 partnership   with BEE partner   Ponahalo Holdings.   Established 1888. H Damtshaa  I  Orapa  J  Letlhakane  K Jwaneng L  Venetia  M Voorspoed  N Kimberley  O Finsch  P Namaqualand  Q SASA 1 2 3 4 a B C D e F G H i J K l N M o P Q * Through 2010, Namdebs sea licence areas were mined under contractual service arrangement by De Beers Marine Namibia,   70% owned by DBsa. In May 2011, the Government of the Republic of Namibia and De Beers agreed to restructure the   partnership, creating a 50/50 holding company with full ownership of Namdeb and De Beers Marine Namibia.  The global diamond value chain Our company 01 02 03 04 De Beers was established in 1888. It is the worlds leading   diamond company, with unrivalled expertise in the   exploration, mining and marketing of diamonds. Mining The vast majority of De Beers  production comes from  underground and open-pit  kimberlite mines. We also   mine alluvial stones along the  south-west African coast using  onshore extraction techniques  and specialised ships. De Beers   is not involved in informal  small-scale mining. rough	diamond	sales De Beers sorts and sells rough  diamonds to independent clients  known as Sightholders through  our rough diamond sales  operations: DTC, NDTC and   DTCB. These clients cut and  polish diamonds prior to the  manufacture of jewellery.   We also sell rough diamonds to  Sightholders and other registered  customers through Diamdel,   an online auctioning platform. Cutting,	polishing		 and	manufacturing Cutting and polishing of diamonds,  and the manufacture of diamond  jewellery, takes place around the  world and is concentrated in the  following major centres: India,  China, Tel Aviv, Antwerp, New   York, Botswana, Namibia and   South Africa. De Beers Diamond  Jewellers (DBDJ) has its own   design and development capacity.  exploration Modern exploration uses highly  sophisticated technologies to  determine the economic viability  of deposits. De Beers Exploration  currently focuses on Angola,  Botswana, Canada, India and  South Africa.  About this report: We believe this report together with the Operating and Financial  Review 2010 and its supporting online resources represent an A+ application of the  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. It also forms part  of our Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. A summary of  our compliance with the GRI and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact  is presented online at www.debeersgroup.com.  3 4 2 1 This map illustrates the countries in which De Beers conducts exploration, mining, rough diamond sales and downstream value-creating businesses.  report to society 2010 1 At De Beers we believe in addressing sustainability issuEs  openly and honestly. Whether its the development of sustainablE   post-mining EconomiEs, the global challenge of climatE changE,  or  Ensuring global  supply is frEE of  conflict diamonds. wE arE committEd to living up to diamonds  in all wE do.  Report to Society 2010 2 Introduction from our Chairman In 2010 we saw a significant recovery in demand for rough diamonds and  consequently a turnaround in De Beers financial performance and a return  to significant positive diamond sector growth in our producer countries.  This recovery was, however, not solely due to improved market conditions –   it owed a great deal to the steps we and our producer partners took   to transform our business in response to the economic crisis.  Our improved financial performance does not, however, represent a  complete turnaround in the fortunes of either the global economy  or the diamond industry. Rather it represents the ushering in of an  era of greater economic uncertainty and volatility, and our  heightened appreciation of the many risks inherent in operating in  an increasingly globalised economy. Short term concerns over the  stability of the global banking system have given way to longer  term concerns over levels of structural debt in established markets,  especially Europe, potential asset bubbles in some emerging  markets and great political uncertainty in others. In engaging with the challenge of operating in this new global  economy, our commitment to live up to the emotional promise of   the product we sell has, if anything, been reaffirmed. The success of  our business, and its future growth depends on our ability to create  shared value with our producer partners, our local communities, our  employees and our consumers.  creating shared value Five years ago De Beers embarked on an exercise to articulate a series  of values and principles that would shape the way we operate. These  were defined in part by our belief in the ability of our business to  unlock shared value through transforming commercial success into  sustainable social capital wherever we operate. This is most powerfully  illustrated by the fact that our commercial interests and our partners  development aspirations are mutually served by our focus on  maximising the value of every carat we produce. It is through our partnerships with governments, empowerment  entities and local communities that shared value is unlocked. In  Botswana, for example, more than four out of every five dollars that  Debswana (a 50/50 mining joint venture between Botswana and   De Beers) generates goes into public revenues, which in turn are  deployed by Government to create social capital through state  programmes. Diamond resources also drive economic growth  through the development and support of local businesses. This is  achieved through preferential procurement, enterprise development  and beneficiation initiatives that offer Botswana the opportunity to  leverage its position in the diamond pipeline to lay the foundations   for a sustainable post-mine diamond economy. But diamond mines are finite resources. Their ability to drive economic  growth and catalyse economic diversification in producer countries   is limited by the size of the resource. This means that maximising the  positive impact of a mine depends on ensuring that the value of each  and every carat mined is maximised. In practice, this means shifting  emphasis to quality and focusing on maximising the recovery of  diamonds in the mining process and reducing breakages. Doing so  will help us to ensure that we can sustain our production levels over   as long a period as possible and extend the life of what are, in practice,  critical national assets. Extending the life and value of mines Our desire to maximise the life and value of diamonds has  underwritten our support for Debswanas Jwaneng Cut-8 project –   an initiative that will see US$3 billion invested into Jwaneng over   the next 15 years. This will create an estimated 1,400 jobs, enable  Jwaneng to maintain current production levels well beyond 2015,  secure approximately 102 million carats, and extend the life of this   The success of our business,   and its future growth depends  on our ability to create shared  value in partnership with our  producer partners, our local  communities, our employees   and our consumers.   Summary Review – Introduction from our Chairman 3  As we look to the year ahead,   we will continue to focus   on maximising the value of   every carat we produce and  likewise to ensure that every  carat we produce captures   the values that guide us   as a business. resource beyond 2025. As importantly, it will help ensure consistency  in revenues accrued to our government partner in Botswana, drive  vital social and economic development programmes within the  country, and catalyse the development of cognate industries that, in  turn, will create a stronger platform for greater economic diversification  in Botswana.  This understanding of value has also focused our approach to late-life  mines. While we focus in all instances on ensuring our closure plans  and processes meet global benchmarks for best practice, we also  recognise the importance of looking at other opportunities to extend  the life and hence value of mining resources. In Namibia, Namdeb   is in the process of exploring possible options to extend the life of  Namdebs land-based operations to 2050; operations which are due   to end in 2014 under the current operating model. In South Africa we  have learned that smaller, specialised operators are able to sustain the  life of some operations nearing the very end of their economic life that  do not fit within our business model. Thus, having successfully sold  Cullinan Mine in 2007, DBCM sold its interests in the dormant  Jagersfontein Mine to the Superkolong Consortium in 2010. Core to  our conditions of sale were a set of clear criteria aimed at creating  sustainable local benefit through Black Economic Empowerment (BEE)  equity participation, employment creation, and a range of related  community initiatives. As a result, we are confident the sale of  Jagersfontein will see the rejuvenation of this resource, and, with it,   an area where mining ceased almost 40 years ago.  protecting diamond equity The way we mine, market and sell diamonds is deliberately focused   on unlocking as much value as possible out of every single carat. This  value can be realised globally through achieving consistent prices,  driving demand for diamonds and, critically, through ensuring  continued consumer confidence in the product.  From a sustainability perspective, our work in this area has two   aspects. First, on managing potential ethical, social and environmental  performance-related risks in the diamond pipeline through our  third-party audited Best Practice Principles Assurance Programme.  Second, through our active and ongoing support for broader  initiatives like the Kimberley Process. Since its inception, the Best Practice Principles Assurance Programme  has helped to protect diamond equity through managing potentially  serious reputation risks whilst, at the same time, reshaping industry  practice on a range of issues including child labour, employment  practice and working conditions in cutting and polishing centres like  Surat in India. The success of the model has been such that, over 2009  and 2010, it has shifted focus from driving continuous improvement  on a broad swathe of issues to applying greater focus to particular  individual areas of risk. The success of this initiative illustrates  particularly well the clear correspondence that exists between  commercial success and the creation of social capital. 2010 was perhaps the most challenging year for the Kimberley   Process since its inception in 2003. Participating governments  struggled to reach a clear consensus by the year end on the terms  under which Zimbabwe would be able to export rough diamonds  from the Marange Region. De Beers, which participates in the  Kimberley Process through the World Diamond Council, focused its  efforts during the course of the year on encouraging participating  governments to resolve this issue within the Kimberley Process  framework. While the Kimberley Process has been very successful   in meeting the challenge it was designed to fulfil – preventing   rebel groups from using diamonds to fund civil wars or resistance  movements against legitimate governments – it has become  something of a victim of its own success. As the spectre of diamond- funded civil wars has receded, some stakeholders have been wanting  the Kimberley Process to address far more complex issues. Reflecting   a shift in NGO agendas and, likewise, the expectations of some  consumers, the Kimberley Process has, in effect, been asked to extend  its mandate to address questions relating to possible abuses of human  rights within member states. It is, however, clear that the current  Kimberley Process consensus mechanism is not designed for this task.  From a De Beers perspective, ensuring that consumers are able get the  assurance they require remains our priority. We will thus continue to  support the Kimberley Process as it seeks to address these challenges  while ensuring that consumers can remain absolutely confident that  De Beers diamonds live up to the diamond promise.  future challenges As we look to the year ahead, we will continue to focus on maximising  the value of every carat we produce and, likewise, to ensure that every  carat we produce captures the values that guide us as a business.  Having ensured the continuity of our sustainability programmes  during the course of the economic downturn, our focus in 2011 will   be to use our sustainability framework as a springboard to create  greater shared value – social and financial – wherever we operate in   a time of economic uncertainty. To do so, we will push our internal  systems and processes that are focused on identifying and managing  long term sustainability risks and opportunities through our Principles  programme. This will be particularly important as we contemplate   the possibility of developing resources in countries like Angola where  we would need to develop new models of operating to establish a  sustainable framework for mutual benefit. This framework would serve  both our communities and commercial interests, and ensure that we  continue to live up to diamonds. Nicky Oppenheimer Chairman  De Beers  Report to Society 2010 4 Introduction from the Acting CEOs Operating sustainably and responsibly sits at the heart of De Beers  business strategy. It ensures our continued licence to operate in our  producer countries, and supports both diamond equity and  consumer confidence in the integrity of our product.  The De Beers Family of Companies spans the diamond pipeline   and impacts on many diverse stakeholder groups. As a result,   our efforts to provide detailed and considered accounts of our  sustainability performance have produced detailed annual   Reports to Society. Following feedback from stakeholders we   have prepared this shorter Summary Review of our sustainability  performance in 2010. A comprehensive annual Report to Society   is also available for download from the De Beers Group website.  This Review provides a concise overview of our performance in   2010 focusing on those issues that matter the most to our key  stakeholder groups. sustainability performance In 2010 the Family of Companies returned to positive growth following  a difficult year in 2009. Improved demand for rough diamonds,  coupled with our success in reducing costs across all our businesses,  yielded very good financial results. This in turn realised significant  benefits across our stakeholder base.  Because some sustainability-related roles were impacted in 2009 as   we restructured the business in response to the economic downturn,  we focused on managing sustainability with greater efficiency and  effectiveness across the Family of Companies in 2010.  Over the course of the year, we refined our global sustainability risk  identification and evaluation framework with the specific goal of  assisting business units to allocate their resources more effectively   to manage those risks that are of greatest consequence to our  stakeholders and our business.  We also began the process of including sustainability criteria into a  formal annual technical review process to provide a more detailed  picture of how each of our operations are performing against some  key sustainability criteria not covered within the existing Best Practice  Principles assurance framework. We plan to assess a full complement  of sustainability issues in the technical review process in 2011.  safety  Having operated for two consecutive years without a fatality it is with  great regret that we report that Mr. Rodney Becorney, a contractor,   was fatally injured at Orapa Mine in December 2010. This was followed  by two further fatalities at Namdeb early in 2011. Despite having  undertaken sustained efforts across the Family of Companies to   instil an effective zero-harm safety culture across the business, these  fatalities show that we still have some way to go, and that ensuring   that our workplaces are safe for all of our employees must remain our  highest priority.  the year ahead We are gratified to see the recognition De Beers has received for   its sustainability performance over the past few years. In 2010 our  Diamond Route won the Nedbank Capital Green Mining Award for  sustainability, and our 2009 Report to Society was declared the Overall  Winner in the ACCA South Africa Sustainability Reporting Awards.   As we look forward to 2011, and the appointment of new leadership  for De Beers, we remain confident that the company will continue   to be recognised for its commitment to live up to diamonds.   2003   Kimberley Process Certification  Scheme comes into effect   De Beers participates in the inaugural  meeting of the Extractive Industries  Transparency Initiative  2004   De Beers is a founding member of the  Diamond Development Initiative  2005   De Beers joins the United Nations  Global Compact   Best Practice Principles Assurance  Programme launched   De Beers is a founding member of the  Responsible Jewellery Council    HIV/Aids strategy developed  2006  Principles framework launched   First annual sustainability report  published   Sale of 26% of DBCM to Black  Economic Empowerment company  Ponahalo   Development of Energy and Climate  Vision and Strategy  2007   Beneficiation launched: Incorporation  of DTC Botswana and Namibia DTC in  partnership with each respective  government   Development and implementation   of Environment, Community,  Occupational Hygiene, Health   and Safety policies   Corruption Perception Survey  implemented across the Family   of Companies Our sustainability timeline  5 Summary Review – Introduction from the Acting CEOs  we refined our global sustainability  risk identification and evaluation  framework with the specific goal of  assisting business units to allocate  their resources more effectively to  manage those risks that are of   greatest consequence to our  stakeholders and our business.  34% increase in total carat production on 2009 levels.  Bruce Cleaver   Joint Acting CEO  De Beers Stuart Brown   Joint Acting CEO  De Beers  2008  DTC Botswana begins operations   Launch of new Social Impact  Guidelines   Social and Labour Plans initiated   in South Africa   Implementation of Biodiversity  Overlap Assessments and   Action Plan   Significant contractors included in the  BPP Assurance Programme  2009   Joined United Nations Global  Compact CEO Water Mandate    2010   The Diamond Route is awarded The  Nedbank Capital Green Mining Award  for sustainability   De Beers Zimele enterprise  development fund expands after  success of pilot in 2009   243,365 total number of diamond industry employees in 57  countries covered by the De Beers Best Practice Principles  Assurance Programme.  40% expansion of Forevermark, De Beers proprietary diamond  brand, founded on a promise of ethical integrity.   US$715 million total amount allocated to preferential procurement.   US$29.8 million total community social investment, including contractually  mandated initiatives and in-kind contributions. Successful sale of Jagersfontein Mine to Superkolong Consortium, a broad-based Black Economic  Empowerment holding company.  2010 highlights  US$500 million shareholder investment in the Jwaneng Mine   Cut-8 extension.  US$3.3 billion generated and returned to stakeholders in Africa. a b   a		A	selection	of	rough	diamonds.   b	 	Aerial	view	of	Jwaneng	Mine.  Report to Society 2010 6 Operating highlights 2010 marked an exceptional year for the De Beers   Family of Companies following the economic downturn   and the global financial crisis. leading the diamond recovery The difficult steps we took in 2009 to weather the global economic  crisis positioned the company well for market recovery, leading to  exceptional financial results for 2010. Maintaining a leaner workforce, we focused on embedding the   lower cost base of 2009 as we increased production in line with  improved Sightholder demand.  In 2009 we took steps to restructure our business without   reducing our commitment to maintaining the highest ethical,  environmental and social standards across our operations. Our focus   in 2010 on driving efficiency in all aspects of our performance returned  impressive financial results, and reaffirmed our belief that a responsible  business is a profitable business.  strong recovery in the diamond market Strong demand from DTC Sightholders saw the price for rough  diamonds grow by 27% over the year, and surpass pre-recession highs  of 2008. This growth was driven by increasing consumer demand   for retail jewellery, particularly in the emerging economies of India   and China. Confidence grew throughout the year from retailer restocking,  exceptional rates of growth in polished wholesale prices in India   and China of 31% and 25% respectively (in local currencies), and a  strong US Christmas sales season, up by approximately 7% on the  previous year (see Fig. 1). higher production from a lower cost base During 2010, we increased production in line with increased demand  from DTC Sightholders, while maintaining as much as possible the low  cost base we achieved in 2009 following the economic downturn.  Across our business, total carat production increased by 34%, with  individual business units increasing production by between   25% and 58%. Tonnes treated and tonnes mined increased by 55% and 75%  respectively, comparing favourably to a 42% increase in production  costs. We recovered around 33 million carats in 2010, compared with  24.6 million carats in 2009 (see Fig. 2). This combination of increased production and low operating costs  led to an exceptional growth in profit margins for the company.  EBITDA grew to US$1.43 billion in 2010 – an increase of 118% over 2009  (US$654 million). This growth was driven by a 57% increase in total  sales for the full year in 2010 at US$5.9 billion (including those through  joint ventures), compared to US$3.8 billion in 2009 (see Fig. 3). a strategy for sustainable growth In order to capitalise on this growth, De Beers implemented Five	 Strategic	Levers at the beginning of 2010. These levers are designed to  drive growth and maximise the value and life of diamonds across the  Family of Companies (see Fig. 5). Our five strategic levers 1. Sustainably maximise the price received for our rough diamonds  2. Find, optimise and invest in mines that generate superior returns  3. Invest in value-creating downstream opportunities  4. Embed cost and capital efficiencies  5. Protect diamond equity  These strategic aims guided our projects and initiatives during 2010.  Some highlights are below. 1. Sustainably maximise price for our rough diamonds An exceptionally strong recovery in the price of rough diamonds saw  DTC rough diamond prices increase by an average of 27% in 2010,  compared with 2009. As a result, sales of rough diamonds by the   DTC totalled US$5.08 billion for the full year 2010.  2. Find, optimise and invest in mines that generate superior returns We aim to secure future supply by finding new mines, and maximising  the value and life of the mines we have. We also free up capital for  investment by selling late-life mines to operators who specialise in  generating value from them, thus extending the life of mines we are  not optimised to manage. Cut-8 extension to the Jwaneng Mine, Botswana Cut-8 represents the largest-ever single private investment in  Botswana. The project will extend the life of mine to at least 2025, and  is expected to yield approximately 102 million carats worth an  estimated US$15 billion. Investing in the Gahcho Ku project, Canada  A joint venture between De Beers Canada and Mountain Province  Diamonds, the proposed Gahcho Ku Mine would extract around 4.5  million carats of diamonds annually from three kimberlite pipes over  an 11-year mining period. Mine sales, South Africa In 2009 we offered a number of our South African operations for sale in  order to rationalise our mine portfolio and release capital from late-life  mines for more suitable capital investment in other operations. In  October 2010, the Jagersfontein Mine was sold to Superkolong  Consortium, a broad based Black Economic Empowerment (BEE)  holding company. Sale agreements were also signed for Finsch   and Namaqualand Mines in January and May 2011, respectively.   The difficult steps we took   in 2009 to weather the global  economic crisis positioned   the company well for an  exceptionally strong recovery   in the price of rough diamonds  in 2010. 7 Summary Review – Operating highlights 3. Invest in value-creating downstream opportunities De Beers continued to expand its proprietary diamond brand,  Forevermark, throughout Asia, with the brand now available in 348  doors globally. This represents a 40% increase on the beginning of  2009. Forevermark will continue to expand in the rapidly growing China  market in the year ahead and has recently launched in India. In the US, Forevermark began an exploratory phase in 2010 that yielded  positive early consumer research. We will continue to assess   US market opportunities for the brand during 2011. 4. Embed cost and capital efficiencies All operations within the Family of Companies focused on making the  savings we achieved during 2009 a permanent part of our operating  culture. Prudent cash management and a continuing focus on costs  carried the new cost base through to 2010, contributing to   improved margins. De Beers successfully refinanced all of its international and South  African debt in March 2010 on satisfactory terms after support from  our three shareholders, who invested a total of US$1 billion in the  business, thus illustrating their levels of support for De Beers. The Botswana Financing Agreement was extended to August 2013.  Net debt, excluding shareholder loans, had fallen to US$1.76 billion   at the end of 2010, compared with US$3.20 billion at the end of 2009. 5. Protect diamond equity In 2010, issues associated with exports from Zimbabwe dominated  events in the Kimberley Process. While De Beers does not operate in  Zimbabwe, we continue to support the Kimberley Process as we have  done since its inception. The protection of diamond equity motivates  many of the initiatives we cover in this report.  Jan 2009 Jan 2010 Jan 2011 fig. 1 DTC rough diamond price index  (Set at December 31 2008) 115% 100% 85% Effective 2010 price 27% higher than 2009   54.544 32.997 35.109 48.132 84.610 24.600 24 20 40 60 80 100 2008 2009 2010 Total carat production versus  tonnes treated, 2008-2010 Fig. 2 Carats recovered (millions) Tonnes treated (millions)   1,428 5,877 654 6,888 1,222 3,840 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 2008 2009 2010 EBITDA as a proportion  of total sales, 2008-2010 Fig. 3 Total sales (US$m) EBITDA (US$m)  Report to Society 2010 usa 35% Japan 7% india 15% china 14% taiwan 3% hong Kong 2% gulf 7% turkey 2% rest of world 16% 8 fig. 4 Consumer demand forecasts, 2010 and 2015 (US$ PWP) Note: These figures provide estimates and forecasts of the size and growth of  main diamond consumer markets based on pipeline and consumer research  commissioned by De Beers Group Strategy. 2010 results are preliminary. India  and China grow at levels above GDP/capita; USA grows at 80% of GDP; other  developed markets flat real growth. 2010 2015 the market outlook We remain cautiously confident about the diamond market in 2011  and expect to continue to grow, albeit at a slower rate than in 2010.   We expect that the growth in consumer demand for diamond  jewellery will remain positive in 2011, underpinned by global economic  growth and strong retail confidence. After the better-than-expected  Christmas buying period, the US diamond jewellery market is  expected to continue recovery. We also anticipate that strong growth in China and India will continue  (see Fig. 4). To keep step with steadily increasing demand from our  Sightholders to meet this retail demand, total production for the   De Beers Family of Companies is expected to reach approximately   38 million carats in 2011. Further information on the approach of operations across the Family  of Companies can be found in our Operating and Financial Review,  available at   www.debeersgroup.com./ofr2010/index.html fig. 5  The De Beers Family of Companies  De Beers sa and shareholders  Owned and controlled subsidiaries and divisions  Joint ventures and independently-managed subsidiaries 100% db investments (lux) 100% de beers sa (lux) 50% 100% debswana  diamond   company anglo american group 45% 40% central holdings group 15% government of the republic of botswana 50% de beers diamond Jewellers 100% Element six1  50% 74% 100% 100% 100% namdeb diamond  corporation de beers  consolidated   mines de beers canada de beers uK de beers group  services (rsa) 50% 50% 100% dtc botswana namibia dtc dtc2 forevermark ltd. dtc south africa2 diamdel   1 Non-abrasives – 100%, Abrasives – 59.78% 2 Marked entries are divisions rather than subsidiaries  To keep step with steadily  increasing demand, total  production for the De Beers  Family of Companies is  expected to reach approximately   38 million carats in 2011. usa 39% Japan 11% india 10% china 8% taiwan 2% hong Kong 2% gulf 8% turkey 2% rest of world 18%  9 Summary Review – Our approach to sustainability Our approach   to sustainability Delivering good financial returns depends on our ability to  effectively address the risks that could affect the sustainability   of our business and the societies in which we work. Contributing to sustainable development Our understanding of sustainability is shaped by the societal imperatives  of our partner governments and communities. This includes helping  to define the role of business in contributing to a vision of a more  prosperous Africa. Our approach to sustainability is focused on managing and mitigating  those risks that can affect our commercial interests by undermining  consumer confidence in diamonds or impacting on our access to supply. A risk-based approach We categorise sustainability risks into five key areas: Economics, Ethics,  Employees, Communities and Environment. Extensive stakeholder  engagement processes help us to assess the relevance and materiality  of each risk and to develop appropriate management responses.   This Summary Review provides an account of our performance against  those risks identified in 2010. Ongoing stakeholder engagement is one element of our broader  sustainability management framework. A set of Principles (p58) define  the way we do business in each of the five risk areas, which are in turn  supported by a suite of policies, guidance and management tools.  These Principles commit us to consider and take responsibility for the  longer term economic, social and environmental implications of our  decisions, and to work in partnership with stakeholders across the  diamond pipeline to maximise our positive impacts. The Principles  also commit us to be accountable for our ethical conduct and  sustainability performance. These Principles inform decision-making, our ongoing engagement  with stakeholders and assessments of how our business impacts society.  Corporate citizenship Managing our sustainability risks requires us to engage with  stakeholders on broader issues. We seek to mitigate risks to our  business through, for example, raising ethical standards across the  diamond or jewellery industry as a whole through initiatives such as  the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme or the Responsible  Jewellery Council. Through our membership and support of corporate  citizenship initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact and  the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative we aim to contribute   to the broader agenda of harnessing the potential of responsible  business to contribute to sustainable development.  We also engage on public policy issues. This can range from direct  engagement with governments on regulation or mining policy to  contributing knowledge and experience to debates on sustainability  issues. In general, we prioritise public policy activities based on:   Issues that could impact the diamond industry; and  Issues or policies that could influence economic growth and  sustainable development – particularly in Africa. We generally restrict our involvement in policy development to formal  participation in relevant forums and organisations. In Botswana, for  example, we are active in the Chamber of Mines, and in early 2010 the  De Beers CEO participated in the Business and Economic Advisory  Council. In South Africa we have several partnerships with NGOs  through which we collaborate to influence environmental policy.  Our commitment to operating in a responsible and sustainable  manner sits at the heart of the De Beers business strategy.  Our approach has three main elements: Reporting on   our approach  p10 Stakeholder   engagement  p12 Managing our   sustainability risks  p14  Report to Society 2010 10 Reporting on our approach In this Summary Review we discuss the sustainability risks we have  identified as most relevant to the De Beers Family of Companies  and our stakeholders. These risks are identified and   prioritised through engagement with stakeholders and   through our internal risk management processes. a risk-based approach to reporting  We use a sustainability risk matrix to evaluate the short and longer  term risks most material to sustainability (See Fig. 6). Business risk  includes both the likelihood of a risk manifesting itself, as well as the  impact that such a manifestation would have on our business (i.e.  direct risk). Stakeholder materiality is based on the degree to which an  issue is considered relevant and material by stakeholders, and the  ability of such stakeholders to impact upon our business (i.e. indirect  risk). In 2010, our risk analysis and stakeholder engagement processes  identified 26 key sustainability risks to report on. We have prioritised 18  of these key risks across all five sustainability areas for discussion in the  Report and Summary Review. Of these, 15 are considered high risk  issues, falling in the top right-hand quadrant of our materiality matrix.  The remaining three – Driving local growth and diversification,  Product security and Attracting and retaining talent – are issues that  present a medium risk overall, but due to their direct potential impact  on our business we have decided to report on them in greater detail.  changes in our reporting approach In 2010 we engaged widely on the format and content of our  sustainability reporting, with the aim of communicating more  effectively with our stakeholders.1 The 2009 Report to Society won  recognition for its overall quality, and was particularly noted for its  relevance and materiality, including the risk assessment framework,  direct engagement with stakeholders concerns, and willingness to  address sensitive issues.2  Based on a range of stakeholder recommendations (see Appendix in  Report), we have made a number of changes to our reporting format.  This year we have produced a concise printed Summary Review of our  sustainability performance throughout 2010, and a detailed Report   to Society which is available for download from our group website.   With the 2011 Report to Society we will then complete the transition   to an interactive web-based Report, with a concise printed   Summary Review. We are also taking a further step towards integrated reporting of  financial and non-financial performance by including a summary of  the Operating Highlights from 2010 in both the Report to Society and  Summary Review. While we do not intend to move to a fully integrated  annual report on our financial and sustainability performance, we do  recognise this broader drive within the corporate reporting field. Further, we have undertaken AA1000 sustainability assurance on the  Summary Review, in preparation for our application for Responsible  Jewellery Council certification in 2012. A statement by Socit  Gnrale de Surveillance (SGS) on their assessment of the process by  which we have engaged stakeholders in developing the Summary  Review, and the integrity of the data we report in it, is provided on  page 56. With each of these steps we hope to stay at the forefront   of sustainability and corporate reporting practice. 1This included our annual Managers Perception Survey distributed to report contributors and senior  management across the Family of Companies. Our aim was to learn more about how employees use  our Report to Society and whether it covers the issues material to them. The survey results indicated  that the report is considered a useful tool to help support both internal and external stakeholder  engagement, attract and retain talent, and as a platform to effectively communicate key figures and  practices to the industry and media. 2Having won three ACCA awards for previous Reports to Society, a new award category of Overall  Winner was created for the 2009 Report to Society by the ACCA South Africa Sustainability Reporting  Awards. The comments are drawn from the judging panels report. The Report to Society 2009 was  also placed for the Relevance and Materiality category at the Corporate Register Reporting Awards. fig. 6 Our risk matrix   approach to reporting  stakeholder materiality business risk Not reported  low risK Selectively reported  mEdium risK Selectively reported  mEdium risK In-depth focus in   Report to Society 2010 and  Summary Review  high risK   Risks   Risks explored in Report to Society 2010    Long term    Medium term    Short term 11 Stakeholder materiality Business risk (impact/likelihood) 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 3.2 3.1 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6   www.debeersgroup.com/sustainability Our management approach to the risks in bold is discussed in this Summary Review and the full   Report to Society 2010. Summary Review – Reporting on our approach The matrix above sets out the  sustainability risks identified over the  course of 2010. We classify these issues by  reference to the risks they pose to our  business, and the degree to which they  are material to stakeholders. Economics 1.1 maintaining value for producers 1.2 governance and revenue transparency 1.3 success of beneficiation 1.4 driving local growth, diversification and  capacity building 1.5 Driving and maintaining demand 1.6 Access to new reserves and sustainable  relationships in new territories Ethics 2.1 Kimberley process and system  of warranties credibility 2.2 product security  2.3 anti-corruption 2.4 maintaining pipeline and  sector standards 2.5 Legal compliance, e.g. competition law,   tax law etc Employees 3.1  managing changes to the size of  the workforce  3.2 attracting and retaining talent 3.3 maintenance of health, safety and  occupational hygiene standards 3.4 hiV and aids management 3.5 Diversity and inclusion  3.6 Compliance with international   labour standards  Communities 4.1 local licence to operate 4.2 social impact of closures and transfer  of assets 4.3 sustainable community social investment 4.4 Managing land claims       Environment 5.1  water and energy security  in a changing climate 5.2 lifecycle planning 5.3 promotion and maintenance of biodiversity  and ecosystems 5.4 Maintaining environmental standards 5.5 Respect for protected areas, biodiversity  hotspots or World Heritage Sites  5.6 Management of waste and pollution prevention Report to Society 2010 sustainability risk matrix  Report to Society 2010 12 Engaging with stakeholders  Ongoing, open and effective stakeholder engagement   is core to the successful management of our business. Our ability to work with our stakeholders at all levels of the business   is a central factor in maintaining our legal, social and political licence   to operate. The integration of stakeholders into our sustainability   risk assessment and management processes helps us identify and  prioritise stakeholder concerns. This enables us to identify issues that  are within our direct control and that are our clear responsibility to  address, to identify issues that are external to the Family of Companies  but which nonetheless fall within our sphere of influence, and to  establish whether we are living up to diamonds.  Our stakeholders include groups that the Family of Companies has   a significant impact on, as well as those groups that can significantly  impact our activities. These include our shareholders, producer  governments, employees, local communities, civil society and  intergovernmental organisations.  Engaging with stakeholders and managing risks Our engagement with stakeholders informs our identification of   risks, and the development and enactment of strategies to mitigate  those risks. This engagement falls into two types. The first is direct  engagement, including surveys, roundtable discussions, dialogue   at conferences, independent multi-stakeholder dialogue, one-to-one  meetings, and on the ground engagement with local stakeholders   at each operation. The second is indirect engagement and the use   of external benchmarks and standards that represent societal  expectations.  Stakeholder engagement happens every day and at all levels of our  business on issues as diverse as HIV/Aids management and conflict  diamonds (see Fig. 7). Our partnerships with governments in joint  ventures in Botswana and Namibia mean ongoing and continuous  engagement with our largest stakeholder communities – the citizens  of Botswana and Namibia. Elsewhere, we engage continuously with  governments and others such as regulators. Stakeholder engagement  is a cornerstone of our sustainability risk management process (p14-15),  particularly in developing and supporting action on sustainability  challenges that we cannot address alone. At a group level, we undertake two formal stakeholder engagement  processes annually to inform our management of sustainability issues  – the Managers Perception Survey and the Multi-stakeholder Forum.  Key findings and recommendations from these forums in 2010 have  informed the changes we have made to the Report to Society this year  (see Appendix in full Report). As in previous years, responses to  questions put to senior management by participants at the Multi- stakeholder Forum are presented throughout this report in the boxes  marked as stakeholder questions. identifying our stakeholders Our impacts and the stakeholders they affect are context dependent  and differ depending on the issue, the stage of the project and the  location. Each operation identifies, prioritises and engages stakeholder  groups that its activities have the most impact on. This role is typically  managed by regional External and Corporate Affairs offices, but also  takes place through a number of diverse and more localised channels.  In 2010, we began the strategic planning phase for a stakeholder  mapping tool, to provide our operations with a consistent approach   to identify stakeholders that have, or could have, an impact on their  business and engage them appropriately. In 2011, we will pilot this  methodology within the business and provide training for using the  tool, along with implementing, managing and reporting on  engagement processes.    a	 	An	interpreter	translating	for	visitors	from	 the	Tlicho	Government,	Snap	Lake	Mine.   b	 	Employee	engagement,	Johannesburg. b a  13 Summary Review – Engaging with stakeholders issuE: HIV/Aids issuE: Conflict diamonds internal local community industry regional/national global  My campaign, My health, My wealth   campaign by Debswana and DTC Botswana to  support employee ownership of health outcomes De Beers Marine Namibia collaborated with Government, the   WHO and the International Diabetes Federation to launch the first  annual World Diabetes and Healthy Lifestyle day in Namibia  Participated in revising the International Labour Organisations  Guidelines on HIV and Aids  Represented on the Resource Mobilisation Committee for the South Africa  National Aids Council, which provides the country coordinating mechanism  required by the Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria1 Supported the development of a generic policy for HIV in the  Workplace for the International Commission for Occupational Health 1 www.sanac.org.za , www.theglobalfund.org 2  A total of 15 organisations took part in these roundtable discussions, including: the Business and Human Rights Resource Centre, Africa Matters, Zimbabwe-Europe  Network, International Alert and Transparency International (UK). Outputs from each dialogue are available online at the Business and Human Rights Resource Centre   www.business-humanrights.org 3 www.kimberleyprocess.com internal local community industry regional/national global  Kimberley Process compliance of all De Beers  operations was independently assured by  SGS as part of the BPP Assurance Programme Engaged with local security forces to identify and   combat illegal diamond trading by criminal syndicates The DTC offered guidance to Sightholders on the   identification of potentially illegal and unethical exports from the Marange   region of Zimbabwe Two Diamond Dialogues stakeholder events were held in London,  both focusing on the pressures on the Kimberley Process following the  export of Marange diamonds from Zimbabwe2 Andy Bone, Head of International Affairs, is a Board Director at the   World Diamond Council, which engages in the Kimberley Process. Andy also serves on   two of the Working Groups in the Kimberley Process – Monitoring and Alluvial Production3 fig. 7 A multi-level approach to stakeholder engagement  Report to Society 2010 14 Managing our sustainability risks We believe that operating as a responsible and transparent business  is a competitive advantage. Our success as a business is defined by  our ability to empower our producer partners and our local  communities to translate the economic value of diamonds   into social, environmental and economic capital.  Our search for opportunities to contribute to the long term  sustainable development of our partner countries, and to raising  ethical standards throughout the diamond industry, has led to  many of the initiatives described in this Summary Review. Our  internal management focus, and reporting approach, is framed  around managing our reputation and sustainability risks. a framework for managing sustainability risks Our sustainability risk management framework includes four elements;  Principles Committee (a group focused management committee), the  Environment, Community, Occupational Hygiene, Health and Safety  (ECOHS) Committee (a Board committee), local ECOHS functions  (operating company and business unit-level) and stakeholder  engagement, which includes reporting on our sustainability  performance. Each element informs the selection, prioritisation   and management of sustainability risks. the Ecohs committee The ECOHS Committee provides strategic oversight of the ECOHS  disciplines and their respective peer groups. It receives quarterly  submissions from discipline Principals on management progress,  Reputation and Sustainability Risks, and Strategic and Operating Risks.  The ECOHS Committee also obtains assurance on our adherence to  common ECOHS policies, guidelines and operational practices, as well as  relevant standards and legislation (both local and international). It sends  summaries of each of its meetings to the De Beers Board for review. In 2010 there were four ECOHS Committee meetings. At these  meetings major incidents were reported, and performance updates  presented by each of the Principals in their respective discipline areas.  management structures and processes Two dove-tailing management systems provide strategic direction  and oversight to the Executive Committee and Business Unit CEOs   on sustainability risks and performance.  principles committee is a management committee that plays  a central role in evaluating and ensuring proactive engagement   by management with short, medium and long term risks to the  sustainability and reputation of the De Beers Family of Companies.  Chaired by the Head of Public Affairs, Principles Committee is  responsible for monitoring performance against our Principles,  providing strategic direction and assurance against key risks and  ultimately reporting publicly through our Report to Society.   A global Reputation and Sustainability Risk Log is compiled   by Principles Committee twice annually and submitted to the  Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the ECOHS  Committee as part of the annual risk review process. The risks in  this log span the five issue areas of Economics, Ethics, Employees,  Communities and Environment. The Principles Committee enhances the overall effectiveness of risk  evaluation and management across the Family of Companies, ensures  strategic understanding of risks between business units and promotes  joined up management of risks and corresponding opportunities. The  Principles Management Committee is also responsible for obtaining  assurance from internal and external experts in order to enhance our  management of identified material risk issues.  Principles Committee met twice in 2010, coinciding with the risk  review process, and plans to meet quarterly in 2011.  The Ecohs functions and associated peer groups provide  strategic direction on ECOHS disciplines to the business units,   and provides assurance on ECOHS performance. The ECOHS  programme has three main functions:  To provide the necessary technical skills, leadership and  governance to align ECOHS performance with the groups   core business strategy through delivering world class standards  and talent.  To ensure the integration of ECOHS practices and   accountability into core business processes at every stage of the  diamond pipeline.  To provide assurance on performance to the Boards of each  family company and to the group ECOHS Committee. peer groups The ECOHS disciplines share best practice, develop new management  approaches, and provide an internal assurance function through their  respective peer groups. In 2010 the ECOHS functions peer groups met  regularly, continuing to embed ECOHS policies within the Family of  Companies and drive related programmes of work. The ECOHS peer groups are one of two types of peer groups that  operate within the Family of Companies:  Mission-driven peer groups in which each participant has a defined  mandate from their business unit to make recommendations on  policies and standards (i.e. the Communities Peer Group).   General peer groups made up of informal networks of internal  experts who share knowledge and information on best practices,  and who sometimes engage external participants.   15 risk review process Two sustainability risk review cycles are undertaken across the Family  of Companies each year. The sustainability risk management process   is built on a systematic bottom-up reporting process through which  individual risk reports are submitted by each of our operations, by local  ECOHS functions and by regional External and Corporate Affairs offices,  with material risks escalated up to Board level through the ECOHS  Committee, Audit Committee, or the Executive Committee via  Principles Committee (see Fig. 8). From 2011 the risk review process   will be supported by a software platform, allowing for more frequent  risk reporting.  assurance  Both the ECOHS and Principles Committee play a role in providing  internal assurance on the adequacy and efficacy of our sustainability  performance systems. The ECOHS Committee provides oversight on  our adherence to common ECOHS policies, guidelines and operational  practices, as well as relevant standards and legislation (both local and  international). Principles Committee provides assurance on the overall  Summary Review – Managing our sustainability risks management of key reputation and sustainability risks across the  Family of Companies. Both Committees seek internal and external  guidance in their assurance role. A rigorous assurance programme also supports the De Beers Best  Practice Principles Assurance Programme (BPPs). Our ethical conduct is  governed by the BPPs, which apply to the Family of Companies, all  Diamond Trading Company (DTC) Sightholders and to certain third  parties e.g. Sightholder sub-contractors. Requiring compliance with  law in all applicable areas, the BPPs include further requirements on  anti-corruption and anti-money laundering, health and safety, labour  standards and environment. Our Global Mining function coordinates  self-assessment and internal assurance on BPP implementation for  review by the ECOHS Committee, and compliance of the Family of  Companies is third party verified each year by SGS (Socit Gnrale  de Surveillance) (see full Report). a  Full risk logs of Headline Risks, Strategic and  Operational Risks and Reputation and Sustainability  risks are completed at Operations level, and  consolidated by Business unit and functional group  risk champions. b  The Reputation and Sustainability Risk Log template  is circulated to ECOHS discipline leads, External and  Corporate Affairs (ECA) offices, and other issue owners  by the Principles Committees Risk Coordinator.  c  The Risk Coordinator and Chair of Principles  Committee select the most significant risks for  discussion at Principles Committee from the returned  Reputation and Sustainability Risk Log Templates. d  Principles Committee meets and amends/signs off the  Risk Log, hears presentations from selected discipline  heads on key risks, and agrees both an assurance  strategy and corresponding budget. E  The Risk Coordinator then submits the Risk Log to  the Group Finance function for incorporation into the  overall Risk Management Report, which is submitted  to the board-level Audit Committee, who present a  summary to the Board.  f  A Reputation and Sustainability Risk summary is also  forwarded to the Executive Committee (DB sa)(ExCo)  for referral to the Board if necessary. g  External assurance providers are appointed, who  submit their assurance reports to relevant discipline  heads. Department heads and discipline principals put  forward assurance recommendations and proposed  mitigating actions to Principles Committee h  When necessary, the Executive Committee mandates  integrated management responses. fig. 8 The risk review process  dbsa board dbsa Exco dbsa Ecohs commitee principles committee Eca risk champion consolidated  reputation and sustainability   risk report consolidated Eca risk report   Headline Risks   Strategic and Operational Risks  Reputation and Sustainability Risks Informed by BPPs   and country ECA teams consolidated dbsa risk   management report  Headline Risks   Strategic and Operational Risks  Reputation and Sustainability Risks risk champion   consolidating report dbsa audit commitee business units/functional groups  Headline Risks   Strategic and Operational Risks  Reputation and Sustainability Risks E.g. Consolidated risk reports from   operations and service functions operations  Headline Risks   Strategic and Operational Risks  Reputation and Sustainability Risks E.g. Risk reports from operations and   service functions business units/functional   risk champions consolidate   risk reports Reporting upwards Communication back   to the business  A B c D e F H G  economics Creating sHAreD vAlue 16 Waste material conveyor at Orapa Plant 1.  17 economics diamonds have contributed  significantly to thE dEVElopmEnt   of Botswana, Namibia and  South Africa, but their finitE naturE posEs a risK to long term Economic dEVElopmEnt. WitH DemAnD For DiAmonDs risinG AnD existinG Assets peAkinG, the De Beers Family of Companies is increasingly focused on maximising both the life   and value of its diamond resources. Doing so will help realise the full value of our diamond  resources and help our producer partners build a stronger foundation for sustainable  economic growth that will endure beyond the life of existing mines.   Report to Society 2010 18 As diamonds are a finite resource, the sustainability of diamond mining  is ultimately measured by its ability to catalyse economic and social  development that endures beyond the life of a mine. Economics Maintaining value for producers Revenues from diamonds play a key role in driving economic  development. In 2010, De Beers paid US$5.0 billion (2009: US$3.4  billion) or 85% of total sales, to governments, suppliers, employees,  shareholders and other finance providers. A total of US$3.33 billion   or 66.6% of diamond revenues was paid to stakeholders in Africa   (2009: 64.4%). These revenues represent our single biggest economic impact,  providing a catalyst for activity and investment. They result in  multiplier effects that maximise the economic value of the recovery  and sale of diamonds, and support the development of infrastructure  and capabilities that will continue to deliver value beyond the life of  the resource. our role in developing economies  Our role in supporting economic development varies from country to  country, depending on the nature of our operations and the structure  of each countrys economy. Botswana Botswana has the best record of economic development driven by  natural resources in Africa. As the single largest industry in Botswana,  diamond mining has generated revenues that enabled the rapid  transformation of Botswana from one of Africas poorest countries  when it achieved independence in 1967, to one of Africas richest per  capita by the 1990s. Diamond mining is also the primary source of government revenue,  contributing around 30% of GDP and 80% of export earnings.  Botswana is the worlds largest diamond producer, delivering   21% of global output by value in 2010 (see Fig. 10 overleaf). In addition to taxes and royalties from Debswana, a 50/50 joint venture  between De Beers and the Government of the Republic of Botswana  (GRB), the GRB receives dividend income from its 15% shareholding   in De Beers sa, the holding company for the De Beers Family of  Companies. This means that roughly four dollars out of every five  generated by Debswana is accrued as government revenues to the  people of Botswana.  We will continue this partnership with Cut-8, the US$3 billion extension  to the Jwaneng Mine that commenced in 2010. Cut-8 will maintain  current production levels well beyond 2015, and extend the life of  mine to at least 2025 (see feature, p22-23).  All too often the resource curse has hindered the development   of resource-rich nations. De Beers approach to supporting  development is to work in partnership with host governments   to create shared value from diamonds. Our partnership approach  extends to national and local communities in our producer  countries. Working in this way maximises the economic value   of our production, reduces our operating risk and helps   support the creation of skills and capacities for a diversified  post-mining economy. We use various methods to support economic development   in the countries where we operate. We source materials and  services from local and indigenous suppliers. We support  enterprise development through dedicated investment funds,   and undertake traditional social investment projects (for   example, supporting local infrastructure, education and health).   In beneficiation, we work with host governments to ensure that  more of the sustainable value-adding steps of diamond processing,  beyond mining, take place within the producer country.  Identified economics risks In this section we summarise our management approach to  key Economics risks identified through our risk management  and stakeholder engagement approach to reporting (see  pages 9-15). These risks are:  Maintaining value for producers  Governance and revenue transparency  Success of beneficiation   Driving local growth, diversification  and capacity building   For a more detailed discussion of our performance in 2010   in managing these risks, please refer to the full Report   to Society, available at   www.debeersgroup.com KEy:    Long term   Medium term   Short term  Summary Review – Economics  The long term public-private partnership  between De Beers and the Botswana  Government, in the form of Debswana, has  stood the test of time. Debswana has played   an important part in Botswanas emergence   as a middle-income country, and the countrys  commendable achievements in economic  growth, infrastructure development,   education and health care are evident.   The lessons relating to the benefits of  cooperation continue to be applied   by the Government in other fields.    linah mohohlo  Governor of the Central Bank of Botswana   and member of Debswana Board Namibia Diamond mining is a major industry in Namibia, contributing around  8% of GDP and 40% of export earnings. Approximately 6% of the  worlds rough diamonds by value are mined in Namibia. Namdeb is a 50/50 joint venture between De Beers and the  Government of the Republic of Namibia. It is the countrys largest  taxpayer, and one of the largest private sector employers. Since its  establishment in 1994, Namdeb has generated vital revenues that   have been central to the governments development efforts. Marine mining also takes place in Namibia and is operated by   De Beers Marine Namibia, which is jointly owned by De Beers and   the Government of the Republic of Namibia. Under the current  operating model, Namdebs land-based operations are due to cease  by 2014, raising the prospect of potential closure. In 2010 Namdebs  management developed a proposal for extending the life of mine  through mining the inner sea shelf. With the appropriate fiscal  environment, this plan – called Vision 2050 – would enable a   US$1 billion investment to potentially extend Namdeb land operations  to 2050.  Canada and South Africa Compared to Botswana and Namibia, the diamond sector plays a  more modest role in the South African and Canadian economies.  South Africa produces approximately 10% of the worlds rough  diamonds by value (representing about 1% of GDP). In 2010 our mining  operation, DBCM, mined 7.6 million carats (2009: 4.8 million carats). Although Canada accounts for about 14% of global rough diamond  production by value, the sector plays a relatively minor national  economic role due to the scale and diversified nature of the   economy. In 2010 De Beers Canada mined 1.8 million carats (2009:   1.1 million carats). In South Africa, we have sold or are selling a number of mining   assets, including the sale of Jagersfontein Mine to a Black Economic  Empowerment Consortium. De Beers is specialised to optimise  production from new, or mid-life mines. We seek to extend the value  and life of these assets towards the end of their lives by selling them   to operators specialised in generating value from late-life mines.   www.debeersgroup.com www.debswana.com  www.namdeb.com  www. debeerscanada.com Governance and revenue transparency Good governance and revenue transparency underpin the success   of our partner governments in translating the shared value realised by  our mining operations into lasting benefit. This has created a relatively  stable and predictable long term operating environment that has in  turn enabled our mining and downstream businesses to focus on  generating maximum value from existing diamond resources.  The clear correlation between good governance, local benefit and  operational stability not only underwrites De Beers approach to  partnership, but also informs our direct engagement with relevant  public policy issues.  resource revenue transparency In 2010, increased market confidence drove up sales. Our focus on  seeking maximum value from every carat we produced in meeting  this increase in demand also helped drive greater revenues and   profit. Increased sales correlate directly to increased revenues for  producer countries.  19  Report to Society 2010 20 Note: World diamond production data is based on volume (carat) production and  economic information available in the public domain. Non-De Beers carat production  data is from publicly available sources only; production values for artisanal and illicit  are De Beers estimates, using in-house expertise and knowledge, and these figures  are checked against Kimberley Process figures (when available). 2010 estimates for  diamond value per carat, made by De Beers, have been applied to the volume (carat)  production data to establish the annual production values in nominal USD. Approximate proportion of GDP from diamond production data has been calculated  from publicly available economic data provided by international financial institutions  and respective governments, in-house world diamond production calculations (as  above), and De Beers Group distributions to local governments and companies. fig. 10 The role of diamond production   in our countries of operation  Approximate proportion of GDP that comes from diamond production  Approximate proportion of GDP that comes from other sources botswana 21% namibia 5.9% south aftrica 10.2% canada 13.6% other countries 49.3% botswana namibia south africa canada 30% 70% 8% 92% 1% 99% 0.1% 99.9% world diamond   production Payments to governments In 2010, we paid US$1.2 billion in taxes and royalties to governments.  Of these payments, 93% (US$1.1 billion) were made to governments in  Africa. Further indirect tax benefits are generated through payments  made by our shareholders, suppliers, contractors, Sightholders and  business partners in the diamond value chain. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative De Beers has been a supporter of the Extractive Industries  Transparency Initiative (EITI) since it launched in 2003. The EITI  supports improved governance in resource-rich countries or those  countries predominantly reliant on natural resources. Although not  members of EITI, all of the countries we operate in demonstrate high  levels of transparency as reported by Transparency International.    www.eiti.org www.transparency.org.uk Success of beneficiation Beyond mining, our aim is to ensure that as many stages as possible   of the diamond production process are conducted in each of the  producing countries in which we operate, in order to create a  sustainable platform from which a positive economic contribution   can be made. Through beneficiation, we work with our government  partners to ensure that more diamond processing activities take place  in our producer countries in southern Africa and in Canada. These  activities allow diamond producers to extract greater short term   value from their existing resources, while simultaneously creating  sustainable post-mining diamond economies. supporting beneficiation To support beneficiation, a proportion of the diamonds we mine are  offered for sale to Sightholders (the diamantaire clients of the Family   of Companies) within our producer countries (see Fig. 11). These  diamonds are then cut and polished within that country, adding  significant value beyond the mining stage. As well as aiming to extract maximum long term value from   diamond assets, beneficiation promotes local job creation and skills  development. It also stimulates further domestic investment from  international business involved in later stages of the diamond pipeline. The ultimate goal of beneficiation is to support the development of a  diverse and broad based post-mining economy that will survive long  beyond a producer countrys finite diamond resources.  Africa   Europe   North America   Asia/Australia   Middle East and Other  Africa   Europe   North America   Asia/Australia   Middle East and Other fig. 9 salaries and other  employee costs   Partners, joint ventures and  suppliers (payments for  diamonds and to suppliers)   Finance providers  (payments on debt and  preference shares)   Employees (salaries and  other employee costs)  Governments (taxation)    Dividend payments to  minorities payments to  stakeholders Payments to stakeholders, 2010 (US$ million) 2,915 472 676 29 – 4,092 176 527 196 – 215 201 110 1 – payments for diamonds   and to suppliers  21 Summary Review – Economics Driving local growth, diversification   and capacity building  While the revenues from our diamond operations have the most direct  impact on the growth of our producer countries economies, the other  ways we support local economic development include:  Direct employment and employment of local contractors;  Preferential procurement from local and disadvantaged groups; and  Enterprise development and social investment. These activities present a compelling value proposition to  governments in the face of a decreasing supply of diamonds nationally  and globally. The success of our business therefore depends on finding  a framework for mutual benefit, with the positive local impacts of our  operations not only measured by revenues, but by the contributions of  our operations in employment, capacity building and the development  of infrastructure and institutions that extend beyond the life of mine. Employment  At the end of 2010, the Family of Companies (with the exception of E6 and  DBDJ) employed 13,477 personnel worldwide in our mining and sales  operations. Almost 12,000 (around 90%) of these were based in Africa. Employee salaries and other costs, including social security, health care  and pension contributions, grew to US$527 million in 2010 from  US$456 million in 2009. preferential procurement Preferential procurement, including from indigenous or historically  disadvantaged groups, continues to play a key role in our approach to  economic development and economic diversification in host countries. Table 1: Preferential procurement spend, 2008-2010 (US$ million) country preferential  procurement  group 2008 2009 2010 Botswana Citizen-owned and  local companies US$478 million US$328 million US$348 million Canada First Nations  suppliers US$218 million US$86 million US$94 million Namibia Historically  Disadvantaged  Namibian   (HDN) owned,  empowered   and influenced  businesses US$9 million US$14 million* US$3 million South   Africa Historically  Disadvantaged  South African (HDSA)  owned, empowered   and influenced  companies US$271 million US$182 million US$272 million *Please note figure includes procurement spend by De Beers Marine Namibia,  which is not included in other years. In 2010, approximately US$715 million was allocated to preferential  procurement in southern Africa and Canada (2009: US$611 million).  This reflects a significant reduction in overall preferential procurement  spend from the pre-downturn levels of 2008. Enterprise development We operate investment funds to promote enterprise development   in Botswana, Namibia and South Africa, through Peo Venture Capital,  Namdeb Foundation, and the De Beers Fund/De Beers Zimele,  respectively. These contribute to employment, economic  diversification and the creation of alternative post-mining livelihoods. progress The Diamond Trading Company (DTC), our sales and distribution   arm, manages beneficiation, promoting and developing diamond- related activities in producer countries in alignment with our  government partners.  Three locally established sales and distribution organisations drive our  programme in southern Africa. DTC Botswana (a 50/50 joint venture  with the government of Botswana), Namibia DTC (a 50/50 joint venture  with the government of Namibia) and DTC South Africa (100% owned  by De Beers). These organisations now supply 16, 10 and 13  Sightholders, respectively. In Canada beneficiation is managed directly  by the DTC, which currently supplies rough diamonds for manufacture  and provides marketing support to two Sightholder operations. Each of these entities promotes in-country wealth creation and skills  development by:  Establishing their own domestic sorting and valuing operations;  Making assortments of rough diamonds available to local  Sightholders for manufacture in the producer country;  Providing marketing support and expertise to local Sightholders. Despite significantly increased sales levels over 2009, the   lingering effects of the economic downturn led to the formal   closure of one Sightholder in Canadas Northwest Territories and   one Sightholder in Namibia.  Taxes, royalties and charges 2009   Taxes, royalties and charges 2010 709 475 210 142 174 71 37 24 800 600 400 200 canada south africa namibia botswana fig. 12 Revenue contributions to host  governments, 2009 and 2010   (US$ million) 800 400 1200 2010 2009 2008 366 193 122 264 172 573 482 225 470  South Africa (DTC SA)   Namibia (NDTC)   Botswana (DTCB)  fig. 11 Rough diamond sales in southern  Africa, 2010 (US$ million)  Jwaneng Cut-8 The Cut-8 extension to Debswanas Jwaneng Mine represents an  historic landmark in the 41-year partnership between De Beers and  the people of Botswana. Diamond mining has played a fundamental  role in transforming Botswana to the successful middle-income nation  it is today. Diamonds currently contribute around one-third   of GDP, and over 80% of foreign earnings. Roughly four out   of every five dollars generated by the partnership contributes   to government revenues.  Jwaneng is the most valuable of Debswanas mines,  contributing 60-70% of Debswanas total earnings. The  Cut-8 project will extend the life of the mine to at least  2025. As well as contributing value to the economy it will  bring local benefits to the Jwaneng community in the  form of jobs, increased business for local and citizen- owned enterprises, and investment in social infrastructure  such as housing, schools and hospitals. Cut-8 will transform Jwaneng into a super-pit – one of   the largest open cast mines in the world. It is a huge and  technically challenging undertaking. It demonstrates   both Debswanas commitment to maximising the life   of Jwaneng, and Botswanas ongoing leadership, in   turning natural resources into shared national wealth.  Report to Society 2010 22 cut-7 cut-8 cut-6 cut-5 cEntrE  pipE 2011  330m 2017  624m cut-8 cut-7 cut-5 cEntrE pipE  (diamond bearing ore) cut-6 cross sEction of thE JwanEng minE, botswana oVErhEad ViEw n 1640m 2320m cut-8  Jwaneng Mine is an open  cast mine. Mining is done in  a series of cutbacks into the  earth surrounding the  kimberlite deposit to enable  mining at increasing depths.  Cut-8 is the biggest cut to  be mined at Jwaneng. w  Summary Review – Economics 23 US$3 billion in,  US$15 billion out 700 million tonnes 86% citizens 2,000 people  Debswana will invest an  estimated US$3 billion in the  project over a fifteen-year period.  This represents the single largest  private investment in the history  of Botswana. It includes all  project stages – feasibility,  design, implementation, and  mining operations – as well as  the cost of plant and equipment.  In enabling Cut-8 to continue  production at current levels, the  project will liberate diamonds  worth an estimated US$15 billion.  The scale of the mining operation  for Cut-8 catapults Jwaneng to  super-pit status. Currently,  Jwaneng is mining to a depth of  330 metres. This will increase to  624 metres by 2017. As mining  happens at increasing depths   it gets more technically  challenging, more costly, and  requires the removal of ever- greater quantities of waste to  reach the kimberlite deposit.  Cut-8 will see the removal of  three times the amount of waste  that is currently being moved, to  continue to access the same  volume of ore. In total almost 700  million tonnes of waste earth will  be moved.  Operating a mine of this size in a  cost-effective and efficient way  requires a different kind of  operating culture and a new set  of skills. To meet these  challenges, Debswana is  investing heavily in cutting edge  technology and in the skills and  expertise of its people. Jwaneng Mine employs over  2,500 people in normal  operations. An additional 1,400  jobs were created by Cut-8 in  2010, 86% of which have gone to  Botswana citizens. In addition to  providing direct employment,  Cut-8 will enable the growth of  new businesses and create  opportunities for local suppliers  through preferential  procurement. To date, 51% of  contracts awarded in relation   to Cut-8 have been to citizen- owned or Botswana-based  companies. Cut-8 is expected to bring an  influx of 2,000 additional people  to Jwaneng town and the  surrounding villages. To help  support a thriving local  community Debswana continues  to engage in extensive  community consultation, and   to invest in the upgrade and  development of local  infrastructure and facilities.   The Cut-8 Legacy Project,   which encourages contractor  companies to fund social  investment projects, has already  seen several local schools benefit  from new classrooms, computers  and other equipment. In addition,  Debswana is funding a BWP2.2  million (US$324,000) project to  extend the pharmacy and  out-patient department of the  Jwaneng Mine Hospital, built by  local contractor, Majoboge  Construction. The new facilities  will allow better control of health  care issues, patient flow, and  infection control.   This, indeed, is a momentous  occasion that will go down in  the annals of history as one   of the major milestones in the  continuing development of   our country.   hE president Khama,  speaking at the launch of the Cut-8 project, December 2010.   a	Employees	at	Jwaneng	Mine.   b	 	Pharmacist	at	Jwaneng	Hospital. 	 c	 	Aerial	view	of	Jwaneng	Mine. 	 d		Waste	material	being	transported. E c d a b  etHics Protecting tHe inteGrity  oF DiAmonDs A selection of rough diamonds from Voorspoed Mine. 24  etHics 25 our commitmEnt   to mEEting thE highest ethical standards is foundEd on our aspiration to liVE up to thE unique qualities of diamonds. tHe BeHAviour oF our employees, tHe roBustness oF our compliAnce systems and our commitment to transparency maintain stakeholder confidence in our business and  play a key role in upholding diamond equity. De Beers aims to meet or exceed all applicable  statutory requirements, as well as international standards on ethical issues ranging from  conflict diamonds to anti-corruption. We also work with our business partners to embed  ethical standards throughout the diamond value chain.  Report to Society 2010 1 1 UN Resolution 55/66, 2000, http://daccess-dds-ny.un.org 26 Ethics The ethical provenance of diamonds is an important element of both   their financial and emotional value – what we call diamond equity.  Identified ethics risks In this section we summarise our management approach to  key Ethics risks identified through our risk management and  stakeholder engagement approach to reporting (see pages  9-15). These risks are:    Kimberley Process and System of Warranties credibility    Product security   Anti-corruption    Maintaining pipeline and sector standards               For a more detailed discussion of our performance in 2010   in managing these risks, please refer to the full Report to  Society, available at   www.debeersgroup.com KEy:    Long term   Medium term   Short term To ensure that the journey from mine to finger meets the highest  ethical standards, we have a mandatory, third party assured, code  of ethical business conduct – the Best Practice Principles Assurance  Programme (BPPs) – that applies not only to our own operations,  but also to our Sightholders, contractors and suppliers. To support ethical standards more broadly we work with sectoral  initiatives such as the Responsible Jewellery Council, and comply  with and promote the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme   and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative protocols.  Together, these initiatives assure the provenance of our diamonds  and facilitate the responsible distribution of the revenues our  business generates in producer countries. Kimberley Process and System   of Warranties credibility Established in 2000 and implemented in 2003, the Kimberley Process  Certification Scheme (Kimberley Process) aims to eliminate conflict  diamonds from the legitimate diamond supply chain. The United  Nations defines conflict diamonds as rough diamonds which are   used by rebel movements to finance their military activities, including  attempts to undermine or overthrow legitimate Governments.1 providing assurance from export to point of sale The Kimberley Process requires rough diamonds to be sealed in  tamper-resistant containers and be accompanied by forgery-resistant  certificates with unique serial numbers each time they cross an  international border. The scheme is enshrined in the legislation of   the 75 participating countries (including the 27 member states of   the European Union, represented by the European Commission).   As a result of the Kimberley Process, the World Diamond Council  estimates that less than 1% of the global supply of rough diamonds  originates from areas of conflict. To support implementation of the Kimberley Process, the diamond  industry developed the System of Warranties. This requires companies  to ensure that all invoices for rough or polished diamonds, and  diamond jewellery, include a written guarantee that the diamonds  invoiced are conflict free. Records of all warranty invoices given and  received must be kept and externally audited on an annual basis. a challenging year In 2010, issues associated with exports from Zimbabwe dominated  events in the Kimberley Process. Other developments in the year  included:  Successful submission of annual reports by 47 participants  representing 73 countries.  Agreements and progress on non-compliance and certification  issues in Ivory Coast, Venezuela and Guinea.  Closer collaboration with other branches of government and  international organisations, such as the World Customs Organisation,  to enhance security and enforcement.  Recognition of the need to clarify the relationship between human  rights and implementation of the Kimberley Process.  27 taking concerted action To combat these threats to the security of our diamonds, we launched  an invigorated Global Security Strategy. This involved an organisational  restructuring, which led to the recruitment of a Global Head of  Security and a broader base of security specialists, both in central  management and at our operations. In addition, we continue to  develop our work with security forces, and have implemented more  stringent screening processes when recruiting to ensure the integrity  of our employees.  Driving continuous  improvement of social and  environmental standards   across the diamond pipeline   is a challenge, but one which   is exceptionally rewarding   when we see positive movements  towards best practice from both  our own business units and   our Sightholders.   purvi shah  Responsible Business   Initiatives Executive Summary Review – Ethics the Kimberley process and Zimbabwe Kimberley Process participants failed to reach a consensus on the  export of diamonds from Zimbabwes Marange Region in 2010.  Following a deadlock in the first half of 2010, an interim agreement   was reached in July allowing Zimbabwe to export two tranches of  production in August and September. However talks broke down  again in November and, as a result, no further exports from Marange  were permitted by the end of the year. Since its inception, the Kimberley Process has been effective in  preventing conflict diamonds from being used to fund rebellions  against legitimate governments. In recent years however the  Kimberley Process has come under increasing pressure to address  in-country human rights abuses such as those alleged to have taken  place in Zimbabwe.  This has not enjoyed the universal support of Kimberley Process  members, some of whom argue that it opens the door for the  politicisation of the Kimberley Process. They argue that Zimbabwes  treatment by the Kimberley Process demonstrates this. The Zimbabwe  issue is the sternest challenge yet encountered by the Kimberley  Process. Its eventual resolution will clearly have considerable influence  in shaping the future of the Kimberley Process itself. The Kimberley Process helps diamond producers to access important  consumer markets and to this extent plays an important role in  ensuring that diamonds are able to generate revenues to support  social and economic development in African producer countries. Thus,  while De Beers does not operate in Zimbabwe, we continue to work  with stakeholders to resolve the Zimbabwean issue within the  framework of the Kimberley Process. supporting the Kimberley process  All De Beers diamonds are certified conflict free and are produced   in full compliance with national and international law, the Kimberley  Process and our Best Practice Principles Assurance Programme (BPPs).  Both an internal audit of our BPPs (see case study on p29) and an  external audit of our relevant business units verified our 100%  compliance in 2010.  While accepting that the Kimberley Process faces ongoing challenges,  we remain deeply committed to the initiative and its positive  development.  Product security Product security and loss prevention were heightened risk areas for  De Beers in 2010. The theft of product – rough diamonds – from our  operations not only impairs our financial performance, but also reduces  the revenues available to our producer governments to maximise the  resource for sustainable development. The involvement of criminal  syndicates in the illegal diamond trade also exposes our employees to  coercion and facilitates the entry of diamonds into the illicit economy.  assessing the risk To assess this risk, we conducted a review of the impact of the illicit  diamond trade on our business in 2010, through direct activities to  identify and trace illegal trading lines around our mines, and working  in partnership with security forces (see case study on p29). The review revealed weaknesses in our security systems and the  involvement of criminal syndicates in sophisticated theft from our  operations. Having determined the scale and nature of the challenges,  we conducted an audit study to assess the efficacy of internal  diamond control measures across the Family of Companies.  Report to Society 2010 28 Moving into 2011, De Beers will be driving a Loss Prevention  programme, up-skilling management and empowering individuals,   as Loss Prevention Leaders, to be agents for change at each site.  De Beers believes operational failure may create opportunities for   theft or other losses to occur. The Loss Prevention programme seeks   to reduce opportunities for theft through a systematic approach   for addressing operational failures.   Anti-corruption Corruption is recognised to be one of the worlds greatest   business challenges. It undermines good governance and the rule   of law, distorts fair competition and hinders economic growth   and development.  We explore for, mine and market diamonds in a number of countries  that are independently recognised as having a high risk of corruption.  As such, it is imperative that staff most at risk of exposure receive  appropriate training and have access to relevant channels through  which they can learn how to combat corruption and, where necessary,  confidentially disclose the activity. tackling corruption We are committed to fighting corruption and ensuring that we have   in place rigorous procedures to help identify and manage corruption  risk throughout our operations. Given the increasingly far-reaching  legislation in the area of bribery and corruption, especially the UK  Bribery Act, and the potential reputational impact of being implicated  in corrupt activity, in 2010 we commenced a process of improving our  already robust Anti-Corruption Programme even further by:  Establishing an anti-corruption steering committee and working  group;  Revising the group policy on anti-corruption, which reiterates our  zero tolerance approach to corruption. To further mitigate corruption risks, the Family of Companies does not  generally participate, directly or indirectly, in party politics, nor does it  make payments to public officials (see stakeholder question). Whistleblowing Employees are encouraged to report any activity that they believe is,  or may be, unsafe, unethical, unlawful or otherwise contrary to our  Values and Principles. In 2010, we started work on updating our  reporting (whistleblowing) policy and consolidated the provision   of the reporting facility under a single service provider to facilitate  better monitoring and management. No significant incidents of corruption were identified during 2010.   No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed on the  Family of Companies in relation to non-compliance with anti- corruption legislation and regulations.  We do not tolerate unethical or illegal behaviour and will dismiss  individuals that breach our anti-corruption requirements. As a result   of whistleblowing and independent internal investigations there   were 710 internal investigations into alleged illegalities and/or  breaches of the current Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at   our operations in 2010, resulting in the dismissal of 132 employees   (2009: 634 investigations, 165 dismissals*).  In 2011, ongoing activities include finalising and adopting new   Group policies on anti-corruption and whistleblowing, undertaking  corruption risk assessments, developing and enhancing existing  procedures to help manage corruption risk, awareness-raising and  providing training.  Maintaining pipeline   and sector standards It is in the long term interest of the diamond industry to meet  consumer and stakeholder expectations relating to business ethics,  economic contribution to diamond-producing countries, health and  safety, labour standards and the environment. We work towards  meeting these expectations through the application of our business  principles, policies and standards, as well as the Best Practice Principles  Assurance Programme (BPPs). a focus on continuous improvement We developed the BPPs as a continually evolving standard with an  intention to ensure that consumers buying diamond jewellery can rely  on the professional, ethical and technical standards of the gem  diamond industry. The BPP Requirements are based on local and  international legislation and conventions and incorporate best  practice measuring and reporting standards. The Programme   protects against unacceptable ethical, social and environmental  business practices that might undermine consumer confidence   in diamond jewellery.  The BPPs apply to all De Beers operations and, since 2005, to our  customers, known as Sightholders. Complying with the BPPs and the  Assurance Programme is a contractual requirement for Sightholders.  The BPPs also apply to De Beers and Sightholders Significant Diamond  Contractors. As a result, the BPPs cover almost a quarter of a million  people globally who work in the diamond industry (see Fig. 13).  an independently assured programme The BPP Assurance Programme ensures conformance to the BPPs by  these entities. In this process all participating De Beers Group  companies, Sightholders, DTC Accredited Businesses and contractors  submit annual self-assessment workbooks outlining their  conformance with the requirements of the BPPs. Our internal audit  team also assesses conformance to the BPPs by all De Beers  companies each year. An independent third party verifier – Socit  Gnrale de Surveillance (SGS) – then undertakes desktop verification  stakeholder question What is De Beers policy on political  donations? The Family of Companies does not directly or indirectly  participate in party politics nor does it make payments to  individuals. In exceptional cases, political donations may  be made in support of the democratic process. They are  made only to pro-democratic registered parties that are  committed to the protection of human rights, good  governance and the rule of law, and are fully disclosed.  These are parties that support regular multi-party  elections, sound financial/fiscal policies, executive  accountability and parliamentary oversight. We believe  these criteria support our shared long term goal of a more  transparent and responsible business environment. No political donations were made by the Family of  Companies in 2010. *2009 figures differ from those previously reported. Three additional investigations  were conducted in 2009 resulting in three additional dismissals.  29 Summary Review – Ethics  Once again, discussions   on Zimbabwe overshadowed  positive progress on other   issues. At the Jerusalem plenary  meeting, decisions were taken to  establish a committee mandated  to improve the future efficiency  of the Kimberley Process;   in-depth discussions were held  on enforcement in West Africa;  and a decision was taken to  formalise cooperation with the  World Customs Organisation. global witness and partnership africa canada,   5 November 2010 case study: product security  Working in partnership  Through our drive to combat the illicit trade of diamonds, we  work with national intelligence agencies across southern  Africa. To date, we have established communications with  law enforcement agencies including the World Customs  Organisations and Interpol, and have set up joint  operations with both national and provincial offices of the  South African Police Service. Together with these agencies,  De Beers is taking steps not only to impact the availability  of rough diamonds to the illicit market, but also to tackle  the existence of these illegal trading channels.    a		Cutting	and	polishing	facility,	 established	by	SAFDICO,	 Gaborone.   b	 	Diamond	shipment	at	the	DTC,	 London.   c	 	Rough	diamonds	being	sorted	 from	waste	rock. fig. 13 Best Practice Principles coverage a  Employees of the De Beers Family of Companies  (excluding E6 and DBDJ) covered by the BPPs b  Employees of Sightholders and their significant  contractors, Family of Companies significant  contractors, and DTC accredited businesses covered  by the BPPs a  13,447  b  229,918 total   243,365 of a randomly selected sample of these workbooks (one third of total  workbooks submitted on a yearly basis) and conducts onsite audits   of a sample of all De Beers companies, Sightholders and DTC  Accredited Businesses.  The number of verification visits allocated to each Sightholder Group is  dependent on the total number of entities within their Group. In 2010,  10% of these entities were assessed on average, equating to around  114 visits. All major infringements of the BPPs by Sightholder entities  found in 2009 were closed during 2010 following corrective action  procedures. The 2010 audit cycle showed 12 Sightholders to have at  least one major case of non-compliance (2009: 14), from a total of 135  infringements across all Sightholder groups. (2009: 136). Major  Infringements of health and safety requirements were also noted at  Victor mine and corrective action plans were duly developed.  promoting better practice across the industry De Beers is a founding member of the Responsible Jewellery Council  (RJC). The RJC is a not-for-profit membership organisation that aims to  use the ethical standards members demand of themselves and those  they do business with, to reinforce confidence across the diamond and  gold jewellery supply chain. The RJC has developed a certification system for members for  responsible ethical, social and environmental practices throughout the  jewellery supply chain. In 2010, we integrated the requirements of the  new RJC certification scheme into the BPP Assurance Programme,   and provided all Sightholders with the option to participate in the RJC  certification process through our bespoke in-house systems. As a  mining entity, the Family of Companies aims to be RJC certified in 2012. a c b  Different social, ethical and environmental issues arise  along the diamond pipeline. These range from conflict  diamonds, to corruption, to environmental degradation.  We work across our operations, and with our partners and  industry peers, to address these issues at multiple levels.  Consumers want to know that when they purchase a  diamond it is natural and untreated. As part of our work to  maintain consumer confidence we invest in developing  cutting-edge detection technologies, which are used by  leading diamond grading labs and major diamond  companies worldwide. We also work with governments   to ensure that the right regulatory frameworks are in   place so that synthetics, simulants and treated diamonds  are disclosed. Diamond integrity Diamonds are a unique luxury product. They hold a special place in  peoples hearts and minds. Maintaining consumer confidence in  diamonds and protecting their ethical integrity is essential to ensuring  diamonds live up to the emotional promise they embody.  Report to Society 2010 2. Transparency  and accountability anti-corruption De Beers operates in a number of  countries that are independently  recognised as having a high risk  of corruption. We work to ensure  that employees who are most  exposed to this risk receive  appropriate training and have  access to relevant channels to  learn how to combat corruption  and, where necessary,  confidentially disclose the activity.  Extractive industries  transparency initiative (Eiti) De Beers has supported the   EITI since its inception. The  international initiative aims to  improve governance in resource- rich countries through the  verification and full publication   of company payments and  government revenues from   oil, gas and mining. 1. Consumer  confidence detection and disclosure The non-disclosure of the  treatment of natural diamonds,  and the misrepresentation of  simulants and synthetics as  natural diamonds, undermines  consumer confidence in the  integrity of our product. In  addition to our Best Practice  Principles Assurance Programme,  we actively support international  standards around disclosure, and  our Research and Development  Division produces innovative  detection technology to support  the identification of treated  diamonds, simulants   and synthetics. 30  Summary Review – Ethics 3. Conflict free  diamonds Kimberley process The issue of conflict diamonds  has been the greatest single  threat to consumer confidence   in diamonds in western markets  over the past decade. The  Kimberley Process has been  highly successful in stemming  the flow of conflict diamonds  with over 99% of the global  supply of rough diamonds  estimated to be conflict free   by the World Diamond Council.  De Beers diamonds are 100%  conflict free and we require all of  our business units and partners  across the pipeline to be fully  compliant with the Kimberley  Process Certification Scheme and  the System of Warranties. 4. Ethical  Standards best practice principles  assurance programme (bpps) The BPPs apply to all De Beers  operations and to those of our  customers – the Diamond  Trading Company Sightholders  – and Significant Contractors.   A third party verified programme,  the BPPs require disclosure of   all use of synthetic diamonds,  diamond treatments and  simulant diamonds, as well as  adherence to strict social and  environmental standards. They  cover issues such as health and  safety, human rights, child labour,  corruption, and environmental  management. Since the  implementation of the BPPs in  2003, they have transformed the  international cutting and  polishing industry. In 2010   over 243,000 diamond industry  workers in 57 countries were  covered by the BPPs. 31 Forevermark Launched in 2008, Forevermark is De Beers  proprietary diamond brand. Forevermark  diamonds come with a promise of quality   and integrity. Each one is inscribed with the  Forevermark icon and a unique identification  number that provides quality assurance and  enables traceability. The inscription is made using  highly advanced technology. Invisible to the  naked eye, it can only be seen using a special  viewer, in authorised Forevermark Jewellers.  Every Forevermark Diamond partner must meet  the Forevermark Pipeline Integrity Standard –  a groundbreaking set of rigorous responsible  sourcing standards for the diamond industry.  Written in conjunction with the British Standards  Institution, it incorporates the Kimberley Process  Certification Scheme and compliance to the  De Beers Best Practice Principles Assurance  Programme as well as additional Forevermark  requirements. It is currently the worlds largest  Track & Trace system for diamonds and is  independently verified. Only the highest quality  diamonds are selected as Forevermark diamonds.  Forevermark diamonds are now available in over  300 authorised Jewellers in Hong Kong, Japan,  China, Singapore, the Caribbean, and Mexico.  For further information please visit   www.forevermark.com Diamond  Integrity  employees Empowering our people Diamond sorting at Harry Oppenheimer House, Kimberley. 32  employees 33 Ensuring  ThE hEalTh, safety and wellbeing  of our EmployEEs is a sharEd commiTmEnT  throughout the Family   of companiEs. We strive to ensure that everyone Who comes to Work  acquires skills and resources to contribute positively to their communities. By employing and  developing local talent at all levels of the business, engaging proactively with priority  concerns of our producer countries such as HIV/Aids, and meeting or exceeding all   relevant global labour standards, we aim to create a working culture where all employees   take a shared responsibility for the delivery of our business goals.  Report to Society 2010 34 Employees Our business model is built on creating a working culture   where all our employees take a shared responsibility for the   delivery of our business goals.  Identified employee risks In this section we summarise our management approach to  key Employee risks identified through our risk management  and stakeholder engagement approach to reporting (see  pages 9-15). These risks are:   Managing changes to the size of the workforce   Attracting and retaining talent   Maintenance of health, safety and occupational  hygiene standards   HIV and Aids management           For a more detailed discussion of our performance in 2010   in managing these risks, please refer to the full Report to  Society, available at    www.debeersgroup.com KEy:    Long term   Medium term   Short term This includes ensuring the health, safety and wellbeing of our  employees through effective safety management systems,  respecting their right to associate freely and bargain collectively,  and meeting or exceeding all relevant global labour standards.  Through our employment activities we also contribute to meeting  national development goals by building local capacity in  employing and developing local talent at all levels of the business.  We also engage proactively with priority concerns such as HIV/Aids,  Black Economic Empowerment, and gender equity. This reflects  our long term commitment to the countries in which we operate.  Local employment helps build a wider skill base, and our proactive  engagement on priority concerns, whilst the right thing to do,  encourages our employees to make a more substantial emotional  investment in the business. Managing changes to   the size of the workforce  2010 was a year of consolidation across the business as we adapted   to a leaner workforce. The downturn in the rough diamond market   of 2008 and 2009 transformed the structure of our business (see  Fig. 14), with a 23% reduction in the size of our workforce in 2009,  primarily through retrenchment (see Fig. 16). The business has  committed to maintaining roughly this level of headcount and overall  our workforce grew by less than 2% (1.88%) in 2010. By the end of the  year non-permanent employees made up a larger proportion of the  workforce (see Fig. 14), in part due to the large number of contractors  employed for the Cut-8 project in Botswana. There are perennial risks around the need for our business to  responsibly and effectively manage changes to the size of the  workforce in response to market volatility and exceptional  circumstances, such as those seen in 2008 and 2009. Staffing levels  also fluctuate during the lifecycle of our mining operations and in  response to the needs of our business enterprises. This requires us to  engage proactively with our employees, unions, government partners,  contractors and communities to collectively maximise the benefits  and minimise the negative impacts of these changes.  Engaging with employees  In 2010 we focused on open channels of communication within   the organisation through the development of an internal networking  platform – Pipeline. We also undertook an employee engagement  survey to assess and review our employee value proposition. Engaging with unions  Engagement with unions in 2010 was essential in order to explain the  broader economic and commercial challenges facing the Family of  Companies. Union membership of skilled and semi-skilled workers in  our mining operations remained high in 2010, at 96% in Debswana,  89% at Namdeb, and 90% at DBCM.  Union negotiations took place in Botswana, Namibia and South Africa.  In addition to agreements on wages and employment conditions,   we focused on building company-union relationships post-recession.  Although the industrial relations climate has been generally positive,  negotiations in Botswana were particularly difficult due to the  ongoing operational review, because relationships become stressed  when work reductions become imminent.   35  I enjoy my job driving the loads to   and from the crusher. It is inspiring   to other women to see that this job   is not only for men. I have many  opportunities here and aim to   learn more about radio monitoring  and truck maintenance as my   career develops.   chandapiwa monamati,  Cat 789 haul truck operator   at Orapa Mine Summary Review – Employees areas of growth in 2010 Two key projects provided new employment opportunities in 2010.  The Cut-8 extension at Jwaneng Mine began in 2010, employing  nearly 2,000 staff by years end of whom 84% were Botswana nationals.  The majority of these new hires are employed by a contractor. Cut-8  will extend the life of Jwaneng to at least 2025, providing continued  employment for operational staff. As Snap Lake production returned  to pre-recession levels, 30 of the 99 employees retrenched in 2009  were re-employed in 2010. Forevermark also employed additional  people over the year to keep pace with its expansion, and plans to   hire 70 more in 2011.        Dismissed   Resigned or redundant Fig. 17 Labour turnover by region, 2010 (%)      Permanent   Non-permanent 20,000 16,000 12,000 8,000 4,000 15,000 12,000 9,000 6,000 3,000 15 12 9 6 3 Note 1: Figures 14 and 15 include employees from our joint ventures.  They do not include contractors or employees at E6 or DBDJ. *Note 2: A number of employees at our operations in Europe declined  to oer ethnic denitions of themselves, meaning their data has been  presented separately from our standard templates. This means we are  unable to accurately categorise such employees into permanent and  non-permanent categories. As the large majority are likely to be  permanent employees, we have categorised them as such. Note 3: Figures 16 and 17 present labour turnover for permanent  employees only. 15,547 12,484 11,718 1,675 836 1,729 Fig. 14 Workforce composition (permanent  and non-permanent), 2008-2010  Permanent  Non-permanent 2008 2009 2010 Fig. 15 Total workforce at year-end   by region, 2010 Fig. 16 Labour turnover, 2008-2010 (%)  Dismissed  Resigned or redundant Africa Asia Europe Canada 2 85 359* 20 10,339 1,636 71 935 North America Europe Asia Africa 0.9 6.8 2.3 2010 2009 2008 18.0 1.0 0.9 0.8 19.6 6.2 25 20 15 10 5 8.6 6.3 0.6 2.2  Report to Society 2010 36   a		3D	diamond	 scanner	training	 at	Kimberley.	   B	 	Logging	a	core	 sample,	Canada.   Attracting and retaining talent The strong recovery in the diamond market in 2010 placed particular  demands on our people to increase productivity and take on new   and challenging roles, whilst maintaining the lower cost base.   The exceptional financial results for the year were evidence of their  commitment and effort. As the global economy showed signs of  extended recovery, we reconsidered the risks presented by attracting,  retaining and developing talent. Ensuring we have the right talent in the right places within our  organisation to deliver our future strategy is essential for achieving   our short, medium and longer term business goals. Our talent  management approach focused on employee engagement, ongoing  skills development, and building our reputation as an employer of  choice, not only to attract the best talent but also to retain the talent   in the Family of Companies. The turnover of permanent employees   fell to 7% in 2010 from 20.3% in 2009. an employer of choice We aim to be the employer of choice, especially in our producer  countries. By employing and developing local talent at all levels of our  business we build local capacity, which in turn helps to build a wider  skills-base wherever we operate.  During 2010 we focused on training in high priority areas such as  safety and operations, and continued to provide a lean employee  development programme through:  Broadening of employment roles; and  Internal training courses.  Maintenance of health, safety and  occupational hygiene standards  The health and safety of our employees and contractors remains   our top priority. Ineffective management of health and safety   hazards exposes our people to harm, and our business to regulatory   or legal sanction.  safety Having operated for two years consecutively without a fatality Mr.  Rodney Becorney, a thirty-year old contractor, was fatally injured at  Orapa Mine in December. De Beers is uncompromising when it   comes to safety and we consider any fatality unacceptable.  In addition to one fatality, our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  increased to 0.24 per 200,000 hours from 0.21 in 2009, with a total of   58 lost time injuries recorded over the year (2009: 36).  Addressing our safety performance We are addressing the fall in our safety performance through  enhanced management interventions including the continued  roll-out of the Safety Risk Management Programme (SRMP). Introduced  in 2009, the SRMP educates employees and contractors to better  identify hazards and to assess and manage risks using a standard   set of tools and methods. The training and adoption of the programme continued across   all business units in 2010. We developed a new safety incident  classification system, encouraged better measurement and reporting  of leading indicators and issued a new guideline on contractor safety.  We also continued to promote a culture of safety awareness through  our Visible Felt Leadership programme. These steps will enable us to  improve the quality of our trend analysis, reporting and overall safety  performance tracking.  All major operations are currently certified OHSAS 18001 compliant,  with the exception of our Canadian business, which is scheduled   for certification in 2011. In 2011 we will continue to embed safety in  operational decision-making, employee performance management  and bonus programmes. health and wellbeing  Our holistic approach to the health and wellbeing of our employees,  including contractors, is articulated in a set of Health, Occupational  Hygiene and HIV Policies, and managed through a suite of standards  and guidelines. Our outcome standards for these management  processes include:   All employees being fit for the work they perform;   Undertaking risk-rated medical surveillance of employees;   An annual absenteeism rate for illness of less than 2%;   An occupational illness fatality rate of zero;   An occupational illness frequency rate (OIFR) of less than 5 cases   per million hours worked. An integrated approach To extend the cost efficiencies achieved by DBCM in 2009, during 2010  the health discipline focused on the appropriate consolidation and  integration of different components of health services and surveillance  across the Family of Companies. Our process included the integration  of primary care, occupational medical surveillance, emergency  medical care, HIV management and wellbeing initiatives (see p38-39).  a B  37 During 2010, a formal Occupational Hygiene Peer Group was created,  and focused on integrating exposure monitoring with medical  surveillance. The Health and Occupational Hygiene Peer Groups  collaborated to develop an occupational medical incident reporting  standard to record cases of occupational disease. Performance Throughout the integration process, the overall quality of our  occupational and emergency medical services at audited diamond  mining operations was maintained or improved. In 2010, eighteen  cases of occupational disease were diagnosed in employees across   the Family of Companies. DBCMs Occupational Illness Frequency Rate  (OIFR) continued to improve in 2010, reaching 0.15 cases per million  person hours worked (2009: 0.44). Group Exploration recorded a  baseline OIFR of 9.36, with malaria accounting for seven of the eight  cases reported.  Next steps We will continue to focus on the principal challenges we face   in looking after the health and wellbeing of our employees   and contractors.  Key among these is the difficulty of understanding the lifetime  exposure history for both permanent employees and contractors to  help identify and prevent exposure causing occupational disease.   We will be addressing this through additional data collection during  routine medical surveillance.  Other challenges we will be tackling include stress and mental   health, chronic disorders, womens health, and management of  contractor health. Summary Review – Employees HIV and Aids management  HIV remains a long term priority issue for employee wellbeing in   our southern African operations, where the majority of our employees  are based. Sub-Saharan Africa accounts for 67% of all global HIV  infections. With most of our operations in hyper-endemic countries,  exposure to HIV and Aids is a real threat to our employees health, their  families, the continuity of our business and to continued development  in Africa. Our vision and strategy for the management of the HIV risk includes  prevention, treatment, care and support. Our focus has been on  workplace treatment programmes during and after employment,   with the ultimate goal of integrating these programmes into the  public health systems of each of our countries of operation.  preventing hiV and aids Our awareness and training programmes are oriented towards  preventing and managing HIV and Aids, as well as related health risks  such as tuberculosis. We maintain a strong focus on translating high  awareness into behavioural change; in 2010 the My campaign, My  health, My wealth campaign run by Debswana and DTC Botswana  emphasized ownership of health outcomes by all employees.  We provide confidential HIV counselling and testing to all employees,  spouses, life partners and contractors and work in private-public  partnerships to help make HIV testing available in communities near  our operations.  providing free and ongoing treatment Anti-Retroviral Treatment (ART) is available free to HIV-infected  employees and their spouses or life partners where it can be   provided in a responsible and sustainable manner. In 2010, our ART  programmes in Botswana, Namibia and South Africa continued to   be coordinated by Aid for Aids, our principal Disease Management  Service Provider.  HIV treatment continues upon retirement or retrenchment. In  Botswana and Namibia employee treatment is seamlessly migrated  from company to government programmes, while in South Africa  employees ongoing treatment (since July 2010) is covered by medical  insurance schemes or the companys programme for the uninsured.  Almost 63% of the employees registered with one of our HIV  programmes since 2001 were still members at the end of 2010.  We are addressing the fall in  our safety performance through  enhanced management  interventions including the  continued roll-out of the Safety  Risk Management Programme  (SRMP).       Fig. 18 Safety performance, 2004-2010 (LTIFR and LTISR) Lost Time Injury Severity Rate (LTISR) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) LTISR 2004 6 fatalities 2005 2 fatalities 2006 2 fatalities 2008 6 fatalities 2009 0 fatalities 2010 1 fatality 2007 1 fatality 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 0 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3 LTIFR 106.89 0.25 98.16 35.96 37.89 22.53 6.52 5.17 0.22 0.19 0.18 0.19 0.21 0.24  38 Health and wellbeing  We take an holistic approach to the health and wellbeing of our  employees in and beyond the workplace.  Our aim is to identify possible causes of, prevent and  manage ill health, while promoting health and wellbeing  for the workforce, their families and our communities.  Forging partnerships to improve community health care  in the countries where we operate is one way we work  towards leaving a positive post-mine legacy. In 2010, our goal was to achieve appropriate,  comprehensive health service delivery while mining  activity returned to pre-recession levels. To achieve   this goal we focused on the integration of different  components of health services, from exposure  identification and occupational medical surveillance   to primary and emergency medical care.  Report to Society 2010 comprEhEnsiVE hEalTh carE dEliVEry Joining dE BEErs Environment and personal risk assessment  Case history collection, Health and safety induction Emergency medical care  Emergency preparedness  casE sTudy:  understanding the root causes of ill health It is well-known that kimberlite pipes may be associated with  exposure to asbestos. We collaborated with the South African  National Institute for Occupational Health (NIOH) researchers in   an attempt to quantify the risk of potential workplace and macro- environmental asbestos exposure for diamond mine workers.   A limited number of workplace and environmental samples were  taken from selected mines and analysed to augment an autopsy  data review. The research indicates the difficulty in identifying the  timing and sources of exposure and our need to gather better data  on lifetime exposure history. In addition, we identified the need for  cross-functional collaboration between geologists, occupational  hygiene and medical experts to understand and mitigate the  potential for asbestos exposure on all new mining operations.  casE sTudy:  a smart partnership for health care At Oranjemund in Namibia, health care is delivered through a  state-run primary health care clinic and the Namdeb-owned Private  Hospital in a smart partnership, which alleviates the need to send  non-insured community members to the nearest District Hospital  over 400 km away. Namdeb provides medical services, occupational  health and comprehensive care for employees, secondary medical  care for the community and also emergency medical care for the  crew of vessels operated by De Beers Marine Namibia. Their innovative model of maintaining expertise is to second  medical practitioners on rotation to the academic hospital in  Windhoek to update their emergency and operative skills so   they can provide better health care services. There has also been complete integration of the HIV and wellness  teams into the occupational health service in a one-stop approach  for employees which has enhanced the uptake of HIV counselling  and testing and reduced the stigma associated with a disease- specific programme. WorKing aT dE BEErs comprehensive primary health care  management systems: Health audits, Peer groups, Employee engagement a B  39 Summary Review – Employees BEyond EmploymEnT  seamless transfer to public health care  programmes for chronic conditions  HIV/Aids prevention and treatment casE sTudy:  providing long term care and support  Sub-Saharan Africa accounts for 67% of all global HIV infections and  most of our workforce is in the hyper-endemic countries where  exposure to HIV is a real threat to our employees health, their  families and the continuity of our business. Our holistic strategy for managing the HIV risk includes prevention,  treatment, care and support. We run awareness-raising sessions and  we provide confidential HIV counselling and testing to all  employees, spouses, life partners and contractors. Anti-Retroviral  Treatment (ART) is available free to HIV-infected employees and  their spouses or life partners where it can be provided in a  responsible and sustainable manner. Where it is not available  through public health systems, we continue to provide lifelong   ART upon retirement or retrenchment. continued occasional health surveillance  Noise, Dust, Endemic diseases  100% eligibility of  employees, spouses or   life partners for free   Anti-Retroviral   Treatment where it can   be provided responsibly   and sustainably.   a		Radiography	facilities	at	Orapa	Hospital.   B	 	Oranjemund	Hospital	Pharmacy. 	 c	 	A	nurse	conducting	a	health	check-up. c F A M I L Y C O M M U N I T Y W O R K holistic care of   our employees  Holistic care of our  employees, their  families and the  community in  partnership with  health care  stakeholders.   40 communities Supporting sustainable local  communities Tawana Pre-school at Debswanas Orapa Mine.   41 inVEsTmEnT in ThE  future of communities  BEyond ThE lifE of  our operations is  corE To rEcEiVing  our social licence  To opEraTE. With a positive track record in community engagement and investment  were more readily granted our local licence to operate. Thats true whether were seeking to  open, maintain, change or close a site. We pursue constructive, frank and stable relationships  with communities. Strong relationships help reduce the risk of operational disruption or  reputational damage but also help maximise the social and economic benefits we generate  from our operations for the long term future of communities.  communities  Report to Society 2010 42 Communities Our community engagement and investment is shaped not only   by stakeholders and policy requirements but also by our belief that   our mining operations should help in the generation of both economic  and social capital for all affected communities. Identified communities risks In this section we summarise our management approach to  key Communities risks identified through our risk  management and stakeholder engagement approach to  reporting (see pages 9-15). These risks are:   Local licence to operate   Social impact of closures and transfer of assets  Sustainable community social investment         For a more detailed discussion of our performance in 2010   in managing these risks, please refer to the full Report to  Society, available at     www.debeersgroup.com KEy:    Long term   Medium term   Short term A social or local licence to operate is crucial at all stages of the  mining lifecycle. We depend on it to gain access to new ground,   to develop existing mines and to close operations with a positive  post-mining legacy.  Without a social licence individual mines are at risk of operational  disruption and reputational damage could spread across the Family  of Companies, threatening the success of existing and future  operations. In managing these risks we seek to protect the long  term sustainability of our business.  Building sustainable social and economic benefits for local  communities beyond the life of a mine is the driving strategy of all  our community social investment. The principles that underpin our  community work are informed consent and mutual benefit. We aim  to know and work in partnership with communities; to understand  our impacts and responsibilities; and to manage both short and  long term community risks.  Local licence to operate The potential impacts of mines are variable, subject to the lifecycle  stage of the mine and the nature of the communities near our current  or prospective operations. Example impacts include the influx of  workers from outside of the community during construction and initial  operation; restrictions of community access to land and freedom of  movement due to mine safety and security measures; and the loss of  employment opportunities and other benefits due to mine closure.  Effective management of these impacts is particularly important   when operating in areas of socio-economic vulnerability or   cultural sensitivity.  We employ a number of formal, structured techniques and tools to  help us identify, assess and mitigate these impacts on communities  and to manage our relationships with them. We aim to contribute to  the development of sustainable local economies through a range of  social and economic programmes. These include capacity building,  infrastructure development, the provision of employment, strategic  social investment, enterprise development and the promotion of  procurement agreements with local suppliers. 2010 was a year of consolidation for the Community discipline as we  focused on formalising our approach in line with a leaner workforce  and lower cost-base. We maintained the risk-based approach to  managing community issues that we adopted across the Family of  Companies in 2009 due to resource constraints, where the community  relations that were most material to the sustainability of our operations  were prioritised.  42  43 understanding our impacts and responsibilities Our approach to community engagement is described in our Group  Community Policy which meets and exceeds international law and  industry protocols relating to the rights of local communities and  indigenous peoples, resettlement and compensation. Beyond the  management of risk, we recognise opportunities can arise from  effective management of our impacts. Our objective in these  circumstances is to maximise mutual benefit for our company   and communities. We have made a strategic commitment to roll-out the Anglo- American Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT), or a suitable  equivalent, at all our operations to provide a baseline understanding of  community dynamics and the contribution made by our investment.  We carry out community impact assessments at existing operations  where significant changes are planned and at all new operations. All  operations are covered by Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs)  and many have Social Impact Assessments (SIAs) in place. Over the  years, we have entered into formal agreements with local communities  and authorities, such as Impact Benefit Agreements (IBAs) in Canada  and Social and Labour Plans (SLPs) in South Africa. Social impact of closures   and transfer of assets As mine closure is predictable we are able to plan early in order to  mitigate any negative community impacts and maximise positive  ones. This helps ensure our operations act as a catalyst for sustained  community development once mining ends, and facilitate the smooth  transition to a post-mining economy. At a minimum, closure plans must ensure legal compliance and the  remediation of environmental impacts. All of our mines currently have  closure plans covering the physical and environmental aspects of  closure. Over the course of 2011 we intend to review the extent to which  the social components of these plans meet baseline benchmarks. maximising value from late-lifecycle mines Our three operations in 2010 that were considered to be at the latest  stage of their lifecycle include Namdebs land operations, Debswanas  Letlhakane mine and DBCMs Finsch mine. This does not necessarily  mean, however, that these mines will be closed in the near future. In  2010 Namdebs management developed Vision 2050, a plan which,  with the appropriate fiscal environment and fresh capital, would  enable a US$1 billion investment to extend Namdeb land operations   to 2050. Where possible, the Family of Companies has sold late-lifecycle mines  to operators optimised to generate value from late-lifecycle mines. In  October 2010 we sold the mine site and tailings mineral resource at  Jagersfontein Mine in South Africa. Closed as a mine for almost 40  years, the mine was sold to Superkolong Consortium, a broad based  Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) holding company. The sale  process ensured that the buyer not only had the relevant technical   and financial skills needed to successfully create value from the   mine tailings, but also to deliver sustainable benefit to the  Jagersfontein community.  Ensuring mine sales include closure responsibilities When we sell a mine we seek to implement formal agreements   that ensure purchasers fulfil relevant closure requirements. In some  cases, our monitoring of impacts on stakeholders will continue after  sale or closure, as demonstrated in our sale of the Cullinan Mine in  South Africa. planning for closure Stakeholder engagement plays a vital role in developing mine closure  plans. We identify and addresses the socio-economic impacts of mine  closure using the International Council of Mining and Metals (ICMM)  and Anglo American Closure Toolbox and SEAT. Integrated environmental and social closure plans that also include  employee and socio-economic community impacts have been  established at many of our operations. Integrated plans cover a range  of issues including labour transition, employee skills training, enterprise  development, social investment and rehabilitation.   Our vision is to create  prosperity for the Yellowknives  Dene First Nation. De Beers is  committed to developing  Aboriginal business and is  doing exactly that, awarding us  two new contracts in 2010 to  provide expediting and logistics  as well as camp catering for the  Snap Lake Mine.   roy Erasmus Jr.  President and CEO,   Det'on Cho Corporation Summary Review – Communities  43  Report to Society 2010 44 In October 2010 we sold the  mine site and tailings mineral  resource at Jagersfontein Mine  in South Africa. The sale process  ensured that the buyer not only  had the relevant technical and  financial skills needed to  successfully create value from  the mine tailings, but also to  deliver sustainable benefit   to the Jagersfontein community.    a		Boteti	House	Primary	School	at	Debswanas	Orapa	Mine.   B	 	Snap	Lake	Mine	youth	hand	drummer. 	 c	 	Khehla	Radiator	Repairs,	a	De	Beers	Zimele	beneficiary,	Kimberley. community activity in 2010 Botswana In 2010 we continued to monitor and manage the socio-economic  impacts of the Cut-8 extension project at Jwaneng Mine. The latest  assessment against the 2009 Social Impact Assessment (SIA) was  carried out in September 2010.  As a result of local concern regarding contractor and employment  related issues we launched a Reputation Forum in Botswana with a  focus on community relations.  Debswana also launched the Cut-8 Legacy Project which facilitates the  support of Cut-8 contractors for community development initiatives  around the Jwaneng Mine until the end of 2011. South Africa Each of our South African mines continued community investment in  line with their Social and Labour Plans in 2010. There were ongoing land claims near our operations in South Africa.  The temporary occupation of mining dumps at Jagersfontein, prior to  DBCMs sale of the mine in October were resolved through a series of  consultations with public officials and the community. Namibia In Namibia, the proclamation of Oranjemund town into a self- governing municipality is expected to be completed in 2011. The only  outstanding action is to complete the proclamation of the private road  that provides access in and out of Oranjemund through Namibias  restricted Diamond Area. Canada First Nations communities have strong cultural, social and economic  relationships with the land we operate on in Canada. Community  engagement and investment continued in 2010 in line with the seven  Impact Benefit Agreements in place between De Beers Canada and  First Nations communities. De Beers Canada are in ongoing  discussions with these communities of interest over how best to  collaborate to reduce poverty and build community capacity. Angola The principles contained in our group Community Policy will guide  the resettlement of a small community in the Lunda Norte district of  Angola, planned for 2011. The resettlement of a semi-migratory village  community of less than 90 people is necessary in order to safely  conduct exploratory sampling of three kimberlites discovered near  Mulepe village.  a c B  Sustainable community social investment Since 2009 we have broadened our definition of community  investment to include social and economic programmes, whereas  previously we recognised only philanthropic spend. Where relevant,  we try to align our community investment activities with national  development programmes. Our total social investment spend in 2010  was US$29.8 million (2009: US$29.3 million). This includes community  benefits required under applicable legislative or contractual  arrangements, as well as long term, in-kind social investment. Our overall social investment contribution falls into six broad  categories: In-kind community services, such as access to mine schools  and hospitals.  Skills development and capacity building, to support economic  development and skills that will last beyond the life of our operations.  Skills development programmes mainly focus on education, enterprise  development within local communities, and preferential procurement.  HIV and Aids programmes, including testing, treatment and outreach  services through company hospitals, and support for HIV and Aids  programmes provided by other organisations through our social  investment funds. These programmes are in addition to our internal  HIV and Aids management programmes. Social and Labour Plan investments focus on infrastructure  development, community development and poverty eradication in  South Africa. Under DBCMs Social and Labour Plan, planned  expenditure on local economic development for 2010 was R12.2  million (US$1.6 million).  Impact Benefit Agreement investments in place between De Beers  Canada and First Nations and other indigenous groups in the vicinity  of the Victor and Snap Lake cover a range of programmes. In 2010, a  total of C$5.1 million (US$4.9 million) was spent (2009: US$4.2 million)  under these agreements, in addition to C$5.9 million (US$5.74 million)  in conventional community social investment spending. Strategic philanthropy includes cash and in-kind support for small-  and large-scale development projects in the areas of education;  health; youth development; environment; and cultural programmes,  including sports development. Our strategic philanthropy is generally  managed through dedicated social investment vehicles such as the  De Beers Fund in South Africa, De Beers Fund Namibia and the  Diamond Trust in Botswana. Community discipline objectives for 2011 In 2010 our aim was to formalise and improve the resilience of the  discipline to future challenges such as those seen during the market  volatility of 2008-2010. To deliver this we will continue working in 2011  towards a number of improvements including:  Rolling-out the Anglo American Socio-Economic Assessment  Toolbox (SEAT), or a suitable equivalent, at all operations to provide   a baseline understanding of community dynamics;  Ensuring the social components of our mine closure plans meet  baseline benchmarks; and  Ensuring proper and effective consultative structures are in place   at all operations, including around the reporting and management  of grievances. We will also conduct a community capacity review in 2011 to   ensure we have suitable resources in place to deliver these aims.   Our continuing focus will be to determine how we can best   target available resources for most effective value creation within   our communities. 45 Summary Review – Communities  Africa   Americas  Other countries Fig. 19 Social investment spend by region and  (African) country, 2010 (US$)   Health initiatives   Education initiatives   Environment initiatives   Community development projects  Arts, culture and heritage projects  Housing initiatives   Other initiatives   HIV initiatives   Policy and procedure initiatives   Small business development  initiatives  Sports initiatives Fig. 20 Social investment spend   by project type, 2010 (%) Due to rounding the sum of this pie chart is 99.3%.  Note: Calculations presented in Fig. 19 and Fig. 20 include broader social  investment activities such as the running of mine hospitals shared by local  communities in both Botswana and Namibia.   [Data to be  veried] Data   to come in  spreadsheet  from DB. 34.1% 21.3% 0.1% 13.5% 1.9% 26.2% 0.9% 0.5% 0.7% 0.1% 0.8%  Botswana  South Africa  Namibia  Region Africa Note: 2010 data for Canada includes cash donations (US$3,591,930) and in-kind  donations (US$96,161). In kind donations include employee working time spent on  community or charitable projects such as drilling wells for community use, making  company facilities available for community use, or lending or donating company  products, services or equipment.  $25,807,952 $3,833,091 $138,996 $10,089,856 $4,682,919 $11,035,178  Creating shared value   over the life of a mine De Beers works in partnership with producer countries to maximise  the contribution diamond mining can make to sustainable  development. Our goal is to create shared value throughout the life   of a mine – for governments and economies, for citizens and local  communities, and for De Beers shareholders.  We do this in a variety of ways: by maximising the value of  production; promoting preferential procurement of local  and indigenous suppliers; supporting the development   of skills and enterprises that contribute to a diversified  post-mining economy; and investing in social and  infrastructure projects that benefit local communities. In  addition, our commitment to beneficiation stimulates the  growth of the diamond sector within producer countries  and helps to attract further international investment.  We begin with the end in mind. From the outset, we  conduct in-depth assessments that examine the long  term economic, social and environmental impacts of our  operations. The outcomes of these assessments guide our  operations and relations with stakeholders over the life of  the mine. We work with governments, communities and  potential purchasers of late-life mines to ensure  environmental rehabilitation and sustainable local  economies post-mine. 2.  co ns ul Ta Ti on  T o  op Er aT io ns 1.  Ex pl or aTi on  To  fE as iBi liT y  3.  p r o d u c Ti o n  a n d  p ro c Es si n g  4 .  s a l E  o r  r E h a B il iT a Ti o n Report to Society 2010 46  Summary Review – Communities 47   creating shared  value through: Assessing long term social  and environmental impacts Socio-economic scenario  planning Broad stakeholder  engagement Assessing long  term impacts Environmental planning for  Gahcho Ku started long before  De Beers joined the project in  1997. For almost 20 years,  exploration, environmental  studies and development work  has been taking place at our  proposed Gahcho Ku open pit  mine at Kennady Lake in the  Northwest Territories, Canada.  This culminated in the  submission of an 11,000 page  Environmental Impact Statement  (EIS) at the end of 2010.  Protecting water quality and  ensuring rehabilitation of the  land and lake as quickly as  possible after the end of mining  are key to the project. The EIS will  form the basis of an independent  assessment in 2011. 1. ExploraTion To fEasiBiliTy 2. consTrucTion To opEraTions   creating shared  value through: Responsible transfer   of mining assets Integrated closure planning Environmental rehabilitation Responsible  transfer of  mining assets In 2010, almost 40 years after the  end of mining operations, DBCM  sold the Jagersfontein Mine and  mine tailings in Free State  province, South Africa. It was sold  to Superkolong Consortium, a  broad based Black Economic  Empowerment (BEE) holding  company that has a number of  mining operations. Superkolong  agreed to a variety of sales criteria  including BEE equity  participation, local employment  creation and significant  community-based initiatives. The  Jagersfontein Community Trust  will hold 10% equity ownership  in the new holding company and  will receive R20 million (US$2.72  million) funding to run  community projects.   creating shared  value through: Promoting enterprise Building skills and capacity Investing in social and  infrastructure projects Supporting national  development goals Promoting  enterprise De Beers Zimele is an investment  fund supporting enterprise  development and Black  Economic Empowerment in  South Africa through loans, skills  transfer and mentoring. The aim  is to create 25,000 employment  opportunities – both preserved  and new jobs – and 1,500 small  businesses in seven years  (2008-2015). In 2010 DBCM  invested a total of US$0.5 million in   De Beers Zimele, which is funding  45 projects with loans of R5.9m. Building skills  and capacity We focus on building local  capacity by employing and  developing local talent at all  levels of the business. For  example, in Canada we prioritise  the hiring of Aboriginal  employees from nearby  communities. In 2010, of the 503  employees at Victor mine 183  (36.4%) were Aboriginal. We  actively seek to increase the  numbers of Aboriginal  employees, particularly in skilled  and management positions.    creating shared  value through: Supporting beneficiation Supporting ethical   industry standards Generating market demand Supporting  beneficiation  Beneficiation is the process by  which we work with government  partners to ensure that after  mining more diamond  processing activities, such as  sorting and valuing, take place in  our producer countries.  To support beneficiation, a  proportion of the diamonds we  mine are offered for sale to  Sightholders (the diamantaire  clients of the Family of  Companies) in South Africa,  Namibia, Botswana and Canada.  These diamonds are then cut and  polished in those countries,  adding value beyond mining and  promoting job creation and skills  development. For example, in 2010, 16  Sightholders received an  equivalent of US$366 million   of rough diamonds for cutting  and polishing as part of our  beneficiation activities in  Botswana. 3. producTion and procEssing 4. salE or rEhaBiliTaTion   a		Aerial	view	of	Gahcho	Ku	Project.   B	 	Chief	of	the	Lutsel	Ke	Dene	First	 Nation	at	Gahcho	Ku.	 	 c	 	The	sorting	floor	at	Harry	Oppenheimer	 House,	Kimberley. d		Jagersfontein	Mine. a B c d  environment Enabling  natural habitats  to thrive African Baobab tree (Adansonia Digitata).  48  The susTainaBlE  managEmEnT of the natural environment  is KEy To ThE   fuTurE dEVElopmEnT  and prospEriTy of the countries in which   we operate. good environmental steWardship is essential to our business.  We take an holistic view of environmental management and understand the interconnected  nature of biodiversity, energy and climate change, water and waste management issues. We  forge partnerships with local communities, governments and NGOs so that we effectively  address the individual environmental challenges in each of our locations. environment 49  Report to Society 2010 50 Environment We recognise that the living environment is as much   a source of shared value as diamonds.  Identified environment risks In this section we summarise our management approach to  key Environment risks identified through our risk  management and stakeholder engagement approach to  reporting (see pages 9-15). These risks are:   Water and energy security in a changing climate   Lifecycle planning   Promotion and maintenance of biodiversity and  ecosystems         For a more detailed discussion of our performance in 2010   in managing these risks, please refer to the full Report to  Society, available at   www.debeersgroup.com KEy:    Long term   Medium term   Short term 50 As a result, the Family of Companies places a high premium   on contributing positively wherever possible to the natural   capital of the countries in which we operate. This is why our   mining footprint is considerably smaller than our total area   for biodiversity conservation.  Good environmental stewardship involves responding   proactively to address and manage environmental issues   through innovation. It also involves building competence and  consistency across the Family of Companies, as well as working   in partnership with government and NGOs, to address issues   of local and national significance. At the core of our management approach is our commitment   to lifecycle planning at all our operations. This requires that we  endeavour to understand and mitigate the specific environmental  impacts of every stage in the mining lifecycle with a view to  ensuring effective rehabilitation by closure.  Water and energy security   in a changing climate Climate change and its impacts present a risk to the sustainability   of our business. The greatest risks are potential water scarcity, extreme  weather events and rising temperatures. Around 95% of our rough diamond production comes from arid  regions in southern Africa. Reduced rainfall and water availability   could affect our production capacity and costs, and pose a risk to  relations with communities with whom we share water resources.  In Canada, rising temperatures can disrupt the seasonal ice roads used  to supply our remote Snap Lake and Victor Mines. This leads to increased  reliance on airfreight and its associated energy requirements and costs. managing risk and impacts We face an ongoing challenge to balance the management of our  water and climate impacts. It is technologically feasible to continue   to deliver reductions in water use at our operations, but this usually  comes at the expense of using greater amounts of energy, which in  turn increases our carbon emissions. We also need to balance our ambition to create value from producer  countries diamond resources, and thereby contribute to national  development, while securing the local water needs of communities   near our operations. On a day-to-day basis, our environment policy and environmental  standards guide our approach to managing climate and water impacts  at all stages of the mining lifecycle. In terms of our operations, we  maintain ISO 14001 certification at all sites. Beyond our operations,   we engage with external bodies, such as the United Nations Global  Compact and UN CEO Water Mandate, to resolve the dilemmas we   face and share good practice. using water efficiently and sustainably Managing water sustainably is critical to our efforts to deliver value  whilst maintaining our local licence to operate. Our Water Standard  commits us to:  Manage water supply and demand across all operations; and  Ensure that all operations minimise and mitigate the pollution   of water resources.  51  Private sector involvement   is crucial to protecting South  Africas scarce water resources.  We work in collaboration with  key businesses like De Beers,  who are ready to provide  leadership to harness private  sector engagement to better  manage and protect our   water resources.   dr. mao amis  World Wildlife Fund Programme Manager,   Integrated Catchment Management 51 In 2010 we used 38.09 million m3 of new (potable and non-potable)  water across all of our operations/facilities (2009*: 23.31 million m3)  (see Fig. 21). This equates to an increase of 63% year-on-year and is  mainly due to the increase in production from the low production year  of 2009.  The use of recycled process water at our southern African mines which  are in arid areas remained relatively constant at 50% (2009*: 53%) of our  total fresh water use. We also used 20.19 million m3 of sea water (2009*:  21.76 million m3) at our west coast and marine mining operations in  southern Africa. Energy efficiency and emissions reductions We are committed to being a responsible energy user and to  contributing towards combating climate change. We are working   to achieve this by:  Promoting the efficient and sustainable use of energy through the  principles of reduction, recovery, reuse and recycling (see p53);  Reducing carbon emissions and participating in climate change  initiatives. With a 34% increase in production across our operations in 2010, our  direct and indirect energy consumption amounted to 11.24 million  Gigajoules (GJ) (2009*: 7.82 million GJ), a 43.8% increase year-on-year  (see Fig. 22). Our total CO2-e (carbon dioxide equivalent) emissions  amounted, however, to 1.46 million tonnes in 2010, a 31.5% increase   on 2009 (2009*: 1.11 million tonnes) (see Fig. 23). Almost 62% of these emissions are associated with the electricity we  purchase from national providers. These indirect emissions amounted  to 0.91 million tonnes (2009*: 0.76 million tonnes). Direct emissions  from fuel use (mainly diesel) amounted to 0.56 million tonnes (2009*:  0.35 million tonnes). supporting renewable energy generation In South Africa, DBCM has initiated a wind power project in  Namaqualand and a solar photovoltaic energy project in the  Kimberley region. Both projects will be implemented by third party  companies on land made available by DBCM. This will not only  promote the use of renewable energy in South Africa, but also create  job opportunities in impoverished areas. In Canada, tests with wind  power have shown the potential for significant reductions in fuel costs. Summary Review – Environment    Re-used/recycled water   Non-potable water   Potable water 15 10 5 Direct and indirect energy  use, 2008-2010 (million GJ)   Fig. 22 2010 2009 2008 3.11 4.71 5.23 9.61 3.68 7.57 Direct (liquids) Indirect (electricity) * Previous years data has been changed slightly from the data reported in our 2009 RTS. This restatement takes into account improvements in data reporting and is more accurate.    2.5 1.5 2.0 1.0 0.5 CO2  equivalent emissions,  2008-2010  (million tonnes CO2 -e)  Fig. 23 2010 2009 2008 1.11 2.04 1.46 80 40 60 20 Fresh water use, 2008-2010  (million m3) Fig. 21 2010 2009 2008 8.80 5.11 18.20 27.64 32.34 30.38 482 31.99 6.10 32.07  Report to Society 2010 52 52 Promotion and maintenance   of biodiversity and ecosystems Much of our mining footprint covers sensitive, biologically diverse  environments. As a result, we place particular focus on biodiversity   in our environmental planning and impact management (p54-55). Our land-based mining licences cover 939,593 hectares (ha), only   39,000 ha of which (4.2%) is disturbed by our actual mining footprint.   We have set aside over 231,112 ha, or one quarter, of our licence area   as conservation areas, an area almost six times larger than the land area  disturbed by our mining activities. Land set aside for conservation includes properties that form part of  the Diamond Route, an initiative that promotes research opportunities,  biodiversity conservation and community initiatives on properties  belonging to the Oppenheimer family and De Beers. acting to preserve biodiversity  Biodiversity is arguably our most significant environmental issue   and is considered in all aspects of the exploration, project, mining   and closure processes. We undertake to respect legally designated  Protected Areas and key biodiversity areas and not operate within  World Heritage Sites. We identify these areas in an annual Biodiversity  Overlap Assessment in which we assess the extent to which our  operations overlap with protected areas, key biodiversity areas and  World Heritage Sites. In this process we update ground holdings/ licence areas and note changes to any of the areas of sites of interest.  As a result, we are confident we meet our commitments.  We identify risks to biodiversity during exploration and include   these risks in all Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) for their  effective management during all phases of a mines life. We manage  biodiversity risks through Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) that are   used to develop a coordinated approach to biodiversity stewardship,  supported by management objectives and actions. In 2010, we  focused on the ongoing development of BAPs across all of our  operations. A number have been completed and are being integrated  into existing Environmental Management Systems.    www.iucn.org www.ibatforbusiness.org  www.birdlife.org  www.conservation.org  www.unep-wcmc.org Table 2: Lifecycle stages and activities, 2010 phase activity objective 2010 action / Example Conceptual Environmental and   social screening   To establish if the proposed project has the potential to generate  significant or unacceptable environmental or social impacts  Namdeb Southern Deflation Deposit  Pre-Feasibility Scoping   To gather and evaluate information and undertake specialist studies   for the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA)  Namdeb Orange River Mines Extension Project  DBCM Venetia Underground Project Feasibility Environmental and Social  Impact Assessment and  Environmental and Social  Management Plan (ESMP)  or Environmental  Management Plan (EMP)   To identify, qualify and quantify project impacts on the biophysical,  socio-economic, heritage, aesthetic and cultural environments.    To document and detail future monitoring and management  requirements outlined in the ESIA and develop closure plans   in line with the life of mine    De Beers Canada Gahcho Ku Mine project in the  Northwest Territories – 11,000 page Environmental  Impact Statement (EIS) submitted   Namaqualand Living Edge of Africa Project (LEAP)   on alternative land uses   Namdeb Elizabeth Bay Optimisation  Construction or  commissioning   To ensure inclusion of all requirements of the EMP for operational  phase for smooth transition to operational phase Operations Environmental  management   systems (EMS)   To ensure ISO 14001 compliant EMS are in place at all diamond   mining operations to guide the management of our operational  environmental impacts and promote continual improvement in  environmental performance and implementation of concurrent  rehabilitation   Morupule Coal Mine achieved ISO14001 certification   Significant improvements to gaps in the EMSs at  Venetia, Orapa and Jwaneng Mines.   Improved environmental incident reporting system  established Closure/Disposal Closure plans/liabilities   To implement final closure plan once production ceases or ensure  adequate financial provision for outstanding environmental liabilities  on sale of a mine to other operators   Sale due diligences for Jagersfontein Mine dumps,  Finsch and Namaqualand Mines  Lifecycle planning Mining activities can have significant impacts on the environment.   We are committed to adopting the Mitigation Hierarchy at every stage  of the mining lifecycle to first avoid, then minimise and finally mitigate  the impacts of our activities to result in a minimal residual impact. Our Lifecycle Planning Standard outlines the two desired outcomes   of our lifecycle planning processes:  All phases of the mining lifecycle (planning, implementation and  management) should contribute towards a positive environmental  and social legacy; and  All operations should have environmental management systems  and resources to address environmental risks from operational life  through to closure (see Table 2). improving our environmental management systems No major environmental incidents were reported during 2010.   During the year we implemented a new, more detailed environmental  incident reporting system that captures not only a broader spread of  incident severity categories but also separation by type. The majority  of incidents are pollution-related and to a lesser extent, resource  wastage and biodiversity/archaeological impacts. closure, disposal and rehabilitation Our focus on responsible closure, rehabilitation, and disposal of assets is   motivated both by local regulation and our goal to achieve operations  and closure to the highest environmental standards. All operations are  required to meet our Lifecycle Planning standard. In 2010, a significant  amount of work focused on updating closure plans and reviewing  closure costs for existing mines. A full review of closure costs and  trends in costs over time was also undertaken. The most substantive biophysical closure planning has taken place at  DBCM and Namdeb operations which include the older mines within  our portfolio. A new tool was developed for Venetia Mine to track  actions and apply clear accountabilities and associated costs related to  concurrent rehabilitation requirements and rehabilitation for the end  of life of mine.  At Namaqualand Mines, where production has ceased, extensive  earthmoving and ecological rehabilitation continues to address the  rehabilitation footprint from decades of mining.   53 Summary Review – Environment a   a		The	Venetia	Plant.	   B	 	An	Electrical	 Apprentice	at	 Central	Tailings	 Plant,	Kimberley.   c	 	Central	Tailings	 Plant,	Kimberley.   d		Wildlife	at	the	 Orapa	Nature	 Reserve. d c B case study:  Energy efficiency in South Africa In South Africa, DBCM is a signatory to South Africas  Energy Efficiency Accord. This sets a target to reduce  energy consumption by 15% by 2015 against a 2005  baseline. Work so far has reduced energy use by  approximately 6%. This has been achieved by installing  energy efficient light bulbs, ensuring optimal running of  large compressors, and using smaller underground  ventilation fans and high-efficiency motors. Further  initiatives underway to meet this target include:  Installation of solar water heaters in mine-owned  domestic buildings.  Installation of high-efficiency motors on a   replacement basis.  A pilot project at Venetia Mine on new approaches to  electricity load shedding, demand control and tariff  optimisation using software tools.  Diesel energy monitoring to assess the effect of road  conditions, idling time and optimum loading on   fuel consumption.  Plant process management to avoid operating  equipment when there is no feed material.  Ongoing awareness campaigns for all employees to use  electricity, fuel and water wisely. stakeholder question What is De Beers water strategy?   How does De Beers link up the various  aspects of water as a social as well as   an environmental issue? Water is a big issue for us – its linked to climate change  adaptation and biodiversity. There are tradeoffs between  water efficiency and energy efficiency that we are  grappling with in the southern African context. A number  of steps have already been taken but we aim to continue  to decrease our water use per unit of production while  being cognisant of any consequent increase in our carbon  footprint. Managing water resources responsibly also  entails balancing the water needs of local communities  with the broader socio-economic benefits that come  from mining diamonds to create shared national wealth.  We are working with others to find long term solutions,   for example the Worldwide Fund for Nature in South  Africa (p51), and we have endorsed the United Nations  Global Compacts CEO Water Mandate. Were also looking  at alternative water sources such as hyper-saline water  sources that could potentially meet all of our Botswana  operations water needs.             Fig. 25 402 91 1544 21 Level 1.1 – Near Hit Minor  Level 1.2 – Near Hit Major Level 2 – Minor Level 3 – Moderate  Environmental incidents, 2010  Pits    Excavations    Overburden dumps  Waste rock dumps  Tailings dumps  Ore stockpiles  Residue deposits    Topsoil deposits    Infrastructure 29% 39% 5% 4% 1% 12% 0% 6% 4% Fig. 26 Our mining footprint, 2010 (ha)  Promoting biodiversity Biodiversity sits right at the heart of De Beers approach   to environmental stewardship. As early as 1888, De Beers started to regulate the  properties it owned around the iconic Kimberley diamond  mine, with a view to protecting the indigenous fauna and  flora in the area. Our current efforts build on this long  history of conservation in southern Africa. A partnership approach is central to our efforts to protect  and promote biodiversity both in and beyond our areas of  operation. We work alongside local and international NGOs  and communities to support environmental education,  scientific research and sustainable tourism initiatives. Report to Society 2010 261 permanent  jobs created 30 organisations   taking part 120 research projects   conducted marine mining, south-west african coast The only company in the world to conduct offshore  diamond mining, De Beers contributes to scientific  understand of marine life and biodiversity along the  west coast of southern Africa. sperrgebiet national   park, namibia  Namdebs mining operations  sit within the Sperrgebiet  National Park, covering just  5% of the total area. An arid  biodiversity hotspot, the Park  has a diverse range of flora  and fauna, birds and wildlife.  54 a c c casE sTudy:  The diamond route The Diamond Route is a cross-provincial,  multi-site tourism route that covers nine sites  across southern Africa. A partnership  initiative between De Beers, E Oppenheimer  & Son and Ponahalo Holdings, it aims to  promote local economic development  through tourism and education and  promote biodiversity through active  conservation and vital scientific research. In  2010, the Diamond Route was winner of the  overall sustainability category of the  Nedbank Green Mining Awards.  B d E f g h  55 namiBia BoTsWana souTh africa VEnETia limpopo naTurE rEsErVE orapa gamE parK spErrgEBiET naTional parK JWana gamE parK dronfiEld TsWalu rooipoorT BEnfonTEin KimBErlEy Big holE namaQualand diamond coasT our mining footprint  mining arEas 231,112 ha consErVaTion arEas (raTio 6:1) BrEnThursT gardEns EzEmVElo naTurE rEsErVE Summary Review – Environment   a, B	 	Indigenous	flora,	and	Bogenfels	(Elbow	Rock),	a	landmark	in	the	Sperrgebiet.	   c	 	Sea	anemone.   d	 	Vehicles	touring	the	Diamond	Route.	   E	 	Meerkats.	   f	 	A	Bird	Guide	at	Brenthurst	Gardens.	   g	 	Elephant	at	the	Venetia	Limpopo	Nature	Reserve.	   h	 	Yellow	acacia	thorn	flower,	indigenous	to	northern	South	Africa.   i, J	 	Kori	bustard	and	giraffe	at	Orapa	Game	Park.   K, l	 	Cheetahs,	eland	and	springbok	at	Jwana	Game	Park. Jwana game park, Botswana The 17,000 hectare Game Park, located within the  boundaries of the Jwaneng Mining lease, hosts a  field unit for Cheetah Conservation Botswana. orapa game park, Botswana Originally a cattle-grazing and  recreational area, the 22,000  hectare park is now home to  diverse wildlife. 39,000 ha  We were impressed with the fact that  this programme goes beyond mere  conservation and research by making  the sites accessible to all, for the benefit  of all – thus providing an excellent  example of sustainability.    nedbank green mining awards, 2010, talking about the Diamond Route i J l K  Report to Society 2010 56 Assurance statement nature and scope of the assurance/verification SGS United Kingdom Ltd was commissioned by De Beers to conduct  an independent assurance of the Report to Society 2010, Summary  Review. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability  Report Assurance methodology, included the text, and 2010 data in  accompanying tables, contained in this Review.  As an assurance of the Report to Society 2010, Summary Review there  are some restrictions on the scope in that the Review is in itself a digest  of the full report and therefore many of the comments reflect this. The assurance scope has been approached as follows: GRI G3 (2006) – We have evaluated the content of the Report to Society  2010, Summary Review according to the GRI principles. However the  full evaluation of the GRI Application level will cover the documents  detailed in the GRI Contents page on the website, the full Report to  Society and the Operating and Financial Review. The GRI application  statement is included in the GRI Contents page on the website.  AA1000AS (2008) – This is based on the contents of the Report to  Society 2010, Summary Review and the management systems  supporting that. We have taken into account that the full Report to  Society includes fuller coverage of the subjects than the Review. The information in the Report to Society 2010, Summary Review of  De Beers and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors or  governing body and the management of De Beers. SGS United  Kingdom Ltd has not been involved in the preparation of any of the  material included in the Report to Society 2010. Our responsibility is   to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within  the scope of verification set out below with the intention to inform   all De Beers stakeholders. The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the Assurance of  Sustainability Reports based on current best practice guidance  provided in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting  Guidelines (2006) and the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). These  protocols follow differing options for Assurance depending the  reporting history and capabilities of the Reporting Organisation.  This report has been assured at a moderate level of scrutiny using   our protocols for:   Evaluation of content veracity;   Evaluation of the report content and supporting management  systems against the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008);   Evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative  Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006).  The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research,  interviews with relevant employees in the UK (London offices) and  South Africa (Cape Town and Johannesburg offices); documentation  and record review and the observation of the Multi-Stakeholder Forum  in November 2010. Financial data drawn directly from independently audited financial  accounts has not been checked back to source as part of this  assurance process. statement of independence and competence The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing  and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing  services including management systems and service certification;  quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training;  environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS United  Kingdom Ltd affirms our independence from De Beers, being free  from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries  and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge,  experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised  auditors registered with SAATCA (Lead Environmental Auditor),   IEMA (Environmental Auditor) and IRCA (Certified Sustainability  Assurance Practitioners). Verification/assurance opinion On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work  performed, we are satisfied that the information and data contained  within the Report to Society 2010, Summary Review verified is  accurate, reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation   of De Beers sustainability activities in 2010. The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report to Society 2010,  Summary Review can be used by the Reporting Organisations  Stakeholders. We believe that the organisation has chosen an  appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting. aa1000 accountability principles (2008) conclusions,   findings and recommendations In our opinion the De Beers Report to Society 2010, Summary Review  fulfills all expected elements to demonstrate strong commitments to  the AA1000 Accountability Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and  Responsiveness. Our findings and recommendations for future  reporting are summarised below. Inclusivity The stakeholder involvement is extensive and is applied throughout  the organisation at all levels and there are examples demonstrating  SGS United Kingdom Ltds Report on Sustainability Activities  in the De Beers Report to Society 2010, Summary Review.   57 De Beers bottom-up approach to risk identification and review. The  formalising of the stakeholder mapping and engagement processes  that are in place globally is in development and the resulting tool will  draw together all activity. Governance includes representatives of key  stakeholders and reflects the multinational activities. Future assurance  should include the development of the stakeholder mapping  processes and resulting engagement improvements.  Materiality The risk identification, review and management process is extensive  and integral to the way the organisation works. It would be considered  leading practice in terms of ensuring that the evaluation, monitoring  and management of risks is appropriate at all levels. It is also assurable  and self evaluating.  The organisation shows the necessary competencies and resources   to determine the organisations material issues and demonstrates in  the Review that they draw on external expertise and commentary  where necessary. As the assurance scope only covers the Review, issues and responses  to all risk/material issues are not completely covered, which is to be  expected, however it provides a good overview of management of  these issues as risks and leads stakeholders to more detailed  information in the full Report to Society. Responsiveness De Beers does demonstrate that it is responsive to issues and risks  identified by stakeholders and risk management systems in the  organisation ensure that risks and issues are addressed in a timely way,  but this is not always evidenced in the Review. Again this is somewhat  due to the nature of the Review. The production of the full Report to  Society and the Review is a good option for those who do not need  the information in the full Report to Society and this is made available  to workers internally. The approach to reporting that is based on  organisational risk means that, even as a Review, it is suitable as a  management tool. The internal collection and collation of information  and data for the report identified areas for improvement. global reporting initiative reporting guidelines   (2006) conclusions, findings and recommendations The full evaluation of the alignment of De Beers Reporting with  Application level A will be reported in the GRI Contents page of the  web. However the Review has been evaluated for alignment with the  GRI Principles. Principles In our opinion the content and quality of the Review has been  produced in line with the ten GRI Principles. Opportunities were  identified for consideration in future reporting cycles to ensure  continual improvement, including   Future reporting should include the results of the strategic planning  and piloting of the stakeholder mapping tool.  Review of internal systems for evaluating data management and  collation throughout reporting cycle.   Planning for future reports should include the information needs of  stakeholders at all levels, to ensure that the Review is accessible to all.   Signed:  For and on behalf of SGS United Kingdom Ltd Jan saunders UK Systems and Services Certification Business Manager  May 2011  WWW.sgs.com Summary Review – Assurance statement  Report to Society 2010 58 Three guiding Principles define the way we do business, inform   our understanding of what is right and wrong, and describe what is  important to us. These are supported by an extended set of specific  Principles that cover the Economics, Ethics, Employees, Community  and Environment aspects of our activities. sustainable development through partnership The Family of Companies is committed to operating in accordance  with national legislation and towards the goal of sustainable  development. This means ensuring that we consider and take  responsibility for the longer term economic, social and environmental  implications of the decisions we make today – not only for our own  business but also for the broader societies in which we operate. We  will work with our partners in government to ensure that diamonds,   a finite resource, are transformed into economic wealth and improved  quality of life and wellbeing for all those stakeholders touched by our  business along the diamond pipeline. diamond dreams and development We will work to address the poverty and socio-economic deprivation  that affects many of the communities where we operate. We will work  with governments to help realise their long term visions and, through  education, training and shared decision-making, to ensure the success  of programmes that help build the capabilities of their citizens. In  particular, we will partner with our stakeholders to address the priority  of HIV and Aids. We will also work meticulously through the Kimberley  Process, the industrys System of Warranties, and our Principles to  ensure conflict diamonds are eliminated from world diamond flows. accountability and living up to diamonds Our ethical conduct is governed by the De Beers Best Practice  Principles Assurance Programmes (BPPs). The BPPs apply to the  De Beers Family of Companies, all Diamond Trading Company   (DTC) Sightholders and to certain third parties e.g. Sightholder  sub-contractors. The BPPs require compliance with law in all areas,   as well as further requirements on anti-corruption and anti-money  laundering, health and safety, labour standards and environment. The  BPPs are supported by a rigorous assurance programme that assesses  compliance by all parties. Our Global Mining function coordinates  self-assessment and internal assurance on BPP implementation for  review by the ECOHS Committee. Compliance with the BPPs is third  party verified each year by SGS (Socit Gnrale de Surveillance). acknowledgments Prepared and produced by the De Beers Family   of Companies in partnership with Salterbaxter.  Designed by Salterbaxter  Printed by Pureprint  De Beers UK Limited 2011. All rights reserved. De Beers UK Limited is a company  incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 2054170 and registered  office 17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA. De Beers, A Diamond is Forever,  DTC,  and Forevermark are used under licence by De Beers UK Ltd.  arT  Anti-Retroviral Treatment Bap  Biodiversity Action Plans BEE  Black Economic Empowerment Bpps  De Beers Best Practice Principles Assurance Programme dBcm  De Beers Consolidated Mines dBdJ  De Beers Diamond Jewellers dTc  Diamond Trading Company dTcB  Diamond Trading Company Botswana EBiTda  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and  amortisation Eca  External and Corporate Affairs Ecohs   Environment, Community, Occupational Hygiene, Health  and Safety Eia  Environmental Impact Assessment Eis  Environmental Impact Statement EiTi  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Emp  Environmental management plan Ems  Environmental management system Esia  Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Esmp  Environmental Social Management Plan gdp  Gross domestic product grB  Government of the Republic of Botswana gri  Global Reporting Initiative hdn  Historically Disadvantaged Namibian hdsa  Historically Disadvantaged South African iBa  Impact Benefit Agreement icmm  International Council on Mining and Metals lEap  Living Edge of Africa Project lTifr  Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate lTisr  Lost Time Injury Severity Rate ndTc  Namibia Diamond Trading Company ngo  Non-governmental organisation oifr  Occupational Illness Frequency Rate pWp  Polished Wholesale Price rJc  Responsible Jewellery Council rTs  Report to Society sEaT   Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox sia   Social Impact Assessment slp   Social and Labour Plan srmp  Safety Risk Management programme ungc   United Nations Global Compact Further information Three guiding Principles Acronyms Environmental information This report has been printed on Amadeus 100% recycled offset paper produced  from 100% recovered fibre certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest   Stewardship Council). Both the manufacturing mill and the printer are registered   to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are FSC   chain-of-custody certified.       Summary Review – Further information luxembourg De	Beers	socit	 anonyme BP591, L-2014  Luxembourg Tel: +352 (0) 264 8711  Fax: +352 (0) 264 871 303 angola De	Beers	angola	Holdings	 Caixa Postal n 4031  Luanda Tel: +244 (0) 222 63 8800  Fax: +244 (0) 222 63 8801 Botswana De	Beers	Holdings	 Botswana PO Box 404331  Gaborone Tel: +267 (0) 390 2991  Fax: +267 (0) 395 9106 Debswana	Diamond	 Company PO Box 329  Gaborone Tel: +267 (0) 361 4200  Fax: +267 (0) 395 2941/6110 Diamond	Trading	 Company	Botswana Private Bag 0074  Gaborone Tel: +267 (0) 364 9000  Fax: +267 (0) 364 9999 Canada De	Beers	Canada	 250 Ferrand Drive  Suite 900, Toronto  Ontario, M3C 3G8 Tel: +1 (0) 416 645 1710  Fax: +1 (0) 416 429 2462 india De	Beers	india	 Advanced Business Centre  83 Maker Chambers VI  Nariman Point, 400 021  Mumbai Tel: +91 (0) 22 2283 2971/27  Fax: +91 (0) 22 2283 2823 Namibia De	Beers	Namibia	 PO Box 23132  Windhoek  Tel: +264 (0) 61 204 3444  Fax: +264 (0) 61 204 3445 Namdeb	 PO Box 1906  Windhoek Tel: +264 (0) 61 204 3333  Fax: +264 (0) 61 204 3334 Namibia	Diamond	 Trading	Company	 PO Box 23316  Windhoek Tel: +264 (0) 61 204 3222  Fax: +264 (0) 61 204 3263 south	africa De	Beers		 Consolidated	Mines	 Corner Diamond Drive   and Crownwood Road  Theta Ext 4  Johannesburg  Gauteng 2013 Tel: +27 (0) 11 374 7000 De	Beers	 Consolidated	Mines	 PO Box 616  Kimberley, 8300 Tel: +27 (0) 53 839 4111  Fax: +27 (0) 53 839 4210 United	Kingdom De	Beers	UK	ltd	 17 Charterhouse Street  London, ECIN 6RA Tel: +44 (0) 20 7404 4444  Fax: +44 (0) 20 7430 3445  The De Beers Family of Companies whistleblowing policy details   conduct or behaviour that employees and other relevant persons   have a duty to report, including:  Actions that may result in danger to the health and/or safety   of people, and/or damage to the environment  Criminal offences, including money laundering, fraud, bribery   and corruption  Failure to comply with any legal obligation (including applicable  anti-trust/competition laws)  Unethical accounting practices   Miscarriage of justice  Any conduct contrary to the De Beers ethical principles   Concealment of any of the above. Any person wishing to use our confidential whistleblowing   hotlines may do so through the contact details below.  By	telephone By telephone to the applicable country number below. All calls are  anonymous and toll-free. De Beers – South Africa   0800 003 518 De Beers – Namibia   0800 003 518 or 061 309058 De Beers – Botswana   71119753 (Mascom) De Beers – United Kingdom   0808 234 2168 De Beers – Canada   18664511590 De Beers – Israel   1809455111 De Beers – Japan   00531270008 De Beers – Belgium   080075977 De Beers – Angola   +27 (0) 31 571 5772 De Beers – DRC   +27 (0) 31 571 5773 De Beers – India   +27 (0) 31 571 5775 De Beers – China   +27 (0) 31 571 5776 in	writing In writing with details regarding the background and history of the  information being disclosed, giving names, dates and places where  possible. Disclosures made in writing should be posted to: South Africa (FreePost)  KZN 138,  Umhlanga Rocks  4320,  South Africa email,	website	and	fax Written disclosures may also be submitted via: email:	debeers@tip-offs.com website:	www.tip-offs.com Fax:	South Africa 0800 00 77 88 International +27 (0) 31 560 7395 Extended contacts  Whistleblowing hotline Other countries (postage not paid)  KZN 774,  Umhlanga Rocks  4320,  South Africa  At De Beers  we believe in addressing sUsTaiNaBiliTy	issUes  openly and honestly. we	are	CoMMiTTeD	To	 living up to diamonds  iN	all	we	Do. FeeDBaCK	 We appreciate your feedback on this report or any other aspect   of our sustainability performance. Please contact us at:    External and Corporate Affairs  De Beers UK Ltd, 17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA e livinguptodiamonds@debeersgroup.com T +44 (0) 207 404 4444    www.debeersgroup.com