As a designer and manager  of life insurance products  with operations in 15 countries,  CNP Assurances is committed  to partnering clients as a lifetime  insurer, helping to protect them  against the risks of everyday life. OVER 150 years  EXPERIENCE 24 million  CUSTOMERS WORLDWIDE PRESENT IN  15 countries  THROUGH 28,000 OUTLETS 33.4bn  IN NEW MONEY IN 2010  (FRENCH GAAP) 32.3bn  IN PREMIUM INCOME  IN 2010 (IFRS) 288bn  IN TECHNICAL RESERVES AT END-2010  (INCLUDING DEFERRED PARTICIPATION) No. 1  PERSONAL INSURER  IN FRANCE SINCE 1991  MORE THAN 4,600  EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE  OF WHOM 1,469  OUTSIDE FRANCE THE  LIFETIME  INSURER   CNPASSURANCES - PROFILE 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 1    CNPASSURANCES - THE ESSENTIALS CNPASSURANCES  IN FRANCE AND INTERNATIONALLY  CNP Barclays Vida  y Pensiones - Spain,  Portugal, Italy CNP Europe Life  Ireland Caixa Seguros  Brazil CNP Italia  Italy CNP Vida  Spain Compaia de Seguros  Argentina CNP UniCredit Vita  Italy 2  Sino-French Life Insurance China CNP Marfin Insurance  Cyprus and Greece Countries served from France  under the EU freedom of services  directive SUBSIDIARIES* IN FRANCE   *  50%-owned and over, and operating in areas directly  related to the insurance business ** Subsidiary: Ecureuil Vie Dveloppement ** 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 3  MESSAGE FROM  EDMONDALPHANDRY,  CHAIRMAN OF THE  BOARDOF DIRECTORS I n 2010, with recurring net profit of roughly  1 billion, our Group demonstrated its robus- tness and ability to shift resources towards the  fastest growing markets, both in France and  internationally. It is a strategy that paid off well. As a personal insurer, CNP Assurancess performance is  shaped by the economic and financial environment in  which it operates. We are particularly influenced by the  financial markets and, since the bulk of our customers  are in France, by the economic situation in our home  country.  Lets be clear. It is true that we are recovering from the  crisis, but recent events – including the uprisings in  North Africa and the Middle East and the earthquake  and tsunami in Japan – have shown just how difficult it  can be to predict the future.     VIBRANT GROWTH IN EMERGING  MARKETS, AN OPPORTUNITY  AND A CHALLENGE Despite the many uncertainties, for a number of years  now the global economy has been buoyed by a strong  underlying trend that played an important role in sof- tening the impact of the 2008-2009 recession. I am  referring to the vibrant growth in emerging markets.  Lest we forget, the remarkable growth of the Chinese  economy throughout the last decade was accompanied  by very fine economic performances in many other  countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Their ascen- sion, which has enabled large swathes of the worlds  population to raise their purchasing power by acquiring  the necessary skills to enter the job market (and this is  just the beginning), represents an opportunity as well  as a challenge for developed countries. The most com- petitive mature economies – such as Germany, several  of the Nordic countries and our more distant peers  Australia and Canada – are successfully riding the global  tide of growth through their exports. However, the less  competitive countries need to urgently address their  shortcomings, so as not to miss out on the gains that  this extraordinary trend promises to bring. France has  been making decisions in the right direction, and that  needs to continue.    NEARLY ONE-FIFTH OF PROFITS  GENERATED IN BRAZIL  CNP Assurances is the leading personal insurer in France,  where it generates 80% of its premium income. Given  its unique business model and its close ties with two  major distribution networks, the Caisses dEpargne and  La Banque Postale, the Group has a strategic interest  in pursuing its development in France and maintaining  its leadership position in the local insurance market. In  particular, we have to further strengthen our positio- ning in the higher-margin risk and pension segments. However, international markets, particularly the fastest- growing emerging markets, hold the greatest potential  in terms of both development and profitability. This was  made clear by our 2010 results, with nearly one-fifth of  earnings generated in Brazil through our Caixa Seguros  subsidiary. Therefore, our present objective is to leve- rage new sources of growth as they arise in emerging  markets, while of course remaining realistic and pru- dent in our investments.     CLOSELY MONITORING RISKS As emerging markets move into higher gear, we are  seeing a return to inflation. Even some developed  countries have started to experience inflationary pres- sures as a result of both rising raw materials prices and  growing capital inflows. This environment requires us to  be particularly vigilant, not least because interest rates  cannot be expected to remain at their current histori- cally low levels. If they rise at a gradual, measured pace,  this could benefit insurance companies, by allowing    CNPASSURANCES - THE ESSENTIALS 4  Still several months away from the introduction of  the new Solvency II regulatory regime, which will  apply to insurance companies as of 1 January 2013,  CNP Assurances is already deep in preparation.  However, while Solvency II will drive improvements in  assessing risks and determining the capital required to  cover them, questions can legitimately be raised about  the wisdom of discouraging insurers from investing  in equities at a time when our economy needs these  investments the most. In an environment of opportunity as well as great  uncertainty, I have worked painstakingly with the Board  of Directors to guide CNP Assurances towards profi- table growth, increased transparency and improved  customer service quality, in the best interest of all our  policyholders, shareholders and employees. We need to  keep up our vigilance, but at the same time stand ready  to seize the opportunities that will most certainly arise.  I can assure you that my fellow Board members and  I are confident in our Groups growth outlook, both in  France and abroad. them to increase the yield paid to their policyholders.  However, a steep rise would have a detrimental effect,  leading to losses on our bond portfolio and upsetting the  investment yield hierarchy too quickly. This explains our  policy of hedging against a rapid surge in interest rates.    LIFE INSURANCE, A PRIMARY TARGET  OF REGULATORY AND TAX REFORM  The tax advantages of life insurance have come under  threat in recent months. Yet this is one area where it  is vital to tread carefully, as life insurance is the pillar  of the French savings market. The industrys technical  reserves of 1,400 billion are essential to finance the  French economy, through investments in the stock mar- ket and the corporate and government bond markets.  We have to be careful not to discourage savings, which  are one of the essential ingredients of growth and job  creation. It is important to remember too that many  people purchase life insurance as a means of boosting  their retirement income. Any reforms must take into  account these economic and social dimensions.  Edmond  Alphandry, Chairman  of the Board  of Directors  Life insurance is the pillar  of the French savings market.  The industrys technical reserves  of 1,400 billion are essential  to  nance the French economy,  through investments in the stock  market and the corporate and  government bond markets.  2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 5  Can you say a few words about CNP Assurancess  results? We had announced that we wouldnt try to increase  premium income at any price in 2010 and that we  would focus on developing risk products in France  and in international markets. This strategy led to  solid growth in consolidated profit. Sales of traditio- nal savings contracts held firm after rising sharply  in 2009. While the increase in unit-linked revenues  remained modest, the businesss contribution to our  total revenue stood within an unprecedented 2% to  3% of the market weighting. In all, premium income  was down a very slight 0.8% on 2009, but all other key  indicators attested to our ability to create value. Most  notably, EBIT advanced by 8.8% during the year. Lastly, in 2010 we added 426 million after tax to the  reserves held as a cushion against future uncertain- ties. This decision was consistent with the strategy  we have followed since I joined the Group. Whenever  we can, we add to our reserves to ensure that we can  absorb the impact of any future crises and meet our  long-term commitments to our policyholders.  Growth in the life insurance market slowed  in 2010, particularly net new money.  Can you explain why? Net new money did indeed grow at a slower rate in  2010, due to several factors. Life insurance is an extre- mely flexible product, and policyholders can withdraw  part of their capital when they are in need of cash. In  2010, they made withdrawals for a variety of reasons,  for example to buy a home, pay off debts or purchase  a car while government scrappage incentives were still  available. There is also a longer-term trend towards  using life insurance as an additional source of reti- rement income. Previously, people in their early 60s  INTERVIEW WITH  GILLESBENOIST,  CHIEFEXECUTIVE OFFICER In a record-low interest rate environment,  CNP Assurances worked determinedly to consolidate  its performance in 2010, focusing on risk products  and leveraging international markets to improve  its margins. Weve achieved what we set out to do. began thinking about transferring their wealth to the  next generation. Today, more and more retirees are  dipping into their savings to make up for the decline  in their incomes.  Personal insurance is currently at the centre  of debates on a certain number of hot topics.  What position is CNP Assurances taking  as a leader in this business?  We are participating actively in discussions about this  issue, alongside the French insurance industry federa- tion (FFSA), taking every opportunity to highlight the  essential role of life insurance in financing the economy  in general and the corporate sector in particular. In  addition, the new Basel III recommendations will soon  require all European banks to comply with more strin- gent capital adequacy and liquidity ratios. The banks  may well be tempted to develop new savings products  to help them comply with the new liquidity require- ments, potentially triggering temporary competition  between short- and long-term savings products. It will  be up to the insurers to adapt. At CNP Assurances, we  are doing just that, to enable us to continue to grow  the business and meet the fundamental needs of the  French population for protection.  Speaking of protection, 2010 marked a turning  point for the French as they became aware  of the need to prepare for retirement sooner.  What role can the insurance industry play,  particularly CNP Assurances? Insurance can make an extremely important contri- bution in the key areas of pensions and long-term  care. I use the word contribution advisedly, because  insurance alone cannot solve everything. It has to go  hand-in-hand with government programmes. To offset  the decline in their income, French people will need    CNPASSURANCES - THE ESSENTIALS 6  What was achieved in 2010 in terms of sustainable  development? Our employees believe strongly in sustainable deve- lopment and SRI rating agencies like Vigeo seem  to now recognise the sincerity of our commitment.  We count ourselves among those who genuinely  embrace our social and environmental responsibility,  both in theory and in practice. For instance, we have  long promoted diversity within our organisation, with  the result that we have one of the highest percentages  of disabled employees among French companies.  We dont shout it out from the rooftops, but this is the  kind of achievement that makes us proud. to supplement their pensions from the government- sponsored schemes by transforming their savings into  additional regular benefits. Life insurance makes this  possible, while at the same time offering a great deal  of flexibility. As for long-term care, this is a risk that  can be easily pooled and managed. When you said this year that international  operations have changed CNP Assurances,  what did you mean?  In 2010, our diversified international presence did  its part to provide new sources of profitable growth,  contributing 40% of EBIT for the year. But when I say  that international operations have changed us, Im  not just talking about the figures. CNP Assurances has  become a group where new synergies and opportuni- ties for dialogue are continually being created, driving  innovation and momentum. As a result, our corporate  culture has been transformed. Gilles  Benoist, Chief Executive  Of  cer  In 2010, we did what we said  we would do, which was to focus,  both in France and internationally,  on higher-margin risk products  that satisfy the fundamental human  need for protection, rather than  trying to increase premium  income at any price.  2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 7  RESPONSIBLE  GOVERNANCE CNP Assurancess governance organisation  and practices are designed to protect the best  interests of policyholders and shareholders. Comprising 18 directors and three non-voting direc- tors, CNP Assurancess Board of Directors reflects its  ownership structure, while leaving ample room for  qualified independent members and a representative  of employee shareholders.     EFFICIENT, BALANCED GOVERNANCE The presence on the Board of representatives of our  major shareholders, who have actively participated in  defining our strategy, ensures that the interests of all  shareholders are taken into account and protected. An expanded Executive  Committee that now includes  two women The recently expanded Executive Committee  has seven members, as follows:  –  Gilles Benoist, Chief Executive Officer –  Xavier Larnaudie-Eiffel, Deputy Chief  Executive Officer, International Operations  Director –  Antoine Lissowski, Deputy Chief Executive  Officer, Finance Director –  Grard Mnroud, Deputy Chief Executive  Officer, Development and Partnerships  Director –  Michel Bois, Programmes, Organisation  and Systems Director –  Corinne Gouthire, Policyholder Services  Director –  Brengre Grandjean, Human Resources  Director.  Huguette Rellier, who is in charge of  Internal Audit and Quality, acts as Secretary  to the Executive Committee.  The Board has chosen to separate the functions of  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The  Chairman is responsible for overseeing the Companys  smooth governance, leading Board deliberations, coor- dinating the Committees of the Board and chairing the  Strategy Committee. The Audit and Risks Committee  and the Remunerations and Nominations Committee  are chaired by independent directors.  The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing  day-to-day operations, with the broadest powers to act  in the Companys name in all circumstances. He imple- ments the strategy defined by the Board for the Group,  with a constant focus on protecting shareholder value.  The Chief Executive Officer is assisted by an Executive  Committee that was expanded in 2010 to include  seven members – the Chief Executive Officer, the  Director of International Operations, the Finance  Director, the Development and Partnerships Director,  the Programmes, Organisation and Systems Director,  the Policyholder Services Director and the Human  Resources Director – each with broad powers within  their remit.  The heads of Risk Control, Internal Audit, Communi- cations and Sustainable Development are all directly  represented by the Chief Executive Officer. In this way, all of the corporate functions are repre- sented on the Executive Committee, which discusses,  considers and coordinates actions to address any and  all cross-functional issues.  Further ensuring consistent strategic management  across the Group, at least one Executive Committee  member sits on the Board of Directors of each of the  main subsidiaries.    CNPASSURANCES - THE ESSENTIALS 8  BOARD OF DIRECTORS   Directors Edmond Alphandry, Chairman Gilles Benoist, Chief Executive Officer Caisse des Dpts et Consignations,  represented by its Chief Executive Officer,  Augustin de Romanet Antoine Gosset-Grainville* Pierre Hriaud Andr-Laurent Michelson Alain Quinet Franck Silvent Sopassure, represented by Marc-Andr Feffer Jean-Paul Bailly Olivier Klein Franois Prol Philippe Wahl* The French State, represented by Ramon Fernandez Philippe Baumlin Henri Proglio Marcia Campbell* Stphane Pallez*   Non-Voting Directors  Pierre Garcin* Jean-Louis de Mourgues Jacques Hornez   Works Council Representatives Nadia Remadna Pascal Oliveau Valrie Baron-Loison Patrick Berthelot   Secretary of the Board of Directors Hugues de Vauplane   Statutory Auditors  PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit,  represented by ric Dupont Mazars, represented by Jean-Claude Pauly COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD   Audit and Risks Committee Stphane Pallez*, Chairman Olivier Klein Franck Silvent Philippe Wahl* Marcia Campbell*   Remunerations & Nominations  Committee  Henri Proglio, Chairman Edmond Alphandry Jean-Paul Bailly Franois Prol Augustin de Romanet    Strategy Committee Edmond Alphandry, Chairman Marc-Andr Feffer Olivier Klein Henri Proglio Alain Quinet Augustin de Romanet  SENIOR MANAGEMENT Gilles Benoist, Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officers: Xavier Larnaudie-Eiffel, International Operations Antoine Lissowski, Finance Grard Mnroud, Development and Partnerships *Subject to ratification at the Annual General Meeting  on 6 May 2011. Board of Directors and Committees  of the Board 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 9  CNPAssurances CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) UniCredit Caixa Seguros (Brazil) Caixa CNP Marfin Insurance Holdings (Greece and Cyprus) Marfin Popular Bank CNP Barclays Vida y Pensiones Compania de Seguros (Spain, Portugal, Italy) Barclays Bank Plc Autres :  Spain  China  Argentina  Ireland  Capital ties Distribution agreements  with local banking partners 57.5% 51.75% 50.1% 50% 38.8% 48.21% 49.9% 50% you Garritano  family,  So Paulo  CAPITAL TIES AND INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS   CNPASSURANCES - THE ESSENTIALS 10  ITALY     CNP UniCredit Vita SpA  (CNP Assurances: 57.5%)    Board of Directors comprising 11 members  (6 nominated by CNP Assurances) elected  for three-year terms.    3 Committees of the Board: Remunerations  and Nominations Committee; Internal Control  Committee; Strategy Committee.  SPAIN     CNP Vida de Seguros y Reaseguros SA  (CNP Assurances: 94%)   Board of Directors comprising 14 members  (7 nominated by CNP Assurances) elected  for five-year terms.    CNP Barclays Vida Y Pensiones  Compaa de Seguros, SA  (CNP Assurances: 50%)   Board of Directors comprising 8 members  (4 nominated by CNP Assurances) elected  for six-year terms. PORTUGAL     Global Seguros  (Global, Companhia de Seguros SA and Global Vida,  Companhia de Seguros de Vida SA)  (CNP Assurances: 83.5%)   Supervisory Board comprising 9 members  (5 nominated by CNP Assurances) elected  for four year terms.    2 Committees of the Board: Audit Committee;  Remunerations and Nominations Committee. Note: Subsidiary sold on 3 March 2010. BRAZIL     Caixa Seguros  (Caixa Seguradora SA)  (CNP Assurances: 51.74%)   Board of Directors comprising 10 members  (6 nominated by CNP Assurances) elected  for three-year terms.    Audit Committee. ARGENTINA     CNP Assurances Compaa  de Seguros SA  (CNP Assurances: 76.47%)   Board of Directors comprising 5 members  (3 nominated by CNP Assurances) elected  for two year terms.    Internal Control Committee. CHINA     Sino-French Life Insurance  Company Limited  (CNP Assurances: 50%)   Board of Directors comprising 6 members  (3 nominated by CNP Assurances) elected  for four year terms. CYPRUS-GREECE     CNP Marfin Insurance  Holdings Limited  (CNP Assurances: 50.1%)   Board of Directors comprising 7 members  (4 nominated by CNP Assurances).    Audit Committee. IRELAND     CNP Europe Life Limited  (CNP Assurances: 100%)   Board of Directors comprising 6 members,  of whom 3 are residents. Subsidiary governance structures 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 11   Between you  and us A lifetime  to protect  you us Alexandre Couderc,  54 years old Teacher milie Boug,  31 years old Customer Service  Representative    CNPASSURANCES - THE GROUP A VOCATION UNDERPINNED  BY CORE VALUES CNP Assurances meets a basic human need to secure  the future in order to live life to the full. Life is a succession of random events that challenge  our ability to respond and adapt. For over 150 years,  CNP Assurances has pursued the corporate mission of  offering everyone the means to secure their future and  that of their family against the risks of everyday life.    A LIFETIME INSURER Our personal risk, pension and life insurance offers  meet a universal human need to feel secure about the  future in order to enjoy the present, undertake projects  and make plans.  Over the years, this mission has lost none of its vali- dity. In the midst of the 2008 financial crisis, our  policyholders in France demonstrated their trust in  CNP Assurances and their readiness to rely on a strong,  dependable, diligently managed partner. In 2010, concerns about the economic environment  and French pension reform deepened their need for  reassurance. With a savings rate stabilising at around  16% in 2009 and 2010, French consumers are the  worlds biggest rainy-day savers.    A RESPONSIBLE MARKET LEADER As the leading provider of personal risk insurance,  CNP Assurances covers more than one in three people  in France. As such, we carry a great deal of responsibi- lity as well as a certain legitimacy of action.  We are ideally positioned to observe and understand  shifting economic and social trends, such as longer  life expectancies and rising social vulnerabilities.  Our industry ranking and risk management expe- rience qualify us to innovate in certain markets. This  is particularly the case in long-term care, a market in  which we pioneered new services that go beyond the  standard benefit formula to meet the daily needs of  individuals facing a loss of autonomy. CNP Assurances takes an active part in major public  discussions and debates concerning personal insu- rance. We also play a major role in financing the  economy by supporting infrastructure projects  and the business sector. For example, at the end of  2010, we held over 95 billion worth of government  and other public sector bonds and 103 billion in  corporate paper.    AN EXPERT IN MANAGING RISKS We have developed specific expertise in managing both  financial and insurance risks. This expertise hinges  on the interlocking involvement of a wide variety  of professionals, including actuaries, lawyers, fund  managers, IT specialists and finance experts. Together,  we help policyholders to overcome pitfalls on the road  of life, as they face the challenges of maintaining their  standard of living after retirement, remaining in their  home if they become disabled and meeting the cost of  long-term care. Upstream, designing a product involves identifying  risks, determining the most appropriate cover and  defining affinity groups to pool the risks. It then entails  assessing the related underwriting, administrative and  financial management costs, in order to determine a  break-even price. Successfully marketing the product means fostering  close ties with our partners by supporting and training  insurance advisors in their networks. Managing contracts  14  An educational  web series The most popular savings vehicle in  France, life insurance is nonetheless  perceived as technically complex.  Convinced that we have a responsibility  to help people understand it better,  we launched an interactive video website  on the subject in October 2010 at  www.toutsavoirsurlassurancevie.fr.  The aim is not to present our products  but simply to explain the utility of life  insurance at the major turning points  in everyones life. Six short films use  the birth of a baby named Louise to  illustrate the lives of six family members  who represent the very different saver  profiles that can be covered by the  flexible terms of a life insurance policy.  This is our first online campaign and also  the first time we have chosen to target  prospective customers by improving  their understanding of our business,  rather than by showcasing our products.  It nonetheless echoes the theme of our  traditional advertisements which, set to  Shostakovitchs Waltz No. 2, all take birth  as the starting point. There is no better  way to illustrate how magical and  precious life is and how important  it is to protect it. Personal insurance Protecting the future of policyholders  and their loved ones with:   Low-cost financial security in the case  of adverse life events.   Secure financial commitments  (capital guarantees on non-unit-linked  contracts, guaranteed number of units  in unit-linked contracts, option to  surrender savings policies at any time).   Tax optimized estate planning,  with payment to designated  beneficiaries. Our value added   Anticipating emerging social needs.    Partnering policyholders at every  lifestage with our products and advice.   Managing contracts that combine  effectiveness, industrial processing  and confidentiality over very  long periods.   Managing assets while securing  commitments with the aim of optimizing  and smoothing annual yields over time   Supporting long-term development  of both national economies  and companies. Our commitments   Combat financial exclusion with products  tailored to every budget.   Promote ethical practices across  the business, with regulatory compliance,  fair advice, a Code of Ethics and quality  of service.   Guarantee commitments to the insured  and their beneficiaries throughout  the life of the contract.   Ensure that underlying assets comply  with socially responsible investment  principles. The social value-added of CNP Assurances personal insurance contracts Personal insurance contributes to an enhanced sense of well-being. Through its expertise and commitments,  CNP Assurances maximises the social value designed into every product category, from savings products  with term life cover to pensions and personal risk products with accident, death, long-term care, health, loan  and unemployment cover (see Glossary on page 74 for more information). CNP ASSURANCESS SOCIAL VALUE-ADDED T e  Lifetime  Insurer Assessing each persons risks,  administrative  and f nancial  management costs  and the probability of  surrender Guaranteeing administrative  management,  investmentstrategy,  reserving policy Pooling risks to optimise  rates 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 15  requires a mass customization approach that addresses  individual needs with industrial efficiency. The last stage  in the process involves defining a premium investment  strategy that offers an optimum risk-reward tradeoff,  so as to guarantee fulfilment of financial commitments  without knowing when they will need to be settled.    TRUST, THE CORNERSTONE  OF POLICYHOLDER RELATIONS Because policyholders entrust us with protecting their  most valuable assets, i.e. themselves and their families,  the primary value-added delivered by CNP Assurances  is trust. In this regard, high-quality portfolio management is  mission-critical. The management strategy of an insu- rer like CNP Assurances is inherently different from  that of a bank, asset management firm or pension  fund with predetermined investment horizons. As an insurer, we carry in our balance sheet the  amounts invested in traditional savings products plus  reinvested annual gains. These amounts can gene- rally be surrendered at any time and we therefore  have an obligation to securely manage the correspon- ding assets, while also generating stable, satisfactory  returns over time.    A STRONG, SUSTAINABLE  COMMITMENT In 2003, CNP Assurances stepped up its commitment  to social and environmental responsibility by pledging  support for the United Nations Global Compact, the- reby reaffirming its sincere, deep attachment to its  own fundamental principles and values.  Corporate social responsibility (CSR) has been at  the core of our business for over 150 years. We are  convinced that everyone should have access to finan- cial products, because insurance helps to reduce social  vulnerability.  For this reason, our policy has always been to make  insurance widely affordable and accessible to all and  to pool risks among the insured, unlike other insurers  that prefer a more segmented approach. This philosophy has led us to design insurance  contracts with minimum premiums as low as 30 per  month, and term creditor insurance policies that make  no price distinction between men and women, smokers  and non-smokers, etc. In recent years, CSR has played a central role in our  strategy, which is why the Sustainable Development  department reports directly to the Chief Executive  Officer. In 2009, the Board of Directors set an initial  series of CSR objectives, namely to promote SRI funds;  systematically incorporate environmental, social and  corporate governance criteria into the asset manage- ment approach; reduce CO2 emissions from internal  operations by 3% per year per employee; integrate  more disabled people into the organization; and add  sustainable development targets to senior executive  bonus criteria.  Most of these objectives were met in 2010, which was  also the year of our first Bilan Carbone carbon audit.  New objectives have been set for 2011. A shared commitment  to ethics The CNP Assurances Code of Ethics  was updated in 2010 after being  reviewed by employee representatives.  Printed in the Employee Orientation  Guide handed out to new hires and posted  on our intranet site, the Code informs  employees about all the rules of ethics  they are expected to uphold. A list of questions  and answers illustrating how these rules  apply to real life situations is also available  on the intranet.  An Ethical Procurement Guide and  Charter for Buyers was drafted in 2010  to strengthen our commitment to pursuing  a responsible procurement policy that aims  to protect the interests of all stakeholders.  Lastly, an employee protection clause  is included in all calls for bids, requiring  suppliers to pledge to respect human  rights and to comply fully with French  and international labour laws.   CNPASSURANCES - THE GROUP 16  Voahirana  Ranaiv-Zanany, Pricing Manager,  Long-term Care Products CNP Assurances us Our job is to develop  cover that closely matches  policyholder needs. Its our job to offer cover that is closely aligned  with what our policyholders want.  The CNP Assurances approach ensures  that we develop effective responses, and I feel  particularly at ease with my role as an actuary  specialised in long-term care products.  CNP Assurances started writing long-term care  insurance back in the 1980s as soon as demand  for it first emerged. Today, as a leader  in this market, we are still exploring avenues  for addressing this type of risk. Experts in the field,  including actuaries and physicians, meet regularly  to define risk cover that intimately reflects  the needs of the population. Lump-sum payments  are now offered in addition to regular benefits  and over the years, cover has been adapted to suit  increasingly mild care needs. CNP Assurances  has been the driver of innovation, designing  products to cover the risk of pathologies  that involve a moderate loss of autonomy,  such as Alzheimers disease, stroke and age-related  macular degeneration. Contracts are now available  that pay regular benefits and a lump-sum right  from the onset of such conditions.  Our products embody our commitment to serving  the insured and nowhere is this more true than  in long-term care. Our contracts reflect  CNP Assurancess stated values. Whats more,  were  very attentive to providing accurate  and clear information. There cant be any  ambiguity about what is covered and what isnt.  Its a question of ethics.  Our ten core principles A signatory of the United Nations Global  Compact since 2003, CNP Assurances has taken  on board the Compacts ten principles: Human rights 1.  Businesses should support and respect  the protection of internationally proclaimed  human rights; 2.  Make sure that they are not complicit  in human rights abuses. Labour standards 3.  Businesses should uphold the freedom  of association and the effective recognition  of the right to collective bargaining; 4.  The elimination of all forms of forced  and compulsory labour; 5.  The effective abolition of child labour; 6.  The elimination of discrimination in respect  of employment and occupation. Environment 7.  Businesses should support a precautionary  approach to environmental challenges; 8.  Undertake initiatives to promote greater  environmental responsibility; 9.  Encourage the development and diffusion  of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10.  Businesses should work against corruption  in all its forms, including extortion  and bribery. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 17  A UNIQUE  BUSINESS  MODEL Our strength lies in long-term  partnerships forged with  distribution networks offering  a well-established presence  in their local market. CNP Assurances has developed a unique business  model in France that is anchored in long-term  partnership agreements with large, well-established  banking networks.     LEVERAGING EXPERTISE  AND MARKET INTIMACY Under the model, CNP Assurances designs, develops and  manages life insurance contracts, while its partners dis- tribute them. This combination of insurance expertise  and in-depth customer knowledge has demonstrated its  effectiveness for over 150 years, and never more than in  the recent economic and financial crisis.  Backed by the successful French experience,  CNP Assurances began exporting its business model  a decade ago.     TWO LONG-STANDING PARTNERS  IN FRANCE In the French individual insurance market, we work  primarily with two large distribution networks,  La Banque Postale and the Caisses dEpargne, which  together represent a total of nearly 22,000 sales  outlets. These two partners have signed distribution  you Paul  Masson,  7 years old and his  grandmother   CNPASSURANCES - THE GROUP 18  CNPAssurances La Banque Postale Caisse des Dpts Sopassure Capital ties Distribution agreements 49.90% 49.90% Groupe BPCE 50.10% 35.48% 40.00% CAPITAL TIES AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS FRANCE agreements with CNP Assurances that run until 31  December 2015 and they are also shareholders of our  Company. La Banque Postale and Groupe BPCE own an  aggregate 35.48% of the capital, giving them a direct,  vested interest in the Groups performance.     MUTUAL COMMITMENTS The partners mutual commitments and respective  roles and responsibilities are contractually defined in  service and quality agreements. CNP Assurances is  dedicated to meeting the highest standards of mana- gement efficiency and responsiveness. Its service level  commitments are regularly tracked to continuously opti- mise the quality of service rendered to the distribution  networks and the insured.  To foster closer relationships between teams, various  committees meet on a regular basis to discuss local mar- ket trends, product alignment, financial performance  and the quality of day-to-day management. In 2010, CNP Assurances and its two main partners  decided to improve this process to further promote  dialogue and teamwork. La Banque Postale approved  our plan to strengthen the partnership committee and  create additional committees in specific disciplines  (e.g. Finance, Marketing, IT and Administration).  The Caisses dEpargne set up a new committee in 2010  dedicated to monitoring competition and regulatory  compliance and supervising how new products are  presented. This new committee will serve to optimise  product innovation processes within the partnership  framework.     A DRIVER OF PRODUCT INNOVATION Our business model is an excellent driver of product  innovation. We regularly renew our offer by soliciting  feedback from the distribution networks, in order  to effectively meet policyholder needs and provide  products that the sales forces are proud to sell. Our  products are adapted as necessary in close colla- boration with these teams, taking into account the  specificities of their customer base in terms of age,  risk profile, income and evolving needs. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 19  THE BUSINESS MODEL Underwriting Life of the contract Fund selection Asset management Claims  handling ALM Contract administration Financial management CNPAssurances Others Distribution Needs  assessment Marketing Product design  and development Sales Product offer Distribution Jean, Anne  and Olivier  Le Garrec you    GROUP INSURANCE PARTNERS Our group insurance products include pension, term  creditor insurance and employee benefits contracts  sold to more than 200 financial institutions, around  a hundred mutual insurance companies, 20,000  local governments and hospitals, 4,500 companies  and numerous not-for-profit organisations.  We mainly operate in the large accounts segment of  the market, which requires mobilising considerable  technical and legal expertise to participate in the com- petitive bidding process.  We also serve SMEs through insurance brokers and the  Banques Populaires and Caisses dEpargne networks,  offering a range of products suited to their clientele,  including defined contribution pension plans and  length-of-service award contracts. CNP Assurances is  the insurer for all of the group contracts sold by the  Caisses dEpargne and the reinsurer (on a 60% basis)  of the group contracts sold by Banques Populaires  through Natixis Assurances.   CNPASSURANCES - THE GROUP 20     AN EXPORTED BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is being successfully reproduced  overseas where it serves to tap new sources of growth  and profit. In most cases, this is accomplished by  acquiring controlling interests in existing companies  that have one or more distribution networks at their  disposal, generally through the local banks. Our setup  in Brazil, Italy, Cyprus, Greece and other countries illus- trates this approach. Operations can also be launched  by creating an entirely new company, generally with a  local partner that has access to a distribution network.  A prime example is Sino-French Life Insurance, a joint  venture created with the Chinese Post Office on a  50/50 basis.  The vitality of the distribution networks is the key to  developing our business. For that reason, whenever  possible we encourage them to become shareholders  of our local subsidiary, with a seat on its Board or equi- valent, and also provide them with financial incentives  to build sales. Our business model has proven its effectiveness  outside France over the past decade. Unlike many  of our competitors, we focus almost exclusively on  bancassurance distribution channels. This selecti- vity strengthens our power to attract partners. The  current changes in our regulatory environment, with  the Solvency II directive and the Basel III recommen- dations, should draw more banks into this type of  partnership. Pierre Nicolas  Carissan, Deputy Director  of International  Operations  CNP Assurances us In international markets,  weve got to have the flexibility  to adjust our business model. CNP Assurances has developed a robust business  model that is recognised for its effectiveness  in building long-term bancassurance  partnerships. We reproduce this basic model  whenever possible, by acquiring the captive  insurance companies of local banks.  When our distribution partners have  no insurance company of their own yet,  we can create one with them in the form  of a start-up joint venture. This is what we did  several years ago with the Chinese Post Office,  which we partnered to create Sino-French  Life Insurance. In some cases, as in potential  growth markets where we havent identified  any strategic banking partners, we may even  create or acquire platforms that operate as open  distribution channels, that is to say without  establishing any long-term distribution  agreements. This approach, which requires only  a fairly small investment, enables us to learn  the ins and outs of a market, build an  appropriate infrastructure and create a team  capable of identifying and following through  on partnership opportunities. In 2007,  for example, we acquired the Skandia Vida  platform in Spain, since renamed CNP Vida.  This acquisition helped us to acquire experience  and credibility in the Spanish market, develop  ways of handling the competition and,  two years later, sign a major partnership  agreement with Barclays. Its an approach that  could prove even more useful in markets where  products, regulations and network management  processes are very different in nature from  those we are familiar with in Europe,  South America or Asia.  International  facts and figures  for 2010 Premium income from  international operations: 6.2bn representing nearly 20% of total  premium income Gross operating profit (EBIT): 757m representing 40% of total EBIT Up 65% on 2009, mainly led by Brazil 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 21   Between you  and us Moving forward  together  Claire Lemire,  31 years old Customer  Relationship  Manager Stphanie  Morais,  12 years old Bene ciary you us    CNPASSURANCES - PERFORMANCES A SOLID PERFORMANCE  IN 2010 In a historically low-interest rate environment, CNP Assurances  focused on developing sales of risk products (i.e. products  that offer coverage of an insurance risk), both in France and  in international markets. This strategy led to solid bottom-line  growth and increased balance sheet flexibility.    MAINTAINING A HIGH LEVEL  OF PREMIUMS In 2010, consolidated premium income dipped by just  0.8% to 32.3 billion, confirming our 2009 perfor- mance in a persistently difficult market environment.  Sales were led by unit-linked products, which rose  53.6% overall, a vibrant risk segment, and a sharp  30% increase in premium income in Brazil. Premium income in France totalled 26.1 billion,  underpinned by gains in unit-linked, personal risk and  term creditor insurance business that directly reflec- ted the sales performance of the Groups partners. International operations were a crucial growth driver,  representing 19% of consolidated premium income in  2010. Outside France, the strategy also consisted of  focusing on the high-potential personal risk and term  creditor insurance segments. Average technical reserves, excluding deferred par- ticipation, climbed 8.2% to 280 billion, lifted by  structurally positive net new money.    INCREASING PROFITABILITY EBIT amounted to 1,911 million for the year, an 8.8%  improvement. EBIT from international operations rose  by nearly 65%, mainly led by Brazil, thereby confir- ming the business models ability to deliver profitable  growth. In all, international operations contributed  40% of total EBIT. Attributable net profit increased  4.6% to 1,050 million.     CREATING VALUE CNP Assurances pursued its value creation strategy in  2010, as announced.  Market consistent embedded value (MCEV - see  Glossary) rose by nearly 7% to 20.3 per share. MCEV  is equal to the sum of adjusted net asset value (ANAV)  and the value of in-force business (VIF). ANAV mainly  corresponds to the value of assets attributable to  shareholders after deducting intangible assets and  subordinated debt. VIF corresponds to the discounted  present value of future profits over the life of existing  contracts in the portfolio. ANAV rose 5.6% during the  year and the value of in-force business (VIF) was nearly  12% higher due to the combined effect of growth in  technical reserves and the consolidation of CNP BVP. Return on equity (ROE) stood at 10.9% in 2010. Since the initial public offering, the dividend has never  declined. For 2010, at the Annual General Meeting of  6 May 2011 the Board of Directors will recommend  paying a cash-only dividend of 0.77 per share. 24  0 5 10 15 20 25 Dec. 98 Dec. 99 Dec. 00 Dec. 01 Dec. 02 Dec. 03 Dec. 04 Dec. 05 Dec. 06 Dec. 07 Dec. 10 Dec. 08 CNP Assurances CAC 40 DJ Euro Stoxx Insurance Dec. 09 Share performance, October 1998 to December 2010 The CNP Assurances share  closed down 20% at 13.50 on  31 December 2010. The stock was  impacted by economic conditions,  particularly the low-interest  rate environment and concerns  regarding euro zone sovereign  debt. Since the stock market flotation  on 6 October 1998, the share price  has gained 128%, compared with  a rise in the CAC 40 index of 21%  and a 41% decline in the Dow Jones  Eurostoxx Insurance index over  the same period.    CNP ASSURANCES  STOCK DATA Listing: NYSE Euronext Paris IPO: 6 October 1998 Share price* as of 31 December 2010:  13.50 Market capitalisation as of  31 December 2010: 8.02 billion  (source: Bloomberg) Shares outstanding: 594,151,292 Nearly 140,000 individual  shareholders Average daily trading volume  in 2010: 419,430 shares  (source: Bloomberg) Indices: CAC Next 20 SBF 120 Euronext 100 DJ Eurostoxx Insurance Aspi Eurozone 120 Ethibel Excellence Index Europe * In July 2010, CNP Assurances carried  out a four-for-one stock split. Martine  and Guy  Neuville with their  grandson Alexis you 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 25  - 0.8% FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS TOTAL NEW MONEY (French GAAP, in  billions) TOTAL PREMIUM INCOME (IFRS, in  billions) NEW MONEY BY BUSINESS SEGMENT (IFRS, in  billions) NEW MONEY BY COUNTRY (IFRS, in  billions) MARKET CONSISTENT EMBEDDED VALUE (MCEV)  (in  per share)   CNPASSURANCES - PERFORMANCES 2009 2010 33.4 33.4 |   | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |   | | | | | | | | | |   | | | | | |   | | | | | | | | |   | | 334.8 23,587.3 480.3 3,024.5 1,727.7 3,160.5 Savings (73%) Pensions (9.8%) Personal risk (5.3%) Loan insurance (9.4%) Health insurance (1.5%) Property & Casualty (1%) 2009 2010 32.6 32.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | || | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |   | | | | | | | |   |   | | | | | |   | |   | 584.6 202.9 26,129.2 2,445.8 217.8 2,660.1 France (80.9%) Italy (8.2%) Portugal (0.7%) Brazil (7.6%) Spain (1.8%) Cyprus (0.6%) Argentina 17.1 M (0.1%) Ireland 23.4 M (0.1%)  Others 34.2 M (0.1%) 14.3 15.1 15.1 4.6 5.2 4.6 19 20.3 19.7 2009 before dividend  2009 after dividend  2010 before dividend  ANAV VIF Total 26  EBIT (in  millions) NET PROFIT (in  millions) EBIT BY BUSINESS SEGMENT  (in  millions and %) EBIT BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA  (in  millions and %) DIVIDEND RECORD (in  per share) 2001 0.35 2000 0.27 2003 0.38 2002 0.37 2005 0.48 2004 0.42 2007 0.71 2008 0.71 2006 0.58 2010* 0.77 2009 0.75 + 8.8% 2009 2010 1,756 1,911 + 4.6% 2009 2010 1,004 1,050 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | || | | | | | | | | | | | |   | |   | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |   | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 35 2% 726 38% 388 20% 762 40% Savings Pensions Risk Own funds portfolios | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | || | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |   | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |   | | | | | | | 1,154 60% 135 7% 622.5 33% France South America Europe (excl. France) * Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2011. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 27    CNPASSURANCES - PERFORMANCES    A SOCIALLY-RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER  Total number of employees: 4,619  CNP Assurances: 3,068  Consolidated international subsidiaries: 1,469   Non-consolidated subsidiaries (Filassistance,  ge dOr, Sino-French Life Insurance,  foreign branches): 182 Percentage under permanent contracts  (CNP Assurances and consolidated international  subsidiaries): 97.7% Training budget (CNP Assurances and consolidated  international subsidiaries): 4.2% of total payroll    AN ENVIRONMENTALLY-RESPONSIBLE  COMPANY  Carbon footprint in 2009: 22,000 tonnes of CO2  equivalent Carbon footprint per employee in 2010 at constant  scope of reporting, up 3.8%, of which 3.1%  due to internal operations  Carbon sinks (CNP Assurances woodland assets)  in 2010: 79,500 of CO2 equivalent     A SOCIALLY-RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR  Percentage of assets managed according to  ESG criteria: 54.5% Investments in SRI funds: 620 million Number of contracts including SRI funds as of  31 December 2010: 86,200, up 8% over 2009  Recognition from  SRI agencies CNP Assurancess sustainable development  commitment has been recognised by socially  responsible investment (SRI) rating agencies  such as Vigeo, which places us at the top of  its independent ranking of European insurers.  Our performance is particularly strong  in the areas of human resources management  and community outreach. CNP Assurancess  shares are included in several European  SRI indices, such as the Aspi Eurozone 120,  and the Groups inclusion in the Ethibel  Excellence Investment Register was confirmed  in November 2010. For more information on the Vigeo rating method, visit www.vigeo.com SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  HIGHLIGHTS In pledging our support for the Global Compact in 2003, we reaffirmed  our commitment to respecting its fundamental principles, combating  corruption and protecting the environment. In 2010, following the example  of CNP Argentina and Caixa Seguros, CNP UniCredit Vita also pledged  support for the Global Compact. 28  INFORMATION SYSTEMS  AT THE CENTRE OF  OUR STRATEGY CNP Assurances continually invests in its information systems  to support the deployment of its strategies. In 2010, the Group made  headway on large federating projects, while at the same time  enhancing the services provided to its partners.    THE FINANCE AND MANAGEMENT  ROADMAP The Finance and Management Roadmap was launched  in 2008 as a vector for implementing new accoun- ting standards and the Solvency II directive, and for  enhancing operating performance management. The  Roadmap breaks down into around 30 different pro- jects that organise all of our Finance teams and many  of our IT teams into functional units. Financial statement production: In addition to the  Fast Close programme initiated several years ago to  speed up publication of the financial statements, we  are continuing to industrialise quarterly account pro- duction processes, while at the same time improving  data quality.  The project underway to overhaul our accounting sys- tem will enter the integration phase in 2011 with the  aim of making the new system available for the first- quarter 2012 close. Its purpose is to improve operating  performance management and allow the same raw  data to be processed according to different accounting  standards.  Modelling and applying new standards: This pro- ject family focuses on downstream systems and their  mandatory alignment with IFRS and Solvency II requi- rements that will be applicable to European insurance  companies between now and the end of 2012.   The Nemo project to design a new asset/liability  modelling environment was pursued in 2010. Its ini- tial objective is to model the Groups entire balance  sheet and calculate economic capital according to the  Solvency II standard formula. Ultimately, it will provide  an internal model that will enable us to reduce our sol- vency capital requirement and effectively control the  financial and actuarial aspects of market risk. In the  last quarter of 2010, we were able to more accurately  define our vision of its Group-wide application, i.e. to  CNP Assurances and its subsidiaries. Asset management: The project to implement a mana- gement platform integrating all assets in the portfolio  was ongoing in 2010. Its aim is to centralise asset port- folio management ahead of Solvency II and generate  multi-vision asset management data to support the  Groups investment strategies.     OPTIMISING WORKSTATIONS  AND DEVELOPING MULTI-CHANNEL  SOLUTIONS  We pursued our programmes to optimise insurance  workstations to permit secure processing of as many  transactions as possible at the point of sale. Lastly,  we continued to enhance our administrative systems,  which play a key role in handling the nearly 15 million  individual insurance contracts in our portfolio and in  providing the best possible level of service.  At the same time, we have strengthened our online  services platforms, which managers and policyholders  can access via the web portal of each of our partners. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 29   Between you  and us A lifelong  partnership  Sylvain  Velasco,  44 years old Architect Julien Martin,  36 years old Personal Risk  Manager you us  SAVING  FOR PEACE  OF MIND AND  TO PROTECT  THEFAMILY More than ever, French people  need to protect their future.  Life insurance is their preferred  method of preparing for  lifes challenges and financing  their future plans.  Tour family,  Paris you   CNPASSURANCES - SOLUTIONS Over the years, life insurance has confirmed its role as  the umbrella solution to all types of savings needs, from  putting money aside for a rainy day and protecting the  family from the consequences of unforeseen events,  to achieving capital growth, saving for retirement, or  optimising an inheritance. It is a flexible solution that  can be adapted to each individuals future plans and  subsequently adjusted as those plans change.  CNP Assurancess life insurance offering responds  to the diverse needs of its clients, covering all age  groups, wealth brackets, income groups, risk appetites  and projects.    A SIMPLE, AFFORDABLE  AND TRANSPARENT OFFERING Our offering is closely aligned with our values and those  of our partners, bearing the hallmarks of affordability,  simplicity and transparency. For example, it takes  just 30 to set up a life insurance policy with the  Caisses dEpargne (Ricochet) and La Banque Postale  (Vivaccio), and the premium can be as low as 30 per  month.  At the other end of the scale, we are also very active  in the high-end segment, with products such as  Nuances Privilge, distributed by the Caisses dEpargne,  and Cachemire, distributed by La Banque Postale.  32     EXPANDING THE OFFERING  FOR HIGH-END CLIENTS Sales of insurance products to the Caisses dEpargne  private banking clients grew 38% in 2010, led by  Nuances Privilge.  Cachemire, distributed by La Banque Postale, also  performed in line with expectations. Designed for  younger, high-earning clients with at least 25,000  to invest, this multi-fund, multi-manager product  confirmed the good results obtained in 2009,  recording total sales up 4% at 3.67 billion. Since the  product was launched in late 2008, 126,500 contracts  have been sold, of which 29.6% to clients in the 30-54  age group.    AN ACTIVE SENIORS MARKET  Seniors represent an important target clientele for  life insurers. Having already built up capital and, in  some cases, enjoying generous pensions, they have  significant savings management needs. For the last  three years, the Caisses dEpargne have responded  to these needs with a specific range of life insurance  contracts that combine simplicity and security with  easy access to capital.  They also have the solution for grandparents wanting  to help the younger generations during their lifetime,  with Nuances Grenadines, a life insurance contract  with a potentially tax-exempt gifting formula. CNP Trsor Gnrations is another simple and innovative  savings contract with a unit-linked formula that combines  tax-exempt gifting with the tax benefits associated with  life insurance contracts.     CNP TRSOR, VISITING CLIENTS  IN THEIR HOMES CNP Trsor is our in-house sales force. Its 300 insurance  advisors meet with clients in their own homes to  discuss their needs in order to propose solutions to  protect and increase their savings, and to avoid gift  and inheritance taxes, as well as offering various forms  of insurance cover. These life insurance and savings protection specialists  offer CNP Trsors 360,000 policyholders a comprehensive  range of savings, pension and personal risk products.  These clients expect a high quality service and they  appreciate the CNP Trsor teams expertise. They also  have confidence in the CNP Assurances signature, which  they view as a guarantee of reliability and transparency. In 2010, revenue generated by CNP Trsor rose 9%  over the previous year. Life insurance: 70% of the French savings  market in 2010 (130 billion, FFSA estimates  at end-2010) Toscane Vie,  rewarding loyalty In September 2010, La Banque Postale  launched Toscane Vie, the latest addition  to its range of life insurance products  specifically designed for private banking  clients. Toscane Vie is firmly positioned  at the high end of the market, with  premiums starting at 15,000. Savers are  rewarded for their loyalty through the  automatic transfer of interest and capital  gains to a dedicated loyalty fund at the end  of each month. The contract is distributed  exclusively by La Banque Postales teams  of financial advisors. Five new prizes for  traditional savings contracts  with a unit-linked formula The traditional savings contracts with a unit-linked  formula distributed by La Banque Postale and  the Caisses dEpargne feature regularly among  the winners at the annual Trophes du Revenu  awards organized by Le Revenu magazine.  In 2010, Cachemire won a gold medal in the  diversified (16 to 50 funds) category, and Vivaccio  was awarded a bronze medal in the actively- managed (two to 15 funds) category. Traditional  savings contracts with a unit-linked formula  distributed by the Caisses dEpargne won three  medals, with a gold medal for Nuances Privilge  in the growth funds (over 50 funds) category,  and bronze medals for Nuances 3D and Nuances  Plus in the diversified (16 to 50 funds) category. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 33  Franck  and Marie Perrault,  50 years old you PREPARING  FOR RETIREMENT French people are starting  to prepare for retirement  increasingly early.  CNP Assurances is there to  help them, with its life insurance  products, specific individual  pension offerings and group  pension products.  Developments in 2010 brought home to many people  the need to start thinking about retirement at the very  beginning of their working life. The proposed reform of  the pension system fostered growing awareness that  unfunded pay-as-you-go systems would not be able  to provide the standard of living expected by future  retirees.     A POWERFUL INCENTIVE TO SAVE Most savers are motivated primarily by the need to  put money aside for their retirement. While France  is seeing an increase in sales of pure individual and  group pension products such as Plans dpargne  retraite populaire (PERP), Plans dpargne pour la  retraite collective (PERCO) and Madelin contracts, the  amounts invested in these products remain limited.  Property and life insurance are still viewed as the best  way of providing an income in old age. According to a  survey conducted by the French insurance federation  (FFSA) in May 2010, 56% of life insurance policies are  purchased in preparation for retirement. This statistic shows that French peoples perception of  life insurance as a means of saving for retirement has  not lessened over time. These products flexibility and  the fact that they offer a capital guarantee explain why  they still represent the best way of achieving long-term  capital growth. CNP Assurances is present in the pensions market with  life insurance contracts, individual pension contracts  such as the Plan dpargne retraite populaire (PERP),  and a full range of group plans enabling companies  to offer supplementary pension benefits to their  employees.   CNPASSURANCES - SOLUTIONS 34  us    A COMPREHENSIVE  PENSIONS LINE-UP  Designed solely to provide additional income in reti- rement, tax-advantaged PERP contracts are available  to everyone, whether they work for a company, are  self-employed or are not in employment. They pro- vide the policyholder with a pension on retirement.  We have developed a full range of PERP contracts for  our partners, comprising traditional contracts with a  unit-linked formula and points-based plans.  The group pensions market includes defined contribu- tion and defined benefit plans, PERE and PERCO plans,  early retirement benefit plans, and insurance contracts  covering the payment of length-of-service awards.  CNP Assurances is the unchallenged leader of this  market, deploying its expertise through its employee  savings plan management subsidiary, Fongepar.    BUILDING TRUST  THROUGH EXPERTISE CNP Assurances leads the consortium of insurers  that manages the Prfon-Retraite supplementary  pension scheme set up in 1967 for civil servants and  their spouses. Our longstanding experience in mana- ging annuity products, our strong capital base and  our expertise represent valuable assets in this market.  With the contribution period and the pension payment  period each spanning several decades, plan partici- pants need to be secure in the knowledge that their  long-term savings are entrusted to a solid and res- ponsible manager.  We pay close attention to managing plan assets, aligning  investment strategies with our commitments to the  client.  Developing the supplementary  pension line-up Half of the people currently in work plan  to save more for their retirement in the  next five years. The growth outlook in both  the individual and group pensions markets  is therefore very promising. A mere 15% to  20% of companies have set up supplementary  pension plans for their employees and only 25%  have an employee savings plan. To meet all of  these unsatisfied needs and build a combined  group pensions (insured plans and employee  savings plans) and individual pensions offer,  we have set up a strategic partnership with  Malakoff Mdric to market a joint range  of products and services for private sector  employees.  Sylvie  Petit,  Marketing  Director CNP Assurances We have a role to play  in helping French people  to better prepare their  retirement. Several surveys carried out in connection  with the pension reform revealed that French  people are increasingly worried, with many  believing that they will not have enough to live  on in their old age, but they also lack information  about the probable size of their pension.  At the same time, market data shows that  demand for annuity products is limited, despite  the fact that they are the only products covering  longevity risk. Its clear that French people  under-estimate the length of time they will draw  a pension. We have a role to play in helping them  prepare for retirement by developing innovative  life annuity solutions. We also need to continue  our detailed discussions with our partners  in order to come up with the most appropriate  solution for each client segment, determine  the arguments that will convince these clients  to save for their retirement and agree  on the essential role that the networks can play  in providing information and advice.  By 2060, the number of people aged over  60 will have increased by   10.4 million  compared with 2007 (source: INSEE 2010 population forecasts) 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 35  Florence  Billon,  and Adrien,  2 years old you Prvialys Accidents de la Vie covers the major but  often poorly-identified risk of personal accident. Each  year, several million people are victims of accidents.  When the accident occurs outside the workplace and a  claim cannot be made against a third party, the victim  is not covered. This is where Prvialys Accidents de  la Vie steps in, by covering the accidents physical and  financial consequences. Other products provide an income for the family in the  case of death or disability (Avisys Protection Famille)  or coverage of funeral costs or long-term care costs.    THE OFFER DISTRIBUTED  BY THE CAISSES DEPARGNE NETWORK The Caisses dEpargne offer a range of flexible and affor- dable products allowing policyholders to purchase the  level of protection that suits them best. With Garantie  Famille death-disability insurance, the policyholder  chooses the amount of cover, which can be increased or  reduced at any time. Garantie Urgences makes emer- gency funds available following a death (7,500 paid  within 48 hours). It is a very affordable solution for the  under-30s, who can purchase cover for just 1 per month.  CNP Assurances has developed a wide range of products  to help policyholders to deal with lifes everyday risks,  including long-term care insurance, death insurance,  funeral insurance, personal accident insurance and  health insurance. These products are sold in France by  La Banque Postale Prvoyance – a joint subsidiary of  CNP Assurances and La Banque Postale –, the Caisses   dEpargne networks, CNP Trsor insurance advisors and  mutual insurance partners, and in international markets  by CNP Assurancess subsidiaries.     LA BANQUE POSTALE PRVOYANCE,  NOW OFFERING A COMPREHENSIVE LINE-UP La Banque Postale Prvoyance (formerly Assurposte) is a  joint subsidiary of CNP Assurances and La Banque Postale  set up in 1998. In 2009 its total number of individual  insurance policies crossed the two million mark. In 2010  the subsidiary celebrated its first ten years of business.  Its comprehensive product line-up offers reasonably  priced coverage of a broad spectrum of everyday risks for  policyholders of all ages according to their needs. INSURING  AGAINST THE  UNEXPECTED Increasing uncertainty  and growing awareness  of the post-war social models  fragility are contributing  to an ever greater need for  security and a surge in demand  for personal risk insurance.    CNPASSURANCES - SOLUTIONS 36  In April 2010, the Caisses dEpargne enhanced their per- sonal risk offering with the launch of Ecureuil Solutions  Obsques, allowing policyholders to pay for their fune- ral in advance and to obtain advice on how to ensure that  their final wishes are respected. Around 1,000 contracts  are sold each month throughout the Caisses dEpargne  network. This is a fast-growing market – according to  the French insurance federation (FFSA), it expanded by  11% over the twelve months to end-June 2010. Scattered  families, demographic trends and the desire of seniors  to prepare their own funeral are all helping to sustain  demand.    A BOOMING EMPLOYEE  BENEFITS MARKET CNP Assurances operates in the employee benefits  market as an insurer, co-insurer and re-insurer, serving  companies, regional and local authorities, hospitals and  employee benefits institutions.  We have set ambitious goals in this market, which is  expected to experience double-digit growth in the next  five years. To keep pace with this growth, the offer is  being regularly expanded with the development of pro- ducts for all client categories. In 2010, we strengthened  our long-standing partnership with the leading civil ser- vice mutual insurers within MFP Services, by acquiring a  majority stake in the capital of MFPrvoyance SA.    LEADING THE WAY  IN LONG-TERM CARE CNP Assurances is lobbying against a panicked reac- tion to the problem of long-term care costs, which we  believe are easily insurable by pooling risks, at affor- dable prices. We began building an offer back in the  1980s. The first products were voluntary and compul- sory group insurance contracts sold mainly to mutual  insurers and employee benefits institutions. The indi- vidual long-term care offer came later, in 2002 in the  French Treasury network (now CNP Trsor), in 2004 in  the La Banque Postale network and, more recently, in  2009 in the Caisses dEpargne network. This head start  has given us a significant competitive advantage, by  allowing us to build a very large database and providing  us with the necessary experience-based data to accura- tely price and manage this long-tail risk.     NO. 1 IN LONG-TERM CARE  The market leader, CNP Assurances has created pro- ducts for its individual insurance partners that address  not only the financial needs arising from total and par- tial dependence, but also the need for assistance in  performing day-to-day tasks and support for carers. Protectys Autonomie distributed by La Banque Postale  pays a monthly benefit ranging from 300 to 3,000  over the insureds lifetime. Assistance Vie sold by the  Caisses dEpargne network offers a basic formula cove- ring partial or total loss of autonomy and an enhanced  formula that also covers limited dependence, even  resulting from a simple fracture. We are also helping to increase the protection available  to French people by playing a leading role in group  long-term care insurance. MGEN – the teachers mutual  insurer that we have been partnering for 40 years  – added total loss of autonomy cover to its health insu- rance contracts in January 2010, with reinsurance cover  provided by CNP Assurances. Two million civil servants  are concerned, including teachers, university lecturers,  researchers and employees of the ministries of culture,  communication, youth and sport.  The MGEN offer has driven a sharp rise in national take- up of long-term care insurance. Before 1 January 2010,  three million people in France were covered compared  with five million today. This increase in the number of  insureds will help us to price the risk more accurately. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 37  PROTECTION  THROUGH  TERM CREDITOR  INSURANCE With 13 million loans insured  and a 36% share of the market,  CNP Assurances is Frances  leading term creditor insurance  provider (source: XERFI term  creditor insurance market survey,  April 2010). It boasts recognized  expertise in insuring all types  of loans and while home loans  account for the bulk of the business,  the portfolio also includes consumer  loans and restructured debt.  The term creditor insurance offering is distributed to  home loan specialists, high street banks, consumer  loan specialists and also to non-profit lenders set up  to support the social economy, such as the CIL com- mittees that collect and invest the housing levy payable  by companies under the Action Logement program.  With our roots in the public sector, we share the same  culture and values as these non-profits. 2010 was a successful year on the marketing front, with  CNP Assurances submitting the winning bids to write term  creditor insurance for two social economy non-profits  (CIL Logilia and CIL Procilia) and for the Crdit Municipal  de Marseille bank. We were also chosen by Barclays Bank  France to insure loans to the banks private banking cus- tomers, loans to buy-to-let investors and business loans.     PROTECTION AGAINST  UNFORESEEN EVENTS These successes have strengthened our position in a  market that has seen a shift towards greater protec- tion of insureds with the adoption of the 1 July 2010  consumer credit act (know as the Lagarde Act). Since  1 September 2010, borrowers are free to purchase pay- ment protection from the insurer of their choice. We  responded proactively to this change by leveraging  our strengths, including our efficient administrative  processes, our underwriting expertise and our skill at  innovating to meet clients needs.  The market has been won over by our expertise, but  also by our vision of term creditor insurance which we  consider should not be just a means to an end but a real  source of protection for borrowers against the conse- quences of unforeseen events.     STRONG TAKE-UP OF  PROTECTION ACTIVE EMPLOI Launched in November 2008 for home buyers taking  out a loan with Crdit Immobilier de France, Protection  Active Emploi unemployment cover embodies this  approach. In the case of redundancy, instead of just  covering part of the insureds loan repayments, we  actively help them to find another job for example by  financing competency reviews, training and interview  guidance.  Violaine  and T omas  Delahaye, Saint-Martin  dHres you   CNPASSURANCES - SOLUTIONS 38  One year on, the product is an outstanding success  – 34% of Credit Immobilier de Frances customers  purchase this option, compared with a national ave- rage take-up rate for unemployment cover of just 5%.  The network has thrown its weight behind Protection  Active Emploi, proud to be able to offer this res- ponse to clients growing concerns about the risk of  unemployment.     TERM CREDITOR INSURANCE   IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS We also write term creditor insurance outside France,  in particular through our subsidiaries in Latin America  and Southern Europe.  In Brazil, Caixa Seguros is ranked no. 1 in this segment,  with over 60% of the market. Demand is very strong  and the business grew by over 20% in 2010.  We are now exploring term creditor insurance markets  in Eastern Europe. Rosana  Techima Personal Risk  Products Director,  Caixa Seguros Brazil us The Brazilians  are quick to embrace  innovative products The Brazilian economy has changed a lot in recent  years. And with the country now preparing  to host the 2014 Soccer World Cup and the 2016  Olympic Games, the related investments  and steadily improving revenues in the poorest  segment of the population should drive economic  momentum, leading to exponential growth  in the insurance market. Caixa Seguros holds  the keys to success in this market, with simple  products that can be purchased not only in Caixa  bank branches but also through alternative  channels such as lottery ticket outlets,  telemarketing centres, automatic teller machines  and the Internet.  The Brazilians are quick to embrace innovative  products. For example, sales of our personal risk  contract, Vida Mulher, have been growing at  a rate of over 89% a year since 2008.This unique  product combines basic cover such as natural and  accidental death and permanent total or partial  disability with a multitude of innovative guarantees  such as a special payment to policyholders  diagnosed with female cancer, exemption from  monthly premiums in the case of unemployment,  help with paying for drugs (in the form of discounts  of up to 40%), a funeral assistance service,  nutritional advice and the check-lar home check  and repair service covering electrical, plumbing  and other problems.  Sales of Vida Mulhar are supported by operational  marketing campaigns, particularly around  International Womens Day or Mothers Day,  when customers are given a beauty product  as a gift. Brazilians respond enthusiastically  to this type of operation.  Protection Active Emploi,  the most acclaimed offer in 2010 Protection Active Emploi didnt go unnoticed  by the insurance industry. It was awarded  the Argus dOr gold medal for personal insurance  product innovation in March of last year  and the Trophe de lInnovation in September,  the only product to pick up two prizes.  International markets  driving growth in personal  risk business While in France, our core business is still life  insurance-based savings solutions, the personal  risk business is the biggest weighted average  source of international revenue. Some of our  subsidiaries hold leading positions in this  market. For example, in Brazil Caixa Seguros  is the no. 1 provider of term creditor insurance  and is also very active in the other personal risk  segments. It is now planning to branch out into  group health insurance, in partnership with  one of Brazils foremost specialists, Tempo. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 39  Insurassistance was invented by CNP Assurances. To  support this business, we created two assistance sub- sidiaries, Filassistance International and Filassistance  Services, along with a service brand – CNP Services   la Personne – and in 2002, we acquired ge dOr  Services, Frances leading private provider of local  personal assistance services.    SERVICES EMBEDDED  IN THE INSURANCE POLICY Filassistance International, a subsidiary of CNP Assurances,  celebrated ten years in business in September 2010. Frances first local personal assistance provider, it places  these services at the centre of the insurance business. Far  from being the final touch added to contracts at the end  of the design phase, assistance services are built into the  process from the outset in the same way as financial bene- fits. This enables us to offer policyholders comprehensive,  well put together products that cover all the needs arising  from an insured risk, such as information and prevention,  support in the early days, coordination, research, practical  solutions and financial remedy. In other words, we address  everything that allows us to be present before, during and  after an accident or other unforeseen event, ensuring that  we live up to our corporate slogan, A lifetime insurer.  Included not only in personal risk contracts but also in  savings products (such as Solsio and Vivaccio), assis- tance services are above all integral to the long-term  care offer. Filassistance plays a key role in prevention,  by contributing to early detection of conditions that will  lead to a loss of autonomy through its bilan prvention  mmoire and bilan prvention autonomie assessment  services, and acting when the first signs of handicap  appear in order to limit long-term care needs. LIFE  ENHANCING  SERVICES CNP Assurances has played  a pioneering role in the development  of insurassistance products.  By combining traditional insurance  with personal services within  a single contract, these solutions  respond to a growing need.    SUSTAINED GROWTH IN 2010 Filassistance International has revenues of 12 million  and covers over 6 million beneficiaries. It has signed  more than 120 partnership agreements with banks,  employee benefits institutions, mutual insurers and  large state controlled and private companies. In 2010, the business grew by over 15%. In addition  to launching Ecureuil Solutions Obsques, which  enables policyholders to call a hotline for advice on  preparing their funeral, Filassistance has introduced  a new legal protection formula that will be marketed  alongside its other assistance formulas offered with  health, long-term care, funeral and term creditor  insurance.  As the benchmark assistance service provider, Filassistance  is playing a leading role in promoting insurassistance  and developing innovative solutions. In May 2010, it  sponsored the Trophes du Grand ge awards that  recognize initiatives that have contributed the most to  improving old peoples quality of life.     A DRIVING FORCE IN RAISING  QUALIFICATION LEVELS AMONG  PERSONAL SERVICE PROVIDERS  Some 10,000 service providers have been certified  as meeting Filassistance Services quality standards  in the twenty areas recognized in the 2005 Borloo Act  concerning the development of personal services,  and are authorized to market their services under the  CNP Services  la Personne brand. Beneficiaries are  put in touch with one of these accredited providers by  Filassistance Services assistance managers following an  analysis of their specific needs. In addition, Filassistance  Jacques  and Luc  Fournier, father and son you   CNPASSURANCES - SOLUTIONS 40  draws on the expertise of the ge dOr Services network.     A NETWORK COMMITTED TO  CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVING QUALITY With more than 190 agencies serving over 37,000  private and institutional clients, as it approaches the  20th anniversary of its creation the ge dOr Services  network is as committed as ever to improving the qua- lity of its services. The objective is for all agencies to obtain AFNOR  NF – Services aux personnes  domicile quality  certification of their home care services. The AFNOR  certification programme sets clear quality standards  for the provision of home care services, to be met in  all units in mainland France and the overseas depart- ments and territories. A hundred ge dOr Services  agencies have already been certified. The teams of competent, qualified and trained pro- fessionals employed by the ge dOr Services network  of accredited personal services providers offer a wide  range of services to the totally or partially dependent  elderly and disabled. They include in-home services,  personalized support, grocery, medicine and meal  deliveries, minor repairs and gardening. Revenues are growing steadily, reaching 32 million in  2010. And with over 800 full-time equivalent employees,  Filassistance International,  celebrating ten years of  innovation   2000 (September): Filassistance International  is set up by CNP Assurances and Azur-GMF.  Profession: life facilitator.   2002: the initial product range is developed  and the insurassistance concept is created.   2003: Filassist Contact, the first medical alert  medallion and hands-free telephone, is launched,  giving frail and socially isolated people 24/7  access to an assistance hotline.   2004: a retirement advice formula is added  to Solsio, distributed by La Banque Postale.  This is the first endowment policy with an  embedded assistance contract.   2006: Filassistance Services is set up and  licensed to operate as a personal services  provider under the 2005 Borloo Act.   2007: the bilan prevention mmoire memory  assessment service is launched.   2010: Ecureuil Solutions Obsques is  introduced in the Caisses dEpargne network,  offering a hotline to enable policyholders to  obtain advice on how to ensure that their final  wishes are respected.  ge dOr Services also contributes to creating jobs.    CARRS BLEUS, HELPING  POLICYHOLDERS TO TAKE A HAND  IN THEIR HEALTHCARE  Since 1997, Carrs Bleus, a wholly-owned subsidiary of  CNP Assurances, has offered CNP Assurancess health  insurance partners (traditional and mutual insurers  and employee benefits institutions) an information  hotline that provides advice on health and prevention  issues, as well as on prices quoted by hearing specia- lists, dentists and eyecare professionals. This service  offer allows policyholders to better understand the  world of healthcare and play a more active role in  managing their own healthcare needs.  Carrs Bleus also monitors the latest developments  in healthcare practices and policyholders emerging  Christophe  Boutineau Chief Executive Of  cer  of Filassistance  International us In todays increasingly  complex society, assistance  is more important than ever. The insurance industry is undergoing a major  transformation. The challenges – particularly  the problem of long-term care – and the speed  with which society is changing are such that the industry  can no longer simply collect premiums and pay claims  and benefits without regard for other issues. In the area  of long-tem care, for example, its obvious that paying  a monthly benefit is not enough. The dependent  elderly and disabled and their carers are overwhelmed  by the many problems they have to resolve.  Genuine protection involves offering an array of services  to prevent the onset of dependence, limit long-term  care needs, and resolve all dependence-related  problems for example by providing the necessary  equipment, psychological support, and assistance  with administrative and organizational issues.  The example of long-term care insurance is particularly  relevant but the insurance industry also needs to change  its approach to other types of contract. Policyholders  increasingly need an insurer that is also a life facilitator  ready and able to assist with everyday risks. This is all  the more necessary in todays increasingly complex  society, as families become more scattered.  2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 41   Between you  and us Ef  ciently  insuring risks  Robin  Andersen,  68 years old,  Retired Lysiane  Moreau,  61 years old, Actuary you us    CNPASSURANCES - OUR BUSINESS ENHANCED  RISK  GOVERNANCE In recent years, CNP Assurances  has been focusing on improving  its management of risks.  Solvency II is an opportunity  to go a step further and strengthen  its governance system. The insurance business is all about managing and  controlling risks. For several years now, CNP Assurances  has assertively tackled risk management and control  issues, with the stated aim of meeting the standards of  best market practice. The Solvency II directive provides an opportunity to  pass a new milestone in this area. By imposing a holis- tic approach to risk management, with each activity  and each employee having a role to play, Solvency  II has raised the bar. We recognised the implications  in 2010, leading us to strengthen our risk governance  system and restate each individuals responsibilities. Sacha,  Anna,  Romain  & Victoria,  Issingeaux you An asset/liability modelling  platform for CNP Assurances  (France and international  subsidiaries) We have set the target of developing  a robust, industrial model for the  calculation of economic capital according  to the optimised standard formula  by the end of 2012. To this end, in the  first half of 2010 the finance and IT teams  developed a new version of the asset/ liability modelling environment, named  Nemo. Nemo went live in mid-September  in France and at the end of the year in Italy.  The launch process went according to plan,  demonstrating the new versions robustness  and performance. Work on the project  will continue in 2011, to develop a single  platform based on two calculation engines  and economic scenario generators,  and to provide secure access to all staff  concerned (actuaries, finance and accounting  staff, risk managers, internal auditors  and internal controllers) and also to the  supervisory authorities. The main challenges associated with  the Nemo project over the next two years  are to improve process fluidity, performance,  security and auditability. 44  CNP Assurances is exposed to operational, technical  and financial risks. Each employee plays a role in their  overall management. Financial risks are managed  by the Investments department, technical risks  are managed by the Central Actuarial unit and the  Actuarial Analyses department, and operational risks  are managed by all departments.    THE NEW GOVERNANCE SYSTEM  Controlling risks is the responsibility of two depart- ments with complementary roles. The Risks and  Compliance department is responsible for perma- nent controls and for overseeing the management of  operational risks. The new Risks and Solvency department set up in early  2010 is responsible for i) evaluating capital adequacy  and maintaining an overall vision of our risk profile;  ii) developing and ensuring proper governance of the  internal capital adequacy evaluation model; and iii)  supervising the quantitative risk management process.  Alongside these two departments, the Internal Audit  department is responsible for periodic controls.    COMBINING QUANTITATIVE  AND QUALITATIVE RISK MANAGEMENT  Led by the Chief Executive Officer since 2008, the  Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) project ensures  that risk factors are taken into account when deve- loping strategies and also in all of the Groups activities.  The existence of an ERM system is one of the criterion  taken into account by Standard & Poors in their rating  process and it also helps us to comply with the pillar 2  requirements of Solvency II, which sets qualitative risk  governance, strategy and management standards as  well as imposing tighter controls. This approach is implemented upstream from the  internal control system, which consists of performing  ex-post assessments of risk control processes.  The ERM project comprises several phases. The first  steps were to identify existing risk management and  control processes and compare them with best market  practices. General risk management procedures were  then drawn up, supported by action plans. The work carried out in 2010 mainly consisted of  defining risk tolerance, and also launching the risk  management function and defining its interaction with  the operating departments, including in the subsidia- ries. In practice, this meant deploying qualitative risk  management procedures covering the product deve- lopment process, analysing the main operational and  emerging risks, and launching the necessary work to  set up a system for the quantitative management of  financial and technical risks.  Martial  Lasfargues Director,  Risks and Solvency CNP Assurances us Solvency II is encouraging  the emergence of a risk culture  with our Group Little by little, Solvency II is affecting all of  our activities. Beyond the need to set up  a new risk governance system, Solvency II  has a variety of strategic consequences, affecting  our investment policy, our organization structure,  product diversification and, generally, the choice  of products. The challenge for us is to translate  our own opinion of our risk exposures and  the capital required to cover them. In practice,  this means validating the overall risk tolerance  framework.  All of these questions are being addressed on  a Group-wide scale. Like the transition to IFRS,  Solvency II is a project that involves all of  our subsidiaries. As a result, it will help to build  a stronger Group culture and improve  communications. A network of local chief risk  officers will be created. Initially tasked  with implementing Solvency II, as has already been  done in Italy, they will subsequently have  permanent responsibility for managing  all technical, operational and financial risks  within their units.  2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 45     PERMANENT CONTROLS  Internal control is a process to ensure the protection of  assets, the effectiveness and efficiency of operations,  and compliance with applicable laws and regulations  and internal procedures.  CNP Assurances has chosen to apply the internal  control framework published by Frances securities  regulator, Autorit des Marchs Financiers (AMF). The scope of the internal control system was initially set  in 2003, to comply with the requirements of Frances  Loi de Scurit Financire. Focused on the preparation  and processing of financial and accounting informa- tion, the system has gradually been extended to cover  all of the Groups key business processes. The entire approach (controls, self-assessments and  tests) is gradually being applied to one or several  business processes within the international subsidiaries  that are ready, mainly in Brazil, Italy and Spain.  Business processes are assessed by measuring the  original risk (before implementing controls) and the  residual risk (after controls). The self-assessment pro- cess is carried out by line personnel, with the Risks  and Compliance department performing second-tier  controls to check that risks are effectively controlled  and that the related procedures are relevant. This approach serves to identify the most significant  residual risks to be addressed on a priority basis and  any key controls that are ineffective.  The results of control assessments performed at the  end of 2010 showed that advances had been made at  all levels of the organization.  The Risks and Compliance department is responsible  for assessing and overseeing the management of  operational risks and the risks that may arise due to  insurance products not fully complying with the appli- cable regulations, or in the event of failure to comply  with ethical rules, or as a result of money-laundering  transactions.     COMBATING MONEY-LAUNDERING In 2010, we finalised the implementation of the third  European directive on the prevention of the use of the  financial system for the purpose of money laundering  and terrorist financing, which was transposed into  French law in 2009. A risk map was drawn up to support the new approach,  which allows the insurer to align its level of vigilance  with the risks incurred. Analyses are based on three  levels of risk (low, moderate and high) and six criteria  (distribution method, type of network, type of custo- mer, contract category, premium payment method  and premium amount). Risk oversight system Consolidation/Assessment (regulatory and economic) Technical/financial risks Operational risks Market risk ALM risk Reserving risk Reinsurance Underwriting risk All departments  Operational risks Operational departments Risk managers Permanent controls Periodic controls Internal audit Risk  management Risk  oversight Risk  control  assessment THE RISK CONTROL SYSTEM   CNPASSURANCES - OUR BUSINESS 46  Progress was also made during the year in updating  the anti-money laundering annexes to the manage- ment agreements signed with partners. In addition, internal control procedures were changed  where necessary to better take into account money- laundering issues. No material risks were identified  in 2010.    PREPARING FOR CONTINGENCIES CNP Assurances has set up a contingency plant to  limit disruption to its operations in the event of a  major incident. The plan describes the action to be  taken immediately to allow operations to resume  without delay. In 2010, five emergency drills were car- ried out with the operating departments to test the  plans robustness and train the staff who would be  responsible for implementing the plan. Each drill was  based on a different crisis scenario. The Information Systems department successfully  carried out two annual exercises to test its external  back-up systems, as part of the disaster recovery plan  that is designed to ensure that data processing opera- tions continue in the event of a major incident at the  Beaucouz centre on the outskirts of Angers. Joubert  family,  Ile grande you An anti-money laundering  e-learning programme In December 2010, employees were asked to  take part in an e-learning programme on preventing  the financial system from being used for money  laundering and terrorist financing. Developed  with 22 other insurers operating in France,  the programme consists of several on-line question  and answer modules and a final assessment  questionnaire. It takes between half an hour  and just over an hour to complete, depending  on the exposure to money-laundering risk  of the employees unit. To date, 92% of employees  have taken part in the programme. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 47  you Patrick  Artaud,  48 years old ASSET  MANAGEMENT:  SECURE,  LONG TERM  PERFORMANCE Despite an unfavourable economic  environment and persistently low  interest rates, in 2010 CNP Assurances  protected its policyholders capital  and its shareholders investment  by applying prudent and disciplined  long-term management strategies. Last years economic environment was less than ideal  for insurers. Significant reserves had to be set aside to  compensate for historically low interest rates, with a  serious impact on their accounts.  However, not all insurers were affected to the same  extent. Some companies in the European Union have  made a habit of offering high rates of interest to their  clients and engaged in mass selling of guaranteed  yield products. In contrast, French insurers have  shown more restraint and have limited their sales  of guaranteed yield products in the last fifteen or so  years. CNP Assurances is a case in point – since 1992,  we have set strict limits on our yield guarantees.     DISCIPLINED MATCHING  OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Our reasonable and measured financial strategy is roo- ted in a highly disciplined approach to matching assets  and liabilities. Strictly aligning assets with liabilities is  crucial, to ensure that we can fulfil our commitments  to policyholders, sustainably offer the best possible  yields to policyholders and shareholders alike, and  manage the risk of losses on own-funds portfolios.  Asset/liability management (ALM) processes are desi- gned to ensure that we can fulfil our commitments  whatever the situation in the equity or fixed income  markets. The management strategy takes into account  policy terms, including expected investment periods,  surrender options and any yield guarantees.   CNPASSURANCES - OUR BUSINESS 48  For each portfolio of similar contracts, an investment  strategy is defined covering asset allocation, the  choice of maturities and any hedging instruments, the  exposure limit for each issuer and the profit-taking  policy.    A STRATEGY FOR EVERY  INTEREST RATE SCENARIO We regularly test our investment strategy to ensure  that it remains appropriate in light of forecast interest  rate and stock market trends. The behaviour of each  portfolio is simulated based on various stress scena- rios and different policyholder behaviour scenarios.  The simulations provide us with the assurance that  our policyholders capital and our shareholders  investment will be protected, whatever the conditions  in the financial markets. An insurer must be certain  of being able to pay the promised yield to policyhol- ders on their endowment contracts, even in the event  of a steep fall in interest rates. Thats why we adopt a  very cautious policy, particularly as regards variable  yield guarantees. In 2010, we adjusted our Italian  subsidiarys policy by gradually lowering guarantees  that would have been difficult to fund if interest rates  remained at their current level.    A RISING INTEREST RATE  ENVIRONMENT  When interest rates are low, there is always a risk that  when they do start to rise, the increase will be too  steep. In this case, interest rates on portfolios of fixed  rate assets may lag behind the higher market rates,  leading to capital losses for the insurers. We pay close  attention to this risk, which is taken into account in  managing both assets and liabilities. In particular, our  traditional savings contracts with a unit-linked for- mula include clauses that limit the effect on insurance  and financial liabilities of an unfavourable change in  interest rates. 31/12/2010  (m) Breakdown  (in %) 31/12/2009  (m) Breakdown  (in %) 31/12/2008  (m) Breakdown  (in %) Unit-linked contracts 37,410.0 13.2% 36,591.3 13.8% 33,980.7 14.1% Contracts with yield guarantee  of less than 60% of the TME rate 51,309.0 18.1% 56,076.3 21.2% 56,240.0 23.3% Contracts without a yield guarantee 136,115.0 48.1% 126,115.6 47.6% 110,681.1 45.8% Contracts with a higher variable yield 2,948.4 1.0% 2,941.0 1.1% 2,965.6 1.2% Contracts with a higher fixed yield 5,012.8 1.8% 6,026.1 2.3% 6,170.3 2.6% Guaranteed yield contracts,  including reversionary bonus 0.0 0.0% 0.0 0.0% 0.0 0.0% Others 50,192.9 17.7% 36,956.7 14.0% 31,475.3 13.0% Total 282,988.1 100.0% 264,706.9 100.0% 241,513.0 100.0% Asset yield simulation over a long period of falling interest rates Insurance and f nancial liabilities by type of contract,  excluding the policyholders surplus reserve 0.00% 2.00% 2.50% 3.00% 3.50% 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 4.00% 2012 2011 2014 2013 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Asset yield (market rate: 2%) Asset yield (market rate: 1%) Guaranteed yield 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 49     INVESTING FOR THE LONG-TERM At CNP Assurances, asset allocations generally remain  very stable, although tactical adjustments may be made  from time to time based on financial market conditions.  Asset holding periods are very long, with equities kept  in the portfolio for an average of seven years and bonds  generally held to maturity. This long-term investment strategy has several conse- quences. First, it encourages us to select assets very  carefully. It also encourages us to adopt responsible  investing strategies and this was the case even before  sustainable development became a hot topic.  We have always paid close attention to environmental,  social, and corporate governance (ESG) criteria, in line  with our conviction that the best way of achieving long- term performance is by striking a balance between  the three pillars of sustainable development – Planet,  Profit, People.  For example, the quality of a countrys governance has  always been a factor in the selection of government  bonds and, since 2009, we have been able to ensure  that we are not supporting any undemocratic or corrupt  governments through our 100 billion portfolio.  We also focus on promoting innovative socially res- ponsible investment funds, such as FinanCits, France  Active, which we have supported since its formation,  Business Angels des Cits in 2009 and Citizen Capital in  2010. All of these funds provide financing to entrepre- neurs from disadvantaged backgrounds.     A SOCIALLY-RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR Our stance as a responsible investor acquired a new  dimension in 2003, when we pledged to support the  United Nations Global Compact. We encourage our  two main asset managers, Natixis Asset Management  and La Banque Postale Asset Management, to develop  best-in-class socially responsible investing (SRI) strategies.  Socially responsible investing consists of selecting the  companies with the greatest commitment to sustai- nable development in each economic segment, and  then closely examining their social and environmental  policies and governance systems.  Every quarter, representatives of the Investments  Department and the Sustainable Development Depart- ment meet with the asset managers to screen all equity  and bond portfolios based on environmental, social  and governance (ESG) criteria. If any investments fail  the ESG test, various courses of action are considered  such as asking the company concerned for an explana- tion, halting all further purchases of the stock or bonds  concerned or selling the existing investment.  The corporate bond portfolio was reviewed based on  ESG criteria for the first time in 2010.  Other methods are also used to promote socially  responsible investment. For example, SRI funds are  routinely included in the investment options offered  with traditional savings products with a unit-linked  formula distributed by our three networks. As well as  creating an environmental fund, CNP Dveloppement  Durable, for the CNP Trsor network, we have diver- sified our portfolios by investing in vehicles such as  infrastructure funds and renewable energy funds. Our investment properties are managed in accordance  with a sustainable development charter that focuses  on ensuring the safety of building users and promoting  high standards of energy efficiency. The action plans  launched in 2009 following the safety assessments  were continued in 2010. Forty percent of our investment  properties have been awarded a green rating and this  procedure is applied to all newly acquired properties. An enhanced  best-in-class approach There are several different approaches to  socially responsible investing. Some investors  – particularly British and American firms –  exclude companies on the grounds of their  business segment or practices (forced labour,  corruption). Best-in-class approaches select  the companies that obtain the highest scores  based on environmental, social-societal and  governance criteria.  In light of our broader responsibilities as  an insurer, we have chosen to apply the  best-in-class approach with some exclusions.  We exclude companies whose businesses  run contrary to our values, such as  anti-personnel mine and cluster-bomb  manufacturers, speculative funds that invest  in food commodities, and countries whose  governments are considered undemocratic  or corrupt. These exclusions are also applied  by our international subsidiaries, particularly  by Caixa Seguros and CNP UniCredit Vita.  Market value of SRI portfolios  at 31 December (in  millions) 2008 2009 2010 Own-funds portfolios 85.7 141.2 324.5 Policyholder portfolios 159.3 227.6 295.9 Offered with employee savings plans 49.3 72.1 90.4 SRI or themed funds   CNPASSURANCES - OUR BUSINESS 50     ESG SCREENS USED IN MANAGING  SOME 55% OF ASSETS  ESG screens are now used in managing some 55% of  assets, meeting the target we set for 2010. Since 2005,  we have taken care to fulfil our obligations as a share- holder by participating in investees general meetings.  Defined by Group management, our voting policy aims  to protect the rights of a minority shareholder who is  investing for the long term to support the investees  development. This policy is applied for all investee  companies, although account is also taken of any spe- cific characteristics of the company, its business sector  and/or its country. In 2010, we voted at the general  meetings of 98% of the French companies in the port- folio, (99.9% by value), and of all the main European  companies, representing 119 meetings in all.  We were enthusiastic participants in Frances first  Socially Responsible Investment Week, held from 4 to  10 October 2010.To mark this event, we distributed to all  CNP Trsor insurance advisors the SRI guide published  in July by Fdration Bancaire Franaise. Thanks to the  sustained efforts of our partner networks, SRI funds  now account for 1.4% of total unit-linked portfolios.     2011 OBJECTIVES At the end of 2010, we set ambitious SRI targets to  support our assertive strategy in this area. In 2011,  we want ESG screens to be applied in the management  of 65% of our assets (equities, bonds, mutual funds,  property, etc.). In another initiative, we are currently  drawing up a socially responsible investing code. Dorothe  de Kermadec-  Courson Risks & Compliance  and Sustainable  Development Director CNP Assurances us Socially responsible  investing benefits  policyholders in two ways What makes our SRI strategy unique is the depth  of our commitment. We follow a well-established,  robust and global approach that reflects our  strongly held beliefs. If the strategy had been  limited to investing in SRI funds, a mere 0.2%  of our assets would have been concerned. Instead,  we have chosen to deploy our best-in-class  approach to the entire equity portfolio and  to gradually apply ESG screens to all assets.  These screens are already applied to sovereign  bonds and to investment properties managed  by Icade and AEW, and sustainable management  principles are also applied to our 49,000 hectares  of forestry assets, which make CNP Assurances  Frances largest private owner of woodland.  We are showing this level of determination because  we are convinced that integrating ESG criteria  helps us to better identify and avoid risks, thereby  contributing to our assets long-term performance.  At the same time, policyholders have the assurance  that their capital is invested in a socially  responsible manner. This gives meaning to their  investments, in line with our values, putting them  in a win-win situation.  CNP Assurances, a recognized  socially responsible investment CNP Assurances features among those companies  that are likely to attract socially responsible  investors. In 2008, the Group was awarded  the Ethibel Excellence seal and included in the  Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Europe, which  provides a comprehensive perspective on the  financial performance of the leading European  companies in terms of sustainability. In November,  CNP Assurances was one of the four shortlisted  companies for the Natixis Asset Management/ Amadeis/Les Echos Prix de lInvestisseur  Responsible SRI prize. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 51   Between you  and us a sustainable  relationship  Camille  Jacques,  17 years old Student Nadia Vega,  28 years old Financial  Manager you us  Georges  and Rose  Tessier,  65 and  60 years old you   CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  POLICYHOLDER  SERVICES:  FOCUSING  ON QUALITY A lifetime insurer has to be  a reliable partner at every stage  of the policyholder relationship,  which is why we are sharply focused  on continually enhancing quality  of service to policyholders. With nearly 15 million individual insurance contracts in  its portfolio, CNP Assurances faces the dual challenge  of offering personalised service and managing indus- trial-scale processes. We are responsible for the entire  management chain, from the initial sale to the settle- ment of claims and the payment of benefits, leveraging  highly efficient administrative and IT systems that are  upgraded on a regular basis.    IMPROVING CONTRACT  ADMINISTRATION THROUGH  OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY Contract administration, policyholder and beneficiary  services, distribution network assistance and custo- mer advice and communications are the responsibility  of our dedicated customer service centres in Arcueil  and Angers. These centres handled a total of 14.8 million active poli- cies in 2010. This was 4.3% more than in 2009, meaning  that they also sent more letters to policyholders and  received more telephone inquiries.  In four separate waves, 16 million letters representing  a total of 140 million pages were sent to policyholders  home addresses. Our industrial approach to processing  these annual policyholder statements allows us to meet  the twin goals of efficiency and quality, despite the  increase in volume.  An ISO 9001:2008 certification audit carried out in  December 2010 confirmed that our statement processing  systems comply fully with ISO standards.     WORKING WITH OUR PARTNERS  TO DELIVER QUALITY OF SERVICE  TO THE INSURED, IN COOPERATION  WITH OUR PARTNERS In France and internationally, backed by its unique  business model, CNP Assurances works with  La Banque Postale, the Caisses dEpargne networks  and its other partners to deliver services that meet  customer needs effectively and efficiently. Meeting  high standards of actual and perceived service quality  requires maintaining a fluid relationship with poli- cyholders and beneficiaries throughout the contract  lifecycle and working together with the distribution  networks to strengthen that connection.  We have made advances in contract management ope- rational efficiency by investing heavily in developing  insurance workstations for our major distribution  networks. The objective is to standardize and automate  as much as possible in order to improve client service  54  Two new satisfaction  indicators In 2010, two new indicators were introduced  to gauge policyholder satisfaction. The first  was a survey of CNP Trsor customers,  which revealed that 96% of respondents  were satisfied with the underwriting procedure  and 77% with the surrender procedure.  Corrective measures have been undertaken  to improve the latter figure.  The second was a survey of Caisses dEpargne  customers, revealing that 97% of respondents  were satisfied with the underwriting procedure  and 90% with the surrender procedure.  A gap was detected between actual and  perceived quality of service. Whereas the time  taken to process surrenders was generally  considered too long (perceived as 19 days  by customers), in 99% of cases surrenders were  actually processed in two to six days. Campaigns  will be deployed to ensure that customers are  better informed. quality and efficiency, while also allowing a seamless  transition from transaction input mode to sales mode.  Thanks to these shared resources, most routine tran- sactions are processed immediately and securely at  the point of sale. This set-up enhances the role of the  customer relationship managers in the networks and  helps them to fulfil their obligation to provide custo- mers with impartial advice, while allowing our teams  to focus on the more complex transactions and pro- vide expert support to the sales forces, two areas  where they can really added value.     OPTIMISING INSURANCE  WORKSTATIONS In 2010, the uptime rate for Partages, La Banque  Postales insurance workstation platform, was 99.76%.  That of the Puma platform used by the Caisses  dEpargne was 99.82%.  By industrialising our management processes and for- ging closer ties with our partners, we have developed  unique expertise in processing very large quantities of  data while at the same time offering policyholders a  personalised service. Quality standards are set out in  service level agreements signed with our distribution  partners.    BROADER DEPLOYMENT OF CNPNET  In term creditor insurance, our partners are able to  process online applications securely using our extra- net portal CNPNet, which cuts transaction processing  time by 75%. Most term creditor insurance applica- tions receive an immediate response with this service,  while in more complicated cases, decisions are made  on a customer-by-customer basis and communica- ted in less than a week. In 2010, we completed the  deployment of CNPNet in the Crdit Agricole network  and began its roll out to Mutuelle Gnrale and other  partners.     END-TO-END CERTIFICATION  OF CNP TRSOR PROCESSES  A year ago, CNP Assurances initiated a process to  obtain quality certification for all of the administrative  processes associated with all of its portfolios. The first  phase was completed in July 2010 with the certifica- tion of all CNP Trsor processes.  Next on the list are the processes for contracts sold  through the La Banque Postale and Caisses dEpargne  networks. In 2010, audits of both partners term life  contract processes were undertaken. Major administrative  transactions  (cumulative, as of end-2010) 1,386,554  new applications processed  91,266  transfers between funds  853,154  recurrent single premiums  1,536,245 phone inquiries received  84.5%  uptime rate 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 55  Constantly enhancing  policyholder data protection Since 2005, companies in France have  been entitled to designate their own  Data Protection Officer. At CNP Assurances,  we appointed a Data Protection Officer  in 2006, demonstrating our commitment  to respecting the fundamental rights  of our policyholders and employees  with regard to their personal data.  As well as reporting to the CNIL data  protection authority and CNP Assurancess  senior management on compliance  with applicable laws and internal  procedures concerning collection, access,  processing and storage of personal data  used within and by the Groups companies,  the Data Protection Officer is also tasked  with fostering a culture of protecting  personal data within the organisation. you Christophe  Morand  and his  daughter  Elsa    TRACKING QUALITY  Our partnerships are based on a comprehensive  service quality tool-kit comprising service level agree- ments, process quality indicators, satisfaction surveys  and improvement plans.  Improvements are being made all the time. At the  Caisses dEpargne, quarterly and monthly indicators  track the time taken to complete each major adminis- trative process and the quality of the work performed. At La Banque Postale, national and regional quality  committees hold regular meetings to provide all the  teams concerned with a forum for discussing process  effectiveness and fluidity.    NEARLY 15,000 UNCLAIMED  SETTLEMENTS PROCESSED  The system introduced in compliance with Frances Act  of 17 December 2007 on unclaimed life insurance sett- lements was ramped up in 2010. In April 2009, the CNIL data protection authority gran- ted us access to the INSEE national register of deaths  through AGIRA, the organisation set up to assist in the  search for insurance beneficiaries. By the end of 2010,  a total of 14,669 unclaimed settlements had been  reviewed by our teams and 5,000 beneficiary searches  had been initiated through qualified investigators,  with an 80% success rate.    WRITING AGGRAVATED  RISK BUSINESS In effect since 2007, the AERAS convention aims to  ensure that persons representing an aggravated  health risk have access to death and disability cover  when taking out a loan. At CNP Assurances, we work  determinedly to ensure that the provisions of this  agreement are properly applied. We exceed our legal obligations whenever possible,  extending insurance to as many people as possible  without charging higher premiums or restricting cover.  As in 2009, less than 0.2% of applications were rejec- ted during the year.   CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  56  Adrian  Hanguehard, Policyholder  Support Manager, CNP Assurances us Because of the Internet,  satisfying customers tests  our expertise to the limit  These days, we receive requests for policyholder  assistance through every possible channel, including  the post, fax, telephone and, more recently,  the Internet. Because of the Internet, policyholders  are increasingly well informed. They are more  demanding and they ask questions that test  our expertise to the limit. Not least because,  under the service level agreements with  our partners, its our job to answer policyholder  inquiries via Internet or telephone within 48 hours.  As a result, policyholders feel closer to us and no  longer hesitate to contact us. They ask a question  and get an answer, but that doesnt stop them  from calling back several times in the same day,  with a new question every time. Before, customers  would send us a letter. Once they got our reply,  they were satisfied. Today, their satisfaction  depends on us resolving all of their issues  immediately. The world is changing and  we have to change with it.     SUCCESSFUL MEDIATION  There were 971 complaints submitted to the media- tion service in 2010, reflecting the growing popularity  of this method of conflict resolution in recent years.  Policyholders clearly prefer this solution to going  through the courts, 0} as shown by the steady fall in  the number of outstanding lawsuits in recent years to  just 475 in 2010.  By initiating dialogue with the insured, mediation  can prevent more contentious situations. As well  as explaining the policy terms and clearing up any  misunderstandings, the mediator can also sometimes  overturn decisions that, while legally justified, can be  viewed as excessively harsh. Always open to the possi- bility of compromise, we totally or partially satisfy our  policyholders demands in 43% of cases.    MEETING THE NEEDS OF  HIGH NET WORTH CUSTOMERS In recent years, CNP Assurances has considerably  expanded its offering for high net worth customers.  The challenge has been to meet the expectations of  these very demanding customers for personalised  attention, responsiveness and quality of service. To that end, we have taken steps to adjust our pro- cesses. For example, in 2010, the customer relationship  management system for the Caisses dEpargne private  banking clientele was organised on a regional basis, so  that customers now have a single point of contact for  their entire portfolio.  Another example is our use of the CNP Vida plat- form for Toscane-Vie, the new contract marketed  to La Banque Postale customers who are liable for  Frances wealth tax. Its integration in the Spanish  subsidiarys contract administration system allows  policyholders to start investing in their policies within  two days of purchase. A warning procedure triggering  an immediate response In 2010, we created a warning procedure in term  creditor insurance for situations requiring an  immediate response. The procedure is triggered  if an insured is faced with an emergency situation  such as an urgent financial need, or when  immediate action needs to be taken in response  to a service failure or any cause for dissatisfaction  that could lead to a claim or lawsuit, or the  cancellation of a transaction. In such cases, the call  centre sends a warning email to the administrative  unit concerned, which calls the insured within 24  hours to expedite a solution. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 57  INDIVIDUAL  INSURANCE:  DYNAMIC  NETWORKS CNP Assurances supports  its traditional partners,  La Banque Postale and  the Savings Banks, in developing  their savings and personal  risk businesses.  This support was moved up  a gear in 2010.     CAISSES DEPARGNE: A SHARPLY  HIGHER REVENUE CONTRIBUTION  FROM UNIT-LINKED PRODUCTS Premium income generated through the Caisses  dEpargne amounted to 10.5 billion in 2010, up 1.9%  on 2009. Unit-linked products accounted for a sharply  higher portion of total premiums, representing 14% in  2010 versus 5% in 2009. The increase was attributable  to two marketing campaigns offering promotional rates  on all traditional savings products with a unit-linked wei- ghting above a certain threshold, and the market launch  of six FCP mutual funds in 2010, versus five in 2009. Sales to the Caisses dEpargne private banking custo- mers went from strength to strength, rising 38% over  the year. The launch of Nuances Capi in February 2011  will help to sustain this trend.    ECUREUIL PERSONAL RISK  AND TERM CREDITOR INSURANCE  The personal risk business advanced 38% on 2009,  led by sales of the Garantie Urgence and Garantie  Famille contracts as well as the Ecureuil Solutions  Obsques product launched in 2010 which has got off  to a very good start.  you T e Jacquin  and  Simonnet  families, Rambouillet  forest   CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  58  In term creditor insurance, premium income was signi- ficantly higher than in 2009, at 540 million. Strong  sales of home loans by the Caisses dEpargne, which  had already met their annual targets by the end of  August, will have a visible impact on 2011 premium  income.     500 NEW CAISSES DEPARGNE  ADVISORS TRAINED IN LIFE INSURANCE In 2010, more than 500 newly hired advisors from  eight different regional banks attended a life insurance  training course given by the CNP Assurances Business  Development Department. This two-day program has  now become an integral part of the new employee  orientation process.    LA BANQUE POSTALE: CONTINUED  HIGH VOLUMES IN LIFE AND PERSONAL  RISK INSURANCE While expanding the range of products on offer,  La Banque Postale maintained high life insurance  volumes, following a robust improvement in 2009.  No special promotions were needed to boost growth,  thanks to the vitality of the network. Its contribution to  premium income for the year amounted to 10.6 billion.  The Cachemire and Toscane Vie life insurance pro- ducts had a successful year, while the shift towards  unit-linked products continued with sales up 16% on  2009.  La Banque Postale Prvoyance, a joint subsidiary of  CNP Assurances and La Banque Postale, crossed the  two-million contract threshold in 2009. The business  continued to grow in 2010 with premium income  rising 10%. The subsidiary having now reached a  stage of maturity that requires adjusting its internal  organisation, on 28 July 2010, CNP Assurances and  La Banque Postale signed an agreement with the com- pany to give it the means to pursue its development  with greater autonomy.     A SHARED COMMITMENT TO  IMPROVING QUALITY OF SERVICE  We teamed up with La Banque Postale in 2010 to  undertake a variety of actions designed to improve the  quality of service rendered to policyholders. In October,  La Banque Postale created a quality management team  at its financial centre in Toulouse to check that insu- rance applications submitted by advisors are properly  completed before being forwarded to CNP Assurances. Online sign-up for  Direct Ecureuil in 2011 October 2010 saw the deployment of the new  services platform for the Caisses dEpargne  life insurance customers. The platforms broad  functionality gives policyholders interactive access  to the networks entire life insurance product range.  They can read their contract, check transaction  details, view and download statements and account  information, make recurring single payments,  transfer capital between funds, or adjust  the amounts of their regular or recurring single  premiums. Online sign-up will be possible in 2011  for the products that are well suited to the Internet  environment, such as Ecureuil Solutions Obsques. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 59  GROUP  INSURANCE:  MAINTAINING  SOLID  PARTNERSHIPS CNP Assurances is strengthening  its partnerships in an environment  shaped by increased mergers  and acquisitions activity.  The leading provider of group insurance in France,  CNP Assurances sells term creditor insurance, pen- sion and employee benefits contracts to more than  200 financial institutions, around a hundred mutual  insurance companies, 20,000 local governments and  hospitals, 4,500 companies and numerous not-for- profit organisations such as Prfon and Fonpel. Apart from pension and employee benefits plans pur- chased directly by large corporations, group contracts  are generally managed via an intermediary within a  partnership framework.  We have a long tradition of partnering the mutual insu- rance sector, supporting MGEN (the teachers mutual  insurance company) and other civil service mutuals by  managing group policies covering death/disability and  long-term care risks, pensions and term creditor insu- rance, and by reinsuring their health insurance plans. you Hubert  Coletti,  58 years old,  and his  grandchildren    AN EVOLVING MARKET Since the reform of Frances Mutual Insurance Code in  2002, the mutual insurance market has evolved consi- derably. Mutual insurers are joining forces and new  groups are emerging in response to tougher regula- tion and more intense competition. Changes in the regulatory landscape due to the  Solvency II directive have forced mutual insurers to  take adaptive measures. The need to comply with  higher minimum capital requirements has motivated  them to secure the backing of a large insurer. The  unchallenged leader in this market, CNP Assurances  sees this as an opportunity to strengthen its long-stan- ding partnerships.    CNP ASSURANCES AND  MFPRVOYANCE PREPARE THE FUTURE  Over more than 60 years, CNP Assurances and certain  civil service mutual insurers that are now members of  the MFP Services group have built a strong partnership  based on the joint development of benefits solutions  for civil servants. Since the reform of Frances Mutual  Insurance Code in 2002, a growing number of mutual    CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  60  insurers have teamed up to create new groups that are  better equipped to meet the challenges of tighter regula- tion and increased competition. This movement has been  observed not only among civil service mutual insurers  but also among companies serving the private sector.  In this environment, MFP Services and CNP Assurances  decided to deepen their ties through a new partnership  structure. To this end, in August 2010 CNP Assurances  acquired an interest in MFPrvoyance SA, an MFP  Services subsidiary.  MGEN joined the project by becoming the largest  mutual insurance shareholder in an MFPrvoyance SA  holding company. With 51% of its capital owned by the  mutual insurers (including MGEN and MFPrvoyance  SAs traditional partners, MGEFI, MCDf, MMJ, MNAM,  MPCDC and MFFOM*) and 49% by CNP Assurances, this  holding company now owns 28% of MFPrvoyance SA.  CNP Assurances and MFP Services meanwhile directly  hold 51% and 21% of MFPrvoyance SA, respectively.  MFPrvoyance SA now has all the resources at its  disposal to pursue its development in the employee  benefits market. The company acts as a vehicle for the  partners and the mutual insurance segment as a whole  to develop personal risk solutions for civil service cus- tomers. In addition, it provides a solid alternative for  small and medium sized companies in an increasingly  concentrated market. MFPrvoyance SA also plans to  start offering its products to insurance brokers and  companies through the mutual insurance networks.     RENEWAL OF THE AGREEMENT WITH  MUTUELLE NATIONALE TERRITORIALE On 10 June 2010, we renewed until 31 December 2017  our partnership agreement with Mutuelle Nationale  Territoriale (MNT) that was originally scheduled to  expire at the end of 2012. Its renewal has strengthened our partnership with  Frances leading mutual insurer for local government  employees, which has 862,000 members and provides  health and personal risk cover to over 1 million people.  The agreement attests to MNTs determination to  consolidate its position as the benchmark in local  government employee solutions and our intention to  broaden our presence in this segment.    THE ALLIANCE WITH BENEFITS  INSTITUTIONS The benefits institution segment has also been witnes- sing profound changes and mergers and acquisitions  activity. Having forged close ties with this market,  we are very attentive to these developments. The  CNP Assurances-benefit institution alliance makes  sense to companies, as it allows them to benefit from  our reputation, technical expertise and reliability along  with the cooperative values of the benefits institutions. Through Institut National de Prvoyance Collective  (INPC), a non-profit organisation we set up in 1982  with several benefit institution partners, we have  developed very close ties with different players in  the social benefits arena. The organisations purpose  is to promote benefit plans in cooperation with all  employee representative bodies in France. It has  become a valuable forum for discussion and dialogue  on the evolving nature of employee protection plans. * MGEFI: Mutuelle Gnrale de lEconomie, des Finances et  de lIndustrie; MCDf: Mutuelle Civile de la Dfense; MMJ:  Mutuelle de Ministre de la Justice, MNAM: La Mutuelle  Nationale Aviation Marine; MPCDC: Mutuelle du Personnel de  la Caisse des Dpts; MFFOM: Mutuelle Familiale France et  Outre Mer.  A new partnership  for CNP Caution A wholly-owned subsidiary of CNP Assurances, CNP  Caution issues various types of guarantees to our  term creditor insurance partners and to civil service  mutual insurers. In 2010, CNP Caution pursued  its development by setting up a home loan guarantee  and term creditor insurance partnership with the  French subsidiary of GE Money Bank.  A productive year for the  term creditor insurance  business 2010 was a good year for the term creditor  insurance business. Four new partnerships were  set up during the period, with social economy  participants Logilia and Procilia; Barclays Bank  France, for its private banking clientele; and  Crdit Municipal de Marseille, for consumer loans  extended to active and retired civil servants,  green loans and social micro-loans. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 61  INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:  A SHARED GROWTH  DYNAMIC In 2010, as conditions in the French market remained challenging,  the value of our international subsidiaries as drivers of profitable  growth was more apparent than ever. Having demonstrated its effectiveness in France, our  business model is now being successfully reproduced  internationally. Today, the Group is developing the  bancassurance business in southern Europe – mainly  in Italy and Spain, but also in Greece and Cyprus since  2009 – Brazil, Argentina and China.  We are deploying a selective international develop- ment strategy guided by two main objectives: to enter  markets where personal insurance has considerable  growth potential and to seek out solidly established  partners that already have extensive distribution  networks.     AN ONGOING  SUCCESS STORY IN BRAZIL In 2001, CNP Assurances acquired 51% of Caixa  Seguros, one of Brazils leading bancassurers. Our par- tner in Caixa Seguros is State-owned Caixa Econmica  Federal, the nations second largest bank whose  network spans the entire country. Caixa Econmica  Federal boasts more than 2,000 bank branches,  11,000 lottery ticket sales points and 16 million depo- sit accounts.  Ten years on, Caixa Seguros is now the sixth largest  insurer in Brazil, with a market share of 6% excluding  health insurance. Its premium income is six times  higher than when it joined the CNP Assurances Group,  reflecting sharp growth in pensions business, and its  net profit is ten times higher.  Caixa Seguross products are distributed by the Caixa  Econmica Federal network under an exclusive distri- bution agreement. The business has benefited from  the remarkable economic expansion underway in  Brazil since the mid-1990s, that has gradually lifted  more of the population into the middle class.    SUCCESSFUL LAUNCH  OF THE NEW OFFER WITH BARCLAYS  IN SOUTHERN EUROPE  In 2009, CNP Assurances signed an exclusive, 25-year  agreement with Barclays to develop a comprehensive  range of savings, pensions and personal risk products  for sale through Barclays networks in Spain, Portugal  and Italy. As part of the agreement, CNP Assurances acquired  a 50% interest in Barclays life insurance subsidiary  Barclays Vida y Pensiones (BVP). BVP already had ope- rations in Spain and Portugal and in January 2010, a  branch was created in Italy. One year down the line, 18 new products have been  launched and the CNP-BVP joint venture contributes  nearly 10% of the Groups total international premium  income.  In Italy, CNP-BVP launched the innovative Barclays Life  Investment Program, a flexible savings product with a  unit-linked component that can be adapted to all customer  profiles and evolves in line with market trends.  The CNP Assurances Group  driving innovation CNP Assurances derives 19.1% of its total premium income  and 40% of its EBIT from international markets. But beyond  their income statement contribution, the international  operations are patently enriching our organisation through  a growing number of seminars, cross-functional projects  and programmes to exchange best practices. A 32-member  international marketing community representing all of our  subsidiaries was set up in April 2010. By enabling participants  to share experiences, experiments and product ideas, and  to take a step back from their own market, the community  promises to be a powerful innovation driver.   CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  62  In Spain, CNP-BVP began selling Rentas Garantia Total  in the first quarter of 2010. Intended for people over 55,  this savings product offers an immediate, guaranteed  quarterly annuity.     THE PARTNERSHIP  WITH MARFIN POPULAR BANK  IS WITHSTANDING THE GREEK CRISIS Our alliance with Marfin Popular Bank (MPB) was for- med in July 2008 with the two-pronged objective of  developing insurance and pension sales by the banks  networks in Greece and Cyprus and partnering MPB in  its future expansion in Central and Eastern Europe.  In Cyprus, our joint subsidiary CNP Marfin offers a  full range of life and non-life products. The company  has maintained its leadership position in the non-life  segment mainly on the strength of auto and home  insurance sales. In personal insurance, the offer pri- marily comprises unit-linked life insurance policies and  personal risk products. For example, Cypria Money  Plus meets the needs of customers seeking a tax  efficient product that allows them to invest in hedge  funds while also offering term life insurance cover and  various other optional forms of cover. In November 2010, CNP Marfin made the news by  launching Cypria Womens Care, a health insurance  product designed exclusively for women that covers  six forms of cancer. After a promising start in 2009, business growth was  held back by the onset of the Greek crisis and, a few  months later, by its knock-on effects in Cyprus. Marfin  Insurance Holdings Ltd nevertheless showed firm resi- lience, with premium income declining by just 5% in  2010.    UNIGARANTITO,  STILL A STAR PRODUCT IN ITALY  Launched in 2008, UniGarantito is still the most popu- lar product in Italy, generating premium income of  1.8 billion in 2010. This single-premium traditional  savings product provides customers with a safe invest- ment solution, offering both a capital guarantee and  a guaranteed minimum yield set at a realistic level in  relation to expected future interest rate trends. At the beginning of 2010, CNP Vita launched  UniOpportunit, a new traditional savings product  with a unit-linked component. Premiums from this  product totalled 281 million in 2010.     SALE OF GLOBAL SEGUROS As part of our strategic refocusing on bancassurance  in southern Europe, on 3 March 2010 we completed  the sale of our majority interest in the Global Seguros  insurance group to Rentipar Seguros SGPS, a recogni- sed property and casualty insurer in Portugal.  Marie-Hlne  Mata,  Key Account  Sales Manager,  CNP Assurances us Working together to build  an employee benefits plan.  In August 2009, a large multinational invited us  to bid for a contract to manage a pension plan  for its several thousand employees in Ireland  and the United Kingdom. We decided that a local  response would give us the best competitive  advantage. I asked Yann Illouz, Chief Executive  Officer of our Irish subsidiary CNP Europe Life,  if he was up for the challenge. On our end,  we were at-the-ready to assist him by sharing  the experience and knowledge of our teams,  who won a similar contract with another large  industrial group two years prior.  At CNP Europe Life, the success of our bid  after 10 months of intense negotiations has given  us the exciting opportunity to launch an entirely  new business line – group pensions (and pension  fund management). Among several other factors,  it was our proactive determination, the perfectly  orchestrated cooperation between the different  teams at headquarters (including the Group  Pensions, Legal, Risks, Actuary and International  departments) and the dedicated involvement of  the Executive Committee that truly gave us the  edge. By working together as a group, we were  able to navigate the projects numerous  constraints – most notably its extremely strict  specifications – and ultimately win the contract,  despite competition from Europes other leading  personal insurers. Because the pension funds  obligations are extremely long-term, ranging from  30 to 50 years, the solidity of our Group and its  proven ability to withstand financial turbulence  also served as strong arguments in our favour.  Yann  Illouz,  Chief Executive Of  cer  of CNP Europe Life,  Ireland 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 63  SHAREHOLDERS:  A RELATIONSHIP BUILT ON  MUTUAL TRUST We have built lasting relationships of mutual trust with  our shareholders as part of a commitment to providing them  with extensive, transparent, easily accessible information.    A STABLE AND LOYAL  SHAREHOLDER BASE Previously a State-controlled entity, CNP Assurances  became a limited company (socit anonyme) in  1992 and was listed on the stock exchange in 1998.  Since then, it has enjoyed the backing of a stable  shareholder base, consolidated by the agreement  between its major shareholders, Caisse des Dpts et  Consignations (40%), the French State (1.1%) and the  Sopassure* holding company (35.5%), that runs until  the end of 2015. Sopassure is the holding company  for the interests of La Banque Postale and BPCE** in  CNP Assurances. Over 23% of the capital is in the hands of the public,  including institutional investors such as insurance  companies and pension funds, individual shareholders  and employee shareholders. CNP Assurances has some 140,000 individual shareholders.     TRANSPARENT, RESPONSIBLE  COMMUNICATIONS Since our stock market listing, we have worked to build  lasting relationships of mutual trust with our share- holders. The investor information system plays a key  role in this process. CNP Assurances is committed to  providing shareholders – and the financial community  in general – with comprehensive, transparent, unders- tandable, easily accessible financial information. Reflecting the many different ways in which people  search for information, we publish financial and corpo- rate documents, such as the Financial Report filed with  French securities regulator AMF, the Annual Report, the  Shareholder Guide, the Guide to Shareholders Meetings  and the corporate brochure, as well as two sharehol- der newsletters, and have set up two e-mail addresses  for individual shareholders (actionnaires@cnp.fr) and  institutional investors (infofi@cnp.fr). A toll-free number has been set up for shareholders in  France, with real time stock quotes, the latest value of  benchmark indices and access to a news briefing upda- ted every other week. Callers can also be transferred  to telephone advisors who will answer their questions  concerning the Group. Lastly, the www.cnp-finances.fr website provides  financial information in two separate sections dedi- cated to individual shareholders and institutional  investors respectively.    ONE SHARE, ONE VOTE Each of our shareholders is important to us, and dif- ferent systems exist to ensure that all shareholders  are treated equally. Shareholders Meetings are based  on the principle of one share, one vote. In addition  to proxy documents, the General Meeting section of  www.cnp-finances.fr also provides practical informa- tion for holders of both bearer and registered shares  on using the proxy/postal voting form and on voting  online ahead of the Meeting.  We are committed to ensuring that all shareholders  have access to the same quantity of information. To  forge closer relationships, we invite individual share- holders to a number of events organised throughout  the year in France. * Sopassure is 50.1%-owned by La Banque Postale and 49.9%  by Groupe BPCE. ** Groupe BPCE was created on 31 July 2009 through the  merger of the Banques Populaires and Caisses dEpargne  (Caisses dEpargne) cooperative banking groups.   CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  64  All shareholders are eligible to join the Shareholders  Club, whatever the number of shares held, entitling  them to additional information and services. There is  no membership fee. To join, shareholders should write  to the Company, call the toll-free number (if they are  based in France) or visit the website www.cnp-lecercle. fr opened in 2008.     HOLDERS OF REGISTERED SHARES  In 2010, CNP Assurances and CACEIS CT, the orga- nisation retained by the Company to manage its  shareholder services, launched Olis@actionnaire.  The site enables holders of registered shares to view  their share account online and vote on resolutions  to be presented to shareholders before the General  Meeting. Three special brochures have been prepared  to help them connect to the site and understand and  use the new functions. Since June 2010, holders of registered shares have  been able to receive the Notice of Meeting and the  proxy documents by email.    MORE THAN 8,000 SHAREHOLDERS  CLUB MEMBERS The more than 8,000 members of the Shareholders  Club have access to additional information and ser- vices. They are regularly invited to meetings and  conferences (see box) and are entitled to a number of  free services, such as help with problems in their daily  lives through Filassistance, and health information,  through the Carrs Bleus network.     EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP  We are committed to enabling employees to share in  the Companys performance and growth. Since the  1998 IPO, three employee rights issues have been  carried out, including one in 2004 that was open to  employees of subsidiaries outside France. We also set  up share grant plans in 2005 and 2007.  A total of 2,895 employees currently hold registered  shares and a further 1,500 employees are sharehol- ders through the corporate mutual fund. The average  investment per employee shareholder is 12,600. Conferences to better  understand insurance Since its founding in 2000, the Shareholders  Club has also played an educational  role. Conferences are organised to help  shareholders expand their knowledge  of the economy and the stock market  and improve their understanding of insurance. Organised by outside partners,  these conferences are backed by online  quizzes and simulation tools, and  publications. The 2011 series of conferences  are designed to deepen participants  understanding of insurance, as investors  in insurance companies or as simple holders  of life insurance policies. CNP Assurances share split Before trading began on 6 July 2010,  CNP Assurances carried out a four-for-one share  split. By making the shares more affordable,  this operation should help to increase the  number of CNP Assurances shareholders  and help keep ownership of the free float evenly  balanced between private and institutional  investors. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 65  EMPLOYEES: MOBILITY, DIVERSITY, AND  A HEALTHY WORKLIFE BALANCE Our human resources policies are rooted in the firm belief that our success  depends on the ability to create a company that promotes team members  personal fulfilment while reflecting the diversity of civil society. At CNP Assurances, were committed to accompanying  employees as far as possible along their career paths.  Thats why the training budget represents a full 5.2% of  the payroll and opportunities for job mobility are acti- vely promoted.    PRIORITY TO MOBILITY,  AS PART OF A CAREER MANAGEMENT  PROCESS  In 2010, 185 employees in France took advantage of  mobility opportunities. Managers are also trained to  encourage team members with the right profile to  develop new skills and pursue new opportunities.  The Human Resources Department now wants to fur- ther extend the process by creating more structured  career path programmes. This would involve an in- depth reworking of the mobility policy so that rather  than just changing jobs, employees reorient their  careers in a process that involves various job assign- ments, supported by skills enhancement and training  periods. This approach requires a variety of personnel and skills  planning tools and procedures, with the creation of  development channels for each profession.    DIVERSITY: A KEY CORPORATE ASSET At CNP Assurances, diversity is perceived as an asset  and an enhancer of social, personal and business per- formance. It has been a pillar of our human resources  strategy since 1995, when we first committed to hiring  the handicapped.  In 2006, we signed the Diversity Charter, thereby  reaffirming our determination to resist all forms of dis- crimination in every aspect of our business.  In January 2009, we became one of the first seven French  companies to receive the Seal of Diversity awarded by a  panel comprising representatives of the French State,  the trade unions and the National Association of Human  Resources Managers (ANDRH). The award recognises  not only a companys achievements but also its commit- ment to pursuing the improvement process under the  supervision of the certification body, AFNOR. At year-end 2010, disabled employees accounted for  5.38 % of the workforce, attesting to the efforts weve  made in this area over the past few years. Our objectives for 2010-2011 include more effectively  integrating equal opportunity rules into all aspects  of personnel management – hiring, training and pro- motions – and implementing a more comprehensive  approach to diversity management that extends  beyond the realm of human resources.  The diversity steering committee, whose members  include several senior executives, held its first meeting  in May 2010. These meetings held every six months are  intended to rally the support of all corporate functions  behind this policy. EMPLOYEES BY SKILL SET, 2010  | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | || | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 105 3.5% 821 26.5% 589 19% Actuaries/statistician Finance Contract administration Sales and marketing Information systems  (excl. GIE Informatique CDC) Corporate functions 357 11% 953 31.2% 249 8.1%   CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  66  Various initiatives have been undertaken to improve  human resources processes. Hiring interviews are  now conducted in full compliance with the Companys  non-discrimination rules and a diversity manual has  been written that describes human resources missions  affected by this policy as well as individual roles and  responsibilities.    ENHANCING THE CAREER PATHS  OF OLDER EMPLOYEES In 2009, we introduced a 50+ plan with the goal of  improving working conditions for older employees and  easing the transition from work to retirement with the  introduction of special late-career interviews. Since November 2010, all employees age 60 and over  are entitled to five days off a year to pursue humanita- rian, social or health-related projects within recognised  foundations and charities.    PSYCHO-SOCIAL RISK PREVENTION  Since June 2010, employees have had access to a 24/7  telephone counselling service provided by Filassistance  International, a CNP Assurances subsidiary.  This hotline is designed to help them deal with situa- tions that might threaten their work-life balance. In  the event of stress, family or work-related problems,  Filassistance puts the employee in contact with its  counselling service, whose staff is comprised of clinical  psychologists, doctors and social workers. This service extends and supports our in-house media- tion system set up in 2008 to prevent interpersonal  conflicts and workplace distress, harassment and dis- crimination. If necessary, the Filassistance platform will  encourage employees to get in touch with their local  workplace health department or mediation service.    FIRST MEETING OF  THE EUROPEAN WORKS COUNCIL The European Works Council held its first meeting  on Tuesday, 15 June 2010.Chaired by Chief Executive  Officer Gilles Benoist, the Council is comprised of  12 members representing the European subsidiaries.  This new employee relations body sheds light on issues  common to all European subsidiaries and provides  an opportunity to inform and consult with employee  representatives on possible organisational changes  and development projects. Brangre  Grandjean  Human Resources  Director CNP Assurances  us A company must reflect  the society around it. Our human resources policy strongly supports two  main priorities, which are to promote diversity and  help employees advance as far as possible along  their career paths. Increasing diversity has been  a top priority of our human resources policy for many  years. We see diversity as an asset, a source of  strength, especially in customer relations. A company  must reflect the diversity of the society around it  in order to understand that societys needs. From this  standpoint, 2010 represented an important new  phase. In terms of hiring the disabled, we signed  a fourth agreement that set new objectives, building  on the significant progress made in 2010. We also  pursued our gender parity initiatives. There are now  more women managers (864, representing 28.2%  of the total workforce) than men (848 or 27.6%).  Of CNP Assurances 50 senior executives, 14 are  women. In addition, there are now three women on  the Executive Committee. These advances are  the result of an assertive gender parity policy that  weve been pursuing since signing our first equal  opportunity agreement in 2005. At the same time,  were committed to helping our employees advance  as far as possible along their career paths through  training programmes, some of which lead to skills  certification. Thats the key to CNP Assurances  growth and vitality. Promoting job mobility will  enable us to more effectively embrace and support  the changes that are reshaping our world and the  insurance industry. Were planning to implement  career development programmes for each job  category. That will be our most important project  over the next three years.  2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 67  Madeleine  Vallier,  87 years old, & Julien,  23 years old you A COMMITMENT  TO COMMUNITY  OUTREACH As part of its ongoing effort to alleviate  human suffering, the CNP Assurances  Foundation pursued initiatives launched  in 2009 to improve first aid treatment  for heart attack victims. The CNP Assurances Foundation was created in 1993  to develop community outreach initiatives in the area  of healthcare, a field that is naturally aligned with our  mission as a personal insurer. Three years later, the  Foundation chose to focus on pain prevention and  management and fifteen years later it is still pursuing  the same commitment. The Foundation solicits projects from medical teams  and non-profit organisations that can improve pain  management techniques for children, adults and  seniors, whether applied in doctors offices, hospitals  or palliative care units. Since it was set up, the Foundation has donated more  than 6.6 million in subsidies to over 186 projects. In 2010, it provided financing for two research studies  - the first (proposed by Frances cystic fibrosis foun- dation) on acute and chronic pain following a lung  transplant and the second to assess the effectiveness  of botulinum toxin in treating neuropathic pain. The Foundation also finances educational materials to  inform families and care providers. This year it helped  to provide a DVD showing ways to divert childrens  attention during painful or intimidating medical  procedures and a training film on the use of PCA mor- phine pumps for treating acute pain in adult or elderly  patients. Produced by Frances National Resource  Centre for Pain Management (CNRD), the film is  intended to promote the use of these pumps, which  allow patients to control their own analgesic intake.    FIRST AID TO HEART ATTACK VICTIMS Every year, more than 40,000 people in France die  of cardiac arrest outside of hospitals. To help save  thousands of lives, the CNP Assurances Foundation  is pursuing a support program launched in 2009 to  improve emergency medical first aid provision to  heart attack victims. In two years, the Foundation has provided 802,000  in subsidies to deploy 1,500 defibrillators and train  users in 878 local communities.   CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  68  The partnership with RMC-BFM Association was  renewed this year and supported by a new campaign  to raise awareness of the program. Produced with the  backing of the CNP Assurances Foundation, a short  TV programme called 4 minutes showing how to res- pond in the event of a heart attack was broadcast last  summer on Frances national television channels. The  operation also included radio ads, a dedicated website  – www.4minutes.fr – and a poster campaign.  A summer beach tour was also organised, with works- hops to teach vacationers first aid techniques, such as  cardiac massage and the use of defibrillators. The tour  visited 15 cities, reaching more than 17,000 people,  and the website received over 15,000 visitors.  At the 6th BFM Awards ceremony on 15 November  2010, CNP Assurances was presented with the asso- ciations prize in recognition of the Foundations  contributions.     A PRIZE-WINNING MEDICAL FILM,  UN GESTE POUR LA VIE The CNP Assurances Foundation produced a film  entitled Un geste pour la vie that presents life-saving  techniques to be applied in the event of a heart attack.  The DVD, which comes with a booklet, is used during  meetings with local authorities and officials to present  the defibrillators.  The film received the Grand Prize at the 2010 Medical  Film Awards held during the Entretiens de Bichat  medical convention.     EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT  IN CHARITY PROJECTS Increasingly involved in community outreach initiatives,  CNP Assurances employees in 2010 set a new record  for their participation in the Virades de lEspoir event  organised by Vaincre la Mucoviscidose, the French  cystic fibrosis research charity. The CNP Assurances  Foundation won first prize for the level of employee  participation and for the size of its donation to the  organising charity. The Foundation also supports projects developed  and deployed by employees. In 2010, six projects  were selected, including one to improve standards  of hygiene in a Mongolian orphanage and another to  organise a two-day boating event for the disabled.  In addition, the Foundation supports an original pro- ject initiated by an employee to encourage people  over 50 to learn and practice karate in French Karate  Federation clubs. Protecting and showcasing  the Pouilly-sur-Meuse  treasure With its roots in the public sector, CNP Assurances  is deeply committed to protecting Frances  cultural heritage. Its 620,000 donation was  vitally important for the acquisition of the recently  unearthed Pouilly-sur-Meuse treasure. Classified a  national treasure, the objects were transferred to  the Muse Lorrain in Nancy 2010. The story behind the collection is a treasure  hunters delight. In 2006, a resident of Pouilly- sur-Meuse excavating earth in his yard with a  friend, discovered a set of 31 silver and silver gilt  objects that had belonged to a wealthy Lorraine  family during the Renaissance. The objects, which  include ewers, cups, goblets, salt shakers and  spoons, are invaluable both for their precious  metals and as artefacts of day-to-day life in  an earlier period.  Caixa Seguros combats  youth violence Violence and the use of weapons  are too often given as the cause  of death for young Brazilians.  Caixa Seguros is helping to  combat violence by showing youths that  there are other ways to express themselves.  Several years ago, the Group founded a  programme called Jovem de Expressao,  which organizes therapeutic workshops for  young people. Its effectiveness was recently  confirmed by the results of a survey, which  showed that, thanks to the programme,  300 troubled young people aged 18 to 24 who  were headed towards a spiral of violence had  managed to turn their lives around. In 2010,  the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime  agreed to co-sponsor Jovem de Expressao  alongside Caixa Seguros.  At the same time, as the first insurance  company to offset carbon emissions at  its headquarters by planting trees on the  Atlantic coastline, Caixa Seguros in recent  years has become a committed partner to  sustainable development initiatives in Brazil.  2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 69  REDUCING  OUR CARBON  FOOTPRINT 2010 was an important year  for our sustainable development  policy as it conducted its first  carbon footprint analysis. For five years, CNP Assurances has been assessing the  more significant environmental impacts generated by  its operations. Relatively small compared to certain  other businesses, its impact consists of carbon emis- sions. Three sources of emissions have been identified:  the use of paper for routine administrative purposes  and policyholder communications, business travel,  and the management of the Companys office buil- dings and investment properties.    TAKING THE INITIATIVE TO CARRY  OUT A CARBON FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS In 2010, the Company decided to take the initiative and  carry out a carbon footprint analysis two years ahead  of the deadline set for large companies in France.  Conducted in accordance with the method certified  by Frances Environment and Energy Management  Agency (ADEME), the analysis measured all emissions  related to Company operations so that short and  medium-term action plans could be introduced. The analysis was carried out from July to October  with the assistance of Ecoact, a sustainable develop- ment consulting company. It received the full support  of experts within the organisation who gathered the  necessary data within very tight time frames. The  exercise also provided an opportunity to raise awa- reness of the issues among employees and to remind  them that everyone has a role to play in reducing  greenhouse gas emissions.  The analysis confirmed the challenges identified in  previous years, with paper, business travel and pro- perty management remaining the three areas for  improvement. It has also enabled the process to be  you extended to include emissions related to computers,  furniture, vehicles and other physical assets, thereby  identifying potential areas for improvement.     AIMING TO REDUCE PER-EMPLOYEE  CO2 EMISSIONS BY 3%  In 2010, for the first time, a goal was set of reducing  greenhouse gas emissions by 3% per employee per  year for in-house operations. This ambitious goal  could not be met in 2010 because of business deve- lopment, but we have reaffirmed our commitment to  reversing this trend by renewing the overall objective  for the next two years. In 2007-2009, the goal of reducing paper consumption  was included in the criteria for determining discretionary  profit-shares. This innovative approach, which has also  been adopted by other companies, helped reduce paper  consumption for in-house operations by more than 8%. The Company is pursuing other similar initiatives. In  addition to routinely printing all policyholder corres- pondence on both sides of each sheet of paper, it is also  developing paperless e-mail solutions for CNP Trsor.  In 2010, some 20,000 e-mail addresses of CNP Trsor  customers were compiled in anticipation of an initial  electronic mailing campaign in 2011.    FOCUSING ON REDUCING THE IMPACT  OF BUSINESS TRAVEL The Company is activating all levers to optimise  business travel. Initiatives include stepping up the use  of videoconferences and conference calls, especially  with subsidiaries outside France, traveling by train  Osman  Chahine,  Saint-Lazare  railway station   CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  70  rather than plane when feasible and increasing the  length of time company cars are kept, which signifi- cantly reduces emissions over their full life cycle. With  equipment installed in three new rooms at Company  headquarters in 2010, videoconferencing is increasin- gly widely used, with the number of hours rising by  63% year-on-year to 9,034, compared with a 32%  increase in 2009. This policy requires a great deal of explanation to sup- port change in employee behaviour. To promote this  change, the Company plans to introduce sustainable  development objectives in management incentive  bonus plans. The carbon footprint analysis also led to  recommendations for the future, such as changing IT  equipment less often, strengthening environmental  criteria in the supply selection process, introducing  eco-driving training courses, and promoting alternative  solutions for traveling between home and work through  the development of bike garages and car-pooling ini- tiatives, following a study of commuting practices for  employees on the Companys three largest sites.     BUILDING MANAGEMENT Were also pursuing efforts to make building mana- gement operations more energy efficient. In 2010,  air conditioner cooling towers at headquarters were  replaced. The new closed cooling water system has  reduced water consumption by 3% while also elimina- ting the risk of legionellosis.  Biodiversity: protecting  the marbled newt In 2010, the International Year of Biodiversity,  Socit Forestire, a 49.9%-owned subsidiary  that has played a pioneering role in promoting  biodiversity, led a number of important projects.  In March, three marbled newts (a species protected  by the Bern Convention on the Conservation of  European Wildlife) were found in the Gaudinire  Forest in Frances Loir-et-Cher department and  special conservation measures were introduced.  In Brittanys Broons and Bourgouet Forests,  Socit Forestire released Rhizophagus predator  beetles, which feed on an insect that destroys  healthy stands of spruce trees. The company also  rehabilitated a peat bog on a Natura 2000 site in a  forest in the northern Morvan region. Natura 2000  is a European network of nature protection areas.  With 49,000 hectares of forest, CNP Assurances  is Frances largest private owner of woodland.  These woodlands have been certified by the  Pan European Forest Council (PEFC). 21% 13% 17% 11% 8% 8% 6% 6% 5.5% 2.5% 2% 0.3% 0.1% Intellectual and  other services* Business  travel IT equipment Commuting Electricity Heating Fuel oil, gas and  refrigerants Ofces, furniture,  car parks and cars Paper and  ofce consumables Food Shipping Waste Visitor travel CNP ASSURANCES CARBON FOOTPRINT Lessons learned from the carbon  footprint analysis Based on the 2009 carbon footprint analysis,  direct and indirect emissions from the  Companys main sites in France (offices and  staff restaurants for 89% of employees)  totalled 22,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide  equivalent. Thanks to the location of CNP Assurancess  offices, 80% of employees use public transport  to travel to and from work. The Companys average consumption ratio  (excluding the data centre) totalled 444 kWh  of primary energy per square metre per year,  less than the average for office buildings  in France. * Including IT services provided by GIE Informatique CDC 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 71  CNPASSURANCES GROUP  STAKEHOLDERS CNP Assurances  and its subsidiaries  in France CNP Vida  Spain Caixa Seguros  Brazil Suppliers Suppliers of equipment, paper, consulting services, outsourced services, IT services and other Issuers of financial assets Around 500 bond issuers  and 300 listed companies Brazilian government (mainly)  and Brazilian companies Employees and employee  representatives 3,068 CNP Assurances employees  and 82 Filassistance and ge dOr  employees 100 employees 745 employees Policyholders   9.5 million individual life insurance  policyholders   13 million insureds under  loan insurance contracts   500,000 employees  of 20,000 local authorities   1.8 million employees of  4,500 companies   6.5 million beneficiaries  of Filassistance services   25,000 beneficiaries  of CNP Caution guarantees   37,000 ge dOr customers    107,028 individual life insurance  contracts   3,576 employees under group  contracts    7.1 million savings contracts    696,000 personal risk contracts   5.9 million term creditor insurance  contracts   272,000 Consorcio contracts    431,000 auto and home-owners  insurance policies Shareholders 40% Caisse des Dpts 35.48% La Banque Postale  Groupe BPCE 1.1% French state 140,000 private shareholdes 2,895 employee shareholders 94% CNP Assurances  6% Caisses dEpargne  (Caja Ahorros de Avila/Caja  Ahorros de Canarias/Caja Ahorros  de Extremadura/Caja Ahorros SA  Nostra/Caixa dEstalvis de Laietana/ Caixa dEstalvis de Manlleu/Cajasol) 51.74%  CNP Assurances 48.21% CAIXA 0.05% INSS Subsidiaries Filassistance, ge dOr,  CNP Caution, Fongpar,  LBP Prvoyance CNP Insurance Services CNP STC Distribution partners 17,500 La Banque Postale branches  + 410 independent financial  advisors + 7 CNP Caution partners +  4,300 Caisses dEpargne branches  + 300 CNP Trsor advisors +  180 ge dOr franchisees + 115 mutual  insurers + 200 financial institutions 28 distribution partners (Caisses  dEpargne and other banks)  representing 4,800 potential  points of sale 38,000 sales outlets  in 5,565 municipalities  6,700 bank branches 10,600 lottery ticket sales points 21,000 banking correspondents Civil society Insurance supervisor, professional bodies, rating agencies, beneficiaries of community outreach programmes,    CNPASSURANCES - OUR COMMITMENTS  72  65%  of assets  managed according to environment,  social and governance (ESG) criteria -3%  reduction  in CO2 emissions  per employee between 2009 and 2011 Management bonus  based on fullfilment  of sustainable  development objectives 2011 objectives CNP UniCredit Vita  Italy CNP Assurances  Compaia de Seguros  Argentina SFLI  China CNP Europe Life  Ireland CNP BVP Compaia  de Seguros  Spain CNP MIH  Cyprus & Greece 36 56 144 employees 68 employees 61 employees 7 employees 38 367 employees 1 million contracts   1,852,569 insureds  under group policies    48,277 individual  life insurance  policyholders   68,400 accident  insurance  policyholders    13,123 mandatory  life insurance plans 20,600 insureds 121,000 insureds   162,400 insureds  under individual  contracts    3,400 insureds  under group  contracts 340,000 individual  life insurance  policyholders  57.50%  CNP Assurances 38.80% UniCredit 3.7% Cardif  Assicurazioni 76.47% CNP Assurances 12.5% Banco Credicoop 11.03% Segurcoop 50%  CNP Assurances 50% Chinese  Post Office:  100%  CNP Assurances 50% CNP Assurances  50% Barclays Bank 40.1% CNP Assurances  9.9% Marfin Popular  Bank Public Co Ltd Caixa Capitalizao Caixa Consrcios Caixa Vida e  Previdncia CNP S.A. de  Capitalization y  Ahorro para Fines  Determinados Barclays Vida y  Pensiones Compaia  de Seguros au Portugal  et CNP Barclays Vida  y pensiones Compaia  de Seguros en Italie Laiki Cyprialife Ltd Laiki Insurance  Company Ltd Marfin Life SA Marfin Brokers SA 1,970 UniCredit  branches  249 Banco Credicoop  branches, 60 Banco  Ciudad branches,  270 BBVA Banco Francs  branches, Network  of 132 underwriters,  70 Banco Columbia  branches 333 Chinese  Post Office  branches  in Beijing  UniCredit  branches Barclays Operador  de Banca-Seguros  Vinculado Cyprus : Agency  Network and Marfin  Popular Bank  Greece : Marfin Egnatia  Bank and Postal Bank government agencies, host communities. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 73  GLOSSARY   CNPASSURANCES - GLOSSARY  Adjusted net asset value (ANAV) The value of assets attributable to shareholders after  deducting intangible assets, subordinated debt and  other items included in the value of in-force business.   Annual premium equivalent (APE) Life insurance business indicator corresponding to the  sum of total new regular premiums and 10% of single  premiums received during the period.   Appraisal value Sum of embedded value and new business.   Asset/liability management (ALM) The purpose of asset/liability management is to match  fund the insurers liabilities towards the insured with  assets, so that the insurers financial risk is covered at  all times.   Association Franaise de lAssurance (AFA) Set up in July 2007, this industry association examines  insurance-related issues and lobbies on behalf of the  industry. It is presided on an annual rotating basis by  the presidents of Fdration Franaise des Socits  dAssurance (FFSA) and Groupement des Entreprises  Mutuelles dAssurances (GEMA).   Attributable recurring profit Recurring profit attributable to equity holders before  fair value adjustments and non-recurring items.  Attributable recurring profit includes capital gains  realised over the period.   Basel III New banking rules proposed by the Basel Committee  on Banking Supervision for implementation before the  end of 2012. Their purpose is to strengthen: i) the glo- bal capital framework, by raising the level and quality  of minimum capital requirements and; ii) the global  liquidity framework, by supporting access to financing  on the markets.    Capitalisation reserve The capitalisation reserve is used to smooth the impact  of changing interest rates on investment income from  sales of fixed rate bonds. Gains on sales of fixed rate  bonds are accumulated in the capitalisation reserve,  and are released to offset losses on fixed rate bond  sales. The capitalisation reserve is included in the  calculation of required capital.   Carrying amount Amount at which investments are carried in the  balance sheet, corresponding to the purchase cost  less accumulated depreciation or amortisation, where  applicable, and any accumulated impairment losses.  Term creditor insurance Insurance policy whereby an insurer commits to making  loan repayments on behalf of the insured following the  occurrence of an insured risk.   Embedded value (EV) Adjusted NAV + value of in-force business. Adjusted NAV and value of in-force business provide  an indication of the present value of future profits  expected to be derived from the insurance book, while  the new business value provides an indication of the  value of business written during the year. These indicators for CNP Assurances are determined  using the market consistent approach. The calculations  comply with European Insurance CFO Forum Market  Consistent Embedded Value Principles (MCEV)1 except  in the case of Caixa Seguros, for which a traditional  method is used.   Endowment policy A life insurance contract designed to pay a lump sum  (guaranteed minimum yield) to designated bene- ficiaries after a specified term or on earlier death.  It includes the option to surrender at any time, a  capital guarantee on non-unit-linked funds and poli- cyholder dividends and a guarantee on the number of  units in unit-linked funds. 74    Environment, social and  governance (ESG) criteria  Criteria used to determine the extent to which a com- pany, local authority or national government is socially  responsible.    Fdration Franaise des Socits dAssurance  (FFSA) Professional federation whose members include the  majority of French insurance companies and subsidia- ries of foreign groups, operating in the life or non-life  business or both. The federations specialised commis- sions examine proposed regulatory changes and also  produce statistics on the French market.   Gross operating profit (EBIT) Net insurance revenue less expenses, corresponding to  operating profit before fair value adjustments, capital  gains recognised in profit and non-recurring items.   Group insurance Class of insurance allowing a company (or an associa- tion, local authority, mutual insurer or bank) – the  policyholder – to take out an insurance policy covering  a natural group of individuals (such as the companys  employees) – the insured.   Guaranteed rate contracts Life insurance contracts under which the insurer gua- rantees the payment of a certain minimum yield over  a specified period.   IAS/IFRS (International Accounting Standards/ International Financial Reporting Standards) Internationally recognised accounting standards that  all listed European companies are required to apply as  from January 2005.   Individual insurance Class of personal insurance allowing an individual to  take out insurance cover (endowment, whole life) with  an insurance company.   In-force business Discounted present value of the future earnings stream  from in-force business less the cost of the capital needed  to comply with solvency margin requirements.   Institution de Retraite Supplmentaire (IRS) Governed by the French Social Security Code, IRSs  are company or multi-employer supplementary pen- sion institutions that pay benefits in addition to the  basic State pension and the supplementary pensions  paid under the ARRCO and AGIRC government-spon- sored schemes. There are around 100 IRSs in France,  paying pension benefits of over 1 billion a year. The  Pensions Reform Act (Fillon Act) of 21 August 2003  and the related enabling legislation published at the  end of 2007 required these institutions to be wound  up and their commitments transferred to insurance  companies by 31 December 2008. The deadline was  subsequently extended to 31 December 2009.   Life annuity A guaranteed stream of payments to the insured until  his/her death (and subsequently to any designated  beneficiary if the contract includes a reversion clause).   Long-term care insurance Insurance policy covering individuals against the risk  of loss of autonomy in old age.   Market consistent embedded value (MCEV) See embedded value   Net insurance revenue Margin on insurance business (before expenses). 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 75    New business (value of) Discounted present value of future earnings streams  from business written during the year less the cost of  the capital needed to comply with solvency margin  requirements.   New business/Goodwill Multiple of the value of new business. The multiple  depends on the growth outlook.   PERCO (Plan dpargne Retraite Collective) Product introduced in the Pensions Reform Act (Fillon  Act) of 21 August 2003 to replace the PPESV employee  savings plan. Group pension product, accounted for  as an employee savings plan not as life insurance.  Benefits are payable as a lump sum or an annuity.  Early withdrawal of the capital is allowed in a limited  number of circumstances.   PERP (Plan dpargne Retraite Populaire) Personal pension plan introduced in the Pensions  Reform Act (Fillon Act) of 21 August 2003, open to  everyone. Tax-advantaged pure annuity product with  no surrender option. A PERP layer may now also be  added to Article 83 group pension plans. These  two-layer plans are known as PERE (Plan dpargne  Retraite en Entreprise). Under the 2010 Pensions  Reform Act, savers have the option of receiving a lump  sum on retirement.    Personal insurance Insurance policy concerning an insured individual, not  the insureds property. Examples include endowment  insurance, whole life insurance, accident insurance,  disability insurance and health insurance.   Personal risk Insurance contract paying a temporary or life annuity  to the insured or designated beneficiaries in the event  of an accident, illness, death, a loss of autonomy, ina- bility to repay loans or unemployment.   Policyholder dividends In life insurance, the portion of the investment yield  distributed to policyholders in the form of dividends,  as required by law.   Realisable value The market value of investments (for example,  the latest stock market price in the case of listed  securities).   Required capital Minimum coverage of insurance risks required by law  to protect the interests of the insured. Required capi- tal carrying cost corresponds to the present value of  the cost of equity capital held to cover required capital  over the period until all obligations to policyholders  have been extinguished. It is calculated as the diffe- rence between the return expected by shareholders  (discount rate) and the net of tax return earned from  the investment of the required capital.   Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) An investment strategy incorporating non-financial  considerations such as ESG criteria.   Solvency II Reform of European insurance regulations applicable  from 1 January 2013, designed to better align insu- rance and reinsurance companies required capital  with their risk exposures.   Traditional savings contract Insurance policy for which the surrender value and  benefit payments correspond to a cash amount.   CNPASSURANCES - GLOSSARY 76    Traditional savings contract  with a unit-linked formula Insurance policy for which the surrender value and  benefit payments are expressed as either a cash  amount or in units. The policyholder generally has the  choice between investing premiums in a traditional  savings or a unit-linked fund. Some policies allow poli- cyholders to shift their capital from one fund to the  other during the life of the policy.   Unit-linked contract Insurance policy for which the surrender value and  benefit payments are expressed in units, generally  corresponding to the number of units in a mutual fund.  The insurer gurantees the number of units in the fund,  but not their value. The cash value of the insurers  commitment varies in line with the market value of the  mutual fund units.   Unrealised gain or loss The positive or negative difference between the mar- ket value of an asset and its carrying value in the  balance sheet.   * Copyright  Stichting CFO Forum Foundation 2008. 2010 Business Review and Sustainable Development Report > 77     INTERNATIONAL OFFICES    Italy   CNP UniCredit Vita (subsidiary) Piazza Durante 11 20131 Milano Italy www.cnpunicreditvita.it Phone: +39 02 91 18 41 11 Fax: +39 02 91 18 40 61  CNP Italia (branch) Via Dante, 14 20121 Milano Italy www.cnpitalia.it Phone: +39 02 72 60 11 20 Fax: +39 02 72 60 11 50    Spain   CNP Vida de Seguros y Reaseguros Calle Ochandiano 10, Planta 2a El Plantio 28023 Madrid Spain www.cnpvida.es Phone: +34 915 243 400 Fax: +34 915 243 377  CNP Barclays Vida y Pensiones Calle Ochandiano 16, Planta 1 El Plantio 28023 Madrid Spain www.cnpbvp.es Phone: +34 915 243 400 Fax: +34 915 243 377    Brazil   Caixa Seguros Sector Comercial Norte, Quadra 01, n 77, Bloco A Edificio Number One - 15 andar 70710-500 Brasilia – DF Brazil www.caixaseguros.com.br Phone: +55 61 2192 2696 Fax: +55 61 2192 2407    Argentina   CNP Assurances Compaia de Seguros  M.T. de Alvear 1541 (C1060AAC) 1001 Buenos Aires Argentina www.cnp.com.ar Phone: +54 11 5811 7900 Fax: +54 11 5811 7905    China   Sino French Life Insurance Company (subsidiary) Hua Bin International Building 1206 8 Yongandongli, Jianguomenwaidajie Beijing 100022 P.R. China www.sfli.com.cn Phone: +86 10 85 28 85 88 Fax: +86 10 85 28 81 88  CNP Assurances Beijing Representative Office Hua Bin International Building 2101 8 Yongandongli, Jianguomenwaidajie Beijing 100022 P.R. China www.cnp.com.cn Phone: +86 10 85 28 81 85 Fax: +86 10 85 28 81 87    Cyprus/Greece   CNP Marfin Insurance Holdings  64, Arch.Makarios III Ave  & 1 Karpenisiou Str. 1077 Nicosia Cyprus Phone: +357-22 88 74 04 Fax: +357-22 88 74 60    Ireland   CNP Europe Life  Embassy House  Herbert Park Lane Ballsbridge Dublin 4 Ireland www.cnplife.ie Phone: +353 1 231 5080 Fax: +353 1 231 5314   CNPASSURANCES - OFFICES 80