Sayga, the Journey  and promise continues... Sustainability Highlights Report  Sayga, the Journey  and promise continues Sustainability Highlights Report  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 4 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT  CONTENTS  Sayga.the Journey and promise continues  is the first report of this nature that Sayga produces. We are proud to have taken this  undertaking in what we believe is the first Sudanese Companys attempt to do so As a privately owned company, we have chosen to do this voluntarily so as to share  with stakeholders what we are doing and where we want to go; as we believe that only  through our concerted efforts can sustainable development be realized Our business has a purpose beyond profit and our ultimate aim is really about mak- ing a difference in peoples lives. This report is not a measurement of achievements  and progress in a defined year, but more of a self assessment; sharing highlights and  contributions We tried to compile the material into a few clear sections set around our four main cor- nerstones – Our Business, Our People, Our Environment and Our Society. To highlight  our main and largest social investments, we reserved the OUT OF THE BOX section at  the end of the report. We look forward to hearing your candid input and any feedback you may have. Stakeholder feedback is indeed an essential part of our CSR Commitment and it is why  we undertook the production of this report About this report 5 Message from the MD 6 Our CSR Commitment  7 CSR Strategic Focus Areas 8 CSR Action Plan 10 Our Commitment to the UNGC 15 OUR BUSINESS 16 OUR PEOPLE 38 OUR ENVIRONMENT 46 OUR SOCIETY 56 OUT OF THE BOX 66  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 6 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 7 Message from the MD We are at the forefront of the Sudanese  Businesses to integrate CSR in our busi- ness strategy. We continue to contribute  to upgrading the Sudanese Food Indus- try and the Sudanese economy by guar- anteeing sustainability in all our busi- ness activities. At Sayga, we believe that our best con- tribution to society is by being good at  what we do, by taking responsibility for  our products and services and by invest- ing in positive change and implement- ing innovative and creative ways to add  value.  We recognize that our society (and glo- bally) continues to face major economic  challenges coupled with unprecedented  environmental challenges. We took the  time to look critically and assess how  and where we can best apply our ex- pertise and resources to address these  challenges.  Adopting the Authentic Engagement  Framework, developed by FSG ad- OUR Commitment to CSR visers, our strategic CSR takes into  consideration:   We take a long-term approach to ad- dressing a social issue, acknowledging  the inevitable link between business  and society.   We use all assets , pursuing concerted  efforts and taking ownership of a so- cial problem, pushing beyond easy  solutions.   We target issues that affect the drivers  of competitiveness, where it can simul- taneously benefit business and society.   We identify and measure explicit busi- ness and social outcomes and tailor re- porting to inform strategy  Hence, rather than taking everything at  once, wed rather dig deep and leverage  our core strengths by adopting a few fo- cus areas for our business CSR Strategic  Engagements. The areas identified were: 1- Health and Nutrition. 2- Environment 3- Capacity Building. We are currently exploring with esteemed  academic institutions and UN Agencies  and Local NGOS, further partnership and  collaboration opportunities to maximize  the benefits in relation to our existing ini- tiatives and sponsor new projects in the  areas of focus. Worthy to note that we  are guided by our CSR Policy in all we do.  The policy spells out our commitments  to our stakeholders in our everyday busi- ness; our ethics and guiding principles  are outlined in Our Operating Principles  and Values Policy Guidelines.  Dear Reader, Saygas journey started over sixty years ago. It was a modest beginning by a genera- tion who put the seeds for our group. It was my fathers generation, a generation so  pure and so committed to building a strong nation through a positive role for private  enterprise. They passed a legacy of their high values which Sayga and my generation  fully treasure. These values we feel a strong responsibility to sustain, nurture and  above all pass to generations to come. Our lives and our role is challenging because we live in Sudan, a country torn by cul- tural differences and a competition for resources. Nevertheless, Saygas position as a  leader in the supply of basic foods allows us to bring communities together through  common denominators, a shared need for nutrition and a love for Food. CSR for Sayga has a purpose beyond profit. It is our livelihood, our sustainability as a  business and a community in these difficult times. It is bringing people together, it is  about serving the community, it is about higher causes, it is nation building through  adding value. While we aspire for higher and higher causes, our feet remain firmly on the ground.  CSR to us is the challenges of reaching out every day to every part of the country  through our mobile bakery school, its transforming bakeries to cleaner and greener  sources of energy, it is creating jobs, building human capital, it is our contribution to  the cultural arena, it is improving food safety, it is milk collection centres, it is adding  value every second of the day to the economy, to society and to the environment. In Sayga we live, we breathe social responsibility, it is in our DNA. It is also our firm  belief that we are passing the torch.  Therefore, and always in this full knowledge we  believe our lasting legacy for many generations to come will always be not recognition  for our success but for our values. Ihab Latif Managing Director Sayga Investment Company Ltd. Our CSR long term goal:  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 8 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 9 CSR Strategic Focus Areas Our CSR Strategy key focus areas are: Partnership Development is an essential mechanism for capacity building and for adopting the  most effective and efcient approaches in the specied priority areas. Even the best – resourced  efforts eventually run into limitations on scale, only collaboration allows parties to share  knowledge and information, pool scarce or diverse assets and resources, access new sources  of innovation, and create economies of scale. Partnerships can also generate new capabilities  and change operating environments in ways that create new strategic opportunities. We will  forge partnerships at different levels and with different entities – government, think tanks ,  academic insitiutions, UN agencies, and civil society organizations. If opportunities are availed,  partnering with other businesses as well for the common good. The Food sector is so deeply connected to the state of  natural resources, expanding economic opportunity  goes hand in hand with environmental sustainability.  The two agendas are increasingly interrelated and  as a food company we felt that this should be an  area of specic concern. We have already led the  way in initiating innovative ideas to ght climate  change and reduce the carbon footprint both in our  operations and within our business industry. Also  being in a conict/post conict state where tension  over natural resources use has been a factor causing  armed conict in some areas, we believe it is an area  that we should also try to contribute to and address. Addressing cultural issues when it comes to  behavioural changes is key to the success of any  initiative. It is important to incorporate and address  culture in everything we do - whether we are developing  products to cater for traditional preferences or sending  messages to adopt a healthy, nutritious diet on the one  hand or encouraging people to adopt more responsible  behaviour when it comes to environment or business  conduct at times. We take it upon ourselves to provide capacity building initiatives  within our spheres of inuence, covering our internal and external  stakeholders. Capacity building encompasses human resource development  (HRD) as an essential part of development. It is based on the  concept that education and training lie at the heart of development  efforts and that without HRD most development interventions  will be ineffective. It focuses on a series of actions directed at  helping participants in the development process to increase their  knowledge, skills and understandings and to develop the attitudes  needed to bring about the desired developmental change.  The importance of access to healthy food choices for all is high on  the local and global health policy agenda and the ability to make  informed decisions about what we eat and drink is central to our  health and wellbeing. The Global Hunger Index –value for 2009  rated Sudan as  SERIOUS and conict being a main factor besides  poverty. Yet malnutrition is found to be caused by both poverty  and lack of awareness. As a food company, this is a natural focus  area and we feel responsible to address issues of food safety,  food security, food quality and nutrition. We shall strive to make  our products, which serve as staple food to millions, affordable  and accessible to all. CULTURE HEALTH & NUTRITION STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS ENVIROMENT CAPACITY BUILDING 1. Health & Nutrition 2. Capacity Building  3. Environment With Culture as a cross cutting theme under the  overarching umbrella of Strategic Partnerships CAPACITY CULTURE  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 10 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 11 FOCUS  AREA BUSINESS  AREA PURPOSE  /  OBJECTIVE IN PLACE/ Achievements Planned Actions 2009 - 2012 CAPACITY BUILDING Products & Services Contribute to the  development of the  Food Industry and  always seek ways  to add most value.  Training and knowl- edge sharing as a  means to improve  peoples livelihoods  and businesses. Baking Development Center on-site broad portfolio of  training programs for bakers, members of the public (rep- resenting all sectors of society) 58000 beneficiaries since its foundation Training in culinary , baking and basic management skills. Recently certified by Vocational Training Authorities. In partnership with the Ministry of Education, provided  major input into the development of the School Curricula  for Home Economics classes . Mobile Bakery Schools offsite & upcountry activities , tar- geting vulnerable sectors and rural populations. # of existing Schools (2) each equipped with Water  supply/Generator  Nobo/Pasta Kitchen Programs for all of the above target  beneficiaries. Outstanding modern kitchen, featuring multimedia  equipment. Training is led by Famous Chefs. Recipe Books developed and distributed. (Offering women opportunities to improve their living  standards by being empowered with tools and knowledge  that can be applied to start their own businesses.)  R&D Unit supports Product Development, catering to lo- cal needs and preferences. Led the fight against the use of Potassium Bromate,  through raising awareness campaigns and developing  flour improvers.  Increase number of beneficiaries: Ensure a wider public is aware of these free  courses and availed opportunity to be trained at  the BDC. Introduce SAYGA AWARD for outstanding Baker- ies achieving the Sayga Model. Increase outreach activities through procurement  of more Mobile Bakery Schools (3 new MBS in  2010) Explore long-term involvement in cultural, envi- ronmental, health and nutrition awareness issues  while conducting Baking Courses in upcountry  cities to maximize benefits and impact of our  services. R&D Unit to continue supporting product Devel- opment to serve local needs and preferences in  partnership with other academic and technical  institutions. Products  and  Services Focus on education  as a tool for devel- opment  and  rec- ognize and reward  excellence. Al- Awal Brand Initiatives for Promoting Excellence, Crafts- manship & Education. Annual Event started in 2009 where Sayga recognizes and  rewards the top students in different fields of the Suda- nese Certificate – highlighting technical and vocational  streams as essential areas for the nations development.. Al-Awal Brand Initiatives in supporting Education &  Schools 10 Selected Schools are to be supported in various means  (renovation/furniture/equipment) to send a strong  message that excellence is rewarded and should be  maintained. Use innovative and creative ways to reward top  students each year Annual Budget to support development of select- ed schools (meeting Saygas selection criteria) . As a special area of focus , support & develop- ment of Institutes for Children with Disabilities/ Special Needs . CAPACITY BUILDING Across BUs Promote CSR inter- nally and externally  and support nation- al CSR campaigns  and  efforts  and  showcase  Saygas  role sharing various  initiatives. Participated in a number of events and conferences ,  some of which are: UNGC Sudan Network Launch and presented Green Bak- ery, Dec. 2008. SSMO Corporate Responsibility Seminar guests in  Nov,2009.  Responsible Investment, PRI & GC event in March 2010. Engaged Senior Managers in CSR Discussions 2007 at  Sayga and DG level Supported establishment of CSR Department at Group  Level, 2008. Have become an official participant in the UNGC since  2009. Take Part in Ministry of Welfare Oct. 2010 confer- ence on CSR. UNGC COP Training Workshop , Q4 2010. Attend GC local & international meetings. Take part in upcoming CSR local, national events  to share best practices.  Awareness raising campaign to  encourage all  staff to contribute in CSR initiatives. Hold an annual CSR Week to raise staff aware- ness of CSR issues and how individual action  can make a differece. Recognize and reward CSR  champions during this week. Include CSR in the induction session for new staff  so that they are informed of our commitments to  CSR and their roles and responsibilities. Annually publish a Sustainability Report (accord- ing to international standards) to communicate  our progress towards targets and our CSR com- mitments and be the first Sudanese company to  do so. FOCUS  AREA BUSINESS  AREA PURPOSE  /  OBJECTIVE IN PLACE/ Achievements Planned Actions 2009 - 2012 CSR ACTION PLAN  CSR ACTION PLAN   SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 12 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 13 ENVIRONMENT Technical  Services  (QMS) Ensure a rigorous  and  robust  Envi- ronmental Manage- ment System is in  place in accordance  with  international  standards. ISO 14001 Gap Audit & Training Champions on ISO 14001 by Lloyds  Register Quality Assurance Co. took place on July 2010. Identify/Document Environmental Aspects and  their Impact by Q1 of 2011 Address Gaps and gain ISO 14001 Certification by  Q4 2011 Raise  Aware- ness and promote  Environmental  Protection.. Engagement in Environmental activities: Cleaning Campaigns in the neighbourhood. Celebrated Environment Day Celebrated TREE DAY (Tree plantation and plans to install  more Green Bakeries at ElObeid State.  DAL Group Environmental Forum Sayga GREEN Bag Environmental Campaign, Oc- tober 2010 involving Staff & Neighborhood.  Engagement with local suppliers and service  providers on environmental issues as part of pre- selection, renewal of contracts procedures. HEALTH & NUTRITION R&D, Products and  Services Access to healthy  food choices that are  affordable. Led the fight against using Potassium Bromate in the bak- ing industry. Developed new product ZADNA – sorghum – a leading  cereal grain and the staple food for most of Sudanese  people and that is high in iron and protein. First to avail  it processed, ensuring high quality, hygiene and safety.  ASMAR – Wholegrain is another of our products that  is also considered staple food and rich in vitamins and  minerals. BDC to Introduce new recipes that address mal- nutrition, especially in MBS upcountry trips. Nutrition Campaign using IEC Material Continue developing new solutions and investi- gate possibility of producing fortified food prod- ucts accustomed to different regional needs. Food & Kids , a new program to be offered at BDC  to school students to raise youths awareness  with food basics, hygiene, nutrition and healthy  eating. Ensure highest level  of food safety and  hygiene are always  realized. GMPs adopted since 2005. ISO 9001 accreditations acquired. HACCP for Pasta Plant Baking Development Center training includes hygiene  and safety element. Engagement with staff on Health Awareness & Health  issues: Breast Cancer Awareness session to females of DAL Group HACCP for other facilities and target more  accreditations. Target 2 – 3 different Health Awareness initiatives  to staff each year. Explore possibility of associating Mobile Bakery  School campaigns with Health related Awareness  activities while visiting rural areas. Develop milk run distribution system for bakery  flour products to ensure continuous supply of  fresh products.     Products  and  Services In partnership with  the  Municipality,  improve conditions  for tea ladies in the  streets and create  a more organized  and better managed  presentation to this  informal & vulner- able sector address- ing health and safety  issues.  LIPTON - 600 Lipton branded tables (each with umbrella  and stove) were distributed free of charge to tea ladies in  Greater Khartoum Area . 2nd phase targeting a wider outreach – another  600 units to be distributed including areas out- side Greater Khartoum.. ENVIRONMENT Products and  Services Applying innovative  solutions to address  environmental  is- sues through our  core business. Green Bakery Initiative to reduce Carbon Footprint  1032 Bakeries in different states of Sudan have switched  from wood to LPG. An extra 1000 bakeries to become Green and es- pecially in conflict affected areas, hence widening  coverage. Explore partnership with other Organizations to  reduce Carbon Footprint via Saygas Green Bak- ery or other similar initiatives Manufacturing Ensure Energy Ef- ficiency to minimize  environmental  im- pact and improve  energy consumption  – higher levels of  safety and efficiency. Power System Improvements Project, 2005. 8% Reduction in Energy loss at East Power Station, in- creased level of Safety Mill A Electro Flow System – 12% energy savings. Redesign, Power cables and Lightening –ongoing (Phases  A,B completed) Sayga Production Line- power factor correction Energy Committee formed in 2008 Diesel System Efficiency project Pasta Plant boilers fuel from Diesel to LPG, 25.9% reduc- tion in CO2 emission Generator Operation, 28.3% CO2 reduction. Energy awareness campaign launched. International Auditors assure compliance with interna- tional standards. Continue Lightening Redesign for the rest of the  facilities. Introduce the use of solar energy in the yard light- ing and the advertizing boards by the end of 2011 To enhance the usage of the variable speed drives  in big motors by mid of 2011(CO2 reduction = 457  ton/year) To develop condition monitoring system for the  lighting level, voltage losses in cables, motors ef- ficiency & steam leakage by end of 2010 To use glass tenting films (IQUE-V-Cool) in our  glass curtain walls to reduce the electricity con- sumption in our AC systems by Q2,2012. Across BUs Resource efficiency  and  reduction  of  waste. (Reduce,  Re-Use,  Recycle) Paperless system at Maintenance Department: 80% reduction in use of paper Pasta Plant: Reduced carton waste by 21.5% Reduce Rolls Waste by 8% Mill C: - Optimize use of raw wheat by 50% -less consumption  by 50%,  - 50% reduction in Power consumption, - Flour packaging (1kg) reduced pack size to eliminate  waste, Through 5S Program : Excess Furniture offered for re-use. Paper and plastic given away for free to other small fac- tories to use for the production of egg trays and plastic  plates. Office supplies were donated to Hospital Institutions. Scrap- aluminum, iron, and wood were sold to designated  suppliers and revenue used to support schools in labor- ers residential areas. Develop relationship further with ENVIROWISE  (UK based organization) for support with regards  to resource efficiency in the areas of packaging  material. Minimizing stretch wrap waste by 2011 Explore internal recyclying opportunities Expand the use of LEAN tools to be applied across  ALL BUs and functions, such as 5s and Kaizan. Positive HSE Culture Campaign. Conduct Firedrills for all Khartoum site areas and  Internal Firefighting training to employees. FOCUS  AREA BUSINESS  AREA PURPOSE  /  OBJECTIVE IN PLACE/ Achievements Planned Actions 2009 - 2012 FOCUS  AREA BUSINESS  AREA PURPOSE  /  OBJECTIVE IN PLACE/ Achievements Planned Actions 2009 - 2012 CSR ACTION PLAN  CSR ACTION PLAN   SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 14 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 15 Sayga Investment Company Ltd is proud to be a signatory of the United Nations Global  Compact The Global Compact identifies ten universal principles on human rights, labor, the environ- ment, and anti-corruption, and requires companies around the world to support and abide  by these principles. The signing of this agreement reaffirms Saygas commitment to pursuing  its efforts in corporate social responsibility. These ten principles are aligned with our Operat- ing Principles and Values Policy guide. Sayga has been supportive of the GC Sudan Network since before its launch and has  advocated for the UNGC from within DAL Group premises and via DG's Cultural Forum,  it launched the Africa Leads – UNGC Publication (Dec. 2008). We have participated  and presented in both the Launch Event and the recently organized conference on  Responsible Business and Investment Practices in Conflict Affected Countries shar- ing the Baking Development Center as an example of a strategic social investment.  Sayga Co Ltd reasserts its commitment to the UNGC and in further advancing its ef- forts to help achieve the sustainable development of societies and the attainment of  the Millennium Development Goals, by actively promoting CSR and by learning and  adopting best practices from all around the globe.  OUR  COMMITMENT TO  THE UNGC  HEALTH & NUTRITION In partnership with  Blue Nile Diary Co. Products Collect milk from  farms  throughout  all of Greater Khar- toum and improve  the farming prac- tices and in turn the  standard of living for  the farmer as well  as  improving  the  quality of finished  product  currently  consumed in Sudan. - Identified the number and area of farms in greater  Khartoum. - Identified the current issues faced by the farmers. - Identified the current feeding habits of the farmers to  their herds. - Capabilities built in order to process the huge quantities  of milk and make it safe for consumption. - Build specifically located collection centres  throughout greater Khartoum. - Provide farmers with training in terms of food  hygiene as well as best farming practices - Provide the farmers with feeding programs for  their herds. Services To provide farmers  in Greater Khartoum  with Services which  would enable them  to produce better  quality milk. List of issues suffered by farmers. Types of diseases suffered by the herds. Types of medicines currently used. - Provide a service department at every collection  centre. - Provide a free of charge animal production spe- cialist to consult farmers on how to improve their  yields. - Provide a free of charge veterinary service  to farmers in order to support them to keep a  healthy herd. - Provide reduced price medicines to the farmers. FOCUS  AREA BUSINESS  AREA PURPOSE  /  OBJECTIVE IN PLACE/ Achievements Planned Actions 2009 - 2012 CSR ACTION PLAN   SAYGA  CSR & Sustainability Review 2009 SAYGA  CSR & Sustainability Review 2009 OUR BUSINESS  DAL Group  Sayga at a glance   Organizational Structure   Process Efficiency  Our Stakeholders   Strategic Alliances: We  value Partnerships   Stakeholder  Engagements: We value  our agents and customers   Our Marketing Activities:  Giving our products a  Human Face Sayga , Leading the Way.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 18 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 19 OUR BASIC BELIEFS  AND VALUES   We provide a range of quality  food products for people in  Sudan and in neighbouring  countries.    We pay particular attention  to ensuring our products  meet the needs of local  markets and support  peoples traditional  preferences.    We create a new era in  Sudanese enterprise by  exemplifying international  business standards.    We provide the best through  adopting state of the art  manufacturing technology.    We ensure the timely  delivery of products to our  customers wherever they  are, without waste.    We contribute to the  economy and make a  difference as a company and  individuals to the daily life  of our community by being  good corporate citizens.    We highly value our  employees and recognize  that our success depends  on their active engagement,  loyalty and commitment.  Since its establishment in 1951, under the name of Sayer & Colley, DAL Group has  steadily grown into the largest and most diversified privately owned group of com- panies in Sudan. Underpinned by strong, clear business principles and ethics, DAL  Group today consists of independent companies that are efficiently and responsibly  engaged in food industries, engineering, agriculture, automotives, medical services,  property development and education sectors, each playing a leading role in its own  field.  DAL Group is committed to growth, focused on quality and always thoughtful of our  ever-growing family of employees. At DAL, we believe in the power of people, as a  valuable asset. It is our ongoing philosophy to attract, develop, recognize and retain  the finest talent available in our industry. However, the aforementioned in totality is  anchored by a strong belief in the welfare of our customers. We encourage innovative thinking, expecting execution and best in class in all critical  facets of our operations. We are committed to the concept of continuous improvement  and competitive benchmarking in worldwide sourcing, manufacturing, distribution,  and our customer value proposition. Our success is simply based on both the quality of our associates and the standards  and values we set and lead by. Our mission is to enhance our capability to add value  by developing and operating businesses to international standards within Sudan. This  is the driving force behind the group's constant pursuit of excellence. We are committed by our beliefs to contribute to integrating economic, social and  environmental considerations Osama Daoud Abdel latif \ DAL Group Chairman DAL Group OUR MISSION: To profitably manufacture, pack and distribute high-quality  products at competitive prices, throughout Sudan and be- yond . At Sayga, we believe that our business has A Purpose Beyond Profit. We believe in  something much greater than the return on capital employed where we aspire to make  a sustainable business for a sustainable world. Sayga plays a vital role in the eco- nomic landscape of the community and is a trusted partner and employer as it delivers  superior value and growth to our shareholders. Employees, governments, investors  and our communities benefit economically from Saygas activities. By creating jobs,  enabling technology transfer, building human capital and physical infrastructure, gen- erating tax revenue, providing business opportunities to local suppliers and of course  a variety of products to consumers and other businesses we believe we are contrib- uting to sustainable development and enacting our role as a responsible corporate  citizen in the best ways possible.  Each of these contributions has multiplier effects on development; At Sayga we be- lieve in the interdependence of the system and look for ways from within our daily  operations to continue to add value economically, socially and environmentally. It is  therefore difficult to share the real impact our operations and activities have on the  economy and various stakeholders.  Sayga at a Glance Sayga Investment Co. Ltd. is one of the fastest growing DAL Group companies. Our success  is due to maintaining exceptionally high standards across all our products and services, en- suring that Sayga continues to lead the way in Sudans food industry. We aspire to becom- ing the first regional and diversified food company in Sudan. This is only achieved through  a balanced approach to economic, environmental and social considerations. We believe our  sustainability depends on realizing the right balance of all three.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 20 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 21 Economic Performance  Highlights: Major and direct impacts for the year  2009 are highlighted: Notwithstanding trying global economic  circumstances, and Sudans acute for- eign currency shortages, Sayga deliv- ered a satisfactory financial performance  for the year FY2009.   In FY2009 Sayga increased its flour  production by 6.2%    In FY2009 Sayga imported 58% of the  total wheat imported into Sudan for  commercial milling   Sayga employs 1,173 people in FY2009  which was an increase of 7% on FY2008.  The outlook and head count budget for  FY2010 is to increase the staff compli- ment by 27% to 1,490 employees   In FY2009 Sayga spent $29m on capital  to maintain and grow its production.  Over the coming year (FY2010) Sayga  has budgeted $40m of which a large  portion is already committed in Stor- age Capacity upgrades ($8m), Fleet  expansion ($8m), Animal Feed capa- bilities ($12m) and ICT infrastructure  ($2.5m)   Local  procurement  amounted  to  $53.9m. Where possible efforts are  made to procure goods and services  locally and this reflects in a continuing  rising trend where local purchases in- creased to 14.9% from 12.6% in FY2008 Sayga is Sudans premier food company  and one of the countrys most dynamic  and successful organizations. It is well- positioned to be Sudans first regional  food company and partner of choice.  With a powerful supply chain, Sayga  boasts its own bulk-grain terminal and  storage silos at Port Sudan, enabling the  supply of our mills with approximately  1,500,000 MTs of grains, annually.  Deliveries are handled through both road  and rail transportation, including Saygas  own fleet of railway locomotives (4) , in  addition to 3 shunters and 250 wagons. With a geographic presence in 90% of  Sudan, coverage is wide with depots in  Khartoum, Medani, Obeid and Port Su- dan, with new depots in Kosti and Juba. In 1996, Sayga Flour Mills began produc- ing Saygas flagship product, high-quality  bakery flour, supplying the dietary needs  of the majority of the Sudanese popula- tion. This wheat-based flour is produced  by highly sophisticated Swiss machinery  with fully-automated production lines  for flour, semolina and bran to meet the  various requirements of both the retail  and industrial food sectors. A pioneer in  setting standards in the food industry,  applying Good Manufacturing Practices  (GMP) since 2005, Sayga is the first Su- danese company to be awarded Hazard  Analysis and Critical Control Point (HAC- CP) accreditation, an internationally rec- ognized food safety system, in addition  to Lloyds Register of Quality Assurance  (ISO9001:2000) in July 2001 which was  recently renewed to (ISO 9001:2008).  Saygas successful foray into a diversi- fied food company positions us as a mar- ket leader in both local home-grown and  multinational brands. Sayga packages  powdered milk under the Foremost and  Capo brands and household sugar under  the Safi brand, and produces a success- ful range of Nobo and Milli pastas. New  developments include the introduction  of Zadna sorghum flour as part of a tra- ditional foods product range. In 2008,  Sayga became the partner of choice for  global food companies Kraft and Uni- Lever, strengthening Saygas leadership  position in the local and regional food  markets.   Saygas continuing business generated  an increased EBIT (Earnings before  Interest and Tax) FY2009 up by 3.8%  from the FY2008 audited results.    Operating free cash flow (cash from op- erations less capital expenditures) is an  important benchmark of economic per- formance. In FY2009, Saygas growth,  cost savings, and working capital pro- ductivity drove operating free cash to  12.8% of revenue.     Consistent and high-quality our,  pasta, semolina, sorghum and  bran manufacturing.  Packing sugar, milk powder.   Unique sorghum milling  technology.  Largest milling capacity in Sudan.   Specialized milling and product  customization. Gari Free Zones (GFZ- No customs  duties) – the largest and most  exible bond storage facility in  Khartoum DALs was the rst  warehousing operation in the  country to be awarded the ISO  9001:2008 certication. A sustainable business is a profitable business, we are proud  that our business operations continue to grow enabling us to  deliver our best to all our stakeholders and proving that bal- ancing profit, planet and people is indeed the way forward.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 22 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 23 Our Products Our Markets Existing Distribution Centers Existing Depots Dongola El Obeid Karima Malakal Nyala Port Sudan Suakin Juba Gedaref Shendi Abu Zabad Kadugli En Nahud Al Fasher Renk Sinnar Rumbek Ed Damazin Kassala Omdurman Halfa al Gadida Khartoum Atbara Abu Hamed Geneina Ed Daein Wau Wadi Halfa Ed Damer Wad Medani Merowe Kosti   R E  D       S E  A   Al Managil Rabak Hassahesa El Diwaim  El Gitaina Ed Dalang El Muglad  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 24 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 25 Saygas business structure is progressively revised to accommodate the business  fast growth and to allow the organization to meet current challenges and incorporate  future opportunities. Business segmentation strategy sessions are periodically con- ducted involving the leadership team, Kepner-Tregoe Consultancy and key business  managers to ensure that Sayga is well positioned to accommodate new and existing  businesses. Saygas current Business Model includes three types of Organizational  activities:  1. Management Activities 2. Core Activities 3. Support Activities  Management activities are the responsibility of the Sayga Leadership team and in- clude the following process areas: - Develop long term strategies & plans - Business Development - Manage improvement & changes - Corporate Social Responsibility - Direct & review execution of business plans - Develop Enterprise level brand portfolio - Business review & audit The Leadership Team also comprises of temporary and long term committees of ex- pert focal points with responsibilities to HSE and QA at a senior level. Our strength stems from our talented people, our clear  structures and our efficient processes.  The Managing Director of Sayga, Mr. Ihab  Latif, takes pride in leading and support- ing the Corporate Social Responsibility  activities and engagements. Taking this  approach, CSR initiatives are given high- er priority and are considered part and  parcel of Saygas daily business activi- ties. Under the direction of the MD, the  Human Resources Department, with the  other respective unit(s), handles the op- erational aspects of the different initia- tives. Corporate Social Responsibility is a  critical part of Saygas Strategy and Busi- ness Plans and is a main element within  strategy formulation discussions. It has  its separate budget allocation each year.  Performance of expenditure on CSR ini- tiatives is monitored and tracked by the  CSR Responsibility @ Sayga budgeting team in coordination with the  Strategic Planning unit. Sayga Manage- ment encourages product/brand related  initiatives as well as Corporate level en- gagements as part of its CSR Strategy. CSR Focal points within the different  business areas work closely with the DAL  Group CSR Manager and CSR Supervi- sors to implement different initiatives.  This is for functional/technical support  where they get the advise and expertise  but their responsibility in terms of report- ing falls under the Department Manager. The Sayga Leadership Team plays a key  role in CSR responsibility and account- ability as its comprised of department  managers who hold ultimate account- ability for their business areas includ- ing CSR initiatives which is considered  as one of the KPIs of their performance.  Key/Strategic CSR engagements get dis- cussed in monthly management meet- ings with the Managing Director. Our Business/ Organizational Structure:   SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 26 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 27 CSR Accountability & Organization Organizational Structure  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 28 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 29 The Organization Structure translates into the  below process areas view: Having realized the effectiveness of Busi- ness Process Management in realizing  and sustaining operational excellence,  Sayga has adopted BPM as a key element  of its management system apparatus. The difference between Good  and Great companies are the sys- tems which are driving them.  – Ihab Latif Business Process Management is the  mechanism we use to address common,  platform-wide strategic planning, corpo- rate performance and business process  improvement issues in order to support  and facilitate successful implementation  of strategies and ensure achievement of  business plans. Saygas BPM unit was formed in 2004  and has engaged with different areas  of the business in workshops aiming to  create a comprehensive business model  and analyzing the business structure and  segmentation. Since then, it has contrib- uted significantly in the development of  business models for Saygas new busi- nesses to ensure successful implemen- tation and integration.  The main foucs is on:   Integrating BPM and Corporate Plan- ning & Performance Management (CP  & PM).   Providing BPM and CP&PM tools.   BPM infrastructure is in place – Sayga  has selected ARIS methodology and  BPM suite as platforms for launching  its BPM initiative. Process Efficiency   A suite of BPM services have been de- fined and a number of initiatives have  been successfully implemented, BPM  Week in 2007 and several workshops  within Sayga and other DAL Food Di- vision Companies, including design- ing an enterprise business model for  Sayga, documenting Saygas business  processes and drawing roadmaps for  improving some of the most critical  process areas.    Developing BPM organization and gov- ernance framework and adapting to  match Saygas fast growth rate. The implementation of BPM in Sayga  is yet another manifestation of Saygas  relentless pursuit of excellence, its  progressive thinking and its readiness  to take long leaps and wide strides in  achieving it.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 30 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 31 Our Stakeholders Agents & Customers Employees Competitors Business Partners Government and Local Authorities Suppliers Parent Company – DAL Group  General Public Media  Industry Associations Research Institutions & Think Tanks Shareholders Industry Associations Industry Associations Industry Associations Government and Local Authorities Government and Local Authorities Government and Local Authorities Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Strategic Alliances: We Value  Partnerships & Believe in  Synergies With the Public Sector:  The Sudan Railways  Corporation To attain sustained success and realize  our goals for a more efficient and effec- tive business, we many times need to un- dertake major investments. One of our  most strategic investments is an alliance  with the Sudan Railways Corporation.  We needed to meet our expansion needs  and to develop the capacity, efficiency  and cost effectiveness of our logistics  operations, realizing that the reform of  our ailing national railways will result in  benefits to us and others as well. This  investment has revived the entire sector,  generating more revenue to the Railways  Corporation, ensuring more jobs are  secured and offering better services to  other users as well. This investment not  only has economic and social impacts,  but an environmental one as well. Rail- ways prove to be more economically vi- able, safer and with a minimum impact  on the environment and considered  much more energy efficient than other  modes of transport. At Sayga, we have  moved more towards using rail for trans- port rather than road for all of the above  reasons. We believe that in a country like  ours, investments in infrastructure reap  huge benefits to many stakeholders at  different levels. EXAMPLES OF OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES:  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 32 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 33 With UN Agencies: The  World Food Program Sayga has started recently supporting  the WFP (since 2009) and was then lim- ited to discharging WFP bulk vessels and  cargo bagging, for local consumption  and to countries in the region. Currently  we are also supporting and facilitating  customs clearance, stevedoring, and  ensuring an expedited discharging of  vessels for timely delivery of food grains  to beneficiaries. Moreover, we offer our  silos for storage of bulk cargo in prepa- ration of bagging process. Our business  partnership with the UN Agency is one  that we are proud of and consider it the  stepping stone for further collaboration  to realize Food Security in Sudan and  eliminate hunger and malnutrition. As  a responsible food company, we always  aim to provide high quality, nutritious  food that is affordable and accessible  and we are currently exploring with WFP  and other entities the possibility of pro- viding fortified foods. With DAL Sister  Companies: 1- Localizing production  of wheat  The Wadi Halfa Project, in partnership  with DAL Agriculture, is a good example  of our expansion and growth aspiration.  We aspire to make Sudan the breadbas- ket of the region and it is worthy to note  that our business has evolved from be- ing an importer of wheat flour in Sudan  in 1993 to millers of imported Australian  wheat since 1996 and lately Canadian  wheat as well. In 2004 we identified a  need for localizing the wheat production  in Sudan; as a growing percentage of the  Sudanese population now depend on  wheat as their staple diet, and also con- sidering economic challenges and risks  associated with the sustainability of the  existing supply chain and the need to  look for sustainable options.  Since then and in partnership with DAL  Group sister Company DAL Agriculture,  we are investing in a 1 Million Fadden  project in Wadi Halfa, Northern Sudan,  to secure the future production of Wheat  and ensure sustainability of our flour  supply to the people of Sudan and per- haps the surrounding countries.  Large wheat and grain storage capacity silo in Port Sudan and Khartoum Ship unloading and handling facilities in Port Sudan   This investment will bring tremendous  benefits to our nation beyond the food  security aspects. It will completely flour- ish the economy of Wadi Halfa, creating  employment and training opportunities  to thousands of people locally and will  contribute significantly to the re-settle- ment of locals within that region.   SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 34 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 35 We Value and develop  Our Agents: Sayga has the largest, most far-reaching  agents distribution centers network in  Sudan. Our relationship with our agents  has always been special and unique and  we are convinced that only through their  prosperity and wellbeing, can we realize  our goals. Sayga has undertaken upon  itself to offer a distinguished package  of facilities and services to our agents.  We build and furnish agents distribu- tion centers to reflect the elegance and  excellence that Sayga embodies. Sayga,  sometimes also rents centers on behalf  of the agents and we also offer bakery  equipment at competitive rates, subsi- dized and with installments scheduled  over a long period.  Worthy to note that also during the finan- cial crisis, Sayga recognized its agents  needs and provided soft loans and fi- nancial support to ensure the smooth  running of their businesses and hence  contributed to stabilizing the economy.  Sayga did not limit itself to providing  financial support only, however, and  emanating from our firm belief in the  value of human development to drive  sustainability and realize real progress,  Sayga invests in availing various cours- es to the agents and their employees.  Courses in customers service, manage- ment, accounting, bakery management  and others are among the areas covered.  Furthermore, we organize overseas trips  to introduce agents to the latest tech- nologies and practices in the world. We  provide high quality technical support  and regular maintenance besides con- sultancy services in the different areas  varying from bakery establishment to  developing new products. Our relation- ship with our agents is not limited to  professional services and facilitations;  but also reflects our Sudanese traditions  and values that go beyond the business  relationship to the personal domains.  We regularly organize social gatherings,  celebrate special occasions, and annu- ally sponsor a number of agents to go  for their Hajj (Pilgrimage). Our most re- cent activity was sending a group to at- tend the 2010 World Cup celebrations  in South Africa. Our agents are invalu- able and indeed vital to our success and  sustainability.  Stakeholders  Engagement: We  Value Our Agents  and Customers  Sayga is a pioneer in introducing  the After-Sales services concept  in Sudan. As a Main Agent, and  walking the talk with Sayga since  its establishment, Sayga has de- veloped me as an individual and  has inspired me with a vision  for success! Dealing with both  Sayga management and employ- ees has broadened my knowledge  and experience throughout the  years and through its different  Capacity Building activities. Im  proud to consider myself a gradu- ate of the Sayga Academy.  - Abdel Salam El Toum, Khartoum Com- pany Manager We have sustained important partnerships and alliances with  a number of stakeholders, including research and academic  centers and recognize that we all have our special strengths  and core competencies and only through collaboration could  we achieve the greatest impact for the benet of all. 2- Milk Collection  Centers and Animal  Feed. As part of an integrated DAL Group  Project, Sayga together with Blue Nile  Dairy Company and DAL Medical is un- dertaking a project to address farmers  and herds issues that will ultimately in- crease farm yields. The project is a holis- tic one integrating a number of elements;  infrastructure, capacity building training  to farmers, veterinary services as well  as provision of medicine as part of this  initiative. Sayga is involved in setting  the milk collection centers in designated  areas around Khartoum and working  on recipes for animal feed which will be  made available to the farmers ; the next  phase is to avail relevant training to farm- ers around what to feed and when. This  is yet another project that Sayga is in- volved in. Investments will yield returns  to all stakeholders and upgrade health  and hygiene standards related to pro- duction of milk and veterinary services.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 36 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 37 We value and listen to  our customers: Ensuring that our products and services  are of the highest quality, guaranteeing  hygiene and food safety is our utmost  responsibility towards our customers. We  are proud to have acquired recognized  accreditations in this area and we shall  continue to seek excellence to deliver the  best. Part of our continuous endeavors  to provide what is expected, is through  listening to our customers. ALWAYS. CRM – Customer Relationship Manage- ment is very important at Sayga and  we value and appreciate our customers  in all we do, striving to guarantee their  satisfaction always. We have launched  our Call Center specifically to ensure  that customers needs and concerns get  addressed in a timely manner and taken  care of. We aim to provide regular feed- back on concerns raised and ensure sat- isfaction with feedback given. Our serv- ice is based on our respect for customers  and their welfare; our commitment to  providing them with services that meet  or exceed their expectations and working  with them to develop both their business  and ours. At Sayga, we realize that our core  strength lies in the world around us and  in our understanding of this world. De- ciphering our customer code to deliver  their innate needs, uncovering opportu- nities through leaving no unturned stone  to share our partners unprecedented  success and becoming the suppliers  preferred customer is what we at Sayga  consistently aim towards achieving to  maximize our strength.  Stakeholder  engagement is how we accomplish this.  Our ongoing 360 degree research allows  us to leverage on our stakeholder knowl- edge, hence offering us a competitive  advantage that establishes our company  as a pioneer contributor to the Sudanese  market. We try to do things  differently : Our unique  marketing activities  Thinking of the broader society and the  bigger picture is reflected in all that we  do and our marketing activities are but  one of many examples that reflect a  deep sense of responsibility and sensi- tivity. CSR has indeed become a culture  embedded in our thinking and behavior,  the past few years have seen more ex- amples of what we can call responsible  marketing which ties the company to  societal activities and concerns that in- cur benefit to a large number of people  or sectors. This is a serious indicator of  our responsibility thermometer; a clear  example of this is the launch of ZADNA –  which is the brand name for a number of  traditional products. The first one to be  launched of these products was the sor- ghum whose production demonstrated  a breakthrough in the milling industry  worldwide and in Sudan specifically.  ZADNA is a name stemming from zad  which means food and is an embodiment  of everything traditional and considered  the staple food for many of the peoples  of Sudan. To reflect this, a huge festi- val was organized that was attended by  close to 40,000 spectators at a popular  football stadium and a great cultural  event was presented. Sudanese culture  from the different parts of Sudan, espe- cially with relation to sowing practices  was reflected in forms of folklore dances,  poetry, songs and different forms of art  and huge fireworks show. Zadnas launch  reflected the richness of Sudans herit- age and culture, the beauty and richness  of diversity that should be preserved.  It was a great example of how can the  launch of a product be turned into a sym- bol of unity and peace. Another example of how we seek to add  value is the recent CAPO (instant powder  milk) Summer Festival this time the ef- forts were to bring families to celebrate  and have fun along the beach which was  attended by hundreds of families. The  idea behind the festival is to support  childrens creativity through providing a  number of initiatives and activities that  range from crafts to sports, horseriding  and many other outdoor games. Also  competitions were organized where  families can take part and again aiming  at creating social bonds and enforcing  familial ties. The Festival included both  entertaining activities and cultural ones,  which included music and poetry that re- flect the different parts of Sudan. A mes- sage we are intent on sending is that of  celebrating unity and diversity. Peoples lives are improved as busi- nesses leverage their expertise, realize  commercial success  and run their opera- tions responsibly.  Our fleet distributes our diversified food  portfolio.    Largest agents distribution network in  Sudan   Largest direct delivery fleet in Khartoum  After-sales technical support  CRM and call center   Distribute local brands and multinational  partners brands (Kraft and UniLever)  (Owned fleet consists of 4 heavy trucks, 124  trucks, and 94 light vehicles) Our Marketing  Activities: Giving Our  Products a Human Face Products a Human Face Products a Human Face Products a Human Face  Sayga looks for the comfort of  its customers  through their  technical support they realized  that we are not working in the  best way possible so they brought  us all together and organized  training programs to show us the  right way to bake , they even got  international experts  Whenever  they feel there is any benefit  they can give ;they do it without  hesitation  A Sayga Customer  SAYGA  CSR & Sustainability Review 2009 OUR PEOPLE  Overview   Equal Opportunities and  Diversity  Work Environment  Health & Safety  Employee Benefits    Performance Management   Skills & Talent  Development    Our People... an endless  pool of good will    Employee Engagements   SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 40 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 41 Sayga is a company that  invests in its staff and in  building  their  competen- cies. I have attended many  courses – customer service,  public speaking, communi- cation skills and in the 13 yrs  I have continuously worked  for Sayga, I always found re- spect from its management  and endless cooperation and  I deal with them as my chil- dren.. I work diligently with  my colleagues towards mak- ing Sayga prosper as it is a  company that respects its  employees and hence finds  from us all the love.  Mr Abdel Raheem Mohd Nur  Bashraik , Receptionist. Overview  Sayga is a company committed to both its internal and external stakeholders. We be- lieve our most prized asset is our people. Our philosophy focuses on management  of the work environment in a way that provides a positive, healthy and conducive  environment. We endeavor to promote at all levels core values which include respect,  integrity, recognition and development. We believe that only through creating a work  environment where people can realize their potential, can we enhance our value as a  company.  We represent excellence in all what we do and what we are.....  Equal Opportunities  and Diversity  We are proud to be an equal opportunity  employer, recommitted to workforce di- versity. Recognizing the fact that women  are an integral part of society. Sudans  multicultural ethnography makes Sayga  a melting pot of cultures and a diverse  work force including an international  amalgamation. Given the increased numbers of females  in the job market, we are committed to  strengthen a culture of inclusion. We  recruit, retain and develop the best em- ployees. We have set targets to be met  and are working diligently to have a  healthy and productive workforce and  we are proud to have 23% females in  senior positions and as first line manag- ers across the various departments.  Job Level  Local Expat  Total % Expat % Local  Top Management 10 1 11 9% 91%  Middle Management 75 25 100 25% 75%  Lower Management 247 10 257 4% 96%  Employees 898 38 936 4% 96%  Total 1230 74 1304 6% 94%  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 42 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 43 Sayga has maintained a steadfastness  and commitment since its inception to  local capacities that are dedicated and  able to grasp our vision. Our Expatriate  staff is valued for transferring knowledge  and technology and we pride ourselves  for the different perspectives they bring  to the table. We truly believe that in di- versity lies strength and we invest heav- ily in providing our staff with the best on  the job learning experiences.  Work Environment We consider the work place in our or- ganization as an essential pillar of com- fort for our employees. We are adamant  in availing a structure that is both effec- tive and efficient and supportive to ac- complish our organizational goals. All  our premises are elegant and organized  as we believe that our image should al- ways be that of quality and excellence.  All Sayga premises have been designed  in a way so as to best serve and support  our internal and external customers.New  buildings are now more gender sensitive  as we have provided a rest area for our  female employees. Recently, based on  the below quote, and the strong belief of  Saygas management in the benefits of  Work –Life-Balance initiatives and what  it can bring to both the employees and  the business, Sayga offered a flexibil- ity option to office based staff to work 5  days/week instead of 6 days/week to al- low them an additional day off with their  families. This initiative was launched  across all DAL Group Companies as well.   Health and Safety  We are committed to being the best in  our industry and to avail a safe and se- cure working environment that does not  threaten the health or well being of our  people. Safety of our people precedes  everything else and we strive to have  outstanding records to share with our  stakeholders and to ensure high employ- ee retention. We are proud to have been  the first company in Sudan to be award- ed the Safety Award of the International  Association Organization of Operative  Millers (IAOM) , recognizing the out- standing efforts in achieving a record- able injury rate equal to or less than  2.5 during the entire 2008 calendar year.  Sayga is also ISO 9001:2008 certified,  giving more assurance to the high level  and standards adopted. We have accom- plished a lot in the past few years, in- cluding organizing traffic campaigns, de- creasing onsite accidents and promoting  a positive HSE culture not only internally  but amongst our external stakeholders  as well. Up to date, more than 2000 peo- ple were trained from across the different  stakeholders groups on HSE issues.  MD Walk about awards are also in  place to reward HSE compliance and  excellence. In 2010 and beyond, we are committed  to continue improving safety awareness  across our facilities and with our con- tractors, challenging ourselves to always  meet the best standards.  Employee Benefits  In appreciation of our employees, Sayga  offers an attractive package of com- pensation and benefit programs. From  competitive base salaries to retirement  plans, our goal is to support the health  and wealth of our most valuable asset:  our people.   Transportation: We provide transpor- tation and car schemes to all our em- ployees. We take seriously the smooth  and safe transportation of our staff in  terms of secured arrival and departure  to or from work regardless of time-day or  night.  Medical: We offer medical coverage for  our employees and their dependants to  ensure a healthy, productive work envi- ronment and motivated employees.   On- site Restaurant Facility: Our organ- ization has been rapidly growing since  1996 from 40 employees in 1996 to 1235  in 2010 and as a result of this expansion;  all our supporting functions and facilities  had to grow accordingly. In 2006 we de- molished our cafeteria and have a new  impressive restaurant in its place. We are  proud to be unique in this aspect and of- fer a wide array of national and interna- tional menus. Since our employees are  our most important asset, we also built  another cafeteria in our main facility  which offers traditional food at a lower  cost subsidized by Saygas management.  Bank & ATM Services: To ease the im- bursement of employees our organiza- tion has introduced bank services where  salaries are transferred monthly to the  bank accounts in a timely manner. ATMs  are located on our premises to allow our  employees to access their bank accounts  quickly and at all times.  Free Products: We distribute free flour  bundles on a monthly basis to all our  employees which is presented in AL- AWAL Brand (total cost of 21,401.50 SDG  ($=8,560) -1321 bundles). During the  holy month of Ramadan we also offer a  range of free products to our entire work- force such as: milk powder, Lipton tea,  flour, sugar and Tang , and this all rein- forces how the company holds its people  in high esteem and would like to share  their happiness with the advent of this  holy month. At Sayga, all our actions and activities  stem from our local culture and we por- tray Sudanese generousity and respect  Work-Life Balance, from a sus- tainable development perspec- tive, is fundamental to Sustain- able Business which is ultimately  about improving the quality of life  for everyone. It results in a win  – win situation because people  will be more productive if they  are happy in their jobs and this  is more likely if they are able to  balance work commitments with  family life. Lyn Mayes, Acting Operations Manager  New Zealand Business Council for Sus- tainable Development to tradition in all we do. Social occasions  in Sudan merit special support and we  ensure that assistance is provided to  our employees during occasions such  as weddings and funerals by issuing  compensation in cash that is settled ac- cording to our policies and procedures.  Moreover, the company itself gives sup- port that is not deductible from the em- ployees salary.   SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 44 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 45 Performance  Management Our incentives are extremely rewarding  and based on performance linked to in- novation, motivation and excellence  such as the technical services depart- ment Innovation Award Framework. We  offer annual bonuses to our employees  based on performance appraisal rating  received during the PA cycle by the end of  the year. The bonus paid ranges from 3x  to 9x of the Base Pay payments based on  a Rating Scale (1-5). We reward staff ob- taining Performance Rating 3 and above.  We also regularly conduct surveys where  we measure our staff satisfaction and  feedback on the performance given and  we act on the findings. Total Amount paid for PA in 2010 is: SDG  6,146,346.02  Employee  Communication: Communication in the workplace is the  backbone of any business. We believe in  the importance of effective and right- on  time communication. In our organization  we have different media channels that  we use to communicate including:   Bulletin boards that are located  throughout all our buildings and manu- facturing areas.    Emails:  announcements,  events,  changes and offers right to the inbox.    LCD Screens in the cafeteria and lobby.   Sayga Intranet Portal/Share Point. Taking our responsibility towards our  stakeholders seriously has allowed us to  pursue and be accountable to implement  ISO 9001:2000 system in general and its  training commitment (ISO: section 6.2)  in particular and continually improve its  effectiveness. Our training packages are designed  to provide development opportunities  for all staff based on staff performance  gaps and we adopt an ethical approach  to managing and developing employees  which is based on concern for people,  fairness and transparency. We try to  keep on top of new technology, equip- ment, machinery, staff development and  all relevant developments in the arena,  to increase employee commitment and  ensure their job satisfaction.  Our continuous investment in skills de- velopment and training serves a wider  social and economic purpose. Our people.. an endless  pool of goodwill We are proud that a group of our employ- ees have set up their own group volun- teering their time, efforts and financial  contributions to ease the burdens of  those in need;the poor, the sick, and the  elderly. A group who mobilize funds and  support from their fellow colleagues to  make a change. We are happy to have  them onboard and Sayga avails all sup- port and encouragement to their noble  efforts.   HR Newsletter: HR News, HR Aspects,  CSR, Learning & Development, Educa- tional Tips and Entertainment that are  issued electronically on a quarterly  basis. Skills & Talent  Development  We at Sayga are team builders and  believe in our people thus ensuring  the propagation of the team spirit. Our  training  &  development  programs/ opportunities are timely fashioned,  fit-for purpose, customer-oriented, user  friendly, aligned with product quality,  business goals and operations. Training  strategically builds competent staff that  are an assurance of sustainability, and  promote competitive advantage. Learning & Forward Thinking is an in- herent objective of the company where  people are open and proactive to learn  from each other, share knowledge, expe- rience, ideas, take risks, challenges and  use them as learning tools.   SAYGA  CSR & Sustainability Review 2009 SAYGA  CSR & Sustainability Review 2009 OUR ENVIRONMENT  Introduction   Energy Management   Resource Efficiency – Sayga  Lean & Green   ISO 14001 EMS   Neighborhood Clean Up   SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 48 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 49 Sayga is a respectable company, that had a lot of credit in secur- ing food to the peoples of Sudan. Its great expansion to adopt big ag- ricultural projects has affected the countrys environment positively  and recognizably. Sayga cared for the environment and the citizen and  contributed to their development. During my role as State Minister the  past years, I have considered Sayga a friend to the Ministry in view of  the collaborative efforts to advance the environment from different as- pects. Even environmental awareness was one of the areas that Sayga  cared for, through dedicating a regular forum to discuss environmental  concerns bringing together a pool of environmentalists, activists and  policy makers. H.E Teresia Sericio, Current State Minister – Ministry of  Communications Former State Minister – Ministry of Environment and Urban  Development We believe that we can all be part of a Green Economy and that we must diligently  preserve the environment and try to find environmentally friendly technology and busi- ness processes to conduct our business. As part of our commitment and deep belief  that addressing issues, such as climate change or resource efficiency, need individual  action; we chose to be part of the solution. We have critically looked into our opera- tions and processes and assessed where we can make changes. This commitment has  already produced significant results especially with regards to material usage reduc- tion, energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and reduction, packaging re- duction among other areas demonstrating our ongoing commitment to improving the  sustainability of our operations. Moreover, considerable cost reductions have been  made; to prove that environment conservation will always have a business case. In this section, we want to share our energy efficiency efforts up to date and some of  our achievements with regards to resource efficiency.  Introduction: Are we part of the problem or the solution? Energy  Management The Power Systems Unit (PSU) In 2004 Sayga decided to establish the  Power Systems Unit to focus on the en- ergy management in all aspects to recog- nize how much energy waste we have. In  2005 projects were proposed to achieve  the minimum level of waste and high- est possible level of safety to protect  employees.  The new power systems unit looked into  the main power distribution and back  power supply, lighting issues across  Sayga and the diesel supply system.  A number of initiatives under the title  Power System Improvement Projects  were proposed and approved by top  management. Ending 2006, Saygas application of the  Power Factor Correction System was  recognized by the NEC as best practice  and we were requested to take part in  a National TV show to demonstrate its  effectiveness and how it was applied at  Sayga.   Electro Flow System at Mill A was in- troduced to effectively optimize power  quality and saving power. This invest- ment cost $97,000 and resulted in 12%  energy savings.   Redesigning of cables (resizing and  routing) was completed for all main  distribution power cables at Sayga  sites and this will be undertaken for  any new project. This initiative resulted  in a minimized voltage drop and an  overall reduction in cable resistance as  the distances in the new routes were  reduced.   Redesigning lighting aimed at review- ing the lighting intensity across Sayga  and using high long life efficient lamps  for food manufacturing. The plan to re- duce energy consumption was divided  into three phases; Phase A incurred  zero investment and a 50% reduction  in energy consumption simply by man- ually controlling usage, ensuring that  lights are off when not needed and that  all offices are blacked out after working  hours. Phase B utilized the costs saved  to replace all the lamps at Mill B with a  proper lighting system according to the  international standards using industri- al electronic explosion proof lamps and  to use the functional lamps from Mill B  as spare parts to the other mills. This  was aimed to be repeated to cover all  Mills.  Initiatives : A complete rehabilitation of the  East  Power Station and an overall re-en- gineering of the station took place. It  aimed at having less noise, increasing  safety levels and decreasing power con- sumption. The cost of this project was  $1.8 million including the new panels,  generators and cables procured result- ing in a minimum of 8% energy losses  and an increased safety level. Power Factor Correction for all Sayga  Production Line was undergone before  the National Electricity Corporation actu- ally made it mandatory for all big loads  in the national grid. These were installed  near the production lines to increase ef- fectiveness and resulted in:   Improvement in the voltage drop which  ultimately translates into lesser con- sumption for the benefit of the national  grid supply.   Reducing load on generators, hence  reducing fuel consumption and leading  to a decreased level of emissions.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 50 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 51 Total investments since 2006 amounted  to $110,000 and a 16% savings in elec- tricity consumption and a 50% reduction  in busted lamps. Moreover, yard lighting  was changed from vapor mercury lamps  to metal halide lamps which deliver light  more efficiently and produce better air  quality and have a positive effect on the  environmental waste stream. A long life  system also ensures less landfill waste.  Photo sensors were generalized across  the facilities to further reduce energy  consumption. This project resulted in  15% energy savings.  The Energy Management Committee  To show serious commitment for energy  savings and reduction of gas emissions,  Sayga established an Energy Manage- ment Committee in 2008.   The first initiative of the committee was  to develop an Energy Management Pol- icy to show the commitment and sup- port of Saygas top management.   The diesel system efficiency initiative  achieved notable results. Piping losses  were eliminated by 95%, allowing a 5%  for maintenance and water separation  losses; Handling losses were reduced  by more than 86%; Spillage losses  have been controlled by 100%. Meter- ing losses were controlled by adding  a meter for delivery in the railway site  U/G tank, and calibrating all meters in  synchrony with the main tank meter.   The pasta plant boilers fuel was  changed from diesel to LPG to reduce  the environmental impacts from the  gas emissions. The investment cost  $25,000 and resulted in a 15% reduc- tion in CO2 emissions. An Energy Awareness Campaign was run  throughout the company. The awareness  focused in both energy saving tips for of- fices and for homes to build a green en- ergy culture among all employees & their  families.  A lot of habits that need addressing re- quire capturing hearts and minds, all en- ergy consumption initiatives need eve- ryone to believe that they have a role to  play and that every little helps!! Sayga Lean and Green  In early 2009, Sayga adopted the LEAN  approach to identify best practices for  increasing efficiency, improving finan- cial and operational performance. The  ultimate goal is to create a system that  consistently achieves excellence for  customers, shareholders employees  and the environment. We are actively collaborating to create  values, principles and initiatives to elimi- nate waste and minimize the consump- tion of natural & human resources .We  deploy a set of tools and techniques to  consume the least natural and human  resources to produce exactly what our  customer needs when needed.  We tend to specify activities that add val- ue with the customer eyes, and then line  up these activities together to produce  required products or service.  We challenge ourselves to create  ca- pable, adequate, available, flexible and  flowing production processes only pulled  to consume resources when asked by  customer. This results in higher value to  the customer, less raw materials waste,  less wasted worker effort, and an overall  greener and more profitable company! The  Lean  and  Green  concept  is  built around the premise of Waste  Management. Waste Management at  Sayga Resource  Efficiency The leading similarity between the ben- efits of lean and the benefits of green  is waste, and so it makes perfect sense  that in order to achieve higher levels of  environmental performance, you have  to follow a structured approach of waste  elimination. We have started by sharing the knowl- edge and actively changing the culture  by following structured events to bring  knowledge to practice. To ease the proc- ess we have developed key people in  various areas in the business to become  change agents. And have extended the  basic lean knowledge to include over  750 engineers, machine operators, driv- ers, and security guards. We did not stop  here but went beyond our 4-walls to in- clude some of our customers and key lo- cal suppliers.  Lean Culture We are using different tools to create a  business culture characterized by the  endless pursuit of the elimination of  waste. We see our people as our prob- lem solvers and we continuously focus  on making sure that our people are  supporting processes they can see,  understand and believe in. We are actively working to create high  performance work teams environment  where; We share One vision, Empower and highly respect our people, Make room for legitimate mistakes, Problems are exposed because of in- creased trust, We are solution and not blame oriented Effective communication - Open two- way vertical and horizontal communi- cation is in place Commitment to being process and re- sults driven. We have built a vision of manag- ing our resources, processes and  products to have the least nega- tive impact on the environment.  To enhance our response to our  customers and internal commu- nication by developing a simple  integrated process across the en- tire organization. We define what  adds value only with the customer  perspective, aiming for 4 walls  waste free business environment  initially and reflect it where possi- ble to our society. DO YOU KNOW THAT.  Turning on Saygas offices overnight can  waste energy to produce 27,000 bun- dles of Safis sugar!!!! Why use it if you dont  need it? ITS NOT ONLY  ABOUT POWER  SAVINGS IN THE  PSU!!  Sayga Power Systems Unit were the  pioneers in using the PAPERLESS feature  in the asset management system used  for maintenance. Paper job cards were  completely eliminated through purchasing  computers and training technicians on  their use. All records were available in  the system reducing paper circulation by  80%. We are convinced that sustain- ability throughout the value add- ed chain, comprehensive product  responsibility and a clear commit- ment to saving resources are all  an integral part of our success  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 52 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 53 Change Management KaiZen All the lean tools are built around peo- ples thinking and behaviour; ensuring  how to drive the thinking of people so  that there could be a better way to run  todays business. We are embodying sev- eral principles and tactical methods of  bringing all ideas that can contribute in  achieving our common vision versus do- ing it solo or based on isolated thinking.  These principles and methods effectively  engage employees in a continuous im- provement culture that naturally encour- ages waste minimization, optimizing use  of resources and pollution prevention.  Key lean principles include involving em- ployees in continual improvement and  problem solving activities by implement- ing a rapid-plan-do-check-act framework  to achieve results fast and build momen- tum using Kaizen (continuous improve- ment framework). We are conducting  this with cross-functional teams follow- ing an organized use of common sense  to improve cost, quality, delivery, safety  and responsiveness to customer needs.  Teams are encouraged to bring prob- lems to the surface and to use multiple  problem solving skills to resolve them.  Recognizing that all are efforts would not  succeed without the commitment of our  people, the project puts appreciation on  top of the must dos so at the end of every  event , teams are thanked by the man- agement team, given letters of apprecia- tion and taken out to celebrate success  at fancy restaurants in Khartoum. Its a  great family time where employees fami- lies are always welcomed. Case Study: Paperless  Environment Although we are the biggest food manu- facturing company in Sudan, we are still  facing high risks regarding funding our  overseas row, packaging and project ma- terials due to sanctions and Forex fund  limitations. This major challenge helped  into developing our local suppliers to  meet our standards. As part of this program, we initiated an  effort targeting the commodities requisi- tions and purchasing process, including  the raw materials, capital projects and  operation requirements with an aver- age cost of 50mln dollars monthly.The  focus was on process efficiency, volume  of paper work, time consumption and  resource utilization. The aim was to im- plement a value adding process that  minimizes the use of human effort and  natural resources. Notable results were  made in using less paper, written ap- provals, unnecessary check points and  movement of vehicles moving across  premises.  The projects targeted different busi- ness units and processes resulting in  increased safety and hygiene as well,  particularly with relation to warehous- ing. Overall safety level within site was  enhanced through the Sayga Premises  Traffic Flow initiative which modified  the yard layout, leveling the number of  trucks available inside the site at any  point of time.  Case Study: Pasta Plant  Operation Another success story was that of the  Pasta plant were its overall performance  was optimized by leveraging the ISO and  HACCP certification which were seen as  Lean enablers. The plant was able to  achieve the following:   An ISO Certificate – In February 2009,  the pasta plant became ISO certified.    In June, 2009 the plant became HACCP  certified reflecting that highest level  of food safety is guaranteed for our  customers. In November 2009 lean management  & visual control concepts implementa- tion started by conducting Kaizen as  an approach, to reduce pasta packing  machines downtime by 80% and re- duce the waste generated through the  manufacturing activities by 80%. Results  were outstanding as an efficient proc- ess was put in place, guaranteeing a fast  response to our customers needs and  high quality products. Moreover, direct  environmental results were an increasing  reduction in cartons waste, rolls waste.  Air pollution was also decreased through  reduction of CO2 emissions from the boil- er and generator (753 and 1332 tonnes  respectively). 5S + Safety - a chance  to reuse, recycle,  reduce? 5s is a systematic, five –steps process  for developing and maintaining a clean  and organized work environment, aim- ing to reduce waste due to clutter, time  consumed to find required materials and  equipment, duplication of equipment,  floor space, and inconsistency. The 5s steps can be summarized as  follows: In early 2010 we have started rolling out  the 5s under the theme of Safety is eve- rybodys business.  All employees in Sayga were involved in  the exercise and it has resulted in cre- ating a high spirit of sharing and team  work. During the first S Sort all employees  within each department got to select  what was required to complete their  job and remove everything not required  from their respective work areas. Then all  buffers and unnecessary items were col- lected in a companywide disposal area  displayed by categories to give a chance  for other departments to pick what is re- quired by them. Furniture, Paper  and Plastic, Office  supplies, Scrap and IT  equipment.. Responsible practices surely have great  returns for our long term success and for  the benefit of the society as well. In our  efforts to deal with the different items  collected – furniture, paper and plastic,  office supplies, scrap and IT equipment;  we asked ourselves:  Currently paper and plastic bags are giv- en away for free to factories to be used  as raw input to produce products such  as egg trays and plastic plates. A large  amount of shrink rap and plastic paper is  also disposed of and given to plastic fac- tories for free. Excess office supplies in- cluding thousands of files, box files, pens  and calculators were donated through lo- cal organizations to hospitals which are  in the process of establishing records for  the hospital. Scrap including aluminum  pieces, iron and wood were sold for re- use by designated suppliers. All income  is now collected to be used for school  funds; some schools where picked in the  same area where majority of the laborers  live, our aim is to help those children to   how could we add value?  Who could make best use of  these?   SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 54 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 55 have desks, chairs, toilets and drinking  water, as per their requirement. Old and  unused IT equipment including screens,  monitors, batteries and accessories were  all collected and we contacted small lo- cal suppliers and provided them with the  items to be used as spare parts. This endeavor has become a process  whereby on a regular basis waste gets  disposed of from our operations, IT  equipment is distributed to local sup- pliers as spare parts and scrap is reused  by factories. This has helped others and  made us more aware of usage. We have  extended these efforts to our custom- ers to help them in developing the way  they run their business and we believe  that this will increase their productivity,  eliminate waste and promote a resource  efficient culture resulting in multiplier ef- fects beyond our spheres of influence. Although the lean program has been  kicked off mid 2009 but it was able to  achieve a total of 1.7mln savings and is  expected to deliver a 5.1 saving in 2010- 2011 from selected areas.  Indeed, what it took was a will- ingness to look at our activities  with a different lens and challeng- ing ourselves to do things differ- ently. GREEN is indeed a business  imperative. ISO 14001 EMS An Environmental Policy Statement was  endorsed by the Managing Director, re- flecting the importance and senior com- mitment to the long term environmental  Neighbourhood Clean  Up Campaign We also regularly carry out clean- up cam- paigns in the neighborhood, targeting all  the areas around Sayga. It was astound- ing how much debris and pollution one  finds and it was a learning experience  finding out how small efforts make a big  difference. We have also invested and  continue to invest in cleaning the ditches  in the neighborhood to minimize or elimi- nate harm done during the rainy seasons  and we try to engage always with our  neighbors on environmental issues of  concern. A Sayga Green Bag Campaign  is to be launched end of 2010, targeting  different and various stakeholders and  adopting a new technique to capture  hearts and minds. The initiatives above reflect our internal  achievements, and throughout the rest of  the sections of this report we also share  our various community initiatives – The  Port Sudan Project and El Obeid Tree Day  to show case our efforts in partnership  with other stakeholders in addition to  our Environmental Forum and our Green  Bakery Project. All these initiative dem- onstrate our commitment to addressing  environmental concerns in all our spheres  of influence and beyond it. objectives we have in place. Infact, to en- sure a rigorous and robust Environmen- tal Management System is in place in ac- cordance with international standards,  Sayga initiated the ISO 14001 implemen- tation process on July 2010 by involving  its staff in an EMS practical Implementa- tion training by Lloyds Register Quality  Co. A 2-Day course took place involving  around 20 employees (ISO 14001 Cham- pions) from across different areas of the  Sayga business followed by a 2-Day Gap  Audit activity.   SAYGA  CSR & Sustainability Review 2009 SAYGA  CSR & Sustainability Review 2009 OUR SOCIETY   Social  Contribution  –  Charitable Giving The DAL Fora   Kaleidoscope  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 58 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 59 Sayga is part of the society At Sayga, we believe that societal issues are our concerns and that only through concerted efforts and smart partnerships could  we have a greater impact on addressing these issues. We can only then create and deliver sustainable and long term benefits and  become active participants in our society, committed to making a positive and lasting contribution.  The UN Millennium Development Goals are referred to in our Kaleidoscope section in our efforts to raise awareness about these  global targets and to showcase that indeed every contribution serves a goal or more. Needless to say that through committing to  be a responsible and successful business and contributing to the economic development of the country, we are hence contributing  to the advancement of people, as poverty is the root cause of most ailments. In this section, we tried to give insight into another aspect of our impact on the community and broader society. We provide a por- tray of the different activities we participate in and support. We target action at different levels, through our well organized forums  that aim to provide the space and the enablers to bring together various stakeholders to discuss and address important issues; be  it environmental, cultural, related to our Food Industry, or through direct support provided , or long term partnerships and commit- ments with other societal actors including government institutions, NGOs and community based organizations.  Social Contribution – Charitable Giving In Sudan, corporate philanthropic activi- ties stem from inherent basic beliefs and  values of our faiths and culture; Saygas  annual contributions are allocated to re- spond to various requests received for  funds , mostly given in kind (our prod- ucts and services) and in some specific  occasions in cash. Community based or- ganizations, charities and foundations,  societies, student societies among many  others are the beneficiaries.  A special focus is made on vulnerable  sectors of the society, targeting poorest  of the poor and the marginalized, in ad- dition to the physically or mentally chal- lenged in particular. Funds are also given  to support national campaigns address- ing societal issues or in many instances  as one off investments to support a cer- tain cause or development. In many cas- es, extraordinary funds are allocated to  respond to natural disasters or extraor- dinary events affecting the communities.  For us at Sayga, charitable giving is a  prerequisite of being accepted as an ac- tive player in the society and we take this  as a responsibility to give back to soci- ety in ways other than those specified  in our strategic direction and business  goals. Besides our long term strategic  investments, our ongoing impact on the  society is our involvement and role in ad- dressing their minor and major issues at  all times. Knowing full well that every lit- tle helps to make a change. The DAL Fora Sayga, has been the drive and force be- hind launching the DAL Forum; it initi- ated and sponsored the Environmental  Forum in 2007 followed by the Cultural  Forum in 2008 and recently the DAL Food  Forum in 2010.  Sayga is a pioneer in forward thinking  and creativity, as it was the first private  sector entity in Sudan to adopt such a  novel approach which was limited to oth- er public and civil society organizations.  The Fora aim to bring together different  stakeholders to come together, discuss  and engage on issues of concern and  interest. The adoption of such fora has  been based on the premise and deep  understanding that social and economic  development go hand in hand; and that  a business only thrives where a society  thrives. Also these Fora are seen as an important  channel to interact and actively engage  The purpose of this platform is to explore  areas of environmental concern, with a  particular focus on their impact on Su- dan. The forums are run in conjunction  with such bodies as the Higher Council  for Environment and Natural Resources,  NGOs, donor and UN Agencies and en- vironment activists and bring esteemed  international speakers together with lo- cal stakeholders from the government,  media, business and wider community. Topics and areas of interest include:  Working with government to integrate  the  environment  into  development  activities.  Assisting raising public awareness  about environmental risks and hot  issues.  Helping ensure that Sudan meets its  environmental obligations.   Managing  natural  resources  sustainably.   Raising awareness about climate  change,  biodiversity,  desertification,  deforestation.   Informing the legislative reform  process.  Engaging with other industries regard- ing environmental concerns. Food Forum The Forum aims at providing a neutral  platform to bring public and private sec- tor food industry professionals, together  with regulatory authority representa- tives, and civil society organizations to  upgrade the food industry , collectively  act to address challenges and utilize  availed opportunities.  DAL FOOD FORUM aims to :  Introduce new (local, regional or in- ternational) food safety initiatives and  programs.  Promote joint collaboration amongst  the food manufacturers and regulators  to ensure food safety and security to the  consumer.  Enable Networking and the exchange  of ideas and knowledge , geared to the  Food Industry.  Provide food professionals with access  to professional training .  Provide expert speakers on a wide  range of topical issues of interest  Bring together a pool of knowledge  from representatives of DAL Food Com- panies from varied professional and  technical backgrounds.  Provide a platform for discussing food  safety and current Good Manufacturing  Practices.  Update industry on the latest regula- tory requirement and guidelines on food  safety in the Middle East Region and  Sudan.  Support strategies for food manufac- turing waste disposal systems. Environmental  Forum Cultural Forum The DAL Cultural Forum (DCF) has been  founded on the 29th of November 2007  as an initiative that introduces differ- ent cultural agendas to the employees  of DAL Group, their families, DAL Group  business partners and special interest  groups - including music and art schools,  various cultural centres, organizations,  and NGOs.  The main objective behind the DCF is to  enhance DALs social responsibility com- mitment and brand image by utilizing  culture and entertainment and provid- ing a diverse insight into the Sudanese  tradition and other global traditions and  cultures.  DCF inbreeds strong feelings of loyalty  and belonging that in turn enhance em- ployee creativity and quality of work. It  is intended for DAL to be perceived as  a strong effective brand that is a value- adding member of the community.  DAL Group aims to bridge cultural gaps  and differences, and aims to help others  understand Sudanese roots better, Su- danese arts, music and poetry as well as  those of other nations. DAL Group audi- ences and employees represent diversity  and we expect to reflect that through our  external activities. with different stakeholders. Worthy to  mention is that these fora were also pri- marily launched to serve the purpose of  providing chances for intellectual dis- course, awareness raising and entertain- ment to our employees and their families  amid the clear gap in such activities in  our society which has recently been pick- ing up again.  Moreover, the sponsorship of book pub- lishing and print is a clear demonstra- tion that Sayga holds culture and arts in  high esteem and understands that the  real development of a country is based  on much more than economic terms and  measures.  An account of topics and events spon- sored since 2007 are all available in the  recently compiled DAL FORUM BOOK- LET, a production that reflects the level  of investment and resources that Sayga  puts into supporting dialogue and social  development.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 60 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 61 "A kaleidoscope is a tube of mirrors containing loose coloured beads, pebbles, or  other small coloured objects. The viewer looks in one end and light enters the other  end, reflecting off the mirrors. Kaleidoscopes operate on the principle of multiple re- flection, where several mirrors are attached together." In this section, we have put together bits and pieces of our engagements with the  community that are indeed but small pebbles in a large ocean but we believe that in  its totality it paints a pretty picture, the big picture.  In this initiative, our product Alawwal  (arabic word meaning the winner, or one  coming before the rest in rank) looks af- ter rewarding winners and namely the  students who have come top of the class  in all the different educational streams  of the Sudanese Secondary General  Certificate. Many companies and institutions reward  and recognize the top students, the aca- demic stream students. Those who have,  with flying colours, crossed over a major  milestone pursuing higher education.  Yet we rarely heard about the other four  streams of the Certificate - the Commer- cial, Agricultural, Industrial and Domes- tic/Women streams.  Sayga brought another edge to the prac- tice, shedding light on the remaining four  streams not just rewarding the first  KALEIDOSCOPE  AL-AWWAL:  Rewarding Excellence  of the academic stream but all streams  and a commitment to doing this annually  since 2009. Sayga always does things differently ,  we thought yes, we want to recognize  them but how can we add the most value  to these students lives and urge them  to continue excelling ?? and we came  up with a totally new and different ap- proach: what do they all need and can  make the most value from in any career  or choice they make in this highly com- petitive labour market?.. English Lan- guage and Computer skills! For the latter, top notch personal com- puters were given to each student and  for the former we came up with another  idea lets give them the chance to learn  English in the not so traditional way ,  within a classroom boundary So we de- cided to send them to learn the language  for a month in the United Kingdom and  get to learn about a new country, a great  civilization, its history and its culture   providing them with a taste of a multicul- tural setting ,and a broadening of experi- ences that we are confident will support  them in aspiring to excel always  The initiative transcends the effects on  the students as individuals, to encom- pass education in Sudan in its totality  and draw the attention of the concerned  officials and media to the importance of  giving more attention to technical and  vocational education in the country an  area without which we, as a nation , will  not be able to EXCEL. "A kaleidoscope is a tube of mirrors containing loose coloured beads, pebbles, or   SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 62 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 63 Amidst great festivities and a warm wel- come from the people of Obeid the first  of many trees was planted.  Sayga and its partners: the Wali of North  Kordofan, Minister of General Education,  the Commissioner, NGOs and some rep- resentatives from the local community  commemorated August 2nd , 2010 as the  47th Tree Festival Day.  Responsibility is shared. The celebration was a first of its kind in  43 years as quoted by the Commission- er. The event demonstrated a high level  of stakeholder engagement and reflect- ed the priceless value of partnership.  To resolve the problem of water shortage  facing the city, Sayga also rehabilitated  the citys Central Nurserys main water  well which will lead to an increase in pro- ductivity from 10,000-20,000 trees a year  to an astounding 100,000!!! The initia- tive is also currently piloting the school  forest project complete with awareness  leaflets containing attractive illustrations  for the students.  The program also included an Income  Generating Activity and Capacity Build- ing Training for around 200 women in  the city. In addition, and to ensure sus- tainability, Sayga extended its support  for the Integrated Women Development  Center by rehabilitating the center, pro- viding cooking facilities, ovens, a mixer,   fridge, stove, and various utensils.  The  use of gas burners in traditional bakeries  instead of firewood was advocated for,  to promote environmentally friendly and  safe practices. We are always seeking  partnership opportunities to add value  and try to address through collective ac- tion global and national concerns. Women make a crucial contribution to  household earnings and many are some- times the sole breadwinners. A consider- able number sell tea and coffee to pedes- trians in the open roads; many of them  are IDPs (internally displaced persons)  whose best bet is such a job and many  others found this as the only decent form  of work they can have.  As it is an unlicensed form of work, these  women risk the chance of getting raided  by police and losing their tools or getting  hurt.  The Municipality, introduced the idea of  the kiosks, in its efforts to organize the  city, and in light of recognizing that these  ladies depend on this activity as a source  of income. It was to aid in safeguarding  these womens interests and welfare.  To ensure supporting such a deserving  segment of the community, Sayga en- tered into a partnership with Khartoum  State to finance provision of a number  of tables to the selected ladies. Through  the State Ministry of Social Welfare and  woman and child affairs, 600 tables were  distributed to ladies in Khartoum, Khar- toum North and Omdurman. This is to be  extended to a larger number and a wider  outreach to support those outside Great- er Khartoum area as well.  Lipton  supports as  well The Food and Agriculture Organization of  the United Nations celebrates World Food  Day each year on 16 October, the day on  which the Organization was founded in  1945.  A number of institutions and organiza- tions, concerned with issues of national  food security, hunger, malnutrition and  poverty take part and are actively present  in the annual celebration. Sayga, with a  firm belief in the need to tackle these is- sues in a more engaging format, actively  participated in the Day held at Ahfad Uni- versity for Women in Omdurman. World Food Day at Ahfad University  Our Youth Our Future: Enabling the Disabled Youth represent many things - they are  the future, the joyous present and the  foundations of a healthy, prosperous so- ciety. Only with their well-being can we  aspire to achieve anything small or great.  What we do today is of little meaning if all  efforts are not channeled to serve their  needs in some way and the sustainability  of any activity will be challenged. Disa- bled children are those special group of  children who have had the misfortune of  being mentally or physically challenged  so the term disabled itself might not  be doing them great justice as it is not  through their own choice. It is societys  neglect of them that empowers this dis- ability by failing to provide their special  needs with the care they deserve.  Even  more difficult is the predicament of these  childrens families and in Sudan little or  no social support is offered to them to  help them give their kids a measure of  There was an exhibition and presenta- tions, we participated in both and the  FAO Representative in Sudan, Mr Gana  Diagne was in attendance. Sayga had a bread display in addition  to our Dayman Amreen Kitchen. Recipe  books were distributed to the attendees  as well as give aways. Our role as Food  Makers remain large in trying to secure  affordable and nutritious food products  to the people of our nation.. normality. Facilities are poor and scarce  and financial support is usually allocated  to other sectors of society.  At Sayga, we believe that we can only  excel at what we do by serving ALL sec- tors of the community we are a part of.  Usratna is an NGO meant to contribute to  caring for the disabled children, help cre- ating better opportunities in their lives,  and integrating the disabled children in  the society. The initiative not only targets  disabled children but IDPs and street  children who can sometimes be equally  underprivileged. The society trains the  children in bakery, pottery, paper re- cycling, computer skills and literacy  classes.  In partnership with USADC (a local NGO)  and other stakeholders Sayga has con- tributed to Usratna by fully supporting  the training and capacity building of 265  beneficiaries from various IDP locations  around Greater Khartoum in the bakery  component. This includes full techni- cal support of their vocational training  center as well as periodical maintenance  for tools: fermenter, mixer, oven in addi- tion to the provision of 2 coolers and a  refrigerator. Furthermore the companys  contribution included transportation of  the children to and from their various lo- cations and full provision of the raw ma- terials required for baking. Exhibitions of  the training products were also support- ed by providing cloths, table covers, T- shirts and bakery kits. We hope that the  initiative will succeed at helping these  children and their families improve their  livelihoods because instead of being a  burden, they can be active, productive  members of society. Great progress was  achieved from the bakery trainings and  even more rewarding than increasing  the chances of these children at a bet- ter life is the smiles on their faces. Much  appreciation also goes out to USADC for  their vision and dedication. Saygas sup- port and commitment to helping these  children is ongoing to help provide these  very special kids what they need for a  brighter future.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 64 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 65 BRIDGE OF HOPE – let be there no stone  unturned Creating partnerships for a sustainable  future is what we always aim for here at  Sayga. We aspire to lend a helping hand,  extend the bridges of hope and inspira- tion. Through our core business support  areas, and other contributions, we ex- tend funds and technical expertise to dif- ferent vocational training organizations  and centers. The Bridge of Hope is one of  these organizations. Port Sudan – towards greener  pastures  As part of the Port Sudan City Rehabili- tation and Development Project, Sayga  undertook the greening of expanse  lands at the city entrance: 3,000m2 and  900m2 . Sayga PortSudan planted both lands us- ing imported grass, Palm trees and vari- ous plants. Sayga also provided the Port  Sudan Grand Park with a number of wa- ter fountains. It is a Non-Profit Organization located  30km south of Khartoum in the suburb  of Haj-Yousif. It provides a safe place  for homeless street children and tries to  give these children access to education  and better life opportunities. It provides  structured classrooms with basic aca- demic curriculum geared towards provid- ing a basis for the entry level enrollment  in the Sudanese regular school system.  For the older children, the Bridge of Hope  provides vocational and technical train- ing that can be used as a means of in- come generation for the center, providing  a space from which they can learn a trade  and gain confidence towards becoming  change agents in their community.  Here is where our efforts and humble  contributions can make a great differ- ence to these childrens lives. SAYGA supported the Bridge of Hope or- ganization by establishing a Commercial  Bakery Facility & Equipment and provi- sion of Technical training to provide the  youth with a capacity building program  and an income generating activity.  http://www.lundinforafrica.org/s/ Bridge_of_Hope_Sudan.asp All these efforts are part of the citys  plans to rehabilitate Port Sudan as it is  one of the main tourist attractions being  privy to the beautiful red sea. We believe such efforts bring a lot of  return to the peoples of Port Sudan the  city and Sudan the country. Tourism is  an untapped treasure and all the munici- palities efforts to make Sudan cleaner  and greener should be supported by the  private sector.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 66 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 67 Corporate Social Responsibility is about creating new value through  the innovation that comes from giving more consideration to societal  problems and from cultivating a deeper relationship with a variety of  stakeholders. OUT OF THE BOX THE BAKING  DEVELOPMENT  CENTER How can we add the most value we  asked ourselves and where can we really  make a difference? How best can we meet our business  objectives while benefitting the com- mon good?  We tried to look at CSR strategically to  determine how can we apply our resourc- es, expertise and insights to activities  that benefit the society. The Baking School  The first of its kind in Sudan, set up and  run with the support of national and in- ternational expertise. The BDC Story is a story of a business  plan that targeted the ultimate good,  for a company that realized that acting  responsibly is not only the right thing to  do, but is also a source of opportunity,  innovation and indeed a competitive  advantage. The idea was initiated based on the com- panys desire to positively influence and  upgrade the Baking Industry through  availing specialized support to:   Ensure the production of high quality  and healthy products.   Upgrade the competency of the peo- ple working in the industry (training in  bread making and pastries)   Develop businesses, whether through  providing soft skills (courses in Bakery  management, sales, accounting, and  hygiene) or through the provision of  better tools, machinery and equipment  to produce end products of higher  quality. The targeted industry includes baker- ies, pastry labs, restaurants, hotels (all  food related organizations) and support  to this sector ensured a better quality of  food to the whole population.  The goals of the school included combat- ing and fighting harmful practices such  as the usage of dangerous chemicals and  unhygienic work environments.  Worthy to note that Sayga lead the fight  against Potassium Bromate, which was  used as a flour improver, and although  banned in many countries, was still in  use in Sudan. Sayga managed through  its training and high quality products to  influence changing the habits of bakers  by introducing them to safe improvers  and as a result the usage of such harmful  chemicals dropped recognizably.  Changing habits and behaviors is quite  challenging and to really effect a posi- tive change, Sayga undertook many  measures.  OUT OF THE BOX Featuring the Green  Bakery and DAYMAN  AMREEN Show In this section, wed like to share some  of the initiatives we chose to invest in that we  believe are perfect examples of how a company can  proactively create positive societal value by optimizing the  multipliers of their own business operations and practices  Examples that embody innovative and creative social  investments  where we really wanted to make a  difference  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 68 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 69 The training is fully sponsored by Sayga  – transportation, tools , uniforms, teach- ing and production materials are availed  for free. In some circumstances, pocket  money is paid to bakers so as to ensure  that they do not miss out on the opportu- nity, especially that many wouldnt afford  to miss their daily wages. Sayga- being  sensitive to the needs and circumstances  of the bakers ensured they were paid the  same amount of money they would have  incurred if they were working. Introducing the Mobile  Bakery School    if you werent able to come to  us wed come to you In 2002, the Mobile bakery school (fully  equipped, state of the art facilities cost- ing $350,000 per unit) was introduced  so as to target those outside Khartoum  and our mission expanded to include all  Sudan  In 2003, Sayga introduced a new seg- ment to benefit from these services,  namely the household women and all  other non industry related representa- tives as well. New courses were then  introduced to include making biscuits,  savories, Middle Eastern sweets and  cooking classes to cater for the needs of  households and also aligned with the ex- pansion of our products. The Mobile Bakery School started work- ing with the communities, with univer- sities and research centers and a wide  range of local NGOs and CBOs from dif- ferent parts of the country. With the in- troduction of this segment, our outreach  was huge and our contribution impact  multiplied fast.  In 2005, the school became a full fledged  center – the Sayga Baking Development  Center (BDC) .  Since our support and services was ex- tended to the upcountry targeting in- dustry and non industry constituents as  well, the demand on courses has become  huge. In a short period of time, we were  achieving record numbers of beneficiar- ies and customers, strengthening our re- lationship with the different sectors and  stakeholders.  By end of 2010 there will be 5 Mobile  Bakery School units available, visit- ing special offsite locations and maxi- mizing outreach to beneficiaries in the  upcountry.  Currently, there are: 120 beneficiaries from the resident bak- ery per week.  320 beneficiaries from the Mobile Bakery  Schools per week. The school currently offers 24 different  courses, continuously adding value at  both the industry and household levels. The Center received accreditation from  the Higher Council for Vocational Train- ing (Ministry of Labour) in May 2009.  This motivated more trainees to attend  as it ensured better working conditions  for those seeking employment in the  field. The BDC adopts a scientific and  systematic approach, whereby follow up  and technical assistance is provided to  trainees post training. This is endorsed  by a rewards and recognition scheme  that is put in place to applaud best prac- tices and model applications. So what else is special  about the school? In everything we do, we realize that we  have a bigger role to play and that we  can contribute to society from within our  area of expertise.  Besides securing high quality food, di- versifying the options of Sudanese cui- sine, the capacity building and aware- ness raising programs ; we continue to  avail resources to local NGOs , public  institutions, academic institutions and  Universities supporting various purpos- es. The BDC also offers material support  in the form of products and that extends  to the establishment of the bakery itself  in certain circumstances (Bridge of Hope  as an example).  Through collaborative efforts and in part- nership with different civil society organ- izations and public sector authorities, we  address various societal concerns (such  as malnutrition, reproductive health  and vaccination campaigns making use  of our modern facilities in distant rural  areas). We are currently partners with  Universities in ELobeid and Gezira States  providing a TOT (Training of Trainers) pro- gram targeting thousands of rural wom- en. Training of women in the upcountry  and within the state had created end- less income generating opportunities  for women; improving their living condi- tions. Some women were also able to de- velop their businesses further and, truly,  the multiplier effects of such impact can  never really be easily assessed.  Women entrepreneurs are vital to reduc- ing poverty and driving economic growth.  What has been achieved in the past ten  years, besides the successful efforts to  upgrade the baking industry, ranging  from outreach abilities to availing sup- port to the vulnerable and marginalized  and physically challenged is remarkable.  Efforts that have been greatly appreci- ated by the community , strengthening  our relationship with the different soci- ety players.  Surely sounds simple and straight for- ward, but our story is very different than  any other. Its an example where even we  were not able to anticipate the kind of  impact our school would have.  This initiative started , in 2000, train- ing only fourteen to become one that  by 2010 has already trained more than  58,000 beneficiaries.  SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 70 SAYGA- Sustainability Highlights Report 2010 71 Recently the interdependency between  global issues and concerns such as Cli- mate Change, poverty, water scarcity,  food security and even armed conflict  has become increasingly evident. Hence the need to address issues such  as environmental degradation and de- forestation should come as a priority  on the agenda of all societal actors. The  interdependency of all merits these chal- lenges as challenges to development  and sustainability. At Sayga, we initiated the Green Bakery  Project under the promise to reshape  the baking industry in Sudan in order to  conform with the sustainable develop- ment agenda. This is yet another initiative stemming  from the BDC. Once Sayga targeted cer- tain behaviors and practices through its  capacity building and awareness cam- paigns, it identified more to do. This  time we targeted both health and envi- ronmental issues caused by the use of  firewood in traditional bakeries and have  introduced the gas burner to be used in- stead. This saved trees and improved the  air quality inside the bakeries. By doing  so, we were addressing global concerns  of Climate change and Green House Gas  emissions. We are committed to the environment  both in our operations and also in pro- moting environment conservation in the  Food Industry. We were adamant on try- ing to influence the baking sector to be- come an environmentally friendly one,  or atleast with minimum damages to the  environment. Sayga encouraged the bakeries by sup- plying them with an advanced safe gas  burner which is dependent on LPG and  not firewood. A system with highest  standards of safety and security was  procured from Italy for the bakeries and  offered on subsidized loans; with Sayga  contributing 30% of the cost to encour- age bakeries to adopt this system.  Carbon dioxide (CO2) is the main green- house gas behind global warming.The  total carbon dioxide(CO2) saved ,by the  replacement of 1032 bakeries ,using  15-sacks of flour as an average per day,  assuming 300 days per year, is estimated  to be equal to 0.025745 Gg CO2 for the  period 2007 –2010.  These results revealed that atmospheric  CO2 is reduced by 0.025745Gg and there  is a potential for increasing this to the  higher possible quantities of saving CO2  emissions in cities and villages. The Green Bakery project also aims to  develop solutions to rely on solar power  so as to cater for the different circum- stances faced by the bakers such as LPG  and electricity supply concerns. We, at  Sayga, believe in partnership and collab- orating with others to attain the great- est impact and are currently looking into  up-scaling possibilities with partners  We believe it is part of our Corpo- rate Social Responsibility to con- tribute to the wider de-carboniza- tion of the economy. to apply for carbon financing to ensure  that this is supported and availed across  Sudan. The Green Bakery Project demonstrates  our strong commitment to address envi- ronmental concerns within our Industry. Businesses can indeed al- ways find green solutions!! Dayman  Amreen... More than just a cooking  show Another novel engagement and commit- ment to make a difference A high quality production TV show, aim- ing to further strengthen our relationship  with our customers and the general pub- lic sending different messages and each  season has its new theme...  Season One 2006:  Featured the Popular Arab Chef, Osama  El Sayed and Sudanese Nutritionist Hiba  Al Mutamad. The Chef explored with Su- danese cuisine, giving creative sugges- tions to the viewers and the nutrional  value of each ingredient was discussed.  More than just cooking- we're learning  about nutritional value that we never  thought existed! Season Two 2007: Another arab chef but in a completely  new setting. We went outdoors and took  the viewers on a tour around our beloved  country; exploring different traditions  and special cuisines, and reflecting the  country's rich diversity. The season pro- vided extensive cultural knowledge and  unveiled hidden treasures of nature. The Green  Bakery Season Three 2008:  Making it more personal, and this time  in your home!! We targetted homes of  married young couples and besides the  new recipes and exciting presentation,  we gave a special gift to the couples by  renovating or furnishing a room in their  home. Season Four 2009:   Culture, outdoor adventures in faraway  lands exploring cuisines, was that sea- son's flavour and this time with a group  of young ladies and gentlemen compet- ing for a prize! The prize had to support  a noble cause.. a project that will benefit  others and the season aimed to raise  awareness around societal concerns and  value of trying to make a difference.  http://www.daymanamreen.com/ DAYMAN AMREEN.... about  responsible marketing -  brings together knowledge,  adventures, values and  traditions and ofcourse our  FOOD! FACTS:   Increased production capacity.   Zero production loss (temperature  control)   Standard baking times   Less maintenance cost for fire  chamber.   1032 Burners installed in varied geo- graphic areas.   Resources dedicated for this project  (4 Mobile canter W/S, 10 pickup  mobile W/S.)   Four technicians located in up-coun- try to avail after installation services.  SAYGA, CONTINUES TO LEAD THE FOOD  INDUSTRY THROUGH ITS INNOVATIVE  AND GENEROUS INITIATIVES.. Sayga Investment Company Ltd  awaits your valuable feedback on  our actitivities and this sustaina- bility highlights report. Tel:+249 (0) 185 220 000 Fax:+249 (0) 185 220 264 Email: csr.sayga@dalgroup.com  SAYGA  CSR & Sustainability Review 2009                                        C     Sa Uni Comm ayga I ited N munic       Invest Nation ation  201 tment   ns Glob on Pr 0 - 201   t Com bal Co rogre 11  mpany ompac ess Re y  ct  eport         Contents    3  Basic data; Brief description of nature of business  4  Leadership Statement of continued support to UNGC  5  Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6  7  Principles 7, 8 and 9   8  Principle 10  9  Commitment to the Millennium Development Goals  9  Availability of Communication on Progress                                                         Basic data Company: Sayga Investment Company  Address:    No. 1/15, Block 4f,               Industrial Area   City/ State : Khartoum North,                   Khartoum  Country: Sudan  Sector: Food Producers   Participant since: 10th June 2010  Number of employees: 1400+  Date of submission of COP: 8th  September, 2011  Brief description of nature of business  Sayga is one of the fastest growing DAL  Group companies. It is Sudans premier  food company and one of the countrys  most  dynamic  and  successful  organizations. Sayga has a portfolio of  international and home grown brands to  its name, ranging from industrial bakery  products to pasta, milk powder, tea and  sugar, with pulses as a forthcoming  extension to the range.                                                           Leadership Statement of continued support for the  UN Global Compact    Sayga Investment Company is proud to be a signatory of the UNGC.   The Global Compact identifies ten universal principles on human  rights, labor, the environment, and anti – corruption, and requires  companies around the world to support and abide by these principles.  The signing of this agreement reaffirms our commitment to pursuing  efforts in corporate social responsibility; these ten principles are aligned  with our Operating Principles and Values Policy guide and with how we  want to do business.  Sayga has been supportive of the UNGC Sudan Network since before  its launch and has advocated for the UNGC within DAL Group  premises and via DAL Groups Forums.   In 2010 we won the CSR Arabia Award for Best Project and we  consider that as recognition for our efforts to add societal value and we  acknowledge it as an encouragement to continue striving to add more  value and achieve greater impact.   We reassert our commitment to the UNGC and to further advancing its  efforts to help achieve the sustainable development of societies and the  attainment of Millennium Development Goals, by promoting corporate  responsibility and by learning and adopting best practices from all  around the globe.  We realize that this is a journey where we learn, relearn and unlearn and it  is an ongoing process for continuous progress.   Below is our first communication on progress since formally becoming  a signatory and our Sustainability Highlights Report -2010 serves as a  more detailed document to reflect achievements and current status.    Signature:        Mr Ihab Daoud Abdel Latif  Managing Director          Principle 1  Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human  rights.  Principle 2  Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Principle 6    Business should support the elimination and discrimination in respect of employment  and occupation.  Principle 5  Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 3  Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the  right to collective bargaining.  Principle 4  Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.       Our Commitment and Progress     At Sayga we recognize that we have a responsibility to  uphold human rights in the workplace and within our  spheres of influence. During the past year, we have revisited  our policies to ensure that a number of issues are addressed  clearly and formally. A Human Rights Policy has been  added to the Operating Principles and Values Policy Guidelines   to stress its importance and the Communications  Department is looking after ensuring that it is communicated  widely to all internal and external stakeholders. A few other  policies were also revisited such as Equal Opportunity  Employer Policy, and Sexual Harassment Policy to  emphasize importance of these issues.  The Operating Principles and Values Policy Guidelines is  aligned to the UNGCs principles and our conduct of  conduct governs our behaviour and the way we conduct our  business.  We continue addressing human rights and labour issues  through our engagement in projects, programs and efforts to  alleviate human poverty, build capacity of external  stakeholders, besides our internal learning and training  programs targeting our own employees and providing them  with a conducive and highly satisfactory work environment.           Principle 7  Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Our Commitment and Progress    We believe that we can be part of a Green Economy and that  we must diligently preserve the environment and try to find  environmentally friendly technology and business processes to  conduct our business. As part of our commitment and deep  belief that addressing issues, such as climate change or resource  efficiency, need individual action; we chose to be part of the  solution. We continue to look critically into our operations and  processes and assess where we can improve and make changes.  This commitment has already brought about significant changes  such as reduction in material usage, energy consumption and  greenhouse gas emissions.   An Environmental Policy and an Energy Management Policy is  now in place. Acquiring the ISO 14000 certificate remains our  upcoming goal for the next period. Our Green Bakery remains  an ongoing initiative to fight deforestation in Sudan. (The  initiatives are outlined in more detail in the Sustainability  Highlights Report- Environment and Society sections).  Principle 8  Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9  Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly  technologies   Our Commitment and Progress   DAL Group Code of Conduct drives behaviour and is  considered a guide to ethical standards of business  conduct. The Code is intended to be used in  conjunction with DAL Group Policies and the  Sudanese Labour Law. Its purpose is to establish  guidelines for our conduct with co-workers, customers,  government officials, vendors, suppliers, partners,  competitors, and all those whom we engage with for  business- related purposes.  The Corner Stones are our business ethics, our  responsibility and fairness, our human relationships and  our social responsibility. Integrity is a non-negotiable  core value and we continue to work within our industry  to promote a conducive business environment.  Principle 10  Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery.    COP AVAILABILITY  The COP will be available and accessible to all internal and external stakeholders.  Communication on Progress will be available on the Sayga website, under our Corporate  Responsibility Section, together with our Sustainability Highlights Report.  Website: http://www.sayga.com    Contact Person: Lena El Sheikh  Communication and CR Manager  Sayga Investment Company  Email: Lena.Elsheikh@dalgroup.com     Phone: +249185220192  Fax:      +249185220222    Commitment to the  MDGs  Saygas contribution to the economy and society is recognizable and  continuously being expanded to achieve greater impact. We believe  that societal issues are our concern and that only through concerted  efforts and smart partnerships could we have a great impact on  addressing these issues.  The UN Millennium Development Goals are referred to in our  Sustainability Highlights Report – Society/Kaleidoscope section in our  efforts to raise awareness about these global targets and to showcase  that indeed every contribution serves more than one goal.  We target action at different levels, whether through DAL Groups  well organized forums that aim to provide the space and the  enablers to bring together various stakeholders to discuss important  issues  (environmental, cultural or related to our Food Industry) ; or  through direct support provided and long term partnerships with  other societal actors including government institutions , NGOs, and  community based organizations.  At Sayga, we have a Business Beyond Profit...