2010 Corporate  Responsibility Report  1 Table of Contents To Our Stakeholders  2 About This Report  4 Reporting Methodology  4 Profile and Governance  7 Vision, Mission, Values  7 Company Profile  8 Key Indicators  8 Organization and Governance  14 Our Responsibility  19 Corporate Responsibility Approach  19 Corporate Responsibility Strategy  20 Dialogue with Stakeholders  21 Business Ethics and Management of Sensitive Aspects  22 Our Stakeholders  29 Clients  29 Employees  41 Shareholders  53 Suppliers  59 Environment  63 Community  75 Annexes  82 VUBs adhesion to the Global Compact Principles  82 Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Table  83 Statement of External Verifier  89  2 3 To Our Stakeholders To Our Stakeholders Dear partners, In VUB responsible business conduct is based on two main pillars. The first one is our commitment to con- tribute to sustainable development and to improve the quality of life of our employees, clients and other  partners. The other pillar is that our business, conducted in compliance with the ethical standards, brings  not only profits, but also lasting values. 2010 – Economic recovery and floods The last year saw arecovery of the market following the deep recession of 2009. The economy grew by  four percent, which was agreat improvement compared to the five percent contraction in 2009. In this  context, the last year can be viewed as successful for VUB. Despite the turmoil in the market we have tried  to maintain our profile of aretail bank that wants to be close to people. Traditional values and prudent  approach, aimed at long-term sustainability and not short-term profits, were reflected in the year-end  results. By adhering to the principles of prudence we belong to the leaders in the Slovak banking market  with the lowest number of outstanding loans.    We continue to complete our mission of being the best bank for our clients. Both clients and experts  appreciate our professional approach. We won again the Banka roka (Bank of the Year Prize) awarded  by TREND weekly and The Best Bank in Slovakia Award given by the British Euromoney magazine. We  confirmed our dominance in the Zlat minca (Golden Coin) contest in which our products received 15  awards. The jury judged the VUB products to be the best in the market for the fifth consecutive year. All  this recognition tells our clients that their money is in good hands.  However, the summary of 2010 is not so positive for many of our clients and Slovak inhabitants. Slovakia  was struck by heavy floods, the worst in the last 150 years. VUB was flexible also in this situation. We  were the first bank that immediately responded to the situation and helped, at least in part, reduce the  consequences of floods that hit some families in Slovakia. The affected communities received financial aid  from the VUB Foundation and the bank. We tried to accommodate our clients whose life was complicated  by the floods by introducing various special measures. Some of VUB employees were also the victims of  the floods and the bank helped them, too. Responsible business conduct award Last year, VUB received the Via Bona award for its responsible approach to business and corporate philan- thropy. We have received this award four times. For several years we have been involved in activities that  are based on the principles of responsible business conduct – among others, we introduce internal ethi- cal standards and policies, we develop customer care programs, we spread the principles of responsible  business conduct among small and medium-sized enterprises, we help improve the quality of university  education, we support arts and cultural heritage. We consider this award to be the best proof of the fact  that the responsibility to clients, employees and other partners is an indispensable part of VUB values. Space for improvement  We realize that responsible business conduct is acontinuous process where there is always space for im- provement. We examine our employees opinions and especially practical ideas for process improvement  as part of our ZAPNi employee programme. The fact that in 2010 we received 107 new ideas proves that  our employees are enthusiastic enough to work on increasing our clients satisfaction. We closely monitor  our clients needs and opinions in regular satisfaction surveys. We are pleased that last year we received  fewer complaints filed by our clients. The improvement in the customer care was also reflected in the  growth of satisfaction index – from 82.3 at the end of 2009 to 83.6 at the end of 2010. Aprofessional,  but at the same time ahuman approach at our branches continues to be our key priority. 2011 plans Business and responsibility are not in contradiction. On the contrary, we strive for responsible business  because only such delivers real value, sustainable growth and development. The attention of the three- year plan of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group is focused on three main priorities, namely: we must become  faster and simpler; we need to get to know our clients thoroughly, and be more innovative. This year we  will also celebrate the 10th anniversary of the entry of Intesa Sanpaolo into the Slovak market through its  subsidiary VUB. In Bratislava, March 31, 2011 Ignacio Jaquotot CEO and Chairman of the Management Board  Veobecn verov banka, a.s.   5 About This Report 4 About This Report VUB Bank is issuing already its fourth annual corporate responsibility report in a row compiled under  the G3 version of the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. The Report informs on  VUBsperformance in the financial, social and environmental areas. The report being submitted contains  qualitative data for the calendar and simultaneously the financial year 2010. They are comparable with  the previous financial periods of 2009 and 2008. Similarly to the last year, the report is distributed to  VUBsstakeholders along with the financial annual report. It is published at http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/ hodnoty-principy/spolocenska-zodpovednost/. In the interest of saving the natural resources, we are issuing  the report in electronic version only. Reactions and questions can be sent to csr@vub.sk. Overview of Corporate Responsibility Reports Issued Issue Date Level of Reporting Under GRI Methodology 2010 Report 31/03/2011 B+, audited 2009 Report 31/03/2010 B+, audited 2008 Report 31/03/2009 B+, audited 2007 Report 20/08/2008 B+, audited Reporting Methodology Structure and Content The report is divided into several chapters mapping individual areas of our impact on the individual stake- holder categories. The whole content is split into two main parts. The first part contains the Profile and  Governance, chapter describing VUB Groupsprofile, identity, governance system, mission, values and the  Our Responsibility chapter focused on corporate responsibility management and implementation of its prin- ciples.  The second part of the report consists of chapters dedicated to individual stakeholder categories, i.e. those  entities that are significantly impacted by VUB Banksactivity and towards which we feel the greatest re- sponsibility. These are the clients, employees, shareholders, suppliers and the community. In aseparate  chapter, we also deal with our impact on the environment. When identifying these categories we took into  consideration the corporate responsibility strategy of our parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo, which used the meth- odology under the AA1000 principles (in particular the AA1000 SES standard) issued by the London-based  Accountability Institute. The report documents the results which the Bank achieved with respect to the ob- jectives set out within its business plan. All data had been collected and processed by the members of the  VUB corporate responsibility working group and the Corporate Social Responsibility Staff Unit. The report  documents exclusively the activities of VUB Bank, whereas the activities of its subsidiaries are not included.  The only partial exception is the area of our responsibility towards the community, where the information  and data related to the activities of VUB Foundation overlap. This procedure was chosen in case of activities  that VUB Bank and its foundation performed and financed jointly. Annex to the report is an overview proc- essed under the GRI guidelines containing the publishing of profile, management approach for all indicator  categories and the list of performance indicators. Compliance with Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines The content was compiled under the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the third edition of the Global  Reporting Initiative Edition. Reported is the profile, management approach and 47 indicators. The annex  contains atransparent table listing the reported indicators and management approach for each indicator ca- tegory. Compliance with the GRI guidelines was verified by the external verifier the Pontis Foundation, which  is an organizational stakeholder of GRI in the Slovak Republic. The verifiersstatement is contained in the  annex to this report. The verifier did not deal with verification of quantitative or qualitative data contained  in this report. Pursuant to  the GRI guidelines C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self Declared Report Externally Assured  Report Externally Assured Optional Third Party Checked  GRI Checked  6 7 Vision, Mission, Values Vision To be the Best Bank in Slovakia for customer satisfaction, while maintaining excellence in profitability and  operating efficiency. Mission We are part of this country and we want to grow together with our customers, be it abig corporation  or an individual. We should make our customers feel that they are the most important to us, that their  satisfaction is in the centre of any decision we make. Values We provide our clients with bank and financial services on ahigh level. At the same time, by means of  our services, we create and activate the tools for development of the economic system of Slovakia. Our  aim is to build arelation with clients and shareholders based on trust and satisfaction, solidarity of our  employees and closeness to the actual needs of the whole society. Therefore, VUBscorporate culture and  Code of Ethics contain the values that help us be successful and accomplish the expected results. Values  direct our behaviour in situations when we must choose from among several paths. They form the basis  for our success at work as individuals and also as abank. They are published on page http://www.vub.sk /o-banke/hodnoty-principy/. Profile and Governance Vision, Mission, Values Company Profile Financial Indicators Organization and Governance We act  fairly We improve  quality We are  transparent We respect  differences We do not  discriminate We listen  attentively We are  responsible  8 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Profile and Governance VUB Shareholder Structure By Shareholder Type Value of shares in  * Stake in % Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. – majority shareholder 416,875,694.61 96.76 Other legal entities 3,611,761.60 0.84 Individuals 10,331,607.60 2.40 TOTAL (VUB share capital) 430,819,063.81 100.00 By ShareholdersCitizenship Values of shares in ** Stake in % Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. – majority shareholder 416,876 96.76 Local shareholders 12,809 2.98 Other foreign shareholders 1,134 0.26 TOTAL (VUB share capital) 430,819 100.00 * Value of VUB shares in  means the value of owned shares of VUB expressed by nominal value in euro multiplied by the number of shares owned.  ** Number of shares by shareholderscitizenship is expressed in thousand EUR. As at December 31, 2010 the shares of VUB were held by 44,797 shareholders. Foreign shareholders come  from the following 10 countries: Luxemburg (96.763 %), Germany (0.077 %), Switzerland (0.074 %),  Czech Republic (0.059 %), Austria (0.047 %), United Kingdom (0.004 %), U.S.A. (0.001 %), Romania,  Poland and Cyprus. The year 2010 saw no changes in the share capital issued About Intesa Sanpaolo Group The Italian banking group Intesa Sanpaolo, based in Turin and Milan, is the majority shareholder of VUB  Bank with astake of 96.76 % in the Banksshare capital. It was established in  January 2007 by amerger of two significant Italian banks, Banca Intesa and  Sanpaolo IMI. The Group has aleading position in Italy and it is one of the  leading banks providing financial products and services to households and  also companies across Europe. Intesa Sanpaolo has astrategic business repre- sentation in the region of Central and Eastern Europe and in the area of the  Mediterranean Sea. Through its subsidiary banks, it operates in Serbia, where  it ranks first, then in Albania, Croatia and Slovakia, where it controls the se- cond largest banks in the market, in Hungary with the third largest bank, fifth largest bank in Bosnia  and Herzegovina and in Egypt and in Slovenia, where it owns the sixth most significant bank. The  Group is represented also in Ukraine, in the Russian Federation and in Romania. Intesa Sanpaolo in Figures As at 30/09/2010 As at 31/12/2009 As at 31/12/2008 Total number of clients 19.9 mil. 19.6 mil. 19.8 mil. – in Italy 11.3 mil. 11.1 mil. 11.3 mil. – worldwide 8.6 mil. 8.5 mil. 8.5 mil. Total number of branches 7,669 7,933 8,399 – in Italy 5,877 6,041 6,366 – worldwide 1,792 1,892 2,033 Total assets in billions of euro 677 652 636 Loans to customers in billions of euro 379 375 395 Customer deposits in billions of euro 435 421 430 The Italian banking group Intesa Sanpaolo is the majority shareholder. Company Profile Key Indicators Financial 2010 2009 2008 Loans to customers in euro 6.1 billion 5.6 billion 5.3 billion Customer deposits in euro 7.3 billion 6.6 billion 8.1 billion Share capital in mil. euro 430.82  430.82  430.79  Number of clients 1,257,033  1,248,236 1,240,602 Number of sales points 249 253 258 Percentage of local suppliers 91  92  90 Social Number od VUB Banksemployees (without the branch  in the Czech Republic) 3,465  3,456  3,561  – thereof women 2,591  2,617  2,735  – thereof with grave disability 17  19  18 Turnover percentage 12.0  12.6  14.6 Number of injuries 8  8  12 Support to non-profit organizations (in EUR thous.) 108.0  90.7   138.3 Environmental Energy consumption per employee (kWh) 11,434.9  11,411.9 11,852.2 Paper consumption per employee (kg per year) 177.3  151.6 86.3 Water consumption per employee (litres per day) 59.2  51.4 52.7 VUB Bank was established on January 1, 1990 by spinning off commercial activities for corporate  clients in the territory of the Slovak Republic from the Czechoslovak State Bank. VUB Bank is apublic  joint-stock company operating in the Slovak and Czech Republics. Abreak-through for our activities  was the year 2001, when asignificant Italian banking group IntesaBci (nowadays Intesa Sanpaolo)  acquired amajority stake in VUB Bank. VUB Bank is currently the second largest bank in Slovakia. It  administers deposits amounting to EUR 7.3 billion and loans worth EUR 6.1 billion. The Banksport- folio holds currently more than 1 million retail clients, 90 thousand sole traders, 9 thousand small  and medium enterprises and 600 large corporations. For the past years, VUB has been one of the  most profitable banks in Slovakia. VUB Group Providing aWide Range of Services Leasing Banking Factoring Asset  Management Consumer  Finance Pension  Saving  10 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Profile and Governance Market Shares As at 31/12/2010 As at 31/12/2009 As at 31/12/2008 Total assets 18.7 % 17.9 % 17.2 % Customer deposits 17.5 % 17.5 % 19.8 % Loans to customers 18.1 % 17.7 % 16.7 % Mortgage loans 44.1 % 37.5 % 34.5 % Branch network 20.4 % 20.7 % 20.6 % Payment cards – * 25.5 % 23.5 % ATMs – * 24.2 % 23.9 % EFT POS terminals – * 18.4 % 20.5 % * data not available The complete financial performance is published in VUBs2010 Annual Report (www.vub.sk/o-banke/profil-banky/vyrocne-spravy/). VUB BanksHeadcount (without the branch in the Czech Republic) 2010 3,465 2009 3,456 2008 3,561 2007 3,554 Employee Structure as at 31/12/2010 Management Board members 9 Managers 577 Non-managers 2,888 Subsidiaries with Majority Stake of VB, a.s.   Consumer Finance Holding, a. s. Stake of VB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Provision of non-banking loans   VB Asset Management, sprv. spol., a.s. Stake of VB, a.s., 100 % Core business: Collective investment, portfolio administration and management   VB Factoring, a.s. Stake of VB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Factoring and forfaiting transactions   VB Leasing, a.s. Stake of VB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Financial and operational leasing   VB Leasingov, a. s. in liquidation Core business: Leasing business The firm was in liquidation and was not in operation Presence of Intesa Sanpaolo in the Region Financial Indicators The year 2010 was ayear of agradual economic recovery from adeep recession of the previous year. The  economy grew in real terms by four percent, which represented asignificant  improvement after its drop by nearly five percent in 2009. Economic recove- ry most significantly translated into better financial indicators of the corpo- rate sector that was gradually improving its profitability reaching the pre- crisis levels. Yet, the recovery was still not sufficiently robust to bring about  aconsiderable improvement in the labour market. The number of unem- ployed persons registered with the labour offices at year-end of 2010 stood  at 380 thousand, which was identical with the level at the end of 2009.  Nevertheless, positive fact was that unemployment rate was not deteriorating over the year and citizens  fear of losing employment gradually receded. This lead to agradual recovery of demand for financial pro- ducts, including mortgages representing one of the carrying elements of VUB Banksproduct portfolio. On the background of agradual recovery of the Slovak economy, VUB Bank had asuccessful year. We  managed to use our sound financial condition to improve our share in the total loan volume, be it in loans  to businesses or citizens. We achieved the planned performance in terms of profitability indicators. Also  last year, we managed to improve our efficiency indicators. Looking forward, the year 2011 will be about  how we manage to follow up on adecent beginning of anew era in approach and thinking after the times  of economic instability. We will pay attention to these basic priorities – we must be faster and simpler, we  must thoroughly know our clients and be more innovative. In the year of gradual  economic recovery we  achieved profit and  improved efficiency.  12 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Profile and Governance Awards Banka roka (Bank of the Year) The economic weekly Trend honoured VUB Bank with aprestigious award Banka roka (Bank of the Year).  VUB received this award for the second consecutive time. The Trend evaluation model traditionally com- pares the ability of banks to grow their market shares in deposits and also  loans, their profitability and operating efficiency. In 2010, the evaluation was  extended by anew parameter focused on monitoring of risk costs. Euromoney Awards for Excellence – Best Bank in Slovakia According to the prestigious financial magazine, VUB was the best bank in  Slovakia in 2010. Euromoney grants awards recognizing banking excellence  in global categories in 110 countries worldwide. The jury evaluates not only  financial indicators of afinancial institution, but also the service level, mod- ernization or customer approach. VUB was honoured with the award for the second consecutive time. Zlat minca (Golden Coin)  Also in 2010, VUB became the most successful banking house in the Zlat minca (Golden Coin) competi- tion. Within the competition, products of financial institutions are assessed by experts from the circles of  financial journalists, representatives of broker companies, universities, research companies, professional  associations. VUB Bank won in the categories of debit cards, housing loans, business loans and car loans.  The Bank was awarded silver coins in the categories of bank accounts, electronic banking, consumer  loans, business accounts and term deposits. The collection of coins is supplemented by one bronze coin  in the credit cards category. Awarded were also products of VUB Bankssubsidiaries – 2 gold, one silver  and 2 bronze coins. Via Bona Slovakia In the 10th annual Via Bona competition announced by the Pontis Foundation, VUB won the main award  for large corporations. The award presented was for acomprehensive approach to corporate responsi- bility. The Bank was also one of the nominees in the category Award for Long-term Positive Impact on  Society and Community with the project Restoration of Calvary in Bansk tiavnica. VUB was honoured  with the Via Bona award already for the fourth consecutive time, thereof twice with the main award. VUB Bank received  important awards  including the Trend Bank  of the Year andBest  Bank in Slovakia.   VB Poisovac maklr, s. r. o. Stake of VB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Insurance mediation   Recovery, a. s. Stake of VB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Administration, collection and purchase of receivables   VB Generali, dchodkov sprvcovsk spolonos, a. s. Stake of VB, a. s., 50 % Core business: Management of old-age pension saving funds Business Network The VUB business network servicing more than 1.26 mil. clients, is the second largest in Slovakia. VUBsma- nagement is based in Bratislava. 2010 2009 2008 Retail branches 206 210 215 Mortgage centres 11 11 11 Corporate branches 32 32 32 Number of ATMs 554 558 541 Membership in Organizations In 2010, VUB Bank held membership in 25 associations and professional associations. The most important  professional association is the Slovak Banking Association, which is akey association in the Slovak finan- cial sector and the only organization representing the interests of banks operating in the Slovak Republic.  Other significant organizations, in which VUB Bank was amember, include the Italian, U.S. and German  Chambers of Commerce, the Association of Securities Dealers and the Slovak Chamber of Commerce and  Industry. We are amember of the Business Leaders Forum association joining leaders in enforcement of  corporate responsibility principles in Slovakia.  14 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Profile and Governance Product and Alternative Channel Development Small Business Segment Management Customer Relationship Management Retail Branch Management Payment Cards Human Resources Personnel Relationship Management Training and Development Compensation and Benets Personnel Administration Trade Finance Private Banking Project & Real Estate Finance Corporate Business Development & Support Leasing Corporate Banking Retail Banking VB CR Prague Branch Corporate Customers Small & Medium Enterprises Business Strategy Supervisory Board Management Board CEO Deputy CEO for Business Recovery, a.s. Slovak Banking Credit Bureau, spol. s r. o. VB AM, sprv. spol., a.s. VB Leasing, a.s. (incl. subsidiary VB Poisovac maklr, s.r.o.) CFH, a.s. VB Leasingov, a.s. VB Generali DSS., a.s. VB Factoring, a.s. Business units Support Units Staff U. Institutional Sales Customer Care Sales Staff U. Custody and Sales Support Corporate Governance Units Assets & Liabilities Management and Financial Institutions Relations Corporate Strategy & Econ. Research Corporate & Mark. Communication Staff U. Depository Corporate Social Responsibility Trading Change Management Ofce Organization and Governance Internal Audit & Control IT IT Support Ofce Delivery Centre IT Development IT Operations Facility Administration Operational Services Banking Operations Corporate Middle Ofce Cash Flow Management Security Archival Services Procurement Internal Banking Accounting Internal Services Fin. Reporting & Account. Governance Tax Strategy & Management Administrative and Financial Governance Planning & Controlling Global Reconciliation Finance, Planning & Controlling Risk Management Supervisory Board Management Board CEO Deputy CEO for Support Support units Control units Business Continuity Management Legal Services General Secretariat Business Support Units Compliance Corporate and Retail Underwriting Enterprise Risk Program Management Market Risk Operational Risk & Capital Management Policy & Methodology Recovery Asset Quality Management  16 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Profile and Governance The Management Board mainly:    exercises the executive management of VB, a.s.,    exercises the rights of the employer,    convenes General Meetings,    implements decisions made by the General Meeting and the Supervisory Board,    ensures the keeping of accounting and other records, commercial books and other documentation of  VB, a.s., as prescribed,    after prior approval by and upon a proposal by the Supervisory Board, submits proposals to the  General Meeting,    holds responsibility for generating, executing, monitoring and reviewing business plans of the Bank. As at 31/12/2010 the Management Board had nine members: Name Position, Area of Responsibility Ignacio Jaquotot Chairman of Management Board and Chief Executive Officer Tomislav Lazari Deputy Chief Executive Officer for Business Elena Kohtikov Deputy Chief Executive Officer for Support Domenico Cristarella Finance, planning, controlling Daniele Fanin VB Prague branch Jozef Kausich Corporate banking Silvia Pchovsk Human resources Alexander Resch Risk management Adrin evk Retail banking The curricula vitae published in the 2010 Annual Report (http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/profil-banky/vyrocne- spravy/) and on page in the About Us/BanksProfile section contain information on professional qualification  of Supervisory Board members and Management Board members in the area of finance and banking, as well  as information on their practical experience serving as assurance for an efficient management of the com- pany in line with the Banksstrategy in financial, environmental and social spheres. All Management Board  members are evaluated on the basis of key performance indicators (KPIs), for which they bear responsibility.  All managers in the respective positions are evaluated depending on the fulfilment of these KPIs also with  respect to financial, social and environmental performance. Internal Audit and Control The mission of the Internal Audit and Control Department is to provide independent, objective assurance  and consulting services designed to add value and improve VUBsand its affiliates operations. It helps  VUB Group accomplish its objectives by bringing asystematic, disciplined approach to evaluation and  improvement of the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. Independence  of the Internal Audit and Control Department is expressed in the organizational structure by its direct  reporting to the Supervisory Board, which established also an Audit Committee for the needs of amore  detailed communication concerning the Banksinternal control system. Committees In VUB Bank, the following bank-wide top committees are charged with the task of coordinating, escalat- ing and adopting decisions in the following bank-wide procedures and initiatives:   Assets and Liabilities Committee,   IT – Business / Risk / IT Architecture Committee,   Corporate Credit Committee,   Credit Risk Committee,   Operational Risk Committee,   New Product Committee,   Audit Committee,   VUB Crisis Management Committee. Governance Similarly to its parent company Intesa Sanpaolo, also VUB Bank applies adual administration and con- trol model, within which the control activities and strategic management are separated from the manage- ment of business activities performed by the BanksManagement Board. Ownership and management  are thus clearly defined and the Supervisory Board functions as afilter between the shareholders and the  Management Board. The Banksmanagement disposes of afull execution power, whereas the Supervisory  Board performs the control function. This model provides for transparency and reduces the risk of conflict  of interest. Bank Bodies General Meeting General Meetings are the Bankstop decision-making body representing all shareholders and their deci- sions approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations and BanksArticles of Association are binding for  all shareholders. The General Meeting consists of all attending shareholders. Members of the Supervisory  and Management Boards regularly attend General Meetings facilitating their smooth course and simul- taneously answering the questions and inquiries presented by shareholders. The Management Board is  obliged to convene aregular General Meeting within the period of three months from the compilation of  regular financial statements and its verification by an auditor. Should the interests of VB, a.s. require so  and in cases stipulated by legal regulations an extraordinary General Meeting may be convened. Supervisory Board Supervisory Board is the top control body of the Bank. It supervises the Management Board and perfor- mance of the Banksbusiness activities. Save for members of Supervisory Board elected by the employees  of VB, a.s., amember of the Supervisory Board may not be an employee of VB, a. s. The Supervisory Board inspects and submits conclusions and/or recommendations to the General Meeting  regarding the following:   fulfilment of tasks assigned to the Management Board by the General Meeting;   compliance of VB, a.s.sactivities with the Articles of Association, and with legal regulations; and    business and financial activities of VB, a.s., accounting, documentation, accounts, condition of property,  payables and receivables of VB, a.s. The number of Supervisory Board members is minimum three, out of which one is the Chairman and at  least one is aVice Chairman. Members of the Supervisory Board are elected and removed by adecision of  the General Meeting. The term of office of the Supervisory Board members is three years. In 2010, the VUB  General Meeting repeatedly elected Gyrgy Surnyi to the position of Supervisory Board Chairman and mem- ber, and Adriano Arietti to the position of aSupervisory Board member. Simultaneously, elected were also  three new members - Fabrizio Centrone, Antonio Furesi and Massimo Malagoli – whereas Fabrizio Centrone  was elected to the position Supervisory Board Vice Chairman. The term of the Supervisory Board member  Paolo Grandi expired in 2010 and Massimo Pierdicchi and Paolo Sarcinelli resigned on their positions. Supervisory Board as at 31/12/2010:   Gyrgy Surnyi – Chairman of Supervisory Board   Fabrizio Centrone – Vice Chairman of Supervisory Board   Adriano Arietti   Antonio Furesi    Massimo Malagoli   Janka Finkov   Jn Gallo   Juraj Jurenka Management Board  Management Board is the statutory body governing the Banksexecutive management. It is authorized to  act on behalf of the Bank in all matters and to represent VB, a.s. in relations with third parties, in front  of courts or other authorities.  18 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Our Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Approach Corporate Responsibility Governance Management board CEO CSR unit All Bank divisions CSR working group Corporate Responsibility Staff Unit The unit is included in the Banksorganizational structure as an independent department reporting direct- ly to the Chief Executive Officer. It is managed by the corporate responsibility manager, who is simultane- ously amember of the international coordination group for corporate responsibility of the parent company  Intesa Sanpaolo. The departmentstask is to provide support, guidance and where necessary also coor- dinate the corporate responsibility activities through designated representatives from each bank division. Corporate Responsibility Group Abank-wide corporate responsibility group has been continuously working in the interest of implement- ing corporate responsibility principles into all aspects of the Banksactivities. Representatives for each  bank division were nominated to this group by the Management Board. The group is responsible for:   implementation of corporate responsibility principles into the divisionsactivities,   management and monitoring of all corporate responsibility aspects in their divisions,    supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the purposes of compiling the annual corporate respon- sibility report,   quarterly supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the parent company. Managerial decisions in the area of corporate responsibility are in the competence of the Chief Executive  Officer, whereas all activities are regularly reported to the BanksManagement Board on aquarterly basis.  Codes and policies concerning corporate responsibility are always approved by the Management Board,  which is responsible for performance in the financial, social and environmental areas. Corporate Responsibility Approach Dialogue with Stakeholders Businees Ethics and Management of  Sensitive Aspects  20 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Our Responsibility Dialogue with Stakeholders VUB Bank runs several programs aimed at dialogue and communication with our stakeholders influenced  by our business activity. We focus mainly on dialogue with our key stakeholders by means of the follow- ing channels:   customer satisfaction surveys,   solving of client inquiries,   employee surveys and polls,   discussion between employees and Banksmanagement,   communication with the community. Greatest attention is paid to the category of clients, mainly through several types of client satisfaction  surveys. The survey is built on the basis of arecognized European indicator ECSI – European Customer  Satisfaction Index. Client inquiries and complaints are examined by the Customer Care Department, which  consistently accepts and analyzes all inquiries, their justification and causes providing afeedback to other  sub-departments in form of proposals for improvement in processes, products and prevention of similar  potential wrongdoings in the future. For more details refer to the Clients chapter. Attentive listening and dialogue are important also in relation to employees. Their satisfaction is periodi- cally examined in form of employee surveys and by promoting Banksvalues and principles anchored in  the Code of Ethics. In 2010, an international survey identifying employee satisfaction was performed in  the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Group. During the whole year, we are carrying out also internal polls on various  topics. Employees have achance to pose questions directly to the Chief Executive Officer by means of an  Intranet form. For more details refer to the Employees chapter. In order to learn about the needs of communities the Corporate Responsibility Staff Unit organizes meet- ings with the representatives of communities, the third sector, education system and other entities. All forms of dialogue and communication with stakeholders we engage in are specified in individual chap- ters of this report. The stakeholder dialogue results in measures and commitments that the Bank imple- ments into its business and action plans. All these measures help us deliver the Banksmission, improve  our services and products, as well as manage our relations with the Banksstakeholders in order to achieve  an evenly balanced relation satisfying for both parties. Advocating Corporate Responsibility Principles VUB Bank engages also in advocating corporate responsibility principles and raising awareness among en- trepreneurs and the wide public alike. Since 2004, it has been amember of an informal association called  the Business Leaders Forum joining leaders in enforcement of corporate responsibility principles in Slovakia.  VUB Bank has been actively participating in the associationsactivities and is amember of working groups  for corporate philanthropy reporting (Community Investment Standard) and for climate change. Also in 2010, VUB Bank continued advocating the corporate responsibility principles in the segment of  small and medium enterprises (SME). We supported aseries of seminars on corporate responsibility for this  target group organized in cooperation with the Business Leaders Forum association. We also continued  in compiling and issuing corporate responsibility reports for our SME clients. For companies that accepted  this offer, we prepared their own corporate responsibility reports free of charge documenting their per- formance in the financial, social and environmental areas. COMMUNITY Corporate Responsibility Strategy Satised clients Our aim Satised employees Satised shareholders Satised public Subsidiary banks implement into their activities corporate responsibility values, policies and principles  identical with the ones of their parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo. The model that the parent bank applies  is based on the premise that equally as the bank itself also all employees are owners of responsibility in  their day-to-day activities. Important is acomplex approach to sustainability and addressing the needs of  Banksindividual stakeholders, whether it is company owners, employees or clients. The result is imple- mentation of unified corporate responsibility policies and principles. Corporate Responsibility Section on Intranet On the Intranet there is aspecial section for employees dedicated to corporate responsibility. It con- tains all corporate responsibility related documents adopted (Code of Ethics, Internal Code of Conduct,  policies), corporate responsibility reports, presentations and information materials. Basic corporate re- sponsibility documents of our parent bank are available to employees as well. In 2010, all employees  were distributed an internal brochure on VUBscorporate responsibility.  22 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Our Responsibility Business Ethics and Management of Sensitive Aspects We are abank that committed itself to corporate responsibility and our clients, shareholders, employees  and suppliers expect us to be ethical in conducting our business. This is the very reason why VUB decided  to implement ethics into its business taking specific steps and within various important measures it intro- duced also aCode of Ethics. It is aset of principles, which have astrategic meaning for us and regulate the  behaviour of our employees. Each employee, without any exception, is required to get familiarized with it,  while its observance is continuously monitored and its breach penalized. This Code of Ethics is followed  up by acorporate anti-corruption program with specific system and organizational measures, including  an internal audit control system. Considering the great responsibility that we as abank bear towards our shareholders and naturally to- wards our clients, we must comply with avariety of legal regulations. Their observance is supervised by  regulators. But we take it even further. We follow also such rules that are not imposed on us by any law  or required by any authority, but which we consider commonplace as they give our business an ethical  dimension. Overview of 2010 Proceedings VUB Bank was aparty to aproceeding heard by the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic in the  matter of asuspected conclusion of agreement with other two banks limiting the competition. The ad- ministrative proceeding was lawfully terminated in 2009 and VUB Bank was sanctioned with apenalty  amounting to EUR 3,810,461. Since, in the opinion of VUB Bank, the administrative proceeding was  not conducted in compliance with the law, in January 2010 the Bank brought alegal action against  the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic to the respective court appealing the decision. In its  ruling dated September 28, 2010, the Regional Court in Bratislava cancelled the appealed decision of  the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic and returned the matter to it for further action. The  Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic filed an appeal against this ruling. Ethical Codes No lying. We repeatedly state these words, which reflect the essence of all ethical codes VUB Bank ac- ceded to. The effort to bring clear and true information is areflection of one of our basic values in practice,  being the transparency.   Consumer Protection Code of Ethics   European Agreement on aVoluntary Code of Conduct on Pre-Contractual Information for Home Loans   The European Code of Conduct on Home Loans (ESIS)   Ethical Code of Advertising Practice Versions of all ethical codes are published on the Internet site http://www.vub.sk/en/about-us/values- principles/compliance/codes-ethics/. Internal and External Ethical Standards VUB Bank has continued in atargeted building of its Corporate Governance and in cooperation with its  parent company Intesa Sanpaolo has been setting up its own internal corporate responsibility rules sig- nificantly beyond the basic scope required by the Slovak legislation. In the period 2009-2010, we adopted  these internal regulations in this area:   Compliance Policy,   Internal Group Code of Conduct,   Gift Acceptance Policy,   Query Resolution Policy,    Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically Engaged Parties, Clients  Operating in Armament Industry and Risk Industries, Clients from Risk Countries and Transactions with  Risk Countries in VUB Group. Code of Ethics of Intesa Sanpaolo Group The Code of Ethics defines values honoured by the Intesa Sanpaolo Group and represents one of its  corporate culture pillars. The Code applies to all subsidiaries of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group around the  world. It represents aframework of ethical and moral values, observance of which is the basic prereq- uisite for asuccessful growth and sustainability development. It contains principles of conduct in rela- tion to all stakeholders which raise the level of standards that each individual within the company must  adhere to in order to have the trust of all parties involved. Values, which Intesa Sanpaolo proclaimed by  means of the Code of Ethics, express its corporate culture and history. As amanagement tool and apart  of awider vision of the Groupssocial and environmental responsibility, the Code of Ethics attributes  the highest importance to all stakeholder relations. Electronic version of the document is published on   http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/hodnoty-principy/. Internal Group Code of Conduct The Code sets the basic principles of conduct by the companysrepresentatives, employ- ees and external agents, who are obliged to execute their functions responsibly, honestly,  fairly and professionally, while promoting the Bank and Groupsinterests as well as taking  into consideration the interests of clients and shareholders. Therefore, execution of de- cision-making authorities and each business activity must reflect all values and principles  contained in the Code. The parent company and all Groupscompanies promote - by  means of suitable internal control system and adequate trainings and information systems – respecting of  applicable laws and regulations as well as compliance with general principles of conduct specified in the  Code on all executive and operational levels and in every geographical context, where Intesa Sanpaolo  performs its activities with the aim of protecting property, integrity and reputation of each company and  the whole group. Environmental Policy Environmental Policy represents awritten commitment to environmental protection, which  sets amission and objectives in the area of environmental management. The policy defines  VUB Groupsapproach to prevention, management and where possible also reduction of  direct and indirect environmental impacts it generates as aresult of its business activity. As  aresponsible company, VUB committed to manage the impacts of its business activity and  reduce the impacts of its activities on the environment in cooperation with its stakehold- ers. We do not belong among significant direct polluters of the environment, but we preferentially strive to  minimize potential negative impact on the environment to the lowest level possible. Arms Policy In accordance with values and principles of the Code of Ethics, this policy of Intesa  Sanpaolo Group defines aban on financing and enabling transactions related to import  and export of arms and armament systems (in Italy subject of Act No. 185/90). Members  of the Group can assist clients in transactions concerning the existing intergovernmental  agreements or other transactions for national armies, police and other state armed forces  which could be considered compatible with the spirit of an unarmed bank – abank non- supportive of arms, on the basis of authorization by the designated Intesa Sanpaolo department. UN Global Compact VUB is asignatory of Global Compact, astrategic initiative of the United Nations aimed at corporate re- sponsibility. Worldwide, it was joined by over 5,000 companies from more than 100 countries. VUB com- mitted to support the ten basic principles concerning human rights, labour conditions, environment and  anti-corruption with its activities. These principles fully correspond with VUBsvalues.  EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT CLIENTS  24 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Our Responsibility Equator Principles  Intesa Sanpaolo committed to observe the so-called Equator Principles. It consists of aset  of international rules for project financing designed by agroup of international banks  based on the policies of the International Finance Corporation. The principles are based  on environmental and social standards of the World Bank and applied in project financ- ing worth more than EUR 10 million. The principles assist financial institutions in select- ing projects with the aim of reducing social and environmental risks in project financing.  They oblige the financing applicants to prepare acompulsory report on environmental impacts. These  principles are observed also by VUB. Gift Acceptance Policy This internal policy deriving from the Code of Ethics of VUB Bank governs principles and limitations to  behaviour of Banksrepresentatives and employees in accepting unsolicited gifts. It also sets the limits and  rules of behaviour in gift acceptance. The policy has been valid since 2009 and in 2010 it underwent small  changes specifying the individual rules in more detail. Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically Engaged Parties, Clients Operating  in Armament Industry and Risk Industries The policy was approved by the BanksManagement Board in late 2010. It stipulates mainly:    management of relations with political parties and politically engaged parties in the interest of preserv- ing impartiality and independence Aiming to prevent potential reputation risk related to political parties and politically engaged parties, VUB  Group is obliged to act impartially and independently. This means that companies, which are apart of  VUB Group will approach the starting of business relations with political parties and politically engaged  parties with utmost prudence.    management of relations with clients operating in the armament industry In connection with preservation of values and principles outlined in the Code of Ethics, the main goal of  this policy is to prevent that VUB and its subsidiaries participate in the financing of activities and trans- actions concerning manufacturing of arms equipment as well as trading of this equipment for military  purposes.    management of relations with clients operating in risky business fields (industry risk) Within VUB Group, clients and potential clients operating in the below industries / business fields are  considered as risky: –  exchange offices;  –  pawnbrokersshops;  –  bars, night clubs, casinos;  –  gambling rooms with more than 3 gambling machines;  –  security agencies;  –  sex shops and pornography distributors;  –  debt collecting agency;  –  broker companies;  –  betting offices.    management of relations with clients and transactions from/to risk countries (country risk) Pursuant to the requirements of the binding regulation and Intesa Sanpaolo regulations, clients and po- tential clients from selected countries are considered risky, as well as all types of transactions and pay- ments from and to these countries. Confidential Data Processing We respect client privacy and protect it. Pursuant to the law, we handle our clients data with utmost care  and principally with their awareness and consent. On page http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/hodnoty-principy/ CLIENTS compliance/spracovanie-dovernych-udajov/ we post and continuously update the list of third parties that  were provided data of our clients:    List of VUBsmediators in the area of personal data processing and parties provided personal data con- stituting abank secret,    List of third parties and recipients provided and made available personal data of clients and data con- stituting abank secret. Investor Protection (MiFID) VUB keeps providing the highest possible level of protection not only to its retail clients, but also to clients  included in the higher category of professional clients. It implements several measures aimed at inves- tor protection and solving of investors complaints. This legal regulation is embedded in the directive on  financial markets, the so-called MiFID (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive), implemented in the  Securities Act. Our clients have online access to documents that will help them to better understand the  financial instruments and provision of investment services. Client Protection in Payment Services Provision VUB Bank continues in application of effective measures aimed at abetter awareness of clients in provision  of payment services in connection with implementation of the new PSD (Payment Services Directive)  directive in Slovakia by means of the Payment Services Act. Simultaneously, the Bank keeps enhancing  the knowledge of its employees through internal training activities as to guarantee the highest possible  comfort in practical use of the payment services by its clients. Client Protection in Financial Mediation In the course of 2010, VUB Bank brought its activity into compliance with the require- ments of the Act No. 186/2009 Coll. on Financial Mediation and Financial Advisory and  on the Amendment and Supplementation of Certain Acts as amended, as to provide  clients with the protection required by law. In the interest of securing ahigher protec- tion of client rights, in financial mediation VUB Bank is trying to approach each client as  anon-professional client. The basic information on financial mediation, products subject  to it and on affiliated and subordinated financial agents, with whom VUB Bank cooperates, is published  on our Internet pages. Client Protection in Consumer Lending During the first half-year of 2010, VUB Bank adjusted the provision of consumer loans to new require- ments ensuing from the Act No. 129/2010 Coll. on Consumer Loans and Other Loans for Consumers and  on the Amendment and Supplementation of Certain Acts as amended. Conflict of Interest Policy VUB Bank commits to avoid aconflict between private interests of its employees and the interests of  the Bank. The employees are liable to take all required measures in order to avoid aconflict of interest.  In case aconflict of interest occurs, employees shall solve such aconflict to the benefit of the Bank. The  employees may never misuse their connection with the Bank to promote their personal interests or harm  the Banksreputation by their actions nor can they misuse their position or confidential information to  prefer ajob applicant or aperson aiming to start abusiness relation with the Bank. The Bank evaluates  the measures and procedures implemented to prevent, minimize and solve apotential conflict of interest  on aregular basis. VUB introduced measures for minimization of occurrence of an external conflict of  interests in economic activities of employees and in transactions between the Bank and an employee or  aperson related to an employee. The employees should consult their working activities outside their main  employment or involvement in business activities with their superior. The Bank has no objections against  employees getting involved in activities outside their work as volunteers or otherwise provided that the  CLIENTS  26 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Our Responsibility activity does not obstruct performance of their regular work for the Bank or is not in conflict with internal  rules of the Bank and the Group. VUB also applies and adheres to special measures designed to prevent conflicts of interests in the area of  financial analyses. Their main aim is to prevent conflicts of interests or cope with inevitable conflicts of  interests as to prevent the risk of harming the clients interests. These measures are monitored and their  efficiency is regularly evaluated. In relation with occurrence of apotential conflict of interest, VUB Bank  declares that it will notify clients of the nature and source of the conflict prior to provision of an investment  service or prior to performing an activity and in case of their provision or execution it will always prefer  the clients interests to its own ones. In case of aconflict of interests between the clients themselves it will  ensure an equal and fair treatment of all clients. Anti-money Laundering and Anti-terrorism In the anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing, we are progressing in line with the Slovak and  also the European legislation ensuring protection of our clients as well as of the Bank itself. In the bank- ing sector, we are astakeholder of the Financial Investigation Unit (FIU), which operatively evaluates the  clients behaviour signals we report and is under apermanent supervision of the regulatory authority of  the National Bank of Slovakia. Our activity in the area of Banksprotection against money laundering or terrorist financing is intensifying  and we dedicate this area greater attention. We do not want to support these negative phenomena not  even indirectly by enabling financial flows by means of our products, services or in any connection with  the Bank. Therefore, we follow strictly set up internal rules to prevent money-laundering and terrorist  financing in form of detection of unusual business transactions. For this purpose, the Bank developed and  implemented its own program of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing activities deriving  from:    Slovak legislation,    European legislation,    international FATF recommendations, recommendations of The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  and Wolfsberg Principles, US Patriot Act,    group rules of Intesa Sanpaolo against risky entities and countries. We apply Customer Due Diligence pursuant to the valid legislation and take into consideration the risk  profile of individual clients. Within its organizational structure, the Bank defined aspecialized unit charged with implementation, ex- ecution and coordination of activities related to protection of the Bank against its misuse for the purposes  of money laundering or terrorist financing. The unit reports directly to the Deputy CEO and is respon- sible also for detection of unusual business transactions and cooperation with the respective regulatory  authorities. It also ensures monitoring of all financial transactions required by law and the international  legislation. The unitsactivities include also evaluation of international payment transactions in real time  constituting first-level prevention of connection between the bank sector and asanctioned or risky person  and/or entity. Awareness The Bank created aspecialized unit dedicated to disclosure of frauds and corruption, which is apart of the  Risk Management Division. It closely cooperates primarily with the Internal Audit and Control Department  and the Compliance Department. All bank employees are informed of internal ethical standards and the  zero tolerance principle while having access to the basic information on the steps that are necessary to  take in case of any corruption or fraud suspicion. Since the Bank has an eminent interest in disclosing cor- ruption and frauds, it implemented the so-called Whistle Blower Policy enabling each bank employee to  communicate his/her suspicion preserving his/her anonymity. The Bank does not conceal the detected corruption and fraud cases from its employees, but on the con- trary it decided to inform and educate its managers in order to constantly improve their work and elimi- nate shortcomings and errors in this area in the future. Due to this reason, the managers are informed of  some cases that occurred in the past. Within initial trainings, all new hires in the retail network are given aspecial presentation on fraud and  corruption risks including typical signs of arisky behaviour. The main objective of this training activity is to  increase prevention and/or minimize occurrence of these cases. Discrimination Ban On all levels and in relation to all its stakeholders, VUB Bank observes the non-discrimi- nation principles, which are firmly anchored in our Code of Ethics and system of values.  One of VUBsvalues is that We do not discriminate – We commit that we shall exclude  from our actions any discrimination and shall respect differences based on gender, age,  race, faith, political opinion, participation in unions, language skills or impairment. For  more information on its application refer to the Employees chapter. Corruption and Fraudulent Actions Clearly Defined Approach and Principles VUB Bank has been fulfilling and committed to fulfil high moral and ethical standards built on clearly de- clared principles. All bank employees have been informed of these principles by means of various forms  (distributed brochures, internal campaign, posting on Intranet). The principles are as follows:    The Bank requires all its employees to act honestly, with integrity and protect sources and information  in their work environment or for which they bear responsibility.    The Bank committed to ensure that fraud and corruption risk would be reduced to the lowest level pos- sible.    These principles relate to all unusual cases involving employees as well as external consultants, suppliers,  contractual stakeholders and/or any third party in abusiness relation with this organization.    All employees must take decisions individually in line with the Banksinterests. They must not act with  the aim of gaining financial or other material advantage for themselves, their family or close ones. Zero Tolerance VUB Bank clearly proclaims its absolute zero tolerance principle regarding corruption and frauds. All bank  employees are informed about the following principles:    The Bank shall not accept any form of fraudulent or corrupt acting, therefore each case will be thor- oughly examined and relevant measures drawn from it.    Each participation in afraud or fraud attempt shall lead to dismissal and potential criminal charges.    Necessary investigation shall be performed irrespective of the relation of the given person to this orga- nization, his/her work position or employment duration. Measures for Corruption and Fraud Reduction Internal Control System The Bank incorporated into its processes various control mechanisms in order to reduce the corruption  and fraud risk to the minimum level possible. The Bank clearly sets the necessity of acontrol mechanism  for each bank process, where corruption and fraud risk is imminent (e.g. verification of decisions, 4-eyes  control, access rights management etc.). The internal control system consists of three levels: statutory,  executive and control. EMPLOYEES  28 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Stakeholders Internal Audit The Bank established an internal audit and control unit, which is an independent supervising body (unit di- rectly reporting to the BanksSupervisory Board and not to the Management Board). One of its main roles  is to verify the functionality of internal control system, compliance with external and internal legislation  including the BanksCode of Ethics, verification of internal control failures and internal fraud suspicions. In 2010, the Internal Audit and Control unit examined the internal control system in all corporate branches,  in approximately half of the retail branches and it also carried out several specialized audits related to  internal fraud and corruption risk. Verified were also all key processes in the Bank selected based on an  annually prepared risk map. On the grounds of the risks identified within individual audits, the Bank im- mediately adopted corrective measures and set up aregular monitoring of such areas and if necessary  notified the respective state bodies. Our Stakeholders CLIENTS Individual clients Corporate clients Public and Non-profit sector Financial markets area Clients  30 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Our Stakeholders Client Segmentation We continuously monitor and every three months evaluate changes in the structure of our clients. This  evaluation allows us to regularly revise and improve the offer of our services. Our Individual Clients Classification by Age Average age of aVUB client is 43.3 years. Classification by Relationship Duration Average duration of aclientsrelationship with the Bank is 9.57 years. Our Corporate Clients Number of Corporate Clients age: 0 – 25: 196,614 age: 26 – 40: 354,999 age: > 61: 204,463 age: 41 – 60: 397,921 less than 1 year: 50,402 7 – 10 years: 183,352  1 – 3 years: 181,369 4 – 6 years: 187,862 over 10 years: 551,012 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Total Large corporates Non-prot organizations Munici- palities SME businesses Clients are one of our most important stakeholders and therefore our priority and in the centre of our  interest. We strive to offer them products and services they request in order to achieve their utmost sa- tisfaction. It does not matter if the client is an individual or alarge company, we treat every client equally  responsibly and professionally. Aprerequisite for permanent success is the ability to correctly identify  clients needs. Therefore, we continued in the Listening 100 % project aimed at enhancing the quality of  Banksservices, improvement of its processes, innovation of its products and distribution channels. Our Clients Individual (Private) Clients The focus of our interest lies in retail banking, where we provide services to more than 1.2 million clients:    citizens – individuals,    small businesses and sole traders,    self-employed,    non-governmental organizations. In many banking areas, we hold asignificant market position in this segment (mortgages, credit cards,  direct banking), whereas we are often the first ones to bring new product solutions to the market. Corporate (Business) Clients Corporate clients represent asignificant segment. Anetwork of 32 corporate branches around Slovakia  ensures the clients professional and personal approach, whether they are small, medium or large compa- nies, towns and municipalities, farmers or administrators of flats and apartment buildings. We leverage  our local expertise connected with an international know-how, which enable us to provide avariety of  attractive banking products and services starting with classical and ending with specialized and tailored  products and services. Moreover, we offer also products aimed at contributing to sustainability of the  environment. Municipalities VUB Bank belongs to the most significant players in the segment of self-administrations, which was con- firmed also by the fact that in 2010 we fortified our position in the financing of investment plans and ac- count maintenance and deposits of self-administrations. We participated to agreat extent in co-financing  of projects supported from EU funds aimed at renewal and reconstruction of towns, municipalities and  regions. Financial and Capital Markets We render services to awide spectrum of clients, which are financial institutions and the business clientele  including legal and natural entities. We support and have aclose cooperation with the clients of retail and  private banking and communicate with many partners in the global interbank market on adaily basis. At the end of 2010, VUB Bank counted 1,257,033 clients. 2010 2009 2008 individual clients 1,153,997 1,146,865 1,142,080 corporate clients 103,036 101,371 98,522 TOTAL 1,257,033 1,248,236 1,240,602 The year 2010 saw aslight increase (0.62 %) in the number of individual clients. The number of corporate  clients grew by 1.65 % compared to 2009. Average duration of abusiness relationship with VUB Bank is  9.57 years.  32 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Our Stakeholders  Number of Barrier-free Branches Direct Banking In 2010, VUB Bank continued to improve the quality of our non-stop banking services including the  services Kontakt, Internet Banking, Internet Banking Plus, Mobile Banking and Business Banking. As at  31/12/2010, the Bank counted more than 720,000 clients with activated electronic banking services.  Compared to 2009, we recorded an increase in the number of clients with Nonstop Banking services. In  payments, the number of transactions performed through electronic channels went up by 39 %. Number of Clients with Activated Electronic Banking Services Security and Personal Data Protection Protection of confidential data and privacy of our clients is commonplace for us. All information and docu- ments about our clients, which are not publicly accessible, mainly the information on clients transactions  with the Bank and on account balances, are subject to bank secret. Branch Security All VUB Bank branches are, in compliance with the relevant regulations, equipped with asecurity camera  system and other security equipment. The basic security rule at branches is that security and protection of  our clients lives and health come always before the protection of the Banksproperty. 0 40 80 120 160 200 0 40 80 120 160 200 2007 2008 2009 2010 440,000 500,000 560,000 620,000 680,000 740,000 440,000 500,000 560,000 620,000 680,000 740,000 2008 2009 2010 Closer to Clients As at 31/12/2010 VUB Banksclients had at their disposal:    206 retail branches,    11 mortgage centres,    32 corporate branches. In 2010, 3 new retail branches were opened and 7 retail branches cancelled. All branches are available to  clients 5 days aweek. Six retail branches operate 6 days aweek and 17 retail branches and 1 mortgage  centre are open even 7 days aweek. Corporate branches of VUB Bank are located in all big towns around  Slovakia in order to be as close to our clients as possible. Available is also the Contact Centre providing services to all clients, whether in Slovakia or abroad, for  Slovak Republic citizens and also foreigners. It operates non-stop 24 hours aday, 7 days aweek. The op- erators ensure service and consultancy by telephone and also e-mail.  ATM Network and Its Safety As at 31/12/2010, VUB Bank operated 554 installed ATMs. They are all equipped with an anti-skimming  device. Over the year, we installed 26 automatic machine tellers in new locations, more interesting for our  clients. Number of ATMs Availability to Physically Disadvantaged Citizens We strive to make our branches easily available to people with physical disabilities. All newly opened sales  points dispose of abarrier-free access and when reconstructing older sales points we always make sure  they are barrier-free. Fifty percent of ATMs have hardware arrangements for communication with sight- impaired individuals. 0 60 120 180 240 300 360 420 480 540 600 0 60 120 180 240 300 360 420 480 540 600 2008 2009 2010 COMMUNITY  34 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Our Stakeholders Query Types 2010 2009 Complaints 206 386  Claims 14,103 14,035 Requests 2,042 4,650 Query Resolution Query 2010 2009 No. % No. % Accepted (justified) 9,248 56.6 13,522 70.9 Rejected 6,645 40.6 5,296 27.8 Unclassified 458 2.8 253 1.3 Total   16,351 100.0 19,071 100.0 The most frequent client queries in 2010 concerned transactions through payment terminals and ATMs,  deposit products and electronic banking. In 2010, we performed the following improvements and new initiatives:    unification of all inbound channels,    improvement of data monitoring and mapping,    number of justified claims and complaints related to aspecific sales point or employee enters the branch  quality evaluation and directly influences remuneration,    continuous staff trainings,    in case of an error on our side, we provide for its rectification and take measures to avoid its recurrence. In resolving queries, we apply the following principles:    transparency and ethics have the same value as technically and administratively flawless servicing,    we respect each client and make effort to understand his/her view - individual and empathic approach,    each query is solved professionally,    we are consistent in examining the reasons of queries and we try to solve them in the shortest time possible,    sensitive client data are handled confidentially within the scope of client consents and in compliance  with legal regulations,    clients are always provided true, correct and verified information and clarifications,    we make effort to give advice and find asatisfactory solution for the client. The result of query resolution is communicated to clients in amanner identical to the one they used when  submitting their queries. Maximum period for claim/complaint resolution is stipulated by law and we  observe it at all times. From the perspective of time, the average time of query resolution was shortened  compared to 2009. Average Query Resolution Time (number of days) 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 2008 2009 2010 Direct Banking Security In the area of improvement of electronic banking security, in 2010 we implemented several measures:    use of SSL certificates with extended verification of the applicant,    stricter rules for increasing the transaction limit,    reduced limit for confirmation of transaction by Grid Card to EUR 1,000,    bank systems were modified in order to enable the use of stronger encryption algorithms for com- munication with the Bank. Payment Card Security VUB Bank committed to increase the security of payment card use by transferring to achip technology  in the whole portfolio of its payment cards. We delivered on this commitment. All new cards are issued  as chip cards and the existing clients are issued chip cards automatically after expiration of their original  cards. Higher security was reached also by introducing acompulsory insertion of aPIN code. Another form of securing payment cards is insurance in the event of misuse, of alost or stolen card. This  insurance is available to holders of payment cards for legal entities. It is provided automatically and witho- ut any fees. The insurance covers unauthorized transactions made during 24 hours prior to reporting the  blockage of the lost or stolen card. Active Listening and Dialogue with Customers Customer Care and Query Resolution The Customer Care Department was established in 2008. Its priority rests in constant improvement of  services, listening to clients and finding the ways within mutual communication. In performing its mission,  the Department takes for basis feedbacks from clients addressed to the Bank. The feedbacks involve vari- ous comments, opinions, recognitions, and inquiries, which are further divided in complaints, claims and  requests. Despite negative feedback, which the Bank sometimes obtains, we appreciate clients honest  and constructive efforts to highlight our positive and negative points. The opinions of our clients allow  us to identify the ways for improvement. For this reason, we offer several possibilities for the clients to  contact us and forward their queries to the Bank:    electronically (using the Internet form) through the Kontakt tab on www.vub.sk,    by afreely formulated e-mail sent to the Contact Centre, Customer Care Department or any Bankselec- tronic address (its forwarding to the correct place is internally ensured),    telephonically to the Kontakt Service,    in writing to the Customer Care Department,    in person - at any of the Bankssales points. Major cases are sent for assessment also to the independent department Internal Control and Internal Audit. By doing so, the objectivity of decisions is increased and the cases are examined more deeply by qualified employees. The fact that our clients still prefer personal contact is shown also by the figures below: Communication Channels Used by Clients to Send Queries to the Bank Number of Queries % branch network 7,956 48.7 telephonically – Kontakt Service 6,541 40.0 Head Office – Customer Care Department 1,127 6.9 electronically – Internet form, mail 727 4.4 2010 2009 Number of Queries 16,351 19,071  36 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Our Stakeholders 3.  survey of retail clients satisfaction with Internet Banking service – the survey included ran- domly selected clients and all answers from completed questionnaires were statistically processed. The  aim was to identify the level of satisfaction with the Internet Banking service and based on the answers  identify problems to subsequently provide for improvements. For each fully completed questionnaire,  VUB Bank donated 1 euro to the Plamienok (Flicker) children hospice. Quality Management and Integration and Branch Evaluation We believe that clients satisfaction goes hand in hand with quality of services which are delivered to our  customers. The Sub-department Quality Management and Integration was established for these pur- poses. This unit fully covers all clientssatisfaction surveys. At the same time, the Sub-department is  responsible for quality management at branches and conducts quality assessments. Top quality of the  rendered services is acknowledged by Certificates of Quality. The certificate awards are reviewed quar- terly. Objective of this process is to identify strong and weak points of aspecific branch, define method for  quality enhancement and thereby increase number of satisfied clients. In contrast to quantitative apprais- als, the Certificates of Quality imply quality assessment of the rendered services and sale. The Listening 100% supplements the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) employee program aimed at capturing valu- able ideas and implementing them into practice as efficiently as possible. For more details refer to the  Employees chapter. Product Development and Innovation Quality Product Offer VUB Bank dedicates attention to acontinuous development of products and services and improvement  of the existing ones. In 2010, we confirmed our achievements from the past four years and became again  the most successful banking institution (four gold, five silver coins and one bronze coin) in the financial  products competition entitled the 2010 Golden Coin (Zlat minca). Awarded were also products of our  subsidiaries VUB Leasing, VUB Asset Management and Consumer Finance Holding. For more details refer  to the Profile and Governance chapter. Individual Clients In 2010, in retail banking VUB Bank brought its clients the following innovated and new products: Saving and Investments    flexi deposit extra allowing to flexibly dispose of account funds during the depositsfixed period,    possibility to open adeposit product through Internet Banking. Current Accounts    changes in flexi account and flexi business account,    pilot of the so-called interactive sale of flexi account that will enable the client to set up his/her flexi  account according to his/her needs on aspecial touch display directly in the branch,    based on alegislative change, we introduced the so-called basic banking product. This is acurrent  account designed for individuals, whereas its composition is precisely set by the legislation. The reason  behind the introduction of this product was achieving higher transparency of bank products and ser- vices for individuals – citizens.    protection of client accounts against SEPA collection. Client Satisfaction We realize that not only figures, charts or volumes, but also the client satisfaction category is the indica- tor of and key to our success. It is rooted in quality service and our effort for continuous improvement on  the basis of communication and feedback from clients. In order to make our actions speak louder than  words, we implemented the program of our mother bank Intesa Sanpaolo Listening 100 % focused on  measurement and improvement of client satisfaction. It includes ajoint preparation of steps for constant  enhancements by employees cooperating across all levels. The information is processed under the interna- tional standard ECSI (European Customer Satisfaction Index). In 2010, we ran three different types of satisfaction surveys in cooperation with the mother bank: 1.  retail and SME client satisfaction survey – we addressed nearly 20,000 clients, spent more than  5,000 hours doing telephone interviews and posed over 1,500,000 questions. We were finding out  how our clients perceive our bank, how they are satisfied with our services, products and our appro- ach. The results of surveys serve as input for elaboration of action plans aimed at improvement of areas  where the satisfaction value does not reach desirable values. European Customer Satisfaction Index 2.  interbank satisfaction survey of retail and SME clients (Bank benchmarking, retail customers 2010)  carried out by external company on asample of 2,250 respondents. Within the survey, addressed  were clients of the largest Slovak banks. Within fierce competition, they evaluated VUB as abank, the  services and products of which they are definitely most satisfied with. Our aim is to maintain aleading  position and continue to increase the quality of products and services we provide. ECSI Index 82.00 % 82.60 % 83.20 % 83.80 % 84.40 % 85.00 % 82.00 % 82.60 % 83.20 % 83.80 % 84.40 % 85.00 % I. Q 2008 II. Q 2008 III. Q 2008 IV. Q I. Q II. Q III. Q IV. Q I. Q II. Q III. Q 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 83.50 % 83.30 % 83.90 % 83.60 % 83.60 % 83.60 % 84.20 % 83.30 % 83.30 % 82.30 % 82.80 % 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 Competitor No. 4 Competitor No. 3 Competitor No. 2 Competitor No. 1 VB 81.0 80.3 80.1 75.9 78.3  38 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Our Stakeholders Simplicity and Transparency in Communication We want our bankscooperation with clients to be always simple, comfortable and beneficial. We are con- cerned about them being able to exercise their rights and knowing the Banksobligations towards them.  As asignatory of Consumer Protection Code of Ethics we inform clients on everything in the most open  manner possible. We provide them with information on our products and services through:    employees,    sales points,    information flyers,    brochures and user handbooks,    web pages (www.vub.sk, www.flexihypoteka.sk, www.flexiucet.sk; www.flexibiznisucet.sk; www.startkonto.sk). In addition to up-to-date information about the Bank and its products and services, clients and the gener- al public as well are made available also various interactive calculators, e.g. for calculating the maximum  loan amount. In order to raise the clients financial awareness, on our Internet site we prepared asection  dedicated to financial education, where clients and non-clients alike can:    get information on the financing options in various life situations,    explore the world of bank products and see that it is not so complex,    learn to manage their finances in amore efficient and time-saving fashion. For clarification and facilitation of working with Internet Banking, we prepared instructional videos for our  clients (one to two-minute video instructions containing advice on how to proceed in individual operations). Professional Associations We honour our clients and therefore we adjust our range of products and services to their needs and  specific requirements. One of the forms of coming closer to our clients is to cooperate with professional  associations (chambers and associations). It is our interest to foster possibly most intense cooperation with  professional associations in terms of mutual communication, promotion of their activities, marketing activ- ities and utilization of bank products and services by their members. The cooperation is intended to make  the Banksproducts and services as available to the members of professional associations as possible. For  this reason, our website features aspecial section for professional associations. Our partners include:    Association of Private Physicians,    Chamber of Slovak Republic Veterinaries,    Slovak Dentist Chamber,    Slovak Medical Chamber,    Slovak Sole Trader Chamber,    Slovak Agricultural and Foodstuffs Chamber,    Slovak Chamber of Commerce and Industry – Banks and Insurance Companies Section,    other chambers with special offers. Payment Cards    debit cards for children as young as 10 years old,     use of VISA Electron debit payment card also for payments through Internet,    self-service kiosks in the TESCO stores chain – acash register integrated with apayment terminal  where the buyer himself/herself scans the individual items purchased and also pays himself/herself for  the purchase by apayment card,    MasterCard contactless cards,    Extension of services provided by means of POS terminals at merchants – payment of invoices and  credit recharge for mobile prepaid cards. Lending    participation in the state aid program for citizens, who were having problems repaying their mort- gages as aconsequence of job loss during the crisis,    possibility of acomplete deferral of amortgage repayment for clients, who lost their jobs as are- sult of the crisis and were facing problems with mortgage repayment,    assistance to flood stricken clients – possibility to defer mortgage or flexi loan repayment free of  charge for 6 months or prolong the loan repayment period (and so get areduction of monthly instal- ments),    free of charge provision of flexi loans for housing with convenient interest rate to clients affected  by floods,    flexi loans for newly weds. Small Business Lending    possibility of complete instalment deferral in case of profihypo loan,    convenient conditions for flood stricken clients – free of charge deferral of loan instalments for as  many as 6 months or prolongation of loan maturity without any fee. In connection with alegislative change in the Consumer Loans Act, VUB Bank implemented condi- tions and processes ensuing from the new legislation. The most significant change is that aclient may with- draw from aconcluded agreement to aloan product (credit cards, flexi loans, all purpose flexi mortgages  with maturity up to 10 years, refinance mortgages) within 14 days from agreement conclusion also in case  the loan has been drawn or totally disbursed. In such case, the client is obliged to return the disbursed  amount without sanctions. With the purpose of raising awareness of clients and in compliance with the Consumer Loans Act, VUB  Bank provides the loan applicants with more detailed information by means of the Standard European  Consumer Credit Information form. Upon request, clients can also get alevel repayment schedule  (overview of loan repayments and their splitting into principal and interest). Corporate Clients We strive to make our offer of products and services correspond to the requirements of  our clients. In 2010, we dedicated intensified attention to the areas of agriculture, self- administrations, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. Our innovated products and services include:    loans for the Flat and Apartment House Owners Associations – with aim to support the projects,  which enhance energy efficiency, we were focused on the segment comprising associations of flats and  apartment houses owners in 2010. New, and for aclient favorable conditions of this product, have been  set up.    loans for farmers and municipalities – in 2010, our loans supported the projects in  the sector of  agriculture and those related to recovery and development  of towns and villages in Slovakia.     extended range of services for the foreign corporate clients provided via S.W.I.F.T. involves accep- tance of payment orders in XML format and broader scope of information provided on account state- ments (MT940). ENVIRONMENT  40 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report EMPLOYEES Employees and their families Trade union Employees  42 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 Our Stakeholders Strategy Since we realize that our success is based on expertise of our employees and quality of services provided  to our customers, we consider creating interesting work and astimulating environment the main tasks in  developing the human capital. In relation to our employees, we follow the principles of the Code of Ethics  of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. We committed that we would exclude any discrimination from our actions.  We honour the value, contribution and professionalism of each individual as well as the uniqueness of  conditions in which he/she operates. Our strategy in 2010:    We continued to support the development of our employees professional careers by preferring internal  staffing of vacancies, which helps us retaining qualified and highly performing employees.    We were laying emphasis on planning careers of staff with apotential for managerial positions in the  regional retail network. We managed to execute an extensive program of mapping of current manage- rial competencies of retail network managers. Consequently, they were enabled to develop the neces- sary skills in targeted manner within training activities tailored to their individual development needs.    Within an international training project, we focused on development of leadership skills on the senior  management level. Simultaneously, this program gave rise to working and friendly contacts with col- leagues from international banks of Intesa Sanpaolo Group.    We performed an employee survey to compare the working climate against the previous year and set  up action plans for improvements.    We concentrated on efficient management of Banksperformance through atransparently set up sys- tem of targets and staff performance evaluation.    We developed anew employee discount system as an employee benefit in all regions of Slovakia. Type of Employment Agreement 2010 % 2009 % Indefinite period 3,017 87.07 3,171 91.75 Definite period 448 12.93 285 8.25 Type of Employment 2010 % 2009 % Full-time 3,458 99.80 3,443 99.62 Part-time 7 0.20 13 0.38 Employment by Region 2010 % 2009 % Bratislava 1,507 43.49 1,467 42.45 Trnava 233 6.72 238 6.89 Trenn 246 7.10 248 7.18 Nitra 270 7.79 278 8.04 ilina 287 8.28 290 8.39 Bansk Bystrica 365 10.53 368 10.65 Preov  286 8.25 299 8.65 Koice 271 7.82 268 7.75 Staff Structure by Position Typee Number Men Women Senior management positions 68 38 % 62 % Other managerial positions 509 Non-managerial positions 2,888 23%  77%  Staff Structure by Gender Men: 874 Women: 2,591 Staff Structure by Age up to 29 years: 900 60 years and over: 16 30 – 39 years: 1,225 40 – 49 years: 877 50 – 59 years: 447 Average Employment Duration Men Women Total 2010 7.60 10.23 9.56 2009 7.50 9.91 9.32 2008 7.07 9.22 8.72 Staff Structure by Education Basic education: 2 (0.06 %) University education: 1,530 (44.16 %) Bachelors degree: 165 (4.76 %) Secondary with secondary school leaving examination : 1,744 (50.33 %) Secondary without secondary school leaving examination: 24 (0.69 %)  44 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 Our Stakeholders Job Classification by Regions No. of men No. of women men in % women in % Head Office Total 506 743 14.60 21.44 Corporate Network Total 51 87 1.47 2.51 Regional Management Bratislava 10 13 0.29 0.38 Regional Management – West 15 26 0.43 0.75 Regional Management – Centre  10 27 0.29 0.78 Regional Management – East 16 21 0.46 0.61 Retail Network Total 317 1,761 9.15 50.82 Regional Management Bratislava East 55 145 1.59 4.18 Regional Management Bratislava West 47 172 1.36 4.96 Regional Management Bansk Bystrica 23 200 0.66 5.77 Regional Management Koice 28 200 0.81 5.77 Regional Management Nitra 34 197 0.98 5.69 Regional Management Poprad 39 202 1.13 5.83 Regional Management Preov 29 187 0.84 5.40 Regional Management Trenn 23 185 0.66 5.34 Regional Management Trnava 32 205 0.92 5.92 Regional Management of Alternative  Distribution Channels 7 68 0.20 1.96 Compared to last year the table does not contain the region of Poprad, which was divided between the regions of ilina, Koice, Preov and Bansk Bystrica. Turnover In 2010, the turnover (employee departure) stood at the level of 12 %. In comparison with 2009, the  turnover thus slightly dropped - by 0.6 %. In total, 416 employees quit, thereof 112 men and 304 women.  The reduction in number of departures and turnover reflects the current market trends, which are dem- onstrated also by astabilization of labour force in the labour market. Besides these external factors, we  supported the decrease also by the following factors:    elaboration of an adaptation plan at joining of each employee,    continuing in regular meetings with new hires within the trial and adaptation period,    continuous motivational interviews with the employees following the adaptation period with the aim of  obtaining their feedback,     improving quality of recruiting tools in key positions,    preventive solving of personnel issues through HR relationship managers in regions and at the Head  Office. Overview of Departures in 2010 gender number of departures turnover in % average headcount men 112 13.0 862 women 304 11.7 2,598 total 416 12.0 3,460 age category below 30 162 18.0 902 30 – 39 145 11.8 1,231 40 – 49 62 7.1 867 50 – 59 43 9.7 444 60 and over 4 25.4 16 region Bratislava 146 9.7 1,507 Trnava 34 14.7 231 Nitra 27 9.9 274 Trenn 29 12.3 236 ilina 35 11.9 294 Bansk Bystrica 69 19.1 362 Poprad 43 15.1 285 Koice 33 12.2 270 Total 416 12.0 3,459 Recruitment In recruiting and hiring new employees we follow the rules based on assessment of individual knowledge,  skills and personal prerequisites for the vacant position being staffed. We pay due care to adhering to the  principles of impartiality and avoid protectionism or discrimination. Job applicants interested in working  with us can refer to our Internet page in the Career with Us section, which provides an overview of  the current vacancies. Using an electronic questionnaire, the job applicants can apply for the vacancies  and send their curricula vitae. One of the most important sources in the process of staffing vacant positions is the VUB employee base  itself. Once an employee is successful in the internal recruitment, he/she has to go through astandard ad- aptation period, which will enable him/her to better manage the process of joining and learn the new job  in the position. We continued in the Find Your Colleague activity aimed at engaging internal employees  in searching for and recommending candidates for vacancies. During 2010, about 30,000 people showed interest in employment with us, which represents an increase  by more than 2,000 participants against the previous year. Thereof 436 were hired. We staffed 365 vacan- cies with candidates from internal sources.  46 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Our Stakeholders Performance Management and Career Development We guarantee equal opportunities in professional development and growth, approach to development  tools and work positions. We provide all employees with apossibility of expressing their individuality and  creativity at work in the best way possible, we support innovations. Professional development and growth  of employeesperformance is covered by the Performance and Development Management System  aimed at:    creating conditions for individual development of employees and enabling so the Banksdevelopment  as awhole,    strengthening the employees engagement in Banksdevelopment,    arrange that all VUB employees be efficiently involved in performance of our goals,     increasing transparency and fairness of the compensation policy. We enable our employees to develop their careers horizontally and also vertically. The point of this de- velopment path is that everybody gets asystematic support in development of their competencies that  he/she needs in order to succeed at work. It starts with an adaptation preparation, which is followed by  trainings according to the type of position, knowledge and skills required to accomplish tasks. An important part of the Performance and Development Management System is the evaluation process.  Its main task is to evaluate the employeestargets for the past period and plan key tasks and targets sup- porting the Banksstrategy for the future period. Each year, all employees are evaluated by their direct  superiors subject to their work position and classification. Within the whole process, an important role is  played by the employee himself/herself, who declares his/her ambitions and ideas regarding his/her future  career. The superior employee, based on employeesperformance, motivation and potential coordinates  his/her further development and growth. Based on evaluation results and upon meeting criteria defined in advance, the Banksemployees can be  nominated into aprogram for stabilization and motivation of key employees the so-called Retention  Program. In 2010, 330 employees were nominated. Compensation Main principles of our compensation policy are honesty, equal treatment and merit. Its level is set up as to  enable the VUB Bank to be competitive in the labour market and at the same time sufficiently motivating  and attractive for its employees. The Bank monitors and reacts to the wage and inflation development in  Slovakia so that the real wages would correspond with these trends. The compensation policy is made up of afixed and avariable component. The fixed component reflects  the work position, its size and complexity, while the variable component corresponds to the employees  performance and it is simultaneously amotivation tool designed to increase the personal involvement of  employees in accomplishing the tasks set and to reward their performance and contribution to the Bank. Overall as well as individual results are evaluated by the Compensation Committee consisting of CEO,  deputy CEO for support, deputy CEO for business, Executive Director of Finance, Planning and Controlling  Division, Executive Director of Human Resources Division. The Committee is also charged with approval  of annual evaluation results, bonuses, base wage adjustments as well as nominations to the Retention  Program. Benefits The Bank provides its employees with awide range of benefits (i.e. financial and non-financial benefits).  They are equal for all employees irrespective of their job classification. In 2010, we managed to sustain the  quality and financial coverage of provided benefits on the existing level. The greatest share was formed by benefits provided in form of benefit vouchers. The employees can use  them upon consideration for regeneration, healthcare, education, culture, sport, etc.. The Bank provides an  allowance at the birth of achild and financial aid to employees facing complex life situations. We also make  contributions to supplementary pension saving, while the contribution made by the employer and by the  employee is 1:1. The retail network staff in daily contact with clients are provided aclothing allowance. The  employees can use some products under more favourable conditions e.g. free-of-charge bank account main- tenance, favourable interest rates on term accounts, consumer or mortgage loan at favourable interest rates  or discounted rates on insurance. In 2010, we introduced anew employee discount system providing more  than 700 benefits and discounts on various products or services from external partners around Slovakia. Also  this year, employees children got apresent at the occasion of the International ChildrensDay. In the sum- mer, 30 children spent two weeks in achildren camp in afacility of Intesa Sanpaolo. Employee Benefits Contributions Form of Employee Benefit 2010 (%) 2009 (%) 2008 (%) Third pillar / supplementary pension insurance 25.46 26.30 26.53 Retention Program 14.12  14.83 13.40 Day off under Collective Agreement – health care 13.23  13.81 11.71 Day off under Collective Agreement – lone mothers 0.29  0.28 0.30 Work disability, non-work, work injury 3.90  4.30 3.78 Care of employees children 0.80  0.61 0.76  Housing and rental allowances 0.22  0.35 0.41 Clothing allowances 8.31  8.01 8.84 Cafeteria system / Flexi benefits 26.94  26.88 28.20 Social contributions in emergency 1.20  0.79 1.09 Anniversary bonuses 5.54  3.83 4.73 The Bank accommodates its employees by means of several measures supporting amore efficient harmo- nization of their work and private life. These measures include flexible working hours (beginning optional  between 7.00 am and 9.00 am and end between 4.00 pm and 7.00 pm), four days off in acalendar year  beyond the framework of legal title to holiday for intensified healthcare. Single employees taking care  of achild under 15 years of age (in case of disabled children until 26 years) and pregnant women from  the fourth month of pregnancy are allowed to use two additional days off per year. In case of organizing  events for Bank employees children, the employer will release from work and provide aday off paid as  the base wage to an employee supervising the children. Training and Development VUB Bank creates preconditions for acontinuous and systematic growth of its employees qualification,  supporting their training in the areas crucial from the perspective of the Banksneeds and their per- sonal development. Specific training requirements are addressed in collaboration with external training  organizations in the Slovak Republic and abroad. VUB Bank has its  own training centre – VUB Academy – which organizes technical  courses and also corporate and personal development courses. In  2010, the total time of employee trainings organized by the Bank  reached 23,785 days, which means aslight increase vis--vis 2009.  The average number of training days was 6.9 days (in 2009 the av- erage was 5.9 days). E-learning training time reached 36,314 days. The staff is trained at the own educational center VUB Academy and by the e-learning system AMOS.  48 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Our Stakeholders In 2010, we continued evaluating managerial skills as apart of the manager development system, the  so-called 360-degree feedback. It is atool by means of which the staff get afeedback from those  that cooperate with them – superiors, inferiors, colleagues or customers. The aim of the 360-de- gree feedback is to deepen the evaluated employeesknowledge of his/her strengths and areas of  development, which forms the basis for further increase of his/her work performance, contributes  to the growth of individuals as well as of the whole organization. The evaluation was performed  anonymously in form of an on-line system and 72 employees including Management Board mem- bers, Heads of Departments and Regional Retail Network Managers participated in the evaluation.  The evaluation does not affect the bonuses. Following the evaluation, 47 managers underwent three  two-day trainings in the parent company Intesa Sanpaolo. Further 25 managers took these trainings  in the VUB Academy due to alanguage barrier.  In 2010, we kept using e-learning and e-testing. Within the e-learning system AMOS, we internally devel- oped 101 e-courses, 808 e-tests and 13 e-questionnaires. Compared to last year, we doubled the number  of e-courses and grew the number of e-tests by five times. They are available in the AMOS application at  any time and the users can repeat them several times. Number of Training Days by Position 2010 2009 2008 Managers 5,190 days 2,255 days 3,618 days Other 19,060 days 18,628 days 29,045 days Average number of training days in case of the managing employeeswas 8.6 days and in case of special- ists 6.4 days. Already for several years, the Bank has been traditionally organizing aso-called Welcome Day for new  employees. It is held each month and the Banksmanagers present there. New employees get abasic  overview of history of the Bank and Intesa Sanpaolo Group, its market position, portfolio of products and  services provided, company structure but also of employee rights, obligations and benefits. Another program, in which we are trying to form our own professionals, is the Mentoring Program.  Employees in senior positions become the mentors, who hand over their practical experience to junior col- leagues, mostly to the newly hired employees or female employees after returning to work from maternity  leave. With the mentorsassistance, the employee will adapt to the working position more easily. Within the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) program, we give our employees space to search for innovative solutions  with the purpose of improving satisfaction of clients or employees themselves. In 2010, the staff submit- ted altogether 107 suggestions for improvement, thereof 12 ideas were already implemented and 50 are  currently being implemented. Throughout the year, we continued in aweekly testing of employees in the retail business network. The  testing is carried out according by positions and aimed at changes in regulations and procedures. This is  intended to reduce erroneousness and increase the satisfaction of our clients. We also organized trainings  of sales skills development in order to enhance the quality of sales interviews and client satisfaction. Within aspecial financial training activity, we ensured compulsory legislative training for individual  positions in form of e-learning courses. By December 31, 2010 our employees in the basic level of profes- sional expertise were educated in form of e-courses in the sectors: insurance or assurance sector, deposit  receipt sector, capital market sector, lending sector, general knowledge and legal aspects of financial  market. Employee Survey In 2009, an employee satisfaction survey coordinated directly from the head office of our parent bank was  performed, identifying the climate and satisfaction among employees across the whole Intesa Sanpaolo  Group. The total participation was 10,078 employees, thereof 2,348 (58.3 % of all employees) for VUB. In  the electronic questionnaire, the employees could anonymously express their views on five areas. The survey  outcomes showed that the overall satisfaction reached 82.7 %, which within the Intesa Sanpaolo Group  is abetter result than the average countries. The key words characterizing the Group the best our employ- ees used were stability, profit and quality. As much as 87.2%  of employees considered their work important, qualified and  useful, yet amajority of them would like to be more engaged  in the decision-making process and also dispose of adequate  information. For the future, we would like to help our clients  by reducing bureaucracy and improving competitiveness. The  majority of staff perceive the Intesa Sanpaolo Group as presti- gious, stable, growing, competitive and reliable. Suggestions from the employee survey and subsequent focus groups resulted in proposal of seven areas  of improvement approved by the Banksmanagement as priorities and they were incorporated in an ac- tion plan. The key suggestion for improving efficiency of team work and communication among individual  Bank units was the employees effort to have adequate information available. In terms of increasing the  quality of services and removal of bureaucracy, we again accelerated several processes directly impact- ing the final customer (e.g. loan approval speed or waiting period at branches). In late 2010, we carried  another employee satisfaction survey. Its results will be evaluated in early second quarter of 2011 and  subsequently implemented. Diversity and Equal Opportunities VUB committed not to discriminate, respect the principles of equal treatment, exclude from its actions any  discrimination and respect differences based on gender, age, race, faith, political opinion, participation in  unions, language skills, impairment, marital or family status,  political or other opinion, national or social  origin, property or other position. By signing the Collective Agreement, it also undertook to observe the  discrimination ban in compliance with the Labour Code. The employees must not be harmed for exercising  their rights ensuing from industrial relations. In 2010, no action was filed regarding acase of discrimina- tion. The Bank provides everybody with equal opportunities for personal and professional growth giving  each employee an equal opportunity to assert himself/herself. Differentiation of employees according to  their work prerequisites and performance is however not considered discrimination. The majority of our employees are women – at the end of 2010, there were 2,591 women working in the  Bank out of atotal of 3,465 employees. This disproportion in favour of women occurs mainly in the re- tail business network, it is mostly women that work at the branches. Two women are represented on the  BanksManagement Board and one on the Supervisory Board. In 2010, we were employing 17 disabled  citizens. The indicator in regard to protection of rights of aboriginal inhabitants is not relevant due to the geo- graphic location of our business activities. Equally, the indicator related to forced, child or compulsory  labour is irrelevant in view of the nature of VUB Banksactivities. we are satisfied in VUB 82.7 % 87.2 % our work is important 94.1 % we are  proud of  our work  50 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Our Stakeholders Protection of Health at Work The Bank considers its obligation to create aworking environment and conditions pursuant to the Slovak  technical standards and hygiene regulations. The topics of safety and protection of health at work are con- tained in internal regulations and Collective Agreement. The rights of all employees in this respect are rep- resented also by the Trade Union representatives. In accordance with Article 20 of the Act of the National  Council of the Slovak Republic No. 124/2006 Coll. on Safety and Protection of Health at Work, the main  Work Safety Commission is nominated in the Bank. It consists of 7 members: 4 employee representatives  (trade union members) and 3 employer representatives. Besides the main commission, nominated are also  regional work safety commissions for each region, which carry out regular annual preventive inspections.  The regional commission works at least in afive-member set up: employee representative, two employer  representatives, work safety technician and representative of awork medical service. Altogether, there are  294 work safety commission members, i.e. the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal  joint work safety commissions falls in the category of up to 25% of the total employee count. Types of Trainings, Risk Preventions and Controls Each new employee is obliged to participate in an inception training pursuant to Act No. 124/2006 Coll.  on Safety and Protection of Health at Work and on amendment and supplementation of some acts. Ape- riodical training on safety and protection of health at work in accordance with the above-stated legislation  is taken by all Bank employees every two years in electronic form. The Bank ensures also training for em- ployee safety representatives (trade union members) and afirst aid course. Activities in the area of safety  and protection of health at work (annual inspections, provision of personal work protective equipment,  training, investigation of work injuries, measures for enhancement of work environment, updating of in- ternal regulations) are semi-annually submitted for evaluation of Collective Agreement. Training and con- sultancy concerning the employees is ensured by the work safety technicians from an external company. Within prevention and risk control, aWork Medical Service performs an inception audit at the opening of  anew branch as well as regular annual inspections aimed at safety and protection of health at work with  the participation of awork medical service. Medical services, first aid trainings, workplace supervision and  preventive medical examinations according to the type of work performed are ensured by awork medical  service from an external company. The Bank ensures safe working conditions not detrimental to health  in premises where cash is handled and in premises where works of technological nature are performed.  In case an employee uses acompany car, he/she is obliged to take adriving capacity examination every 2  years and simultaneously the Bank, ensures medical examinations for him/her. As our company operates  in the banking market, at times it happens that employees find themselves in situations endangering their  lives, e.g. in case of abranchsrobbery. In these rare cases, they are provided professional psychological  assistance and are entitled to 5 business days off for recovery. Despite the above-mentioned measures taken within the trainings on safety and protection of health at  work, prevention and risk control, in 2010 we recorded 8 occupational injuries and related 342 business  days out of work. Out of 8 injuries recorded, two injuries were classified as grave occupational injuries. In  the given year, we did not record any diseases related to the performance of profession. Number of Work Injuries, Days Lost and Out of Work as aResult of Work Impact Region no. of employees no. of business days no. of calendar days Bratislava 5 137 197 Trnava 0 0 0 Trenn 2 43 64 Nitra 0 0 0 ilina 0 0 0 Bansk Bystrica 0 0 0 Preov 1 162 234 Koice 0 0 0 Total 2010 year 8 342 495 Total 2009 year 8 427 596 Total 2008 year 12 172 234 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Freedom of association and collective bargaining are regulated by the Labour Code, Collective Bargaining  Act and the Act on Freedom of Association. Collective Agreement governs relations between the em- ployer and employees, which are more convenient than the ones stipulated by the Labour Code or any  other generally binding legal regulation. The Bank committed to preserve the trade union rights, namely  the freedom of association of employees in trade unions and collective bargaining in accordance with the  generally binding legal regulations. Collective Agreement is concluded for the period of 3 years between  VUB and the Council of VUB Trade Union Representatives. It applies to all employees in an employment  relation with the employer irrespective of their membership in the trade union. The provisions of the  Collective Agreement supersede the Banksinternal regulations in the scope of commitments concluded  in the Collective Agreement. As at 31/12/2010, the BanksTrade Union counted atotal of 616 members,  which accounts for 17.78 % of employees. Notification Duty The Labour Code imposes on the employer anotification duty against employee representatives in connec- tion with the economic and financial situation and the projected development of its activities. Notification  is to be performed in acomprehensible manner and at asuitable time. Under the Labour Code, the  employer is obliged to negotiate fundamental changes regarding, among the other, status, structure and  projected development of employment, decisions that could lead to fundamental changes in the organi- zation of work as well as organizational changes with employee representatives in advance. Provision of  further information including specific deadlines is agreed, under the wording of the Labour Code, in the  Collective Agreement. Internal Communication and Dialogue In VUB Bank, we understand that if we expect our employees to deliver the best possible performance,  we must regularly inform them of what is happening and why and where the organization is heading  and what is the place of each of them in this fulfilment. At the same time, we are giving them the space  to voice their own opinions and ideas engaging them also in the decision-making processes. Internal  communication is based on the seven values common for the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Group and helps  to deliver our vision and mission. In 2010, we were directing our activities towards improvement in the  quality of cooperation among employees and different units. Similarly, drawing on the outcomes of the  employee survey performed in 2010, we concentrated on bal- ancing the working and private life. We launched anew concept  of competitions entitled VUB ART focused on supporting our em- ployees hobbies in the fields of photography, fine arts and video.  The corporate intranet VUB NET kept gaining importance as akey and most efficient internal communica- tion tool. Periodicity of the internal magazine WORLD remained also in 2010 on the bi-monthly basis. Its  design and also content sections were harmonized with the overall concept of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group,  which brought the employees more information from the international level. We are thus giving our em- ployees awider perspective and bringing them answers to questions not only pertaining to the Bankslo- cal operation. The magazine is further on distributed in the volume of 4,000 copies to all employees of the  VUB Group including the subsidiaries. The Chief Executive Officer regularly informs the staff on key events  in an electronic bi-monthly newsletter. Also an electronic HR newsletter informing on human resource  topics and benefits was first time launched into existence in 2010.  In good internal communication, paramount is not the communicator, i.e. person sending out the infor- mation, but the person that receives it. We do not want the communication to be unidirectional. We are  interested in creating space for dialogue and interaction. For example, the employees have the opportu- We strive for abidirectional communication with the staff.  52 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report           Shareholders SHAREHOLDERS Legal entities Individuals nity to ask the CEO questions through the Intranet form, voice their opinions on the topic of satisfaction  with catering ensured by the Bank, system of benefits, form and content of Intranet and the magazine  within the Intranet discussion forum. On an annual basis, we also organize surveys and evaluation of in- ternal communication channels. Active Engagement of Employees into BanksLife In 2010, we shifted internal campaigns as aunique and original method of communication with the  employees to alevel of even higher interactivity mainly in the manner of engaging people into specific  topics. Each month, employees are presented anew topic, up-to-date for the given period. The face of the  campaign is always an employee involved in the topic. Thus, he/she becomes the carrier of the informa- tion, which gets closer to the others fostering abetter understanding of the message. In supporting the  companysbrand perception, values and naturally also the business we make use of all internal communi- cation channels including posters, Intranet, magazine or personal e-mails, or for example also computer  screen savers. With the aim of supporting the team spirit and informal relations, asports and nomination event named  VUB Cup was held. The best employees from the event went on to represent the Bank at international  sports tournaments organized by the parent company. At year-end, we had the traditional Christmas  meetings that were supplemented for the first time by announcement of the best sales persons and  branches in individual regions for the whole year. The meetings were organized in three towns, while  transportation was arranged as to enable all employees to attend. In order to support the delivery of busi- ness objectives, motivation and competitiveness in 2010 we continued in the employee competition called  VUB Super League.  54 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Our Stakeholders VUB Share Capital and Shares The share capital amounts to  430,819,063.81 and is divided into:    4,078,108 registered and book-entered shares with anominal value of EUR 33.20 per share and    89 registered and book-entered shares with anominal value of EUR 3,319,391.89 per share. VUB paid up its whole share capital. VUB shares are traded in the public equity market organized by  the Bratislava Stock Exchange, under share numerical code ISIN – SK 111 000 1437 in the total number of  4,078,108 units. Information on these VUB shares is also available at the official web page of the stock  exchange under the section securities traded and listing prospectus of VUB share. In addition to the  above shares, VUB Bank issued also 89 registered shares that are, however, not publicly tradable. Information on VUB shares traded on public equity market Name Share of Veobecn verov banka, a.s. Form book-entered share* Type registered share Issuer Veobecn verov banka, a.s. Country of Issuance Slovak Republic Number of Shares Issued  4,078,108 units Nominal Value   33.20  Placement of Shares Issued  Bratislava Stock Exchange Equity Market Main listed stock market Trading Currency  euro () ISIN ISIN SK 111 000 1437 Ticker symbol 1VUB02A Share index  SAX # Note: * abook-entered share means an electronic record in the register of the Central Securities Depository of the Slovak Republic VUB has agreat number of minority shareholders, who acquired their shares in the first wave of the  coupon privatization in 1991. The number of shareholders fell from the original approx. 80,000 to the  current number of over 44,000 shareholders. The majority shareholder is the Italian bank group, Intesa  Sanpaolo, which became the owner of VUB in 2001. The shareholder structure is described in detail in the  Profile and Governance chapter. Dialogue with Shareholders The priority of VUB Bank is to strive for good communication with all the Banksshareholders and ensure  that they are informed accordingly. The General Secretariat Staff Unit provides for aconstant dialogue  with the shareholders and the Corporate Strategy and Economic Research Department bears responsibility  for communication with the rating agencies and analysts. The dialogue with shareholders involves several forms, formal and also informal, in the Slovak and also  English language, in written form, over the telephone and by means of personal meetings. The main  medium is the Banksweb site www.vub.sk, where in the sub-section http://www.vub.sk/en/information- service/information-shareholders-vub/ necessary information, instructions and forms are published. It con- tains also practical procedures for legal acts related to the transactions most frequently required by the  Banksshareholders, mainly:    Method and place of dividend payout,    Change of shareholdersaddress or name – whom to notify and how,    Inheritance of VUB shares – legal steps and title to dividend,    Donation of VUB shares – legal steps,    Power of Attorney for payout of dividend from VUB shares and transfer of the right to dividend,    Power of Attorney for participation at the General Meeting,    Requirements related to documents legally certified abroad,    Participation of shareholders at the General Meeting of Shareholders  – rights and requirements,    Full wording of documents and draft resolutions subject to discussion at the General Meeting,    Results of voting at the General Meeting. Besides the above-mentioned procedures, the web site provides shareholders also with the following use- ful information:    Decisions on dividend payout for individual years,    Information on their taxation,    Historical development of VUB share price,    Information on Banksshare capital and VUB share distribution,    Information on shareholder structure,    Information on the majority shareholder,    List of BanksManagement Board and Supervisory Board members,    Press releases and analytical reports,    Financial statements and important basic information on the Banksactivities,    Information on VUB Banksmarket position and its evaluation,    Market shares,    Rating,    Banksvision and mission and its awards,    Abstract of VUB Banksdata from the Commercial Register of the Slovak Republic,    Annual reports. Overview of Dividend Payout from VUB Share Dividend for Year Dividend Amount per VUB  Share Maturity Date 2009 4.50 euro June 4, 2010 2008 0.00 euro  – 2007  4.48 euro  June 2, 2008 2006  7.20 euro June 4, 2007 2005  9.46 euro June 5, 2006 Note: Dividend maturity date is the date when the dividend payout starts and it was determined by the decision of the General Meeting. VUB Share Development Information on the current price of VUB shares in the public equity market is regularly published in daily  press with national coverage releasing stock exchange news, e.g. PRAVDA, Hospodrske noviny or on the  web site of Bratislava Stock Exchange (www.bsse.sk). The VUB share is included in the Slovak Share Index  SAX and influences its development to asignificant extent.  56 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 Our Stakeholders Average Development of VUB Share in EUR Source: Bratislava Stock Exchange Shareholder Rights and Obligations The rights and obligations of shareholders are stipulated by legal regulations and the VUB Articles of  Association. All shares are attached ashareholdersright to take part in the management of VUB Bank  and the title to ashare in its profit. The shareholdersright to take part in the management of VUB Bank  can be exercised at the General Meeting. Profit distribution to shareholders in form of dividends is subject  to the General Meetingsdecision. The shares are freely transferable either by registering their transfer in  the Central Securities Depository of the Slovak Republic or by registering their transfer with amember of  the Central Depository based on atransfer and/or transition registration order. The General Meeting is the Bankstop decision-making body representing all shareholders and its decisi- ons approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations and BanksArticles of Association are binding for  all shareholders. It is competent for the following most important decisions:    decision on amendment of the Articles of Association,    decision on increase and decrease of share capital and decision on authorizing the Management Board  to increase the share capital,    decision on issuance of preference bonds or convertible bonds,    decision on change of rights connected with any type of VUB shares and on limitation of transferability  of VUB shares,    election and dismissal of Supervisory Board members, with the exception of Supervisory Board mem- bers elected and dismissed by VUB employees,    approval of regular and/or extraordinary individual and/or consolidated financial statements, decision on  profit distribution or settlement of losses and determination of the amount of profit bonuses,    decision on distribution of retained earnings from previous years and/or settlement of unsettled losses  from previous years,    decision on utilization of reserve fund,    decision on amount, method and place of dividend payout and determination of the decisive date for  designation of persons entitled to exercise their title to dividends. 30. 9. 2009 13. 1. 2010 8. 4. 2010 19. 7. 2010 11. 10 2010 30. 12. 2010 82.6 76.2 69.8 63.4 57 Prior to the General Meeting, VUB Bank sends all shareholders an invitation with an agenda including  basic information that will be subject to the discussion at the General Meeting. Additional information is  available to the shareholders for viewing in the Banksregistered office or upon request. The invitation  and basic documents are also published on the Banksweb site and in periodical press with national cov- erage publishing stock exchange news. Instructions on shareholder rights under Article 180 Sect. 1 and  Article 181 Sect. 1 of Commercial Code and documents and data pursuant to Article 184a Sect. 1 and 2 of  Commercial Code are published on http://www.vub.sk/informacny-servis/informacie-pre-akcionarov-vub/  at least thirty days prior to the General Meeting. Members of the Supervisory and Management Boards regularly attend all General Meetings facilitating  their smooth course and simultaneously answering the questions and inquiries presented by shareholders.  VUB Bank accepts all its obligations resulting from the legislation with regard to the shareholders. The  Bank observes the provisions of the Commercial Code applicable to protection of shareholders rights, in  particular the provisions on timely supply of all relevant information about the company and provisions on  convening and conducting its annual General Meetings. The Bank adheres to the principle of equal access  to information for all shareholders pursuant to the Code.  2010 Shareholder Protection Initiatives The 262 Project was launched in VUB in September 2007. The aim of the 262 Project is to achieve com- pliance with the requirements of the Italian Act No. 262 inspired by the American Sarbanes Oxley Act.  The Act 262 was issued in order to ensure significant strengthening of protection of investments. The  measures deriving from the Act cover awide area and are aimed at various activities, such as governance  of joint-stock companies, rules for accounting audit, rules for financial instruments, conflict of interests,  transparency and market regulations. This Act is apart of alegal scenario aimed at consistent enhance- ment of governance. The basic objective of the activity related to Act No. 262 in VUB is to review the  internal control system, identify its shortcomings and based on the results adjust it in order to eliminate  the potential risk and ensure atrue and fair representation of the financial situation. The Act No. 262 requires that individual companies identify processes, which influence the financial infor- mation, evaluate associated relevant risks and based on this propose adequate design of internal controls  with the purpose of eliminating potential risks. The fundamental objective of the project was to identify  and promptly respond to apotentially insufficiently functioning of the internal control system as to assure  improvement in the quality of financial reporting also by means of business ethics, efficient internal au- dits and good corporate governance. The Act No. 262 unambiguously assigned the responsibility for the  contents of financial reports, accounting procedures applied, adequately set up control system and proce- dures and atrue and fair view of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and cash flows to the Chief Executive  Officer. Both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer sign arepresentation confirming  that adequate and efficient procedures of accounting and financial reporting have been applied. Benefit  of the whole project is providing shareholders with security concerning atrue and regulatory presenta- tion of the capital, economic and financial position of the VUB Group and adequacy and efficiency of the  internal control system and procedures.  58 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report           SUPPLIERS Small and medium  enterprises Large supplier firms  and chains Suppliers  60 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Our Stakeholders Strategy Suppliers represent one group of VUB Banksstakeholders that are significantly influenced by our corpo- rate responsibility and observance of the Code of Ethics ensuing therefrom. VUB Bank requires that its  suppliers adhere to principles it itself believes in and which form apart of its business. VUB Bank realizes that the Banksgood business performance is abenefit for all stakeholder groups, asig- nificant position among which belongs to the suppliers. VUB bankis one of the largest Slovak companies  and as such it also has abroad network of suppliers. By purchasing goods and services it indirectly gener- ates benefits for the society in form of employment and financial performance of its suppliers.  One of the VUB Bankscommitments with respect to suppliers includes responsible practices in the social  and environmental areas. The attributes, which most adequately characterize VUB Banksresponsible approach in relation to sup- pliers are transparency, equality of opportunities and efficiency, in selection of suppliers as well as  in the process of defining internal supplier processes. An efficient manner of spending funds for goods  and services that VUB Bank needs for its activities, is one of the basic prerequisites for its success in the  competitive market. The total amount of such costs directly impacts the Banksprofit. Suppliers in Figures In 2010, VUB purchased goods and services in the total amount of approximately EUR 93 mil.. The total num- ber of our suppliers represented 1,279, thereof at least 91 % were companies based in the Slovak Republic. Overview of Development of Purchase Volume and Number of Suppliers  Year Goods and Services Procured in Euro Number of Suppliers 2010 EUR 93 mil. 1,279 2009 EUR 92 mil. 1,362 2008 EUR 109 mil. 1,457 Share of Purchased Volume of Goods and Services by Individual Purchase Areas 2010 Share of Purchased Volume of Goods and Services by Individual Purchase Areas 2009 Origin of Suppliers Transparent Selection of Suppliers Suppliers of VUB Bank are significantly influenced by observance of the Code of Ethics. In relation to  suppliers, the Bank professes values such as fair play and transparency and its intention is to principally  cooperate with those suppliers that respect these values in the interest of creating and building an open  partnership. Procurement in VUB Bank is open to a wide spectrum of suppliers. VUB Bank gives  achance to all that are not its business partners yet and have an ambition to cooperate  with us, while for the existing partners it simultaneously presents achallenge to continu- ously improve the quality of their products and services in order to be avaluable partner  of VUB Bank also in the future. VUB Bank expects its partners to have aflexible, proactive and forthcoming approach and ahigh effi- ciency. We are interested in developing long-term business relations built on open prices with the aim of  achieving the most convenient supplier conditions possible. Application of Electronic Auctions System For selecting suppliers VUB Bank has been using, in the maxi- mum possible extent, the electronic auctions called Access  Point (http://accesspoint.vub.sk). This system enables suppliers  to submit their price bids in electronic form at the same time  and in one virtual place. Electronic auctions are thus available to  Technology and security: 52.63 % Facilities: 22.55 % Marketing, material and services: 24.82 % Other countries: 6.0 % Italy: 1.1 % Slovak Republic: 91.2 % United Kingdom: 1.7 % ETHICS Technology and security: 48.38 % Facilities: 22.21 % Marketing, material and services: 29.41 % For selection of suppliers we use  the system of electronic auctions  Access Point.  62 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report all companies meeting the conditions set in advance and VUB Bank transparently accelerates and makes  the procurement process as well as correct price negotiation more effective. Electronic auction is one of  possible forms of negotiation ensuring in procurement of goods and services equal opportunities and fair  play in the process of supplier selection.  Out of the total number of tenders, in 2010 VUB Bank performed approx. 26% of price negotiations by  means of using the electronic e-auction. The percentage reflects the fact that this form of selection may  not be applied to all purchases (excluded are e.g. purchase of software solutions, purchase of utilities or  media through monopoly suppliers etc.). Legislation Governing Procurement Process in the Slovak Republic and Its Impacts on VUB BanksActivities Selection of suppliers in VUB Bank is not subject to the Public Procurement Act applicable in the Slovak  Republic. In 2010, VUB Bank was not imposed any fines for inobservance of any laws or regulations con- cerning procurement and purchase of products and services. Pursuant to the Act on Employment Services, each employer in the Slovak Republic employing more than  20 employees is obliged to employ disabled citizens. Another option is using asupple- mentary solution by submitting orders or purchasing goods and services from asheltered  workshop employing disabled people, from acitizen with agrave disability or from an  employer employing citizens with grave disabilities. In view of the above-stated legal  obligations, VUB Bank gives apart of its orders to sheltered workshops also despite the  fact that prices they offer are oftentimes higher and delivery deadlines longer than with  common suppliers. For more information refer to the Community chapter. Environmentally Responsible Procurement Materials VUB Bank manages the usage and consumption of office paper, consumption of toners for copying ma- chines and printers, collection and liquidation of packaging used. In the area of facility management, it co- operates with ISO 14001 certified companies (this system helps the companies to successfully participate  in domestic and also international tenders, but it also ensures growth of value, companyseconomical  operation as well as increased trust of customers). Purchase of office paper is limited to chlorine-free (TCF) and recycled papers. We use also recycled enve- lopes for account statements for clients, their number stood around 80% of the total number of enve- lopes used in 2010. Renewed materials are used mainly in case of printer cartridges. At least 85% out of  the total number of cartridges are renewed. In the area of facility management and maintenance, VUB Bank cooperates with companies with asys- tematic approach to environmental protection through their activities in all aspects of their businesses. In  the area of redesign, reconstructions or other construction works VUB Bank collaborates with construc- tion companies that include environmental care in its business strategy and also common operations.  The same applies also to the suppliers of lighting and interior, the activities of which are, in addition to  production and provision of services, oriented on energy saving, waste minimization and minimization of  environmental fees and sanctions for pollution of the environment. Since VUB Bank is not aproduction company and its activity does not result in products that would require  purchase of input materials, the report does not deal with materials used or recycled input materials used  in greater detail. For more information refer to the Environment chapter. COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Employees Clients Suppliers Future generations Environment  64 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 Our Stakeholders Strategy VUB Bank is not aproducing company or adirect polluter of the environment and therefore the environ- mental impacts of our business are not significant. Yet we committed to reduce our negative impact on  the environment to the minimum level possible. We are looking for solutions beyond the scope of the  legislation, we are interested in our environmental performance in relation to the inputs and outputs, we  have been mapping the relevant environmental indicators. Measures for reduction of direct (resulting from our activities) and indirect (generated by clients and sup- pliers) environmental waste are stipulated in VUB Groups Environmental Policy. As  amember of an international banking group, we adhere to the Equator Principles and  UN Global Compact. We have firmly defined internal regulations and our decisions on  investments and lending take into account both social and environmental risks. We try  to influence our impact on the environment also by procedures for selection of suppliers.  We prefer those suppliers that respect the environment and adopt necessary measures to  minimize negative impacts of their activities. VUB Banksmain initiatives and investments in environmental protection in 2010 ensue from our appli- cable environmental policy aimed at:    support of projects focused on energy saving and renewable sources,    saving measures for reduction of energy and consumer material consumption,    separation of waste and measures for reduction of its production. Environmental Policy This document defines VUBsobjectives in environmental protection and and sustainability. Environmental  policy is awritten commitment to environmental protection, which sets the Banksmission and objectives  in the area of environmental management. It forms the basis of management and also the business strat- egy. It defines the principles and guidelines concerning direct and indirect impact on the environment. It  allows the Bank to communicate its intentions and objectives to employees and other partners. UN Global Compact VUB Bank undertook to act in accordance with the international standard UN Global Compact, to which  it acceded in 2009. It includes also principles aimed at environmental protection. Equator Principles We take aresponsible approach to project financing. Managing agreat volume of funds, we significantly  impact the flows of capital. Therefore, it is important for us that projects, which we decide to finance do  not have anegative impact on the environment we live in. Compliance with the Equator Principles con- firms our commitment to the society. Education and Awareness VUB Bank is not limited to minimization of negative impacts of its business on the environment, but rather  supports also ecological thinking and behaviour of its employees. Over the year, all staff are encouraged  in form of awareness raising activities and internal notices to save paper and consumer material, turn off  their PCs outside working hours and on holidays and to separate waste. SUPPLIERS Management Approach Our management system defines rules and processes related to implementation of the environmental  policy. As already mentioned, VUB Bank is not adirect polluter of the environment, our impact can there- fore be split into: Indirect:    we comply with international and national environmental protection protocols,    we support projects with ahigh environmental value (loans),    our lending system clearly incorporates standards concerning the environment and the Equator  Principles. VUB Bank principally does not grant funds for financing of certain activities that could  endanger the environment; Direct:    energy saving measures,    introduction and observation of internal regulations and notices, e.g. – economical usage of electricity in the offices,  – air-conditioning (principles of its utilization), – cooling and heating, – turning off of computers overnight and during the weekends. Our environmental management involves:    Departments Facility Management and Procurement,    external suppliers of products and services,    Risk Management Division (ensures control of project financing and lending),    regular inspections and controls in branch and also headquarters buildings focused on reduction of  energy consumption and identification of potential savings,    internal regulations and notices,    internal communication - employee awareness. In 2010, we focused on the following direct activities regarding environmental protection:    waste separation,    collection and liquidation of waste classified as hazardous (toners, fluorescent lamps) in cooperation  with external service supplier,    utilization of electronic mail and electronic banking to reduce paper consumption,    use of envelopes made of recycled paper for all mail consignments to our clients,    energy saving - technical solutions saving the environment,    employee awareness raising – lectures, e-mails, articles in the internal magazine,    taking care of greenery in the vicinity of branches and in their interiors,    collection and ecological liquidation of non-functional mobile telephones, accessories and batteries. Environmental Management Indicators Number of employees directly appointed to implement environmental policy within their job description 1 Number of internal specialists 0 Number of external specialists 2 Percentage of employees regularly informed of environmental policy implementation 100  66 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Our Stakeholders Materials Among the aspects influencing the environment, we include consumption of office paper, consumption of  toners for copying machines and printers, collection and liquidation of used packaging and also coopera- tion in the area of facility management with ISO 14001 certified companies. Purchase of office paper is  limited to chlorine free paper (TCF) and recycled paper. Paper Consumption (kg) Consumption of Recycled Paper in kg and its Percentage Share out of Total Quantity of Paper Consumed Recycled paper is used for envelopes we use to send clients their account statements. In 2010, aproject  for electronic sending of statements was implemented. This was reflected in areduced consumption of  recycled paper. Number of recycled envelopes for client account statements stood at the level of 80 % of  the 2009 volume. Renewed materials are used mainly in case of toners for printers. At least 85 % of the  total number of toners are renewed toners. Since VUB Bank is not aproduction company and its activity does not result in products, which would  require purchase of input materials, the report does not deal in more detail with materials used or recycled  input materials used. 2008 2009 2010 130,000 260,000 390,000 520,000 650,000 100,000 260,000 390,000 520,000 650,000 0 17,000 34,000 51,000 68,000 85,000 0 17,000 34,000 51,000 68,000 85,000 2008 2009 2010 2008: 77,357 kg 25.2 % of total paper consumed 2009: 84,703 kg 16.2 % of total paper consumed 2010: 81,331 kg 13.2 % of total paper consumed Energies Direct Energy Consumption VUB Bank is constantly striving to reduce the consumption of energies. Similarly to last year, also in 2010  we were putting emphasis on purchasing highly efficient cooling and heating equipment for an efficient  and economical heating and cooling of our premises and on selection of possibly the most economical  lighting units in our premises. VUB Bank needs for its operation two primary sources of energy – electricity and gas. In 2010, electric- ity consumption dropped compared to 2009 by 1.98 % and gas consumption by as much as 24.6 %.  This drop is aresult of an ongoing effort to lead employees towards an efficient utilization of sources,  purchases of highly efficient equipment and last but not least continuous supervision of used technology  and its regulation. Direct Energy Consumption 2010:    Electricity:  17,500,480 kWh    Gas:  1,295,968 m3 = 12,182,099 kWh    Total:  29,682,579 kWh 2009:    Electricity:  17,997,537 kWh    Gas:  1,372,193 m3 = 12,898,614 kWh    Total:  30,896,151 kWh  2008:    Electricity:  18,290,073 kWh    Gas:  1,559,432 m3 = 14,658,661 kWh    Total:  32,948,734 kWh Notes 1) 1 m3 = 9.4 kWh 2) The data were obtained from counter statuses of contractual supplier  Electricity is supplied by the largest local suppliers (ZSE, VSE and SSE). These companies guarantee that  aminimum of 15 % of the energy they supply is produced from renewable sources. In accordance with  the relevant provisions of Act No. 656 / 2004 electricity suppliers in the Slovak Republic must inform their  buyers on the share of individual types of primary energy sources in produced and supplied energy, includ- ing the supply of electricity produced in other EU member states and third states. In 2010, the share of  primary sources for production of electricity supplied by our suppliers was:    Renewable (water, air)  16 %    Coal  25 %    Nuclear  56 %    Other   3 % Gas is purchased from alocal supplier, which is Slovensk plynrensk priemysel. Heat is procured from  various bigger and smaller heat energy producers; therefore it is not possible to state the primary energy  source.  68 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 Our Stakeholders Indirect Energy Consumption Secondary Energy Purchased (heat energy in the form of heat) in kWh Compared to 2009, heat consumption increased by 13.13 % due to disposal of one boiler room (we do  not produce heat by gas combustion, but we buy it). Total Energy Consumption Total Energy Consumption (heat + electricity + gas) in kWh Vis--vis 2009, the total energy consumption increased by 0.46% due to very cold weather across Slovakia. Saving Measures  Saving measures are actually VUB Banksinvestment into environmental protection and modernization of  its operations. Majority of them concerned thermal insulation and prevention of heat loss, reconstruction  of lighting systems and boilers modernization. Owing to saving measures implemented, we managed to  save approx. 418 MWh of energy, which translates into savings of more than EUR 170,000. 7,000 7,600 8,200 8,800 9,400 10,000 7,000 7,600 8,200 8,800 9,400 10,000 2008 2009 2010 Energy Consumption in thous. kWh 30,000 33,250 36,500 39,750 43,000 30,000 33,250 36,500 39,750 43,000 2008 2009 2010 Energy Consumption in thous. kWh Share of Energy Savings year energy savings in kWh energy savings in % 2010 2,506,000 7.92 2009 2,000,000  5.07 2008 374,091  0.87 Water All VUB Banksbranches in the whole territory of the Slovak Republic are supplied water by local water  companies. In 2010, water consumption grew by 11.37 % mainly due to construction modifications per- formed on buildings. Total Water Consumption (in m3) In 2010, our average daily water consumption was 207 m3, which is on average 59.2 l aday per employee. Average Daily Water Consumption Per Employee (in litres) VUB Bank is not aproduction company, so our water consumption is not significant. We use water mostly  for personal hygiene, watering and minimally for the operation of facilities (heating, cooling circuits, etc.).  At present, we do not initiate any measures aimed at reducing water consumption, since we are convinced  that we use water efficiently and our consumption falls below the Slovak average. We do not take water directly from awater source, but from water companies or small local suppliers. We  do not request our suppliers to provide us with the data about water sources and use of recycled water.  Our activity does not significantly influence local water sources in any way. 40,000 47,000 54,000 61,000 68,000 75,000 40,000 47,000 54,000 61,000 68,000 75,000 2008 2009 2010 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 2008 2009 2010  70 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 Our Stakeholders Biodiversity None of VUB Banksactivities affects the biodiversity. We do not perform any activity that would directly  disrupt the environment, and therefore indicators related to biodiversity are not relevant for us. VUB does  not own any facility, neither does it dispose of any leased premises that would interfere with or be directly  located in aprotected territory. For 2010, we do not record any contamination of environment in the surroundings of our facilities. Since  we are not aproduction company, we did not cause any considerable water pollution. We do not own fa- cilities, from which sewage would be discarded into the environment and pose athreat to the biodiversity  of water reservoirs. Water is drained off in astandard way to the sewerage system and then processed in  waste treatment plants. We contribute to protection of the environment also by keeping accounts and providing loans and borrow- ings to companies and non-governmental organizations having as their core business ecological activities. Emissions of CO2 and Substances Damaging Ozone Layer Being afinancial institution, we do not produce significant volume of harmful emissions. However, we are  aware of the least we ourselves can influence (use of passenger cars, business trips, logistics, etc.). So far,  we have not been measuring the emissions attributable to electricity use, nor do we employ any individual  specialists that would be dedicated to this activity. The production of CO2 emissions from gas combustion  was reduced to zero as aresult of the reconstruction of heat sources performed. Pursuant to Act No. 286/2009 Coll., based on which each operator of cooling equipment is obliged to  inform the relevant District Environmental Authority data on fluorinated greenhouse gases, the Bank  fulfilled its notification duty and provided information on volumes of substances directly influencing the  damaging of the ozone layer. Our supplier submitted to us an overview of all cooling equipment (in opera- tion) containing more than 3 kg of refrigerant in the circuit. These are refrigerant mixtures such as R407c,  R410a, R22. In 2010, the total volume of such refrigerants was approximately 2,340 kg. It is impossible to state the volume of emissions produced by company cars, since this information was not  monitored in 2010. Due to the same reason, we are not stating NOx, SOx and other significant emissions  into the atmosphere. Wastes Waste separation is the responsibility of all employees. Waste separation is managed through the process  we have in place, which is binding for all employees. Its wording is available on the Intranet page and the  employees have been informed of it in form of personal e-mails. In our objects in the whole territory of  Slovakia, we separate paper waste only. In the VUB BanksHead Office building in Bratislava we separate  waste into:    paper (cardboard),    plastic,    metal,    glass,    mixed communal waste,    hazardous. Hazardous Waste – Packaging Containing Remnants of Hazardous Substances (in kg) 2010 600 2009 950 2008 850 Types of Wastes Liquidated (in kg) waste toner from printers      50  voluminous waste 3,410  lead batteries 310  plastic and rubber 480  discarded equipment 12,890  discarded equipment containing hazardous parts 150  Waste – separated paper (in kg) Environment and Lending Policy Green Energy and Energy Efficiency – Twin Pillars – Projects Sustainability of the environment is one of the basic pillars of our corporate responsibility strategy. Within  our lending policy, we do not finance companies breaching the legal regulations concerning the environ- ment. We do not support companies not meeting the requirements for environmental protection stipu- lated by the legislation of the Czech and Slovak Republics or the European Union or in conflict with the  EBRD/IFC (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Financial Corporation)  requirements. Loans within corporate financing are granted also to clients from sectors, where environ- mental risks can be expected, however we examine them in detail. From the green-energy oriented perspective, we offer product contributing tosustainability of the envi- ronment. We confirmed our effort to bring to the market new or innovated products and services also in  2010, while paying increased attention to the areas of:    agriculture,    self-administrations,    renewable sources,    energy efficiency. The correctness of our strategy is evidenced also by the technical awards we were presented. The projects  financed contribute to environmental protection – reducing the CO2 production and thereby improving  0 6,000 12,000 18,000 24,000 30,000 36,000 42,000 48,000 54,000 60,000 0 6,000 12,000 18,000 24,000 30,000 36,000 42,000 48,000 54,000 60,000 2008 2009 2010  72 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 Our Stakeholders the environment, protecting peopleshealth and also natural resources, contributing to reduction of air  pollution and reducing energy consumption. VUB Bank supports the Twin Pillars projects aimed at energy savings and energy production from al- ternative energy sources (water power plants, biogas stations, biomass combustion equipments and pho- tovoltaic power plants). We have ateam of people providing financial and professional assistance to po- tential investors in preparing and executing these types of projects,  whether in the industrial, agrarian or communal area. In 2010, we  executed tens of Twin Pillars projects. We assisted our clients  in searching for the best possible form of financing – either by di- rect financing or co-financing (EU structural funds, SLOVSEFF pro- gram). Our several years cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development bore its fruit  in 2010, namely in the form of an award presented to the best projects financed from the SLOVSEFF Iand  SLOVSEFF II programs aimed at supporting development of energy efficiency in the industrial sector, in the  area of renewable sources and in the apartment housing sector. Owing to these project we received awards in the categories:    Industrial sector – project with highest savings of CO2 emissions, –  client Vchodoslovensk stavebn hmoty, a.s.; VUB Bank co-financed the reconstruction of acement  grinding plant in Tura,    Renewable sources sector – innovative project, –  client BPS Huncovce, s.r.o.; VUB Bank financed abiogas station. Overview of Executed Projects: Renewable Sources Project Type No. Investment Volume in  Photovoltaics 16 54 mil.  Water energy 2 3.5 mil. Biogas 2 4 mil. Energy Efficiency Project Type No. Investment Volume in  Energy savings and reduction of CO2 emissions 1 0.8 mil. Replacement of grinding plant technology 3 1.6 mil. Thermal insulation for apartment buildings 87 15.9 mil.  Thermal insulation for administrative buildings 10 6.9 mil. Initiatives for Reduction of Environmental Impacts of Our Products and Services Lending Policy One of VUB Banksmain activities, the lending, incorporates standards concerning the environment. The  Bank does not provide funds for financing of some activities from the environmental point of view including:    trading in wildlife and products made of it,    release of genetically modified organisms into the natural environment,    production, distribution and use of prohibited pesticides, herbicides, chemical or agrochemical sub- stances,    fishing by means of floating nets,    radioactive substances including radioactive waste. VUB supports green energy  projects and energy efficiency  projects. If aclient consciously engages in areas risky from the environmental point of view, the Bank requires adue  diligence aimed at clientsenvironmental risk management. Below, we specify examples of risky activities  and business areas from the perspective of the environment:    storage of hazardous waste, its modification and liquidation,    production or trading in freon-containing equipment and appliances,    production or trading in electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB),    production or trading in products containing asbestos,    foreign trade in waste or waste products. Electronic Account Statements Paperwork belongs to the museum was the slogan of the communication campaign aiming to achieve  replacement of paper account statements by electronic ones. Not only because an electronic statement is  more modern and easily available in one place and at any time, but it is rather also ademonstration of our  responsibility towards the environment. The motivational campaign targeted employees and retail clients. Employees    45 % have set up sending of electronic statements on their current accounts,    78 % have set up sending of electronic statements on their term accounts. Ahigh percentage is related also to ahigher financial literacy and intense internal communication (training  materials, video conferences, e-learning, advertising campaign, mail supporting communication). Clients    3 % have set up sending of electronic statements on their current accounts,    41 % have set up sending of electronic statements on their term accounts. Besides saving the mailing costs of EUR 37,000 (this amount represents costs that the Bank would have  to incur during 2010, if the clients stayed at their original frequency of paper statement sending) also  consumption of paper for statements went considerably down. We used several forms of external com- munication to communicate with the clients (posters, flyers, inserts in statements, Internet Banking, web),  which were promoting the benefits of electronic statements as well as the possibility of winning an at- tractive financial prize. Community Projects Through VUB Foundation, we supported also several ecological projects and events organized by non- governmental organizations. The most significant of them included:    Ekotopfilm – international film festival on permanently sustainable development connected with eco- logical education of children and youth,    Clean Waters – aproject focused on cleaning of mountain tarns, lakes and rivers in the protected terri- tory of High Tatras,    Grants for primary schools within the employee grant program. Ecology was also the theme of the 2010 Photo of the Year – VUB Foundations Award to Young  Photographers competition. In its third annual edition, participants could send their photography art- works with the theme Attractive Earth. COMMUNITY  74 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report           Community COMMUNITY Society NGOs Non-profit organizations State institutions  76 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 77 Our Stakeholders This chapter points out the strength of our voice in the communities either in the area of sponsorship,  donation or cooperation with the non-profit sector. Also in 2010, VUB Bank continued in helping the com- munity, where our clients, partners and employees live. We perceive our responsibility in the social sphere  mainly as an investment into the society. VUB Bank engages in this area together with its foundation.  In 2010, we donated to community projects funds in the volume exceeding EUR 108 thous., whereas the  most significant activity in the field of donation was assistance to communities stricken by devastating  floods. Our activities to the benefit of the community have been concentrated for along-time on the support of:    third sector,    education,    sheltered workshops. Similarly to the past, our most significant project was the support of the Good Angel humanitarian sys- tem by means of our charity payment cards. By elaborating and issuing Corporate Responsibility Reports  for small and medium enterprises and organizing aseries of technical seminars, we were supporting the  promotion of corporate responsibility principles. We continued in assisting women in starting up their  businesses with the EMMA Business Academy project. In philanthropy we followed up on our long-term initiatives aimed at preservation of cultural heritage and  support of fine arts. Through VUB Foundation, we contributed to the restoration of twenty historic monu- ments. We held two self-organized exhibitions of young contemporary art in the fields of fine arts and pho- tography and sponsored the preparation of an extensive exhibition tour of contemporary Slovak fine arts in  the Slovak National Gallery in Bratislava. In the area of education support, we facilitated engagement of two  international professors, who were hosting at two Slovak universities during the whole semester. VUB Bank systematically develops its philanthropic activities and financially supports its foundation in dif- ferent ways:    by donating 2 % of its income tax (EUR 915,419 in 2010),    in terms of personnel,    from the material and administrative perspective,    by providing know-how and services of its suppliers. VUB Foundation is aseparate legal entity, however, it executes some of its activities and projects in close  managerial and financial cooperation with VUB Bank and this is the reason we list these activities also in  this report. All activities of VUB Foundation in 2010 are presented comprehensively in the Annual Report  of VUB Foundation published on the web site www.nadaciavub.sk. Financial Aid VUB Bank supports projects in identical fields, which are targeted also by VUB Foundation in order to  achieve asynergic effect. These are the areas of education, culture and charity. In 2010, VUB Bank funded  31 entities with sponsor donations in the amount of EUR 108 thousand. Overview of Funds Donated 2010 2009 2008 Number of entities funded 31 29 40 Total amount of donations in  108 thous. 90.7 thous. 133 thous. The most significant activity in donation was our assistance to communities stricken by the June devas- tating floods. By means of VUB Foundation, we donated for this purpose EUR 20 thousand. Along with  other financial institutions joined in the Slovak Banking Association, we made adonation of EUR 33,878.  Other EUR 20 thousand were donated to help families, for which their closed ones asked for support in  atelevision show. Non-financial Aid In 2010, VUB Bank donated 38 units of excluded IT equipment to applicants including mainly hospitals,  medical facilities, non-profit organizations and schools. 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of IT Equipment Units Donated 38 89 60 463 Other Types of Aid Cooperation with Non-profit Sector VUB Bank has cooperated with the Good Angel non-profit organization already for the fourth year, for  which it issued unique charity payment cards. One percent of the pay- ments performed goes to the account of the Good Angel non-prof- itable organization which provides help to oncological patients and  families with gravely sick children. This percentage is not donated by  the cardholder, but by VUB Bank on his/her behalf. This is thus anon- standard manner of matching without aclientsprimary deposit, as  he/she is helping only with his/her good will and willingness to help. 2010 2009 2008 Number of Good Angel Maestro cards issued 19,704 15,631 9,936 VUBscontribution in euro (1% from payments performed by clients cards) 121,025 90,373 49,721 With the purpose of helping to motivate employees or clients to contribute to the Good Angel system,  we annually ran acampaign entitled The Good Angels Month. During the campaign, as many as 2,365  standing orders were submitted at branches and through Internet Banking. Via the ATMs were performed  275 deposits. 2010 2009 2008 Standing orders submitted by clients 87,017 33,363 8,434 Amount in euro donated by clients 469,222 316,146 429,839 Cooperation with Schools VUB Bank has had along-term cooperation with universities and secondary schools. We support the  growth of education sectorsquality and in the interest of making education in the finance, banking and  legal fields more attractive we perform:    consultation activities in elaboration of athesis or annual school project,    possibility of an expert internship for secondary school or university students,    technical topical lectures at secondary schools and universities. Also in 2010, we co-participated in the activities for students of schools mainly of economic and techni- cal and mathematic specialization. Several our managers give lectures at universities around Slovakia. We  continued providing consultations in thesis and annual school projects in majority dealing with economic  topics such as retail banking or credit risk, but represented were also topics from marketing communica- tion. Several students participated in an internship, mainly in the corporate business network, risk man- VUB Bank issues unique charity payment cards Good Angel, which help families with serious chronic diseases.  78 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 79 Our Stakeholders agement or human resources. Agreat synergic effect is created by interconnecting these activities with  the VUB Foundation, which annually provides Slovak colleges and universities with:     grants for engaging international professors during awhole semester – the Guest Professor grant  scheme,    award to young economists for ascientific paper – Economicus. Cooperation with Sheltered Workshops VUB Bank aimfully supports also the functioning of sheltered workshops by purchasing their products  and services. The Bank gives apart of its orders to these sheltered workshops also despite the fact that  prices they offer are oftentimes higher and delivery deadlines longer than with common suppliers. In  2010, we purchased from them goods and services in the amount of EUR 69,433. Products and Services Purchased from Sheltered Workshops 2010 2009 2008 2007 Products in euro 68,892 11,310 31,960 64,728 Services in euro 541 5,039 29,606 27,883 Total in euro 69,433 16,349 61,566 92,611 In addition to purchasing products, the functioning of sheltered workshops is supported also by VUB  Foundation, which provides grants for creation of new workplaces. Sheltered workshops can obtain sup- port in the annual open grant scheme. In 2010, grants worth EUR 32 thousand were awarded to seven  sheltered workshops. Engaging Employees in Community Life Just like in the recent years, we ran an internal employee campaign focused on the topic of donating  2 % of individuals income tax and individual donations. Many employees have activated the Good Angel  charity payment card. Each year, the employees make adonation of blood during the campaign VUB  Blood Drop organized in cooperation with the National Transfusion Service. The activity always enjoys  big popularity, in 2010 the participation was 52 donors. Altogether, they donated nearly 24 litres of the  lifesaving liquid. In the effort of engaging VUB employees in the activities beneficial for the community and supporting  their volunteering, VUB Foundation created two employee grant programs. In the Treasures of My Heart  program, employees can receive financial support for preservation of cultural and natural heritage objects.  The employees submit these projects in cooperation with the non-profit sector and self-administrations.  In 2010, our employees submitted 72 projects and received support in the total amount of EUR 105,093. In the second type of employee program, employees can submit projects of educational and charitable  nature. The condition for obtaining the grant is the employeesactive participation in the projectsex- ecution in form of volunteering. Employees submit the projects in cooperation with non-governmental  organizations, schools or local self-administration. This is away to support the ideas and projects that VUB  Bank employees consider meaningful and useful: together they are solving acertain problem in the com- munity, support community activities or acivic association, in which the employees are involved. In 2010,  our employees submitted altogether 88 projects and received support in the amount of EUR 30,649. In  the evaluation committees, aside from experts from the given areas, represented are also the Banksem- ployees. Support of Employee Projects 2010 2009 2008 Number of projects submitted 160 146 127 Number of projects supported 31 17 14 Grants provided in euro 135,742 86,844 58,234 2010 Most Significant Community Projects Assistance to Flood Stricken Communities In the previous year, Slovakia was stricken by extensive floods, worst in the past 150 years. VUB Bank  decided to help communities stricken by this natural disaster. VUB Foundation made afinancial dona- tion of EUR 5 thousand to the organization lovek vohrozen (Human in Peril) to finance humanitar- ian aid in the regions of Spi, ari and Zempln. Families with children appreciated assistance in form  of astay of 30 children in asummer camp, where, at least for ashort time, they could forget about  the difficult situation in their homes. Another amount of EUR 10 thousand was designated for mitiga- tion of flood consequences for specific families in the affected regions. Simultaneously, VUB helped  also families, for which their close ones sent awish for housing reconstruction to atelevision show.  We lent ahelping hand also to our employees that suffered property damages. We likewise brought  several measures for clients to facilitate this difficult period for them, for example afree premature  withdrawal from term deposits or 100-day grace periods in case of instalment purchase. For more  details refer to the Clients chapter.  Corporate Responsibility Reports for Small and Medium Enterprises  In 2010, we continued in the SME project. We addressed aselected sample of our clients from among  the small and medium enterprises and offered them to elaborate and issue for them their own corpo- rate responsibility reports. Within the projectsexecution, we used the following tools:    information brochure on corporate responsibility for SME,    project flyer,    structured questionnaire for data collection,    personal meetings with VUB staff. Based on the data supplied from clients, we elaborated their corporate responsibility reports and  distributed them to the clients in printed form on ecological paper and also in electronic form. In  elaborating the reports, we used the Global Reporting Initiative indicators so as to present the firms in  acomprehensive form – they contained the data on how they were faring financially, but also informa- tion on how they approached their employees, product development or people and environment in  which they operated. Anumber of clients welcomed this offer since the reports helped them achieve  ahigher transparency and as aresults also higher competitiveness. This project was afollow up on  aseries of regional seminars for SME that VUB has organized already third year in cooperation with  the Business Leaders Forum association. In 2010, the seminars took place in Bansk Bystrica, Koice  and Hosttn. Trainings for Starting Female Entrepreneurs In collaboration with the Emma magazine, VUB Bank continued in the training project Emma Business  Academy. It is designed for women, who are fresh graduates, after maternity leave, unemployed and  would like to start abusiness. In the projectssecond year, the course was attended by 17 women. They  acquired the know-how that will help them in starting up their own businesses. The lectures were given  by VUB managers – experts in the areas of finance, business loans, marketing and advertising. Also female  entrepreneurs that have been already for several years successfully running their businesses including the  successful first-year academy attendees came to support and advise them. The female students learned  of the possible forms of running abusiness, how to get abusiness license or establish atrading company.  They also learned of suitable forms of marketing and sale. In the practical section, they tried to prepare  abusiness plan and compile afinancial plan.  80 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 81 Our Stakeholders 2010 VUB Foundation Activities VUB Foundation has developed its activities in the field of philanthropy already for seven years. Last year,  it contributed to several community projects with the amount of over EUR 1 mil., whereof the majority of  funds went to the area of charity (39 %) and support of art and cultural heritage (35 %). Overview of Grants Provided 2010 2009 2008 2007 Support provided in euro 1.2 mil. 903 thous. 547 thous. 514 thous. Number of projects supported 174 138 73 42 For Hope Foundation Program Aprogram aimed at charity that helps various disadvantaged groups to equalize their chances in life. It sup- ports the development of sheltered workplaces, sheltered living, funds therapy for the disadvantaged and  also assists foster families. In the area of healthcare we donated EUR 66 thousand for medical therapies  and purchase of equipment of hospital wards. The grant recipients included ChildrensFaculty Hospital in  Bratislava and ADELI Rehabilitation Centre in Pieany. With the amount of EUR 30 thous., the Foundation  supported the Barrier-free Living project of the Association of Disabled Citizens Organizations, which  funds compensation aids for the disabled. For Education Foundation Program The Foundation has been intensely dealing also with the area of edu- cation. It supports mainly universities of economic and technical spe- cializations. In 2010, it announced the Guest Professor grant scheme  aimed to enable engagement of significant international experts at  Slovak universities in the area of economic science and research. Our  universities can thus intensify their cooperation with international uni- versities and research institutes and bring international experience and  pedagogical procedures to Slovakia. For hosting of the international  professors we allocated EUR 100 thous. within the scheme. The pedagogues were engaged in the au- tumn semester of the school year 2010/2011 – at the Faculty of Mathematics, Physics and Informatics of  the Komensk University in Bratislava and at the Faculty of Economy of the Technical University in Koice. For Art Foundation Program The activities of VUB Foundation focused on cultural heritage and future of fine arts derive from the tradi- tion of enhancing the countrysartistic and historical heritage, which is characteristic also of the Italian  owner of VUB Bank, the banking group Intesa Sanpaolo. In identifying and selecting the monuments  in need for help, we cooperate with local partners and experts. Besides reconstructions, our objective  is also to disseminate awareness of the treasures of our country and at the same time of our national  heritagesvulnerability. In 2010, VUB Foundation contributed to preservation of cultural heritage with  the amount of more than EUR 155 thousand, which was dedicated to execution of projects in different  corners of Slovakia. VUB Foundation granted  support to hosting  international experts at Slovak  universities. Treasures of My Heart The interest of VUB Foundation is to achieve that attention be paid also to monument objects of regional  significance, the preservation of which is equally important as the restoration of national cultural monu- ments. For this purpose, we created aunique grant program Treasures of My Heart, in which funds for  preservation of cultural and natural heritage objects in various regions of Slovakia can be obtained. Owing  to the support of this program, it was possible to preserve several Slovak treasures such as the altar in the  wooden articular church in Hronsek, hundred-year old fire engine in Hodrua-Hmre, renaissance portal  at the Frauenberg cemetery in Bansk tiavnica, staircase to the church in pania Dolina or historic organ  in Vyhne. In the fourth year of the programsexistence, VUB Foundation supported 16 projects with the  amount of EUR 105 093. Also the general public is engaged in the decision-making on monuments to be supported. Last year, 12  historic clocks from various regions of Slovakia in need of support were competing for peoplesvotes in an  Internet voting. Based on results of the voting, which was held during the whole month of November on  aspecial Internet page, VUB Foundation supported the reconstruction of four clocks – mechanic in Trnava,  Preov, Sobotite and solar in Hlohovec. More than 28 thousand voted for preservation of the clocks. Restoration of Calvary in Bansk tiavnica In 2010, the cooperation between VUB Foundation and the Calvary Fund Association in the project of  preservation of the Calvary in Bansk tiavnica continued. This UNESCO protected national monument  Calvary in Bansk tiavnica has been in adilapidated condition for along period of time and in 2007 it  was put on the list of 100 most threatened monuments in the world. Over the period of 10 years, VUB  Foundation will annually provide the Fund with EUR 66,400. Support of Contemporary Fine Arts Inspired by the example of its parent bank, VUB engages itself also as asupporter of art. In cooperation  with the Foundation, each year it organizes acompetition for young fine arts talents entitled Painting -  VUB FoundationsAward to Young Artists for an Artwork. In 2010, the fifth annual competition was held  with 87 artists enrolled. Artworks by the competition finalists were showcased for two months in the  Slovak National Gallery in Bratislava. Besides direct financial support of artists, the competition also helps  promoting the contemporary fine arts. The marketing budget of the Bank was used, among the other, to  finance the organization, catalogue for the exhibition of competitionsfinalists and creation of avirtual  gallery for the presentation of competitionsfinalists at www.nadaciavub.sk. Moreover, VUB Foundation  supported an accompanying exhibition Maba po mabe curated by the SNG. Objective of the competition Photo of the Year – VUB FoundationsAward to Young Photographers is  to support young artists under 35 years of age and promote artworks in the category of photography.  Theme of the second annual edition was one of the values of the co-organizer, VUB Bank, We listen  attentively. Announcement of winners took place in February along with an exhibition opening in the  premises of the University Library in Bratislava.  83 82 Annexes Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Table VUBsadhesion to the Global Compact Principles Global Compact Principles VUB action GRI KPI Human rights 1. Businesses should support  and respect the protection of  internationally proclaimed human  rights   Code of Ethics page 7   Internal and External Ethical Standards page 22   Non-arms Policy page 23   Adherence to international standards in project finance  (Equator Principles) page 24    Social inclusion of disadvantaged people page 78 Human Rights: HR4, HR6,  HR7, HR9 Labour  Practices: LA4, LA6,  LA7, LA8,  LA9, LA13 2.  Businesses should make sure they  are not complicit in human rights  abuses   Code of Ethics page 7   Internal and External Ethical Standards page 22   Promote social and environmental sustainability pages 61 – 62 Human Rights: HR4, HR6,  HR7, HR9 Labour standards 3.  Businesses should uphold the  freedom of association and the  effective recognition of the right to  collective bargaining   Labour/management relations page 51  Labour  Practices: LA4, LA5 4.  Businesses should uphold the  elimination of forms of forced and  compulsory labour   Code of Ethics page 7    Labour/management relations pages 49, 51 Human Rights: HR7 Governance: 4.8., 4.12. 5.  Businesses should uphold the  effective abolition of child labour   Code of Ethics page 7    Labour/management relations page 51 Human Rights: HR6 Governance: 4.8., 4.12. 6.  Businesses should uphold the  elimination of discrimination  in respect of employment and  occupation   Enhancement of human resources pages 45 – 46    Respecting differences pages 42, 49 Labour  Practices: LA2, LA13 Human Rights: HR4 Environment 7.  Businesses should support  aprecautionary approach to  environmental challenges   Environmental Management System and Strategy pages 64 – 65   Adherence to international standards in project finance  (Equator Principles) page 24    Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects page 71   Environmentally Responsible Procurement page 62 Governance: 4.8., 4.12. Economic  Performance: EC2 8.  Businesses should undertake  initiatives to promote greater  environmental responsibility   Strategies for the environment, adhesion to international standards  page 64, 65   Environmental culture page 23, 64   Green initiatives and  community projects page 72 – 73 Environmental  Performance: EN1, EN2,  EN4, EN5,  EN6, EN8,  EN14, EN16,  EN 19-20,  EN22 9.  Businesses should encourage  the development and diffusion  of environmentally friendly  technologies   Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects page 71 – 72   Fostering innovative green technologies page 71 – 72   Financing energy savings projects page page 71 – 72 Environmental  Performance: EN2, EN5,  EN6, EN10 Anti-Corruption 10.  Businesses should work against  corruption in all forms   Code of Ethics page 7   Internal and External Ethical Standards page 22   Transparency in internal processes pages 61 – 62   Internal control mechanisms page 25 – 27 Society: SO2, SO3, SO4 83 Annexes VUBsadhesion to the Global Compact Principles Description GRI Coverage  Page Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 1.1  2 – 3 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 1.2  2 – 3 Organizational Prole Name of the organization. 2.1  89 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2.2  8, 37 – 38 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating  companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.   2.3  14 – 17 Location of organizations headquarters. 2.4  12 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with  either major operations or that are specically relevant to the sustainability issues  covered in the report. 2.5  10 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2.6  9 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of  customers/beneciaries). 2.7  10, 11 Scale of the reporting organization. 2.8  11 Signicant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or  ownership. 2.9  9 Awards received in the reporting period.  2.10  13 Report Parameters Reporting period. 3.1  4 Date of most recent previous report. 3.2  4 Reporting cycle. 3.3   4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 3.4 4 Process for dening report content, including determining materiality; prioritizing  topics within the report; and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use  the report.  3.5  21 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint  ventures, suppliers).   3.6  4 State any specic limitations on the scope or boundary of the report.  3.7  4 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced  operations, and other entities that can signicantly affect comparability from period to  period and/or between organizations. 3.8   4 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 3.9 4 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier  reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 3.10 Not relevant Annexes  84 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 85 Annexes 84 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile Disclosure Description GRI Coverage  Page Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or  measurement methods applied in the report.  3.11 Not relevant GRI Content Index. 3.12  82 – 87  Assurance. . 3.13  88  Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the  highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or  organizational oversight.  4.1  9 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.2  17 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of  the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members.  4.3  16 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction  to the highest governance body.  4.4  49 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior  managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organizations  performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.5 17 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.  4.6  16 – 17 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest  governance body for guiding the organizations strategy on economic, environmental,  and social topics. 4.7  16 – 17 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles  relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their  implementation. 4.8  7 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organizations  identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance,  including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with  internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.9  16 – 17 Processes for evaluating the highest governance bodys own performance, particularly  with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.10  16 – 17 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed  by the organization. 4.11  28 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or  other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses.  4.12  22 – 25, 64 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization. 4.13  12 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.14  19 – 21 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.  4.15  19 – 21 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type  and by stakeholder group. 4.16  21, 34, 35, 51, 54 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement,  and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including  through its reporting. 4.17  30 – 31 85 Annexes Disclosure on Management Page Economic Economic performance  8 – 12 Market Presence 8 – 12 Indirect Economic Impacts 19 – 25, 76 – 81 Environmental Materials 65, 66 Energy 65, 67 Water 65, 69 Biodiversity 65, 70 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste  65, 70 Products and Services  65, 72 Compliance 65 Transport. 65, 70 Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment 42 – 44, 46 Labor/Management Relations 51 Occupational Health and Safety 49, 50 Training and Education 47, 48 Diversity and Equal opportunities 49 Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices 60 – 62 Non-discrimination 49 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 51 Child Labor Not relevant Forced and Compulsory Labor Not relevant Indigenous Rights Not relevant Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety 26 – 39 Product and Service Labeling 26 – 39 Marketing Communications   26 – 39 Customer Privacy 26 – 39 Compliance 26 – 39 Society Community 76 Corruption  27 – 28 Public Policy 23 Anti-Competitive Behavior 22 Compliance 22  86 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 87 Annexes 86 Sprva ozodpovednom podnikan za rok 2010 Performance Indicators Description Aspect Indicators Coverage Page Economic Economic Performance EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed,  including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation,  donations and other community investments, retained  earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.  8, 10 – 11, 76 – 81 Market presence EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally- based suppliers at signicant locations of operation.  60 – 62 Indirect Economic Impacts EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure investments  and services provided primarily for public benet through  commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement.  76 – 81 Environmental  Performance Indicators Indicators Coverage Page Materials EN1. Materials used by weight or volume.  66 EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.  66 Energy EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source.  67 EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source.  68 EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efciency  improvements.  69 EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efcient or renewable  energy based products and services, and reductions in energy  requirements as a result of these initiatives.  72, 73 Water  EN8. Total water withdrawal by source.  69 EN9. Water sources signicantly affected by withdrawal of  water.  70 EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and  reused.  70 EN11. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in,  or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity  value outside protected areas.  70 Biodiversity EN14. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for  managing impacts on biodiversity.   70 Emissions, Efuents, and  Waste  EN16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by  weight.  70 EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.  70 EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.  70 EN20. NO, SO, and other signicant air emissions by type and  weight.  70 EN21. Total water discharge by quality and destination.  70 EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.  70, 71 EN23. Total number and volume of signicant spills.  70 EN24. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated  waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention  Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste  shipped internationally.  70 EN25. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value  of water bodies and related habitats signicantly affected by  the reporting organizations  70 87 Annexes Labor Practices and  Indicators  Decent Work Coverage Page Employment LA1. Total workforce by employment type, employment  contract, and region.  42 LA2. Total number and rate of employee turnover by age  group, gender, and region  44, 45 LA3. Benets provided to full-time employees that are not  provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major  operations.  46, 47 Labor/Management relations LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective  bargaining agreements.  51 LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational  changes, including whether it is specied in collective  agreements.  51 Occupational health and  safety LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal  joint management–worker health and safety committees that  help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety  programs.  49, 50 LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and  absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region.  50 LA8. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk- control programs in place to assist workforce members, their  families, or community members regarding serious diseases.  50 LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements  with trade unions.  50 Training and education LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee by  employee category.  47, 48 LA11. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning  that support the continued employability of employees and  assist them in managing career endings.  47, 48 Diversity and equal  opportunity LA13. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown  of employees per category according to gender, age group,  minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity..  42, 49 Human Rights Indicators Coverage Page Non-discrimination Indigenous Rights Child Labour Forced and Compulsory Labour HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions  taken.  49 HR6. Operations identied as having signicant risk for  incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to  the elimination of child labor.  49 HR7. Operations identied as having signicant risk for  incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to  contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor.  49 HR9. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights  of indigenous people and actions taken.  49  88 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 89 Annexes Statement of External Verifier 88 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Product responsibility Coverage Page Product And Service Labeling PR5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including  results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.  36 – 37 Marketing Communications PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and  voluntary codes related to marketing communications,  including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.  39 Compliance PR9. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance  with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of  products and services.  62 Society Coverage  Page Community SO1. Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and  practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on  communities, including entering, operating, and exiting.   76 – 78 Corruption SO2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed  for risks related to corruption.  22 – 28 SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organizations anti- corruption policies and procedures.  22 – 28 SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.  22 – 28 Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive  behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their  outcomes.  22 Compliance SO8. Monetary value of significant fines and total number  of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and  regulations.  22 89 Annexes Statement of External Verifier       Statement on the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report   of Veobecn verov banka, a.s.    Veobecn verov banka, a.s. (VB bank) has published its 4th report on corporate  responsibility according to the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting  Guidelines (GRI Guidelines). The Pontis Foundation was in charge of providing an  assurance on the usage of the third version (G3) of the GRI Guidelines. The report was  prepared solely by the VB bank and the VB bank is fully responsible for the accuracy  of the data provided in the report.  According to our best knowledge, the report fulfills all the conditions of application level  B+. The report contains all the necessary profile information and more than a required  number of indicators.   A report prepared using these Guidelines is easily comparable with reports from previous  years and also across the sector. The report shows changes (positive and negative) in  company performance and its impact in all three measured areas. The report is written in  an appropriate language and can be easily understood by every stakeholder. We  appreciate a fast preparation of the report and the publication of the report alongside  with the financial report.  We advise VB bank to consult stakeholders in the process of choosing indicators and  also try to get feedback on the report from them. We also advise to explain the worse  performance in some areas, such as the use of paper and to set goals for the next  reporting period. The company should consider publishing the report on the internet in an  interactive way.    Bratislava, March 31, 2011                                 Janka Ruick, Michal Kia,        Lenka Surotchak    Reviewers              Director  Pontis Foundation            Pontis Foundation   Issued by: Veobecn verov banka, a. s. Mlynsk nivy 1 829 90 Bratislava Slovak Republic www.vub.sk csr@vub.sk External Verifier: Pontis Foundation, Bratislava Layout: Istropolitana Ogilvy The report was issued on March 31, 2011 The 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report has been translated from Slovak into English solely for the  convenience of international readers. The original document in Slovak prevails over any translation and will be  made available upon request.