Corporate  responsibility  report 2009 Responsible brand /	Responsible	brand  /	Responsible	brand Guided	 by	 the	 desire	 to	 protect	 the	 natural	 environment	 PKN	 ORLEN	 had	 its	 Corporate	 respon	sibility	report	printed	with	the	use	of	only	 two	printing	inks	on	Cyclus	Offset	ecological	 paper	awarded	the	following	certificates:  Letter	from	the	President	of	the	PKN	ORLEN	Management	Board	 5 /	About	PKN	ORLEN 1.1.	Welcome	to	PKN	ORLEN	 8 1.2.	Our	Report	 11 1.3.	Responsible	brand	 11 /	Responsibility	towards	the	market 2.1.	PKN	ORLEN	on	the	Capital	Market	 18	 2.2.	The	Supervisory	Board	 24	 2.3.	Key	opportunities	and	risks	 27	 /	Workplace	responsibility 3.1.	Corporate	Culture	 30	 3.2.	Relations	with	employees	 35	 3.3.	Occupational	health	and	safety	 41	 /	Responsibility	towards	customers	 		 and	partners 4.1.	Customer	care	 46 4.2.	Relations	with	suppliers	 47 4.3.	Responsible	production	 48 /	Environmental	and	social	 		 responsibility 5.1.	Environmental	responsibility		 56 5.2.	Public	relations		 66 5.3.	Pro-social	work	 69 Awards	 71 Certificates	held	by	PKN	ORLEN		 72 Index	of	website	addresses	quoted	in	the	Report	 72 GRI	Indicator	Index	 73 Contact	data	 74   /	TABLE	Of	CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 5  /	Letter	from	the	President	of	the	PKN	ORLEN	Management	Board /	5 /	Dear	stakeholders, Since	the	moment	of	its	inception	in	2000,	the	ORLEN	brand	 has	unceasingly	grown	in	value.	In	2009,	it	was	recognised	 once	again	as	the	most	valuable.	This	is	a	cause	for	pride	 and	satisfaction,	but	also	presents	us	with	a	responsibility	 to	 take	 special	 care	 to	 safeguard	 that	 value	 by	 building	 long-term	partnerships	with	all	of	the	Companys	stakeholders	 —	relationships	based	on	solid	foundations.	 This	dimension	of	our	work	is	extremely	important	in	the	eco- nomic	 realities	 of	 today.	 Transparency,	 ethical	 business	 practices,	and	positive	relations	with	the	market	environment	 in	the	broader	sense;	these	are	all	considerations	which	 continue	to	grow	in	importance	and	the	main	reasons	why	 responsible	business	practices	are	rising	higher	and	higher	 among	the	priorities	of	todays	companies	The	consistent	buil- ding	of	good	relations	helps	to	enhance	trust	in	the	company,	 which,	in	turn,	can	influence	the	profitability	of	its	operations. The	position	of	PKN	ORLEN,	its	Europe-wide	range	of	ope- rations	and	the	number	of	stakeholders	present	the	company	 with	many	challenges.	We	must	respect	and	meet	a	wide	 variety	of	expectations	from	our	shareholders,	local	commu- nities,	customers,	employees,	business	partners,	and	other	 parties	affected	by	our	business.	The	companys	activities	are	 scrutinised	by	society,	which	demands	responsibility	on	our	 part	and	holds	us	accountable	for	it.	In	realising	our	funda- mental	business	goal,	which	is	to	increase	the	Companys	 value,	we	therefore	carefully	examine	the	methods	by	which	 we	achieve	that	goal.	At	PKN	ORLEN,	we	understand	the	idea	 of	corporate	responsibility	to	entail	a	considered,	long-term	 management	strategy	in	which	we	take	responsibility	for	not	 only	our	financial	results,	but	also	for	the	influence	we	have	 on	the	environment	in	which	we	work.	We	also	see	it	as	our	 duty	to	provide	reliable	information	about	our	operations.	 for	that	reason,	among	others,	PKN	ORLEN	distinguishes	 itself	in	the	Polish	marketplace	with	the	number	of	reports	 that	it	provides.	 Our	participation	in	the	Global	Impact	initiative,	established	 by	 the	 Secretary	 General	 of	 the	 United	 Nations,	 is	 very	 important	 to	 us;	 we	 have	 supported	 the	 program	 since	 2003,	heeding	its	guidelines	and	putting	forward	our	own	 best	practices	as	an	example.	The	Company	has	committed	 to	uphold	all	ten	principles	concerning	human	rights,	workpla- ce	standards,	environmental	protection,	and	anti-corruption	 activities.	 Participation	 in	 this	 initiative	 is	 a	 confirmation	 of	the	openness	and	transparency	of	the	Company,	and	 constitutes	a	public	commitment	to	those	principles	and	readi- ness	to	verify	our	adherence	to	them	on	a	day-to-day	basis. The	philosophy	of	corporate	responsibility	is	present	in	eve- ry	dimension	of	the	companys	activities.	for	many	years	 we	have	honoured	the	commitments	that	we	have	made	to	our	 stakeholders.	That	is	why	we	take	satisfaction	in	the	fact	 that	 PKN	 ORLEN	 now	 finds	 itself	 among	 the	 elite	 group	 of	16	companies	which,	since	November	of	2009,	have	 been	 noted	 on	 the	 Warsaw	 Stock	 Exchanges	 RESPECT	 Index.	The	group	is	made	up	of	companies	who	operate	 in	accordance	with	the	principles	of	corporate	responsibility.	 Our	presence	there	is	indicative	of	our	long-term	strategic	 approach	to	these	issues.	 I	believe	that	it	also	reflects	the	still-growing	trust	garnered	 by	the	ORLEN	brand,	built	not	only	on	the	basis	of	economic	 effects,	but	also	on	its	perception	in	the	fields	of	good	practices	 employed	and	its	respected	values	of	corporate	responsibility.	 for	the	Company,	the	high	evaluation	of	the	brand	based	 on	the	opinions	of	stakeholders	and	partners	is	not	only	 the	 highest	 distinction,	 but	 also	 a	 challenge	 to	 keep	 our	 work	at	an	invariably	high	level. I	believe	that	our	commitment	and	diligence	in	perfecting	 the	quality	of	our	cooperation	with	all	stakeholders	will	pay	 dividends	in	the	form	of	the	enhancement	of	positive	relations	 with	our	market	environment	and,	in	effect,	even	stronger	 trust	for	the	Company	and	ORLEN	brand. Dariusz	Jacek	Krawiec President	of	the	PKN	ORLEN	Management	Board  /	About	PKN	ORLEN  /	About	PKN	ORLEN /	8 /	WELCOME	TO	PKN	ORLEN Polski	Koncern	Naftowy	ORLEN	is	a	modern,	professionally	 managed	 Company	 which	 applies	 state-of-the-art	 techno- logical	 solutions.	 Our	 brand	 also	 symbolizes	 a	 dynamic	 expansion	and	successful	transformation	from	Petrochemia	 Pock	SA	and	CPN	SA	into	PKN	ORLEN. PKN	ORLEN	is	a	leader	not	only	of	the	Polish	economy,	but	 also	of	the	regional	refinery	and	petrochemical	industry,	 a	leading	producer	and	dealer	of	refinery	and	petrochemical	 products.	Our	products	are	subject	to	control	from	production	 to	distribution	stage,	as	our	top	priority	is	the	highest	quality	 of	manufactured	products	and	offered	services.	 We	have	the	largest	fuel	station	network	in	Central	Europe,	 covering	Poland,	Germany,	the	Czech	Republic	and	Lithu- ania.	 Our	 fuel	 stations	 offer	 top	 quality	 products	 and	 services.	PKN	ORLEN	retail	network	is	based	on	effective	 logistics	infrastructure	consisting	of	corporate	and	external	 fuel	terminals,	underground	cavern	storages	and	a	network	 of	long-distance	pipelines. As	 at	 31	 December	 2009	 the	 ORLEN	 Capital	 Group	 consisted	of	125	companies.	The	Group	included	82	sub- sidiaries	(36	direct	subsidiaries,	46	indirect	subsidiaries),	 58	directly	affiliated	entities,	67	indirect	affiliates,	including	 3	joint	venture	companies	(2	directly	affiliated,	1	indirectly	 affiliated). Today	PKN	ORLEN	is	the	Polish	synonym	of	world-class	pro- ducts	and	model	expansive	enterprise,	a	company	obser	ving	 the	 principles	 of	 corporate	 social	 responsibility,	 ethics,	 corporate	governance	and	full	transparency.	The	Company	 stimulates	 the	 professional	 development	 of	 its	 employees	 and	strives	to	protect	the	natural	environment.	PKN	ORLEN	 aims	at	maintaining	the	proper	balance	between	economics,	 surrounding	environment	and	human	needs.	Consequently,	 thanks	to	effective	domestic	and	international	investments,	 PKN	 ORLEN	 has	 joined	 Europes	 leaders	 –	 companies	 perceived	as	model	representatives	of	their	countries.	 /	OUR	MOTTO 	 	 Whenever	you	need	us. /	OUR	MISSION Aiming	to	become	the	regional	leader,	we	ensure	long-term	 value	creation	for	our	shareholders	by	offering	our	customers	 products	and	services	of	the	highest	quality. 	 All	our	operations	adhere	to	best	practice	principles	of	cor- porate	governance	and	social	responsibility,	with	a	focus	 on	care	for	our	employees	and	the	natural	environment. 1.1.  /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	9 	 Do	you	know	that... In	2009	PKN	ORLEN	celebrated	the	10th	anniversary	 of	its	operations,	the	65th	anniversary	of	the	CPN	SA	 establishment	and	50th	anniversary	of	the	establishment	 of	Mazowieckie	Zakady	Rafineryjne	i	Petrochemiczne	 in	Pock	(Masovian	Refinery	and	Petrochemical	Plants	 in	Pock),	which	were	transformed	into	PKN	ORLEN. Warszawa Pock Praga Berlin Hamburg Maeiki Wilno  /	10 /	About	PKN	ORLEN 2007 2008 2009 Selected	financial	data	(in	000	PLN)1 I Revenue	on	sales 42,703,668 57,224,864 47,481,278 II Operating	income 2,093,194 636,354 790,306 III Profit/(loss)	before	tax 3,257,469 (2,063,057) 1,907,812 IV Net	profit/(loss) 2,759,859 (1,570,947) 1,635,885 V Net	operating	cash	flow	(used) 847,144 1,292,773 2,806,414 VI Net	investing	cash	flow (1,423,667) (1,993,857) (1,615,776) VII Net	financing	cash	flow 435,476 975,898 335,897 VIII VIII.	Net	increase/(decrease)	in	cash (141,047) 274,814 1,526,535 IX Net	profit/(loss)	and	diluted	profit/(loss)	per	ordinary	share	(in	PLN) 6.45 (3.67) 3.82 as	at	 31	December	2007 as	at	 31	December	2008 as	at	 31	December	2008 X fixed	assets 19,958,199 20,427,025 23,006,696 XI Current	assets 12,011,508 11,572,579 14,009,655 XII Total	assets 31,969,707 31,999,604 37,016,351 XIII Long-term	liabilities 7,289,067 1,216,318 10,368,702 XIV Short-term	liabilities 6,847,058 15,401,410 9,514,751 XV Equity 17,833,582 15,381,876 17,132,898 XVI Share	capital 1,057,635 1,057,635 1,057,635 XVII Number	of	shares 427,709,061 427,709,061 427,709,061 XVIII Book	value	and	diluted	book	value	per	share	(in	PLN) 41.70 35.96 40.06 Throughput	and	output	of	the	Pock	Refinery	(in	000	tonnes) Crude	oil	processed 13,646 14,218 14,526 Petrol 2,610 2,800 3,055 Diesel	fuel 4,568 5,078 5,330 Ekoterm 840 840 790 Aviation	fuel 355 418 291 LPG 190 221 210 Environmental	impact Water	consumption	form	the	Vistula	(in	m3) 23,721,604 22,991,953 22,448,565 Sewage	discharge	to	the	Vistula	(in	m3) 12,744,813	 12,381,024 11,351,599 COD2	load	in	sewage	discharged	to	the	Vistula	(kg/y) 974,684	 676,524 726,812 Total	emissions	of	all	pollutants	(in	Mg), 6,270,414.25 6,189,145.40 6,158,012.71 including: sulphur	dioxide 20,973.30 20,444.59 20,975.23 nitrogen	oxides	(as	per	nitrogen	dioxide) 7,474.71 6,821.48 7,124.27 carbon	monoxide 762.38 812.16 1,010.87 total	hydrocarbons 1,397.44 1,384.01 1,238.12 fuel	combustion	dust 574.53 453.34 399.75 carbon	dioxide 6,238,941.29 6,158,959.11 6,126,894.42 other	pollutants 290.60 270.71 370.05 Responsible	production Environmental	charges	(in	PLN)	 17,048,947.56 16,572,326.63 17,226,918.00 including: for	emission	(including	transport)	3	 15,184,647.46 14,784,628.49 15,461,484.00 for	water	consumption 1,120,609.14 1,085,832.47 1,082,459.00 for	sewage	discharge 743,690.96 701,865.67 682,975.00 Investment	expenditures	for	environmental	protection	(in	PLN) 122,205,258.30 259,126,877.37 191,757,998.86 Our	employees Employment	as	at	31	December 4,748 4,725 4,922 Accidents	at	work	(including	grave) 26	(1) 26 23	 Absence	from	work	following	accidents	at	work 1,340 952 996 1)	Selected	financial	data	concerns	PKN	ORLEN	and	applies	to	the	year	completed	on	31	December. 2)	COD	–	chemical	oxygen	demand. 3)	The	amount	includes	charges	for	C02	emission	allowances.  /	11 /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	OUR	REPORT This	 is	 already	 the	 sixth	 corporate	 responsibility	 report	 issued	by	PKN	ORLEN.	Since	2007,	the	Company	issues	 its	reports	annually.	As	in	the	previous	year,	this	report	was	 prepared	in	accordance	with	GRI	G3	B-level	guidelines.	 This	 level	 tells	 the	 reader	 how	 advanced	 the	 Company	 is	in	terms	of	the	number	of	indicators	and	the	possibilities	 of	 further	 expansion	 of	 reporting	 in	 the	 following	 years.	 It	also	corresponds	to	the	level	of	incorporation	of	GRI	G3	 Guidelines	and	GRI	Reporting	framework.	More	information	 on	application	levels	and	GRI	G3	Guidelines	are	available	 at:	http://www.globalreporting.org. In	2008	we	conducted	the	consultation	process	as	a	result	 of	 which	 we	 defined	 the	 map	 of	 stakeholders.	 We	 also	 identified	the	aspects	of	the	Companys	activities	significant	 from	the	perspective	of	the	stakeholders.	This	information	 is	presented	on	our	website	www.orlen.pl.	As	in	previous	 years,	 our	 stakeholders	 actively	 participate	 in	 the	 pro- cess	 of	 development	 of	 corporate	 responsibility	 reports.	 This	is	reflected	for	example	in	the	involvement	of	emplo- yees	and	statements	of	visitors	representing	various	groups	 of	stakeholders. This	Report	presents	the	most	important	events	in	PKN	ORLEN	 in	2009.	We	also	provide	selected	information	on	the	Capi- tal	Group,	although	the	report	relates	only	to	the	Company.	 The	Report	for	2009	shows	the	adjusted	sales	revenue	for	 2008	 due	 to	 changes	 in	 comparable	 data	 in	 this	 item.	 Data	on	LPG	for	2008	were	also	adjusted.	 The	 Report	 as	 a	 whole	 was	 not	 verified	 by	 an	 external	 auditor.	 for	more	information	on	PKN	ORLEN	corporate	responsi- bility,	visit	www.orlen.pl.	It	is	worth	noting	that	since	last	 year	the	corporate	responsibility	report	has	been	published	 in	an	interactive,	attractive	and	reader-friendly	format. 	 Do	you	know	that... The	PKN	ORLEN	2008	corporate	responsibility	report	 is	 known	 e.g.	 in	 India.	 It	 was	 from	 this	 country	 that	 we	received	not	only	words	of	appreciation,	but	also	 a	wish	to	provide	its	paper	version. /	RESPONSIBLE	BRAND ORLEN	is	a	national,	modern	and	professional	brand	that	 offers	 innovative	 products	 and	 services	 on	 a	 world-class	 level,	serving	people	in	their	everyday	life,	in	accordance	 with	the	Company	motto	Always	there	when	you	need	us. The	 brand	 has	 existed	 since	 2000.	 The	 name	 and	 logo	 of	the	Company,	as	verbal	and	verbal-graphic	trademarks,	 were	filed	for	protection	with	the	Patent	Office	of	the	Repu- blic	of	Poland	and	received	relevant	protection	certificates	 in	 accor	dance	 with	 the	 Polish	 and	 international	 law.	 The	 brand	 mark	 is	 currently	 protected	 on	 the	 European	 Union	 market	 and	 in	 the	 selected	 group	 of	 countries	 all	 over	the	world.	Protection	extends	also	over	various	versions	 of	the	corporate	logo,	the	image	of	the	ORLEN	brand	fuel	 station,	names	and	logos	of	products	and	services	owned	 by	PKN	ORLEN.	In	2009	patent	protection	covered	over	 20	trademarks	related	to	the	corporate	brand,	20	advertising	 slogans	created	for	the	Company	and	over	130	trademarks	 of	products	and	services.	 Responsibility	 for	 protection	 of	 PKN	 ORLEN	 trademarks	 rests	with	patent	agents	and	the	Marketing	Office	services.	 The	agents	monitor	the	applications	database	of	the	Patent	 Office	of	the	Republic	of	Poland	in	order	to	prevent	violations	 of	 the	 Companys	 rights.	 Corporate	 Identity	 Department	 monitors	 the	 media	 with	 the	 aim	 to	 identify	 illegal	 uses	 1.2. 1.3. Pock New Dehli  /	12 /	About	PKN	ORLEN of	corporate	brand	mark	in	communication.	It	also	under- takes	activities	aimed	at	elimination	from	the	market	fuel	 stations	that	illegally	assume	the	image	of	the	Companys	 fuel	stations.	 In	accordance	with	applicable	strategy	of	corporate	brand	 management	 the	 ORLEN	 mark	 has	 also	 been	 included	 in	 names	 of	 subsidiary	 companies	 of	 the	 ORLEN	 Capi- tal	 Group.	 The	 decisive	 criterion	 applied	 when	 making	 decision	 concerning	 the	 use	 of	 the	 ORLEN	 designation	 in	the	name	is	the	activity	of	a	company	in	the	core	business	 of	PKN	ORLEN.	Another	condition	is	the	ability	to	create	 added	value	by	strengthening	the	corporate	brand	compe- tence	on	the	basis	of	such	qualities	as	modernity,	technolo- gical	advancement,	progress,	innovation,	and	systemness.	 Companies	operating	outside	the	core	business,	which	are	 not	related	to	products	or	services	offered	by	PKN	ORLEN	 and	do	not	strengthen	its	competences,	are	entitled	to	use	 the	GRUPA	ORLEN	designation. In	2009,	on	the	basis	of	concluded	agreements,	28	compa- nies	used	ORLEN	designation	as	the	element	of	the	compa- ny	name,	and	7	companies	used	the	trademark	element	 in	the	form	of	Grupa	ORLEN	annotation	next	to	their	logos. /	 Our	main	brands ORLEN	Brand In	May	1998	the	Polish	Council	of	Ministers	resolved	to	esta- blish	a	national	petroleum	company	by	merging	Centrala	 Produktw	Naftowych	CPN	SA	with	Petrochemia	Pock	SA.	 Thus,	on	7	September	1998,	Polski	Koncern	Naftowy	SA	 came	to	existence.	The	newly-established	company	needed	 a	new	brand.	When	looking	for	a	trade	name,	efforts	were	 made	 to	 achieve	 associations	 with	 the	 ideas	 prevailing	 in	the	Companys	brand	strategy:	world-class,	petroleum,	 modern	 and	 national.	 It	 was	 concluded	 that	 the	 name	 should	reflect:	quality,	strength,	power,	energy,	be	suitable	 for	a	manufacturer	operating	in	the	fuel	and	petrochemical	 industry,	demonstrate	technological	advancement	and	pro- ecological	approach	of	the	Company	as	well	as	customer	 focus.	Naturally,	the	Polish	origin	of	the	Company	and	its	 dominating	position	on	the	market	had	to	be	incorporated	 as	well. The	next	stage	in	the	process	of	developing	a	visual	identi- fication	system	for	the	ORLEN	brand	consisted	in	designing	 a	 graphic	 symbol	 consistent	 with	 the	 name.	 The	 most	 D.	Bolesaw	Rok CSR	Postgraduate	Studies	Academic	Director,	 Kozminski	University	 For many years you have been observing and supporting  thedevelopment ofcorporate responsibility inPoland.  What are thekey challenges currently faced byPolish  companies wishing toconduct their business activities  inafully responsible way?  In my opinion, themost significant challenges nowadays  consist in strengthening the role of ethical leadership  onthelevel oftheentire company aswell asits individual  business units, which should allow shaping solid foundations  for responsible competitiveness and innovation. To achieve  this goal itis necessary todevelop better educational  programmes, targeted at employees, customers and all  business or social partners, aswell asimproved instruments  which make itpossible tofunction within thenetwork  ofinterdependencies inan effective and ethical way. Corporate responsibility signifies the process of reco gnizing and including thechanging social expectations  inthemanagement strategy, and monitoring theinfluence  ofsuch strategies onthegrowth ofthecompanys value.  A growing level ofcomplexity and changeability oftheenvi ronment constitutes one ofthemost significant factors  making itnecessary tolook for better ways ofsustainable  growth, especially bythebiggest companies onthegiven  market. Therefore itis necessary todevelop theability  toreact wisely tochanges ofsocial, legal orenvironmental  character, which appear both inthebroader and more  immediate environment.  /	13 /	Corporate	responsibility	report renowned	Polish	graphic	designers	were	invited	to	participate	 in	 a	 competition	 to	 create	 the	 symbol	 for	 the	 Company.	 The	jury	members	were	most	impressed	with	the	work	by	pro- fessor	Henryk	Chyliski,	who	also	designed	the	logos	for	 the	Teraz	Polska	foundation	and	the	Polskie	Radio,	among	 others.	The	winning	sign	represents	a	stylized	eagles	head.	 The	present	form	of	the	logo	also	incorporates	the	trade	 name,	displayed	on	a	rectangular	field.	Red,	white,	grey	 and	silver	were	chosen	as	the	Companys	brand	colours.	 The	ORLEN	brand	image	was	first	presented	in	2000,	in	con- nection	with	the	secondary	public	offering	of	the	Company	 shares	on	the	Warsaw	Stock	Exchange.	 The	brand	identity	structure	gained	a	monolithic	character,	 resulting	in	the	use	of	a	uniform	branding	for	the	Company,	 its	 products,	 as	 well	 as	 members	 of	 the	 Capital	 Group.	 Accordingly,	the	ORLEN	brand	became	a	part	of	the	image	 of	the	Group	companies	and	their	products.	The	ORLEN	 logo	 is	 also	 displayed	 on	 engine	 oils	 and	 operating	 flu- ids,	lubricants	and	a	wide	range	of	chemicals	for	motor	 vehicles.	However,	the	Companys	flagship	is	its	network	 of	fuel	stations,	whose	standards	conform	to	competences	 and	requirements	specified	in	the	ORLEN	corporate	brand	 strategy. Moreover,	 the	 brand	 is	 associated	 with	 charity	 activities	 carried	out	by	the	ORLEN	Dar	Serca	foundation.	The	brand	 image	 is	 also	 created	 by	 the	 ORLEN	 Rally	 Team,	 which	 represents	both	the	Company	and	the	country	in	the	most	 important	rally	events	organised	in	Poland	and	abroad. Leszek	Kurnicki	 Marketing	Executive	Director	 in	PKN	ORLEN	 What attests tothefact that ORLEN isboth avaluable  and responsible brand? Its current value was evidenced in2009, when theORLEN  brand was declared, for the third time in succession,  themost valuable domestic brand. Our corporate brand  came first intheMARQA ranking, according towhich itis  worth over PLN 3.6 billion. We reported a27% increase  inthebrand value against 2008, when itwas estimated  at PLN 2.8 billion. In theIndependent Polish Brand Reputation Ranking,  PremiumBrand 2009, ORLEN received thetitle ofa High  Reputation Brand. Brand reputation isone ofthemost pre cious assets inany company. This constitutes akey factor  motivating customers topurchase or use oftheproduct.  PKNORLEN appreciates theHigh Reputation Brand title  astheevidence that theCompany isperceived asareliable  and responsible business partner.  ORLEN has also been awarded theSuperbrands Pol ska title, which is another proof of its strong position  onthedomestic market. Our brand has received this title  for thefourth time already. Since 2000 PKNORLEN has  kept thehighest position inRzeczpospolita and Polityka  rankings – Lista 500.  /	14 /	About	PKN	ORLEN /	 ORLEN	fuel	stations Currently,	the	ORLEN	brand	includes	a	fuel	station	network	 in	Poland	and	Lithuania.	These	are	modern	facilities	offering	 top	quality	fuel	and	services,	friendly	stop-over	and	resting	 places.	ORLEN	fuel	stations	guarantee	quality	and	safety,	 offering	loyalty	programmes	and	car	fleet	services. Verva	 is	 a	 brand	 of	 new	 generation	 fuel,	 enriched	 with	 a	set	of	additives	ensuring	dynamic	operation	and	power	 of	the	engine,	better	acceleration,	lower	fuel	consumption,	 and,	consequently,	lower	user	costs. VITAY	is	the	brand	of	the	Polish	most	extensive	customer	 loyalty	 programme	 aimed	 at	 and	 created	 for	 customers	 of	ORLEN	fuel	stations.	The	programme	offers	a	wide	range	 of	rewards.	In	accordance	with	the	motto	–	we	know	what	 you	really	need	–	it	also	stimulates	activities	and	behaviours	 of	customers,	their	zest	for	life.	Its	is	easily	available	and	 user	friendly,	and	the	rules	of	collecting	points	are	simple. flota	is	a	professional	fleet	programme	focused	on	the	needs	 of	business	customers.	It	offers	partnership	approach	and	 advanced	technological	solutions.	The	fleet	cards	offer	was	 developed	and	tailored	to	the	needs	of	companies	of	various	 sizes	and	representing	different	business	sectors.	The	main	 advantage	of	the	brand	is	its	comprehensive	offer	targeted	 at	 various	 B2B	 sectors.	 Participation	 in	 the	 programme	 guarantees	 safe	 and	 convenient	 payment	 for	 fuel	 and	 services,	and	sound	financial	management	through	better	 control	over	a	companys	fuel	expenses. 	 Do	you	know	that... In	2009,	for	the	eighth	time	in	succession	(since	2002),	 ORLEN	 fuel	 stations	 received	 the	 Golden	 European	 Trusted	Brands	logo	in	a	consumer	survey	conducted	 across	Europe	by	Readers	Digest.	This	shows	consu- mers	appreciation	for	the	modern	brand	on	the	fuel	 market,	offering	high	level	of	services,	competitive	and	 rich	assortment	of	products,	as	well	as	a	wide	range	 of	non-fuel	products.  /	15 /	Corporate	responsibility	report The	 most	 loyal	 customers	 may	 participate	 in	 the	 Super	 VITAY	 programme,	 which	 is	 a	 unique,	 prestigious	 offer	 under	the	VITAY	loyalty	programme.	 Stop	Cafe	is	a	place	where	travellers	may	enjoy	good	coffee	 as	well	as	tasty	and	healthy	snacks.	The	main	advantage	 of	 the	 brand	 is	 its	 accessibility,	 which	 saves	 time	 during	 the	travel.	Stop	Cafe	is	a	friendly	place	which	offers	com- fort	and	efficient	service,	satisfying	the	needs	and	lifestyle	 requirements	of	current	and	potential	customers. BLISKA	 is	 a	 fuel	 station	 network	 offering	 good	 value	 for	 money	 on	 its	 products	 and	 services.	 BLISKA	 stations	 are	 reliable	 and	 accessible	 places	 for	 all	 drivers	 who	 need	 to	refuel	their	vehicles.	Our	customers	may	also	buy	other	 products	and	take	advantage	of	optimally	tailored	services.	 Reasonably	 selected	 offer	 allows	 customers	 to	 save	 both	 time	and	money. In	2009,	for	the	second	time	in	succession,	BLISKA	was	 included	among	the	Most	Valuable	Polish	Brands	according	 to	a	ranking	by	MARQA.	BLISKA	came	15th	and	was	valu	ed	 at	PLN	713.3	mln.	This	means	an	88%	increase	in	the	value	 of	the	brand	compared	to	2008. 	 Do	you	know	that... 	The	name	ORLEN	was	coined	by	linking	the	Polish	 word	 ORZE	 (eagle),	 which	 reflects	 the	 Polish	 national	 character	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 provides	 a	reference	to	the	national	emblem	of	Poland;	and	 the	 Polish	 word	 ENERGIA	 (energy),	 evoking	 as- sociations	 with	 strength,	 energy	 and	 international	 character	of	the	Company.	 	The	process	of	inventing	the	name	included	linguistic	 and	association-based	surveys	(in	Polish,	English	and	 selected	groups	of	world	languages).	Among	their	 authors	 was	 a	 famous	 propagator	 of	 the	 beauty	 of	the	Polish	language	–	professor	Jerzy	Bralczyk. 	The	 author	 of	 the	 company	 symbol	 referring	 to	the	name	–	the	stylized	eagle	head	–	is	professor	 Henryk	 Chyliski,	 a	 graduate	 and	 later	 a	 lecturer	 at	the	Academy	of	fine	Arts	in	Warsaw. Ekoterm	 Plus	 is	 a	 natural	 source	 of	 heat.	 It	 is	 a	 modern	 light	heating	fuel	which	has	been	designed	for	use	in	buil- dings	and	meets	relevant	European	standards.	The	product	 is	environmentally	friendly	and	has	high	quality	parameters.	 Thanks	to	its	high	net	calorific	value,	it	is	very	productive	 and	thus	economic.	Ekoterm	plus	offers	long-lasting	heat,	 safety	and	convenience	of	use	so	that	our	customers	may	 enjoy	the	time	spent	in	the	warmth	of	the	family	hearth.	  /	Responsibility	towards	the	market  /	18 /	Responsibility	towards	the	market	 /	PKN	ORLEN	ON	THE	CAPITAL 	 MARKET PKN	ORLEN	SA	shares	are	listed	on	the	Warsaw	Stock	 Exchange	and	in	the	form	of	Global	Depository	Receipts	 (GDRs)	on	the	London	Stock	Exchange.	Trading	in	deposito- ry	receipts	also	takes	place	in	the	USA	on	the	OTC	market.	 The	shares	of	PKN	ORLEN	were	first	listed	in	November	 1999.	The	Bank	of	New	York	Mellon	is	the	depository	 of	the	Companys	depository	receipts.	The	transaction	unit	 on	the	London	Stock	Exchange	is	1	GDR,	which	equals	 to	two	shares	of	the	Company. The	Company	share	capital	amounts	to	PLN	534,636,326.25	 and	is	divided	into	427,709,061	ordinary	bearer	shares	 with	a	par	value	of	PLN	1.25	per	share. The	 Company	 shares	 are	 listed	 on	 the	 official	 market	 at	the	Warsaw	Stock	Exchange	in	the	continuous	trading	 system	 and	 are	 included	 among	 the	 largest	 company	 indexes:	WIG20	and	WIG,	and	WIG-fuel	index.	Since	 19	 November	 2009,	 PKN	 ORLEN	 shares	 have	 been	 included	in	the	RESPECT	Index,	an	index	of	companies	 involved	in	corporate	social	responsibility. Respect	Rating	is	the	initiative	of	the	capital	market	tar- geted	at	promotion	of	highest	standards	of	responsible	 management.	PKN	ORLEN	received	one	of	the	highest	 marks	in	the	rating	of	socially	responsible	companies	and	 as	 a	 result	 was	 included	 in	 the	 stock	 exchange	 index	 established	in	November	2009	–	the	RESPECT	Index. As	a	result	of	rating	and	audit	carried	out	by	Deloitte	each	 audited	company	was	assigned	a	rating	note.	Companies	 that	 received	 the	 highest	 rating	 notes	 in	 the	 research	 were	qualified	to	join	the	index.	from	about	120	audi- ted	companies	listed	on	the	WSE	only	16	received	A	 rating	note	and	were	admitted	to	the	index.	PKN	ORLEN	 is	one	of	the	five	companies	from	the	WIG20	index	which	 received	such	a	high	note. RESPECT	Index	is	the	first	Polish	index	of	companies	enga- ged	in	corporate	social	responsibility.	The	aim	of	the	index	 publication	is	to	promote	the	highest	standards	of	responsi- ble	management.	Composition	of	the	group	of	companies	 listed	on	the	index	was	decided	on	the	basis	of	extensive	 research	of	many	areas	of	their	business.	The	companies	 were	audited	from	the	perspective	of	activities	towards	 sustainable	development,	application	of	corporate	gover- nance	principles,	communication	on	the	financial	market,	 management,	payment	of	liabilities,	treatment	of	employees	 and	customers,	as	well	as	social	and	environmental	acti- vities.	Questions	and	criteria	of	assessment	were	based	 on	the	international	standard	–	Global	Reporting	Initiative.	 The	audit	will	be	carried	out	annually	as	part	of	annual	 update	of	the	RESPECT	Index	composition.	 Participation	 of	 PKN	 ORLEN	 in	 the	 index	 motivates	 the	 Company	 to	 take	 still	 greater	 efforts	 towards	 reco- gnizing	and	satisfying	the	requirements	of	shareholders	 and	other	social	groups	related	to	the	company.	The	Com- pany	will	take	all	efforts	to	enable	PKN	ORLEN	to	remain	 on	the	index	in	the	years	to	come. 2.1.  /	19 /	Corporate	responsibility	report Halina	fraczak	 Marketing	 Director	 in	 Poland	 and	 Baltic	 States,	 Deloitte	Polska applied inthefollowing areas: strategy and organization  management, economic, environmental and social que stions. Companies which entered theRESPECT Index  portfolio in2009 (16) received at least 75% oftotal points  during theverification process. These are companies  distinguished primarily bytheir versatility and longterm  business context ofimplemented social responsibility and  sustainable development policies. These companies apply  tools for implementation ofactivities inthescope ofCSR  acknowledged inthecourse oftheverification process,  aswell aspractices which enable theuse ofthese tools  and really influence business run bythecompanies.  Participation in the RESPECT Index application pro cess gives companies undergoing theprocess detailed  information about strengths and weaknesses oftheir  CSR solutions, which helps them improve their quality. Companies listed ontheRESPECT Index are definitely  leaders ofcorporate social responsibility onthePolish  market. Which aspects of corporate responsibility distinguish  companies listed ontheRESPECT Index? RESPECT Index – thefirst index ofsocially responsible  companies inCentral and Eastern Europe had its debut  ontheWarsaw Stock Exchange on19 November 2009,  asaresult ofa lot ofefforts taken over months. Theidea  underpinning this project istodistinguish companies  that, in the scope of corporate social responsibility  and sustainable development, take efforts reaching  significantly beyond their obligations defined bylaw,  and incorporate theelement ofsocial responsibility into  business activities. Possibility tojoin theindex isopen  toall companies listed ontheWSE, with theexception  ofcompanies listed onNewConnect and outside WSE  (duallisting). The process ofqualifying companies totheRESPECT  Index, consisting of several stages, has been based  onexperiences ofother world indexes ofsimilar nature  aswell asGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines.  Thebasis ofverification isthequestionnaire which asks  companies toelaborate onthescope ofCSR solutions   /	20 /	Responsibility	towards	the	market	 	 PKN	ORLEN	shareholders	structure 	 as	at	31	December	2009 /	 PKN	ORLEN	shareholders	structure	 	 PKN	ORLEN	shareholders	structure 	 as	at	31	December	2010 *	 In	its	current	report	no.	19/2009	of	20	february	2009,	PKN	ORLEN	informed	that	ING	Otwarty	fundusz	Emerytalny	held,	as	at	20	february	2009,	22,118,813	shares	 in	PKN	ORLEN,	representing	5.17%	of	the	Company	share	capital.	PKN	ORLEN	shares	held	by	fundusz	entitle	to	22,118,813	votes	at	the	Companys	General	Meeting,	 which	represents	5.17%	of	the	total	number	of	votes. **	In	its	current	report	no.	26/2010	of	10	february	2010,	PKN	ORLEN	informed	that	Aviva	Otwarty	fundusz	Emerytalny	held,	as	at	5	february	2010,	21,744,036	shares	 in	PKN	ORLEN,	representing	5.08%	of	the	Company	share	capital.	PKN	ORLEN	shares	held	by	fundusz	entitle	to	21,744,036	votes	at	the	Companys	General	Meeting,	 which	represents	5.08%	of	the	total	number	of	votes. 27.52% State Treasury / 5.17% ING OFE* / 67.31% other  / 27.52% State Treasury / 5.17% ING OFE / 5.08% AVIVA OFE**  / 62.22% other  /  /	21 /	Corporate	responsibility	report Eliza	Durka Director Warsaw	Stock	Exchange What does RESPECT Index mean for theWarsaw Stock  Exchange? What was themotivation toinvite companies  toparticipate inthis project? By introducing theindex ofsocially responsible compa nies – RESPECT Index – in2009, wewanted tocreate  thefirst professional, consistently and methodically deve loped CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) benchmark  onthePolish market byindicating leaders inthis scope  among thelisted companies. In this way weencourage  companies listed ontheWSE toagreater involvement  inCSR and upgrading standards inthis area.  Another reason was tocreate foundations for develop ment ofres ponsible investing inour country bydelivering  aspecific financing tool intheform ofan index. Deve lopment ofSRI (Socially Responsible Investing) creates  broader possibilities for companies toobtain capital from  investors who are more inclined toinvest incompanies  which ensure consistent management inthelongterm  and transparently communicate changes. The next  step after stimulating thedemand ofnational investors  istodraw attention offoreign entities tothecompanies  from theindex.  Methodology of the RESPECT Index development  istransparent and similar tothose used bythebiggest  international stock exchanges. Companies listed onour  Index increase their reliability and attractiveness among  investors from abroad. Finally, WSE, asthemost dyna mically developing stock exchange intheCEE region,  introducing many innovative products and solutions,  and monitoring world trends, could not allow itself tobe  left behind asfar asresponsible investing isconcer ned. Creating thefirst index ofrespon sible companies  intheregion, weplan tobe not only thepioneer, but  also theleader instimulating SRI.  /	22 /	Responsibility	towards	the	market	 /	 Relations	with	the	capital	market Relations	with	the	Company	shareholders,	potential	inve	stors	 in	its	securities	and	stock	exchange	analysts	are	a	priority	 for	the	Management	Board.	The	President,	Vice	President	 and	Members	of	the	Management	Board	are	the	main	 people	contacting	the	capital	market.	In	order	to	provide	 all	 interested	 parties	 with	 equal	 access	 to	 information,	 all	information	communicated	outside	of	the	Companys	 official	position	is	prepared	in	Polish	and	English.	Such	 information	is	also	published	on	the	corporate	website. In	December	2009	a	revised	PKN	ORLEN	website	was	 launched	 under	 the	 same	 Internet	 address	 www.orlen. pl.	The	portal	based	on	a	new	technology	offers	a	new	 service	for	Company	shareholders,	investors	and	market	 analysts.	It	includes	a	lot	of	modern	tools	and	information	 about	 the	 Company	 corresponding	 with	 state-of-the-art	 market	standards. There	are,	among	others: 	interactive	charts	and	tables	allowing	for	quick	compa- risons	of	financial	ratios	for	the	Company	at	different	 time	intervals; 	interactive	charts	and	tables	of	stock-exchange	quotations	 for	 PKN	 ORLEN	 shares	 with	 a	 return	 on	 investment	 calculator; 	special	form	to	contact	the	Company	on	matters	related	 to	General	Meetings	in	accordance	with	the	latest	pro- visions	of	the	Polish	Code	of	Commercial	Companies; 	possibility	of	subscribing	to	various	PKN	ORLEN	new- sletters,	including	the	latest	information	from	the	investor	 relations	area. /	 Corporate	Governance The	 PKN	 ORLEN	 Management	 Board	 takes	 all	 reaso- nable	efforts	to	ensure	the	observance	of	the	principles	 of	corporate	governance	in	all	aspects	of	the	Company	 business.	 As	 a	 public	 company	 listed	 on	 the	 Warsaw	 Stock	Exchange,	PKN	ORLEN	observes	all	the	principles	 recommended	by	the	code	of	Good	Practices	of	Com- panies	Listed	on	the	Warsaw	Stock	Exchange. The	Company	takes	a	number	of	measures	to	streamline	 communication	 with	 its	 environment.	 In	 order	 to	 reach	 a	broad	range	of	recipients	we	apply	modern	technolo- gies	of	communication	with	representatives	of	the	capital	 market.	 We	 organise	 live	 online	 transmissions	 of	 press	 conferences	after	each	important	event	in	the	Company,	 such	as	the	publication	of	quarterly	results,	announcement	 of	strategy,	or	General	Meetings	of	PKN	ORLEN	Sharehol- ders,	with	simultaneous	translation	into	English.	Recordings	 of	such	transmissions,	in	the	form	of	multimedia	files,	are	 available	on	our	website:	www.orlen.pl. PKN	 ORLEN	 runs	 its	 corporate	 website	 in	 Polish	 and	 in	English.	It	provides	information	necessary	for	investors	 and	other	stakeholders	of	the	capital	market.	The	website	 offers	 information	 on	 dates	 of	 General	 Meetings,	 draft	 resolutions,	 as	 well	 as	 the	 entire	 set	 of	 documents	 pre- sented	to	shareholders	at	General	Meetings.	The	portal	 also	provides	a	special	form	enabling	the	users	to	contact	 the	Company	about	matters	related	to	General	Meetings. In	accordance	with	the	code	of	Good	Practices	of	Com- panies	Listed	on	the	Warsaw	Stock	Exchange	General	 Meetings	are	attended	by	members	of	the	PKN	ORLEN	 Management	Board	and	the	Supervisory	Board.	Media	 representatives	are	also	invited	to	every	General	Meeting.  /	23 /	Corporate	responsibility	report The	Company	regularly	and	actively	participates	in	me- etings	 with	 investors	 and	 analysts	 both	 in	 Poland	 and	 abroad.	We	organize	conferences,	individual	and	group	 meetings,	as	well	as	teleconferences	with	capital	market	 stakeholders.	 Company	 representatives	 also	 regularly	 participate	in	so	called	roadshows	–	cycles	of	meetings	 with	investors	at	their	workplace. During	 meetings	 with	 capital	 market	 participants	 our	 representatives	provide	information	on	PKN	ORLEN;	this	 is	also	an	opportunity	to	obtain	feedback	for	the	Company	 from	shareholders,	investors	and	market	analysts.	Relying	 upon	 stakeholders	 information	 needs	 to	 be	 gathered	 in	 this	 way,	 the	 Company	 may	 develop	 and	 improve	 its	relations	with	the	capital	market. The	Company	strives	to	expand	and	diversify	its	investor	 base.	To	achieve	this	aim,	the	Company	actively	promotes	 its	 activities	 among	 potential	 shareholders	 and	 in	 new	 financial	centres	across	the	world. With	the	aim	to	stimulate	the	development	of	new	forms	 and	improve	the	quality	of	communication	with	the	capital	 market,	 the	 Company	 publishes	 quarterly	 the	 so-called	 trading	statement,	which	is	an	estimate	of	operational	 and	financial	data	and	forecasts	for	EBIT	trends,	taking	 into	 account	 the	 impact	 of	 macroeconomic	 factors	 and	 significant	 one-time	 events	 on	 EBIT.	 Such	 estimates	 are	 published	 several	 weeks	 before	 the	 date	 of	 publishing	 the	quarterly	reports.	Trading	statements	facilitate	the	re- liable	building	of	the	Companys	financial	results	consensus	 on	the	capital	market	before	they	are	published.	Since	 the	 statements	 were	 introduced,	 the	 quality	 of	 analyst	 forecasts	 has	 significantly	 improved	 (average	 forecast	 deviation	from	the	data	finally	published	by	the	Company	 has	 reduced).	 The	 statement	 establishes	 new	 standards	 in	 the	 field	 of	 investor	 relations.	 Its	 positive	 reception	 proves	how	much	PKN	ORLEN	values	proper	and	well- timed	communication	with	the	market	relating	to	topics	 which	are	of	crucial	importance	to	investors. Our	 efforts	 to	 communicate	 with	 capital	 market	 parti- cipants	 were	 recognized,	 which	 is	 attested	 by	 many	 awards	received	by	the	Company	in	2009	in	the	area	 of	investor	relations:	 	inclusion	of	the	Company	in	the	RESPECT	Index; 	The	Best	Investor	Relations	in	Poland	–	international	 survey	by	IR	Magazine; 	second	place	in	the	category	The	Best	Capital	Market	 Communications; 	The	 best	 website	 dedicated	 to	 Investor	 Relations,	 Polish	 nationwide	 ranking	 WarsawScan,	 NBS	 Public	 Relations.  /	24 /	Responsibility	towards	the	market	 /	THE	SUPERVISORY	BOARD The	Supervisory	Board	consists	of	six	to	nine	members	 appointed	for	a	joint	term	ending	as	at	the	date	of	the	Ordi- nary	General	Meeting	approving	the	financial	statement	 for	the	second	full	financial	year	of	the	term.	Members	 of	 PKN	 ORLEN	 Supervisory	 Board	 are	 appointed	 and	 dismissed	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companys	 Articles	 of	Associations	by	the	General	Meeting	of	Shareholders.	 Individual	members	and	the	entire	Board	may	be	dismi- ssed	at	any	time	before	expiry	of	the	term.	The	Chairman	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 is	 appointed	 and	 dismissed	 by	 the	 General	 Meeting,	 while	 the	 Vice-Chairman	 and	 the	Secretary	are	elected	by	the	Supervisory	Board	from	 among	the	rest	of	its	members.	The	State	Treasury	is	enti- tled	 to	 appoint	 and	 dismiss	 one	 member	 of	 the	 Super- visory	Board.	The	right	of	the	State	Treasury	to	appoint	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 member	 expires	 upon	 disposal	 by	 the	 State	 Treasury	 of	 all	 Company	 shares	 owned	 by	the	State	Treasury.	 At	least	two	Supervisory	Board	members	have	to	meet	 the	criteria	of	being	independent	from	the	Company	and	 entities	 having	 significant	 connections	 with	 the	 Compa- ny.	 Before	 being	 appointed	 to	 the	 Supervisory	 Board,	 the	inde	pendent	members	of	the	Supervisory	Board	submit	 a	written	statement	to	the	Company	confirming	that	they	 meet	the	criteria	specified	in		8	(5)	of	the	Companys	 Articles	of	Association.	The	Company	informs	sharehol- ders	about	the	current	number	of	independent	members	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 (this	 information	 is	 available	 at	www.orlen.pl).	 If	the	number	of	the	independent	members	of	the	Supervi- sory	Board	is	less	than	two,	the	Companys	Management	 Board	shall	be	obliged	to	immediately	convene	the	Gene- ral	Meeting	of	Shareholders	and	include	in	its	agenda	 changes	 to	 the	 composition	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board.	 Until	 the	 implementation	 of	 the	 changes	 to	 the	 compo- sition	of	the	Supervisory	Board	consisting	in	adjustment	 of	the	number	of	independent	members	to	the	statutory	 requirements,	the	Supervisory	Board	performs	its	duties	 in	the	existing	composition. As	at	31	December,	2009	the	PKN	ORLEN	Supervisory	 Board	had	4	members	fulfilling	the	criteria	of	indepen- dence.	In	2009,	activities	of	the	Supervisory	Board	were	 managed	by	its	Chairman. The	Supervisory	Board	acts	as	a	body,	however,	it	may	 delegate	certain	supervisory	tasks	to	its	individual	mem- bers.	The	terms	of	performing	such	supervisory	tasks	shall	 be	determined	by	a	resolution	of	the	Supervisory	Board. Meetings	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 are	 held	 whenever	 required,	but	at	least	once	every	two	months.	Moreover,	 the	 meeting	 should	 be	 convened	 at	 a	 written	 request	 submitted	by	a	shareholder	or	shareholders	representing	 at	 least	 one	 tenth	 of	 the	 share	 capital,	 the	 Company	 Management	 Board	 or	 a	 member	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board.	Members	of	the	Supervisory	Board	exercise	their	 rights	and	obligations	only	in	person. Determination	of	the	principles	for	remuneration	of	the	Su- pervisory	Board	members,	in	accordance	with	the	Com- panys	Articles	of	Association,	lies	within	the	competences	 of	the	General	Meeting.	The	resolution	of	the	Extraordi- nary	 General	 Meeting	 of	 Shareholders	 of	 10	 January,	 2001	on	the	change	in	the	principles	for	remuneration	 of	the	Supervisory	Board	members	was	applicable	in	this	 scope	in	2009.	Monthly	remuneration	of	the	Supervisory	 Board	members	constitutes	a	set	multiple	of	the	average	 monthly	 remuneration	 in	 the	 corporate	 sector,	 without	 profit	bonus	payments	in	the	fourth	quarter	of	the	previous	 year,	announced	by	the	President	of	the	Polish	Central	 Statistical	Office.	 In	accordance	with	the	Companys	Articles	of	Association,	 the	PKN	ORLEN	Supervisory	Board	is	authorized	to	dele- gate	 a	 member	 or	 members	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 to	 temporarily	 take	 over	 the	 tasks	 of	 the	 Management	 Board	members	who	are	unable	to	perform	their	duties.	 2.2.  /	25 /	Corporate	responsibility	report The	 PKN	 ORLEN	 Supervisory	 Board	 has	 the	 following	 permanent	 committees:	 Audit	 Committee,	 Strategy	 and	 Development	Committee,	Nominations	and	Remuneration	 Committee,	 Corporate	 Governance	 Committee.	 Each	 committee	 comprises	 three	 to	 five	 Supervisory	 Board	 members.	 The	 Audit	 Committee	 comprises	 at	 least	 two	 independent	members	and	at	least	one	member	qualified	 and	experienced	in	accounting	or	financial	matters. Detailed	tasks	of	the	Supervisory	Board	Committees	are	 stipulated	 in	 the	 Constitution	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 available	at	www.orlen.pl. The	Supervisory	Board	is	authorized	to	represent	the	Com- pany	in	agreements	with	the	Management	Board	members,	 including	 with	 respect	 to	 employment	 and	 remunera- tion.	 The	 Management	 Board	 members	 are	 included	 in	 the	 incen	tive	 scheme	 for	 the	 Management	 Board.	 The	amount	of	annual	bonus	depends	on	operating	results	 of	the	Company	and	the	level	of	fulfilment	of	individual	 tasks	 defined	 by	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 for	 individual	 Management	Board	members.	 In	order	to	avoid	conflicts	of	interests	in	the	ORLEN	Group,	 the	Company	applies	the	provisions	of	the	Polish	Code	 of	Commercial	Companies,	provisions	of	the	Constitution	 of	the	Supervisory	Board,	as	well	as	the	Good	Practices	 of	Companies	Listed	on	the	Warsaw	Stock	Exchange. In	 accordance	 with	 the	 Constitution	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board,	in	the	event	of	conflict	of	interests,	the	member	 of	the	Supervisory	Board	affected	thereby	should	inform	 the	other	members	of	the	Supervisory	Board	thereof,	and	 abstain	from	discussions	and	voting	on	a	resolution	concer- ning	the	case	affected	by	such	conflict	of	interests.	Breach	 of	 the	 provisions	 of	 the	 preceding	 paragraph	 shall	 not	 invalidate	the	resolution	concerned.	In	the	case	of	doubts	 as	to	possible	conflict	of	interests,	the	Supervisory	Board	 shall	settle	the	issue	by	resolution.	 Pursuant	to	provisions	of	part	3	point	1	(2)	of	the	Good	 Practices	 of	 Companies	 Listed	 on	 the	 Warsaw	 Stock	 Exchange	the	Supervisory	Board	member	should	inform	 the	Management	Board	about	his/her	associations	with	 the	shareholder	holding	shares	representing	no	less	than	 5%	of	the	total	number	of	votes	at	the	General	Meeting.	 This	obligation	concerns	associations	of	economic	or	fa- mily	character,	or	any	other	that	may	influence	the	deci- sion	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 member	 in	 the	 matter	 voted	on	by	the	Supervisory	Board.	Moreover,	the	pro- vision	 of	 par.	 (4)	 provides	 for	 the	 obligation	 to	 inform	 the	Super	visory	Board	about	the	occurrence	of	a	conflict	 of	inter	ests	or	possibility	of	its	occurrence,	and	absten- tion	of	the	Super	visory	Board	member	from	discussions	 and	voting	on	a	resolution	concerning	the	case	affected	 by	such	conflict	of	interest.	 The	possibility	to	eliminate	the	conflict	of	interests	of	mem- bers	of	the	highest	supervisory	body	is	provided,	in	accor- dance	with	the	aforementioned	Good	Practices	(part	2	 point	 1	 (5)),	 by	 the	 requirement	 to	 make	 available	 –	 in	 the	 case	 of	 appointment	 of	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 members	 by	 the	 General	 Meeting	 –	 reasons	 behind	 the	selection	of	the	proposed	candidates	along	with	pro- fessional	curriculum	vitae	of	such	persons,	early	enough	 for	the	other	shareholders	to	become	familiar	with	them	 and	 to	 be	 able	 to	 adopt	 a	 relevant	 resolution	 having	 obtained	sufficient	knowledge	in	that	respect.  /	26 /	Responsibility	towards	the	market	 In	accordance	with	the	rule	no.	6	of	the	part	1	of	the	Good	 Practices	of	Companies	Listed	on	the	Warsaw	Stock	Exchan- ge	–	A	member	of	the	Supervisory	Board	should	have	 relevant	knowledge	and	experience,	and	be	able	to	de- vote	the	time	required	to	properly	perform	his/her	duties.	 A	member	of	the	Supervisory	Board	should	under	take	rele- vant	actions	to	ensure	that	the	Supervisory	Board	receives	 information	on	significant	issues	related	to	the	Company. The	PKN	ORLEN	Supervisory	Board	continuously	supervises	 the	Companys	activities	in	all	areas	of	its	business,	and	 in	particular	it	has	the	competences	determined	in	the	Polish	 Code	 of	 Commercial	 Companies	 and	 the	 Companys	 Articles	of	Association.	In	order	to	be	able	to	perform	its	 obligations,	the	Supervisory	Board	is	authorised	to	examine	 all	of	the	Companys	documents	and	request	the	Mana- gement	 Board	 and	 employees	 to	 provide	 reports	 and	 explanations,	and	inspect	the	Companys	assets.	In	order	 to	 ensure	 proper	 execution	 of	 its	 statutory	 obligations,	 the	 PKN	 ORLEN	 Supervisory	 Board	 may	 file	 a	 motion	 with	the	Management	Board	to	prepare	appraisements	 or	opinions,	or	to	hire	an	advisor.	 With	 the	 aim	 to	 ensure	 the	 application	 of	 the	 highest	 standards	of	Good	Practices	and	enable	reliable	asses- sment	of	the	Company	by	Shareholders,	the	PKN	ORLEN	 Supervisory	Board	submits	to	the	General	Meeting	an	an- nual	report	including: 	the	opinion	on	the	report	of	the	Companys	Management	 Board	on	the	Companys	activities	and	the	Companys	 financial	statements	for	a	given	financial	year; 	the	opinion	on	the	report	of	the	Management	Board	 on	the	ORLEN	Capital	Groups	activities	and	the	ORLEN	 Capital	Groups	consolidated	financial	statements	for	 a	given	financial	year; In	 2009,	 the	 Supervisory	 Board	 had	 8	 male	 members	 and	1	female	member.	Two	members	of	the	Supervisory	 Board	are	over	50	years	old;	the	7	remaining	persons	 are	aged	30-50.	 Details	of	skills	and	professional	experience	of	the	Super- visory	Board	members	are	available	at	the	PKN	ORLEN	 website.  /	27 /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	KEY	OPPORTUNITIES	AND	RISKS Activities	 of	 PKN	 ORLEN	 are	 associated	 with	 high	 operational	 risks	 having	 influence	 on	 the	 continuity	 of	 the	 Companys	 functioning,	 current	 supplies	 of	 pro- ducts	to	the	market	or	provision	of	services;	regulatory	 risks,	i.e.	resulting	from	changes	in	the	national	and	UE	 legislation	–	in	particular	risks	connected	with	mandatory	 reserves,	 fuel	 quality,	 compliance	 with	 emission	 norms,	 implementation	of	the	National	Index	Target;	and	financial	 risks	 originating	 from	 the	 financial	 market,	 associated	 with	exchange	rates	or	interest	rates. Risk	 management	 in	 PKN	 ORLEN	 is	 not	 restricted	 only	 to	the	oil	industry,	but	applies	to	the	broadly	understood	 area	 of	 macro-economic	 operations	 of	 the	 Company.	 These	risks	result	from	internal	factors,	such	as:	strategic,	 organizational,	 systemic	 and	 procedural	 assumptions,	 as	 well	 as	 external	 factors,	 i.e.	 macro-	 and	 micro-eco- nomic	 factors	 or	 legal	 regulations.	 Risks	 are	 defined	 on	the	basis	of	assessment	of	their	quantitative	and	quali- tative	influence	on	the	conducted	business	activities	and	 the	level	of	probability	of	their	occurrence.	Implementation	 of	the	integrated	risk	management	in	PKN	ORLEN	allows	 perceiving	the	existing	risks	not	only	as	threats,	but	also	 as	the	opportunity	to	increase	the	Companys	value	in	all	 of	its	areas.	Implementation	of	risk	management	policy	 is	gradually	being	expanded	to	include	the	entire	ORLEN	 Capital	Group. PKN	ORLEN	has	been	actively	implementing	a	risk	mana- gement	system	which	guarantees	that	business	decisions	 are	 made	 in	 full	 awareness	 of	 current	 risks	 and	 that	 the	Company	is	well	prepared	to	respond	to	materialised	 risks,	so	as	to	minimise	their	possible	impact	on	the	con- tinuity	and	possibilities	of	achieving	the	business	goals	 established.	 The	 Company	 risk	 management	 is	 based	 2.3. on	 the	 risk	 management	 policy	 and	 procedures	 which	 enable	 identification	 of	 respective	 risks,	 risk	 allocation	 to	respective	owners,	risk	analysis	in	the	Companys	key	 areas	and	recommending	preventive	measures.	To	sup- port	the	system	the	Company	performs	internal	reviews	 (both	with	respect	to	internal	procedures	and	the	external	 environment)	 relating	 to	 the	 Companys	 most	 important	 business	areas	from	the	perspective	of	its	current	opera- tions.	Integration	of	the	risk	management	system	enables	 you	to	implement	a	uniform	approach	towards	risk	ma- nagement,	which	translates	into	an	integrated	approach	 to	 planning	 on	 the	 level	 of	 strategies,	 operational	 acti- vities	and	internal	control.	The	risk	management	system	 responds	to	the	needs	of	a	broad	circle	of	the	Companys	 stakeholders	who	want	to	better	understand	a	wide	range	 of	the	risks	facing	the	Company,	so	as	to	be	certain	that	 those	risks	are	properly	managed.  /	Workplace	responsibility  /	30 /	Workplace	responsibility	 /	CORPORATE	CULTURE /	 The	Code	of	Ethics	and	the	Ethics	Ombudsman In	2005	the	Company	adopted	the	Code	of	Ethics	based	 on	 key	 values	 of	 PKN	 ORLEN.	 The	 document	 determi- nes	 the	 principles	 that	 should	 guide	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 emplo	yees	 in	 their	 relations	 with	 the	 internal	 and	 external	environment.	It	is	compatible	with	the	most	im- portant	organizational	acts	regulating	the	management	 of	the	Company.	The	most	important	organizational	acts	 regulating	the	management	of	the	Company	are	compliant	 with	its	provisions. Observance	of	the	Code	of	Ethics	is	ensured	by	the	democ- ratically	 elected	 Ethics	 Ombudsman.	 The	 Ombudsman	 guarantees	all	stakeholders	the	possibility	to	freely	report	 on	any	breach	of	the	principles	stipulated	in	the	Code.	 It	 also	 enables	 them	 to	 report	 any	 irregularities,	 and	 thus	helps	develop	a	sense	of	having	personal	influence	 on	respecting	the	values	in	the	Company. The	Ethics	Ombudsman	is	obliged	to	ensure	the	confiden- tiality	of	complaining	employees,	explain	their	relevance	 and	 undertake	 or	 initiate	 remedial	 measures.	 Subsequ- ently,	the	Ombudsman	presents	ethical	problems	notified	 by	employees	to	the	Management	Board,	ensuring	confi- dentiality	and	preventing	identification	of	persons	making	 complaints.	In	special	circumstances,	where	the	welfare	 of	the	Company	is	at	stake,	the	Ethics	Ombudsman	reports	 directly	to	a	competent	Member	of	the	Management	Board.	 He	or	she	also	presents	to	the	Management	Board	annual	 reports	of	their	activity	to	promote	corporate	culture	based	 on	ethics	and	respect	of	PKN	ORLEN	values. We	 present	 our	 experience	 gained	 over	 several	 years	 to	external	environment	and	share	our	knowledge	regar- ding	 solutions	 implemented	 in	 PKN	 ORLEN.	 Last	 year,	 significant	events	which	allowed	the	Ethics	Ombudsman	 to	share	the	acquired	experience	included	the	4th	Polish	 Conference	on	fraud	Risk	Management	(MOVIDA	2009)	 and	participation	in	a	panel	during	the	Polish	Congress	 of	 Ethics	 and	 Corporate	 Social	 Responsibility	 2009	 organized	by	the	Kozminski	University	in	Warsaw	as	part	 of	the	Ethics	in	Business	Conference. The	Ethics	Ombudsman	is	obligated	to	monitor	the	functio- ning	of	the	Code	of	Ethics	on	the	basis	of	reported	issues	 and	to	submit	a	consolidated	report	to	the	PKN	ORLEN	 Management	Board.	Growing	awareness	among	employ- ees	regarding	standards	imposed	by	the	Code	of	Ethics	 makes	them	comment	also	on	moral	problems,	they	get	 involved	in	discussion	on	situations	posing	moral	dilemmas.	 The	 majority	 of	 problems	 reported	 in	 2009	 concerned	 internal	 relations	 in	 the	 Company	 (66%),	 general	 rules	 (18%)	 and	 moral	 issues.	 Each	 submitted	 problem	 was	 analysed	in	the	context	of	the	Code	provisions	and	inve- stigated	into,	or	specific	actions	were	taken.	As	a	result	 of	engaging	many	business	areas	in	remedial	measures,	 each	year	the	percentage	of	solved	issued	is	increasing,	 while	the	number	of	problems	under	investigation	is	decre- asing.	It	is	worth	noting	that	the	number	of	complaints	 regarding	relations	with	business	partners	is	decreasing,	 which	 results	 from	 systemic	 remedial	 measures	 applied	 in	this	scope. 3.1.  /	31 /	Corporate	responsibility	report While	 performing	 these	 tasks	 the	 Ombudsman	 is	 requ- ired	 to	 ensure	 open	 communication,	 detailed	 analysis	 of	the	rules	applied	in	the	Company,	and	trust.	He	also	 needs	to	take	part	in	difficult	discussions	and	explanations	 regarding	 issues	 concerning	 ethical	 dilemmas,	 as	 well	 as	to	publicly	comment	on	behaviours	incompliant	with	 the	 Code	 of	 Ethics.	 Taking	 into	 account	 the	 long-term	 character	of	attitude	change	in	the	reported	moral	cases,	 educational	and	communication	measures	are	continuously	 applied	that	condemn	defiance	of	the	Code	of	Ethics	and	 promote	proper	behaviour.	Corporate	media	play	a	very	 significant	role	in	this	process.	In	2009,	the	Ombudsman	 published	 articles	 in	 ORLEN	 Ekspres	 or	 was	 a	 guest	 in	 ORLEN	 Studio	 as	 many	 as	 54	 times.	 The	 Company	 also	organized	group	meetings	and	workshops	on	ethical	 problems. The	 general	 principles	 of	 the	 Code	 of	 Ethics	 and	 its	 chapter	devoted	to	relations	within	the	Company	empha- sise	the	need	to	observe	the	law	and	good	habits,	and	 the	 principle	 of	 respecting	 the	 dignity	 of	 each	 human	 being.	Activities	popularizing	the	Code	of	Ethics	among	 employees	(trainings,	workshops)	have	always	reminded	 about	its	strong	connection	with	the	Human	Rights	Charter. In	the	Code	of	Ethics	the	Company	declares	its	respect	for	 the	national	origin,	race,	religion	and	political	orientation	 of	its	employees,	co-workers,	customers	and	business	part- ners,	as	well	as	equal	and	fair	treatment	of	everybody,	 irrespective	of	the	above	or	of	the	position	held	by	a	per- son,	 his	 or	 her	 seniority	 in	 the	 Company,	 membership	 in	trade	unions	or	appearance.	PKN	ORLEN	did	not	report	 a	single	case	of	breach	of	the	above	principles	in	2009. In	 accordance	 with	 the	 Collective	 Labour	 Agreement	 the	Company	respects	the	principle	of	the	freedom	of	acti- vity	and	equality	of	trade	unions,	and	of	non-discrimination	 on	the	grounds	of	trade	union	membership. /	 Employee	integration PKN	ORLEN	offers	its	employees	various	sport	and	integra- ting	activities	which	support	the	development	of	employees	 interests	and	passions	outside	of	work.	The	package	of	acti- vities	developed	in	the	previous	years	finds	its	reflection	 in	the	number	of	people	taking	part	in	such	activities. A	 traditional	 part	 of	 integrating	 activities	 conducted	 by	PKN	ORLEN	is	the	celebration	of	a	corporate	event	 –	the	Chemists	Day.	In	the	first	week	of	June	the	Company	 organizes	for	its	employees	many	events	that	help	stimulate	 integration,	but	also	motivation.	Every	year	during	the	cele- bration	the	Company	rewards	its	fifteen	employees	who	 stand	out	in	their	work.	The	Distinguished	PKN	ORLEN	 employee	title	is	awarded	during	the	award	ceremony.	 The	Company	also	organizes	integration	meetings	for	all	 employees	and	their	families. 	 Do	you	know	that... The	Distinguished	PKN	ORLEN	Employee	has	been	 awarded	in	PKN	ORLEN	since	2001.	To	date,	119	 employees	have	been	distinguished	in	this	way.  /	32 /	Workplace	responsibility	 During	 celebrations	 of	 the	 Chemists	 Day	 PKN	 ORLEN	 also	emphasizes	its	local	attachment	by	organizing	many	 attractions	 for	 the	 inhabitants	 of	 Pock	 and	 engaging	 in	 initiatives	 organized	 by	 the	 city.	 In	 2009,	 the	 inha- bitants	 of	 Pock	 and	 employees	 of	 the	 Company	 were	 given	 the	 opportunity	 to	 enjoy	 musical	 performances	 Buffo	Theatre	Hits	and	Zorba	the	Greek	offered	free	 of	 charge.	 Moreover,	 PKN	 ORLEN	 remembers	 about	 the	youngest	inhabitants	of	the	city	and	organizes	special	 attractions	for	them. /	 Employee	Volunteering PKN	ORLEN	Employee	Volunteering	provides	the	space	 for	sensitive,	wise	and	mature	people. One	of	the	tools	for	implementation	of	corporate	responsi- bility	policy	in	PKN	ORLEN	is	the	Employee	Volunteering	 programme	carried	out	since	2004.	Established	as	a	result	 of	joint	initiative	of	employees	and	the	employer,	today	 it	constitutes	an	important	element	of	corporate	culture.	 Volunteering	 in	 PKN	 ORLEN	 means	 building	 relations	 with	employees,	as	well	as	inclusion	and	encouragement	 to	take	part	in	charity	actions	for	the	benefit	of	people	 in	 need.	 PKN	 ORLEN	 has	 actively	 supported	 projects	 individually	 initiated	 and	 implemented	 by	 employees	 by	providing	insurance	and	board	for	volunteers	during	 implementation	of	projects,	in-kind	and	financial	support	 for	 organizations	 in	 which	 employees	 operate	 or	 wish	 to	operate;	PKN	ORLEN	also	promotes	their	social	activity	 both	inside	and	outside	the	company.		 	 Do	you	know	that... The	tradition	of	celebrating	the	Chemists	Day	reaches	 back	to	the	1970	s. 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Amateur Car Rally "Jed z Verv" ("Drive with Verva") ORLEN Group Polish Football Championship Polish Nationwide Chemists Race ORLEN Group Polish Nationwide Table Tennis Toumament 2007 2008 2009 Number	of	PKN	ORLEN	employees	participating	 in	sport	competitions	in	2007–2009  /	33 /	Corporate	responsibility	report Models	of	voluntary	work	in	PKN	ORLEN Your	Volunteering 	Model	of	volunteering	allowing	the	employee	to	indi- vidually	 submit	 and	 implement	 his/her	 own	 volunte- ering	project	or	a	project	based	on	the	example	given	 by	others. family	Volunteering 	An	 employee	 with	 members	 of	 his/her	 family	 may	 voluntarily	devote	time,	skills	and	qualifications	to	coope- ration	during	a	specific	action	or	period	with	a	social	 organization	chosen	individually	or	indicated	by	a	coor- dinator. Group	Volunteering 	Engagement	of	a	team	or	the	entire	department	in	sol- ving	a	selected	problem	or	need	of	a	community. Joint	Volunteering 	Interested	 employees	 from	 various	 departments	 of	the	Company	and	on	various	positions	engage	in	one- time	undertakings	initiated	individually	or	by	a	coor- dinator. Master	Of	Volunteering 	A	volunteer-employee	may	act	as	a	guide,	teacher	and	 conduct	educational	or	integrating	activities	for	specific	 groups.	 Gifts	Of	Volunteering 	Collections	of	gifts	for	organizations	supported	by	vo- lunteers	comprising	new	or	used	equipment,	furniture,	 computers	or	office	materials,	clothes,	school	accessories,	 food. 	 The	key	values	of	PKN	ORLEN	have	provided	the	basis	 for	the	creation	of	the	Volunteer	Charter.	This	charter	 constitutes	 a	 set	 of	 principles	 and	 values	 that	 guide	 every	volunteer	in	PKN	ORLEN	in	the	course	of	imple- mentation	of	a	given	task. Principle	of	responsibility 	We	 fulfil	 all	 tasks	 related	 to	 the	 assumed	 role	 and	 undertaking. 	We	are	responsible	for	the	obligations	we	have	assumed.	 	Should	it	be	impossible	for	us	to	fulfil	our	obligations,	 we	undertake	to	openly	inform	about	this.	 	We	are	open	to	new	ideas	and	methods.	 	We	do	not	make	promises	we	will	not	be	able	to	fulfil.	 	We	 perform	 all	 activities	 we	 engage	 in	 with	 utmost	 diligence. 	We	take	care	of	the	assets	provided	for	implementation	 of	a	task. Principle	of	cooperation	 	We	act	as	a	team	to	the	benefit	of	others. 	We	are	people	you	can	rely	on. 	We	take	advantage	of	an	opportunity	to	get	to	know	 and	learn	new	things	from	other	people. 	We	share	our	knowledge	and	skills	with	others. 	We	do	not	criticize	things	we	do	not	understand. 	We	ask	about	things	we	do	not	understand. Principle	of	respect 	We	treat	all	people	with	respect. 	We	respect	customs,	values	and	commonly	accepted	 rules	in	the	environment	we	are	in. 	Trust	 given	 by	 others	 is	 for	 us	 the	 most	 significant	 obligation. 	We	avoid	behaviour	that	may	be	misinterpreted.	  /	34 /	Workplace	responsibility	 /	 Projects	implemented	in	2009 Magic	Schoolbag	facilitated	the	start	into	the	new	school	 year	for	the	youngest	inhabitants	of	Pock. The	Magic	Schoolbag	project	was	implemented	as	part	 of	the	ORLEN	Employee	Volunteering	programme.	Its	aim	 was	the	purchase	by	the	Company	employees	of	school	 kits	for	children	from	classes	0-3	remaining	under	the	care	 of	the	Municipal	Social	Services	Centre	(MOPS)	in	Pock.	 Within	three	weeks	of	August,	the	Company	employees	 financed	328	colourful	kits	of	school	accessories.	Each	pur- chased	kit	was	put	into	schoolbags	financed	by	PKN	ORLEN	 with	a	reflective	company	logo.	The	final	event	of	the	Ma- gic	Schoolbag	action	took	place	on	4	September	2009	 in	Pock	during	a	family	picnic	for	a	good	school	year	 beginning,	to	which	the	Company	invited	children	with	 parents,	representatives	of	the	Municipal	Social	Services	 Centre	in	Pock	and	the	Companys	volunteers 2007 2008 2009 Lets	Paint	the	Smile 300 --- 	--- Make	Dreams	Come	True 50 350 600 Magic	Schoolbag --- --- 500 Individual --- 10 20 Number	of	volunteers	participating in	respective	projects in	2007–2009 Number	of	peple	involved in	employee	volunteering in	2007–2009 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2007 2008 2009 Third	edition	of	the	Make	dreams	come	true	project. Several	dozen	works	submitted	for	the	artistic	competition	 for	the	PKN	ORLEN	Christmas	card,	which	the	Company	 has	organized	for	five	years,	are	exhibited	at	an	unusual	 electronic	auction	open	to	participation	by	all	the	Com- panys	employees.	Authors	of	artistic	works	are	children	 from	family	childrens	homes,	looked	after	by	the	ORLEN	 Dar	Serca	foundation.	To	become	the	owner	of	a	chosen	 card,	one	has	to	make	the	dream	of	its	author	come	true.	 Employees	can	make	those	dreams	come	true	individually	 or	in	groups.	Each	employee	who	decided	to	be	Santa	 Claus	for	a	moment	and	fulfilled	the	dreams	of	contestants	 receives	 a	 special	 Volunteer	 Certificate.	 All	 presents	 are	given	to	children	at	a	meeting	with	Santa	Claus	and	 the	volunteers,	organised	for	all	the	contestants.	 In	 2009,	 the	 Company	 employees	 made	 200	 dreams	 come	 true,	 which	 is	 twice	 as	 many	 as	 in	 the	 previous	 year.	The	Company	with	the	ORLEN	Dar	Serca	foundation	 financed	1000	gifts	of	sweets	for	all	children	who	took	 part	in	the	competition.  /	35 /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	RELATIONS	WITH	EMPLOYEES /	 Corporate	Collective	Labour	Agreement In	 2009	 PKN	 ORLEN	 implemented	 the	 Corporate	 Col- lective	Labour	Agreement	(CCLA).	A	number	of	measures	 were	taken	to	ensure	efficient	and	timely	implementation	 of	the	document.	 Changes	concerned	the	following: 	internal	regulations	and	other	documents	related	to	or	ba- sed	 on	 the	 CCLA	 –	 all	 internal	 regulations	 requiring	 modifications	 to	 comply	 with	 accepted	 provisions	 of	 the	 agreement	 were	 identified	 and	 works	 related	 to	their	implementation	in	the	Company	were	initiated; 	implementation	of	the	CCLA	in	individual	employment	 relationships	–	this	stage	included	the	following	activities: –	the	 process	 of	 assigning	 employees	 to	 new	 work	 positions	and	ascribing	to	them	a	new	bonus	system	 and	function,	if	it	is	performed; –	calculation	of	payroll	components	and	preparation	 of	 documents	 related	 to	 employees	 employment	 relationships; –	preparation	for	assessment	under	the	bonus	system; –	concluding	amendment	agreements. 	Adjustment	of	HR	and	payroll	computer	system	(SAP/HR	 and	self-service)	to	the	new	recruitment,	remuneration,	 bonus	system	and	employee	evaluation	procedures.	 The	following	measures	were	simultaneously	taken	to	sup- port	the	implementation	of	the	CCLA: 	integrated,	multilateral	communication	activities	targeted	 at	all	PKN	ORLEN	employees; 	trainings	dedicated	to	managerial	personnel	in	the	scope	 of	employee	evaluation	and	bonus	systems. /	 Recruitment	and	professional	development In	 2009	 PKN	 ORLEN	 implemented	 a	 new	 recruitment	 procedure	aimed	at	specifying	assumptions	and	process	 of	recruitment,	as	well	as	ensuring	safety	and	supervision	 of	 selection	 of	 candidates	 for	 specific	 work	 positions.	 The	procedure	adheres	to	the	CCLA	provisions.	Its	aim	 is	to	ensure	that	the	Company	employs	personnel	posses- sing	the	best	skills. PKN	 ORLEN	 does	 not	 apply	 separate	 procedures	 for	 employ	ment	of	employees	from	the	local	market.	Recruit- ment	issues	are	stipulated	in	a	relevant	internal	regulation.	 The	 Recruitment	 Team	 does	 not	 gather	 data	 regarding	 the	percentage	of	senior	managerial	personnel	sourced	from	 the	local	market	in	the	main	locations	of	the	organization. As	at	31	December	2009	PKN	ORLEN	employed	4,922	 people,	all	of	them	on	the	basis	of	employment	contracts,	 including: 	for	an	indefinite	term	 –	4,225 	for	a	fixed	term		 –	 	437 	for	a	probationary	period	 –	 220 	for	substitution	 –	 40 There	 are	 no	 collective	 agreements	 concluded	 in	 PKN	 ORLEN,	therefore	it	was	not	necessary	to	specify	the	time	 for	notifying	about	any	amendments	introduced	to	such	 agreements. In	individual	units	the	employment	amounted	to: 	Pock					–	3,900 	Warsaw	 –			244 	regions			–			778 In	2009,	491	people	resigned	from	work	in	PKN	ORLEN.	 The	fluctuation	rate	amounted	to	about	10%.	In	2009,	 PKN	ORLEN	trained	almost	7,000	employees.	According	 to	the	employment	structure	an	individual	employee	had: 	10.09	hours	–	employees	in	managerial	positions, 	32.43	hours	–	employees	in	other	positions. The	 data	 provided	 above	 include	 participation	 of	 em- plo	yees	 in	 development,	 specialized,	 compulsory	 and	 language	trainings.	 3.2.  /	36 /	Workplace	responsibility	 Principles	for	implementation	of	PKN	ORLENs	professio- nal	development	policy	are	also	regulated	by	the	CCLA.	 The	 objective	 of	 the	 development	 policy	 is	 to	 broaden	 and	 update	 employees	 knowledge	 and	 skills,	 as	 well	 as	to	develop	their	adaptive	skills.	This	allows	adjustment	 to	the	changing	conditions	on	the	job	market	and	pro- motion	of	attitudes	focused	on	continuous	development,	 openness	to	changes,	and	lifelong	learning. Employees	 have	 the	 opportunity	 to	 develop	 their	 com- petences	and	knowledge	during	personal	skills	trainings	 or	specialized/industry	trainings,	courses	and	conferences	 in	Poland	or	abroad,	Masters	degree	studies,	postgra- duate	studies,	doctorate	studies,	compulsory	courses	and	 certified	trainings	required	for	their	respective	jobs,	as	well	 as	adaptation	e-learning	trainings.	 In	2009	employees	could	participate	in	Company-level	 training	 and	 development	 projects.	 In	 connection	 with	 the	 CCLA	 implementation	 the	 Company	 organized	 tra- inings	in	managerial	skills	entitled	The	role	of	a	manager	 in	team	management,	participated	by	639	employees.	 Under	 the	 2nd	 edition	 of	 the	 PMI	 (Project	 Management	 Institute)	Academy,	24	employees	responsible	for	strategic	 projects	broadened	their	knowledge	and	skills	in	the	scope	 of	 project	 management.	 Additionally,	 46	 employees	 acquired	or	developed	their	project	competences	during	 closed	trainings.	 The	 Company	 also	 ensures	 the	 support	 of	 restructuring	 processes	 through	 redundancy	 schemes	 for	 employees	 from	restructured	areas.	This	includes	the	Training	Packa- ge,	which	enables	employees	covered	by	the	Voluntary	 Retirement	 Programme	 to	 take	 part	 in	 free,	 dedicated	 trainings	indicated	by	the	employer	and	facultative	trainings	 chosen	by	the	employee.	Trainings	indicated	by	the	Com- pany	include	BLOCK	1	Parachute	–	active	job	search	 techniques	 and	 BLOCK	 2	 Entrepreneurship	 –	 starting	 ones	own	business. In	2009,	76	employees	covered	by	the	restructuring	pro- cess	participated	in	trainings	under	the	Training	Package.	 free	trainings	under	BLOCK	2	Entrepreneurship	–	starting	 ones	own	business	were	participated	by	7	employees.	 The	significant	majority	of	employees	participated	in	fa- cultative	trainings.	 All	 employees	 are	 subject	 to	 regular	 assessment	 under	 the	Bonus	System	based	on	qualitative	and	quantitative	 performance	 indicators.	 These	 indicators	 are	 planned	 individually	 for	 each	 employee,	 and	 their	 assessment	 is	 carried	 out	 in	 monthly,	 quarterly	 or	 annual	 cycles	 –	 depending	on	a	specific	job	group	the	employee	belongs	 to.	The	method	of	determining	the	assessment	indicators	 is	based	on	cascading	objectives	from	the	top	to	the	bot- tom	 of	 job	 positions	 hierarchy,	 which	 guarantees	 that	 tasks	 carried	 out	 by	 individual	 employees	 result	 from	 the	 Companys	 strategic	 objectives.	 At	 the	 same	 time,	 each	objective	is	set	in	a	manner	allowing	the	employee	 to	personally	develop	by	fulfilling	tasks	associated	with	 a	 level	 of	 difficulty	 and	 responsibility	 which	 significan- tly	 influences	 the	 improvement	 of	 the	 employees	 value	 on	the	internal	and	external	job	market.	 In	the	course	of	works	on	implementation	of	the	CCLA	 in	 2009	 the	 Company	 also	 initiated	 activities	 aimed	 at	development	of	the	system	for	assessment	of	compe- tences	 and	 expertise,	 as	 well	 as	 planning	 professional	 development	of	employees.	The	objective	of	the	system	 is	to	support	employees	in	improving	their	performance	 at	work	by	making	full	use	of	their	potential	and	motivating	 them	to	continuous	development.	The	system	will	cover	all	 PKN	ORLEN	employees	subject	to	the	CCLA	provisions.	 Under	the	system	the	level	of	employees	knowledge	and	 competences	 will	 be	 reviewed	 and	 assessed.	 The	 final	 element	of	the	process	will	be	an	individual	plan	of	profes- sional	 development,	 comprising	 development	 activities	 providing	 an	 employee	 with	 specific	 knowledge	 and	 practical	skills,	and	its	implementation	will	simultaneously	 support	fulfilment	of	the	Companys	strategic	objectives. All	policies	and	procedures	in	PKN	ORLEN	are	compliant	 with	 the	 Code	 of	 Ethics	 and	 thus	 with	 various	 aspects	 of	 human	 rights.	 Superiors	 are	 responsible	 for	 getting	 employees	acquainted	with	those	policies	and	procedures. In	2009	nothing	was	reported	in	the	Company	that	would	 entail	a	major	risk	of	forced	or	compulsory	work. In	2009	the	average	salary	in	PKN	ORLEN	for	employees	 of	the	lowest	rank	amounted	to	PLN	4,031.	It	is	worth	 noting	 that	 the	 minimum	 salary	 at	 this	 time	 in	 Poland	 was	1,276	PLN.	This	means	that	the	ratio	of	the	lowest	 salary	in	the	Company	to	the	statutory	minimum	salary	 in	Poland	was	316%.	  /	37 /	Corporate	responsibility	report Magdalena	Mocarska	–	Olszyska Trainee You spent acouple ofweeks asatrainee inPKNORLEN.  What have been themost valuable experiences? What  is the significance of such experience for a person  atthebeginning ofa professional career? My professional aim after graduating from theWarsaw  School ofEconomics was togain experience inabig  corporation. My training inthePKNORLEN Corporate  Social Responsibility Team made itpossible toimplement  my plans and verify my academic interests. The advantage ofworking for arenowned corporation  isan opportunity toacquire knowledge and experience  from thebest specialists inagiven field. From thevery  first days ofmy traineeship, I became an active member  oftheTeam. What ismore, my mentors had confidence  inmy abilities and I was entrusted with independent tasks.  Support and professional substantive help I received from  my superiors are invaluable.  PKNORLEN isaCompany that takes care ofcompre hensive development ofall ofits employees. Therefore,  already asatrainee, I could take part inawide range  oftrainings which significantly broadened and enriched  my knowledge. Moreover, I asable tobecome familiar  with thespecificity, work standards and corporate culture  oftheCompany. Thetraineeship was agreat challenge  which gave me an enormous satisfaction. I am convinced  that experience and skills gained inPKNORLEN will  pay dividends inthefuture, asthey constitute avaluable  asset ensuring competitive advantage onthejob market.  /	 Student	training PKN	 ORLEN	 organizes	 student	 training	 all	 year	 round	 and	in	all	areas	of	its	business.	Training	is	carried	out	 in	corporate	headquarters	and	in	local	units,	and	covers: 	group	training	–	organized	in	cooperation	with	univer- sities/schools, 	individual	training, 	diploma	training A	large	group	of	trainees	are	students	from	local	schools	 and	universities: –	2007: 	138	students	of	the	Warsaw	University	of	Technology,	 the	School	of	Technical	and	Social	Sciences	in	Pock	 (faculty	of	Chemistry,	Mechanics,	and	Economics), 	91	students	of	the	secondary	schools	complex	Zesp	 Szk	Centrum	Edukacji	in	Pock	(specialty:	Chemistry	 Technician); 	43	 students	 of	 the	 secondary	 construction	 school	 Zesp	Szk	Budowlanych	nr	1	in	Plock	(specialty:	 Environmental	Protection	Technician); –	2008: 	105	students	of	the	Warsaw	University	of	Technology,	 the	School	of	Social	and	Technical	Sciences	(faculty	 of	Chemistry,	Mechanics,	and	Economics), 	57	students	of	the	secondary	schools	complex	Zesp	 Szk	Centrum	Edukacji	in	Pock	(specialty:	Chemistry	 Technician); 	15	 students	 of	 the	 vocational	 college	 Policealne	 Studium	 Zawodowe	 in	 Plock	 (specialty:	 Chemistry	 Technician); 	19	 students	 of	 the	 secondary	 construction	 school	 Zesp	Szk	Budowlanych	nr	1	in	Plock	(specialty:	 Environmental	Protection	Technician). –	2009: 	114	students	of	the	Warsaw	University	of	Technology,	 the	School	of	Social	and	Technical	Sciences	(faculty	 of	Chemistry,	Mechanics,	and	Economics), 	115	 students	 of	 the	 secondary	 schools	 complex	 Zesp	Szk	Centrum	Edukacji	in	Pock	(specialty:	 Chemistry	Technician); 	15	 students	 of	 the	 vocational	 college	 Policealne	 Studium	 Zawodowe	 in	 Pock	 (specialty:	 Chemistry	 Technician);  /	38 /	Workplace	responsibility	 	26	 students	 of	 the	 secondary	 construction	 school	 Zesp	Szk	Budowlanych	nr	1	in	Pock	(specialty:	 Environmental	Protection	Technician). In	2009	we	admitted	7	undergraduate	students	for	long- term	diploma	training	at	our	facilities	as	part	of	coopera- tion	scheme	with	the	Warsaw	University	of	Technology,	 the	 School	 of	 Social	 and	 Technical	 Sciences	 in	 Pock	 implemented	on	the	basis	of	the	agreement	concluded	with	 this	school.	In	October	2009	the	Cooperation	Agreement	 was	extended	for	another	three	years.	 /	 On	–	the	–	Job	Training The	programme	was	initiated	in	2002.	It	has	been	imple- mented	 in	 cooperation	 with	 Labour	 Offices	 across	 Po- land,	in	particular	in	Pock.	The	programme	is	addressed	 to	secon	dary	school	and	university	graduates.	In	2007,	 107	people	participated	in	the	programme,	while	in	2008	 –	87	people. In	2009,	on-the-job	training	was	joined	by	35	graduates	 of	 secondary	 schools	 and	 universities.	 Currently	 there	 are	36	trainees,	including	25	from	the	Municipal	Labour	 Office	and	11	from	the	District	Labour	Office	in	Pock.	 In	September	2009	PKN	ORLEN	once	again	took	part	 in	 the	 Job	 fairs	 in	 Pock.	 This	 provided	 the	 Company	 with	 the	 opportunity	 to	 contact	 students	 and	 graduates	 directly,	while	those	interested	could	obtain	all	information	 about	recruitment	and	development	policy.	This	was	also	 an	 opportunity	 to	 discuss	 mutual	 expectations.	 Partici- pation	in	such	initiatives	organized	on	the	local	market	 enables	the	Company	to	build	and	maintain	the	image	 of	PKN	ORLEN	as	the	Company	interested	in	problems	 of	 people	 living	 in	 Pock	 and	 its	 surroundings,	 as	 well	 as	to	present	PKN	ORLEN	as	a	strong	and	dynamically	 developing	enterprise.	 /	 Employee	care for	years	PKN	ORLEN	has	offered	its	employees	various	 benefits	which	are	expected	to	make	the	Company	a	frien- dly	place.	These	include	bigger	and	smaller	projects,	all	 of	which	are	important	and	answer	the	employees	needs: 	adjustment	of		the	opening	hours	of	canteens	to	the	emplo- yees	working	hours, 	delivery	of	meals	to	the	workplace, 	mobile	 teams	 offering	 vaccinations	 for	 employees	 at	the	workplace, 	discounts	for	movies	at	cinemas, 	MultiSport	 programme	 –	 preferential	 access	 to	 sport	 and	recreational	facilities	across	of	Poland, 	special	room	for	breastfeeding	mothers. The	Company	implements	annually	programmes	for	asses- sment	of	the	impact	of	work	on	employees	health	and	 its	potential	effects	in	reference	to	the	set	control	group	 consisting	of	former	employees	(retirees	and	pensioners)	 and	employees	family	members.	There	are	many	scientific	 and	 research	 programmes	 implemented	 as	 prophylac- tic	 schemes	 based	 on	 early	 detection	 of	 risks	 resulting	 2007 2008 2009 Costs (in	PLN) No.	of benefits Costs (in	PLN) No.	of benefits Costs (in	PLN) No.	of benefits Holidays	for	employees,	retirees,	pensioners and	Voluntary	Retirement	Programme 10,521,235.13 12,653 11,604,112.48 13,445 11,299,604.12 13,147 financial	aid	for	children	and	youth 3,510,202.42 7,803 3,375,560.00 7,695 3,217,496.00 7,364 Christmas	gifts 390,485.03 6,100 452,245.57 6,500 460,800.00 6,400 Hardship	benefits 582,738.55 749 798,483.07 880 924,368.51 1,484 Group	events,	cultural	and	educational	meetings,	prophylactic	 and	rehabilitation	therapies	or	recreation	and	sport	activities	 or	integration	events 735,389.16 6,220 655,412.44 8,480 719,765.62 7,461 Housing	loans 7,588,610.00 671 6,807,385.00 659 4,830,705.49 456 Reserves 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 80,000.00 0.00 TOTAL 23,328,682.29 34,196 23,693,198.56 37,659 21,532,739.74 36,312 Social	care	–	types	of	benefits	in	2007–2009  /	39 /	Corporate	responsibility	report from	the	performed	work.	This	allows	detecting	diseases	 in	the	early	stages	of	their	development.	Early	detection	 is	 particularly	 significant	 in	 cancerous	 and	 cardiologic	 diseases,	as	it	increases	the	patients	chances	to	rescue	life	 and	recuperate.	Detection	of	occupational	risks	also	serves	 as	an	indication	for	the	employer	as	to	what	measures	 should	be	taken	in	order	to	limit	the	harmful	influence.	 The	Company	has	initiated	works	aimed	at	introduction	 of	health	policy	in	PKN	ORLEN. for	 PKN	 ORLEN	 the	 employee	 constitutes	 the	 highest	 value.	It	is	important	for	the	Company	to	appreciate	and	 distinguish	 currently	 employed	 employees.	 Moreover,	 the	 Company	 does	 not	 forget	 about	 the	 people	 who	 have	already	finished	their	professional	careers	–	retired	 employees	 and	 pensioners,	 who	 are	 invited	 to	 galas	 celebrating	their	70th,	75th,	80th,	85th	birthdays.	 Galas	with	participation	of	retired	employees	celebrating	 their	birthdays	are	organized	in	cooperation	with	the	Se- nior	Club	Councils,	which	support	our	actions	for	retirees	 and	pensioners	–	the	former	employees	of	the	Company.	 Representatives	of	the	PKN	ORLEN	management	take	part	 in	such	events.	All	meetings	have	ceremonial	setting.	former	 employees	receive	special	diplomas	signed	by	the	Presi- dent	of	the	Management	Board,	flowers,	company	gifts	 and	financial	gratifications.	Special	meetings	for	retired	 employees	and	pensioners	of	PKN	ORLEN	are	organized	 in	all	cities	twice	a	year.	One	of	such	meetings	is	held	 before	Christmas,	while	the	other	one	has	cultural	and	 educational	character	and	is	expected	to	ensure	former	 employees	the	sense	of	belonging	to	the	community	cre- ated	by	PKN	ORLEN. Anna	Lewandowska	–	Romanowska Director	of	Social	Relations	and	Employment Benefits	Office	in	PKN	ORLEN	 What motivated theCompany toprovide aroom for  breastfeeding mothers?  PKNORLEN implements various solutions tofulfil its  employees expectations inthebest and fullest possible  way. Ensuring apeaceful work environment for people  with small children is an important aspect of these  activities. The Company employs agrowing number ofyoung mo thers who return toprofessional activity after theperiod  ofmaternal leave. In order toreduce thestress connected  with separation ofa mother and her baby, and therefore  tomake thereturn towork more comfortable, theCom pany undertook toorganize aroom for breastfeeding  mothers intheAdministration Centre Building inPock.  In this pleasant place, innice and friendly atmosphere  a young mom may meet and feed her baby during  her work time.  Advantages are mutual, asawoman who may see her  child during work time even for aquarter or so, becomes  more relaxed and concentrated. Theroom isavailable  all thetime and used asneeded.  /	40 /	Workplace	responsibility	 Danuta	Goszczycka President	of	the	Senior	Club	Council	in	Pock Which aspects ofinterest and care expressed byPKNORLEN  towards its former employees are themost important for  you? What isthevalue for aretired employee ofkee ping continuous contact with thecompany he or she  worked for? For many years PKNORLEN has cared for keeping  intouch with thecommunity ofits former employees.  Many valuable initiatives originated from this interest  aswell asfrom activities undertaken byretired employees.  Over 25 years ago social activities inthis scope took  theform oftheSenior Club Council inPock. Similar forms  ofactivities are taken up across Poland. Currently there  are 11 such Councils, which weexchange experiences  and cooperate with. PKNORLEN introduced regulations  allowing for functioning ofthis type oforganization. The goodwill oftheformer employer and trade unions  operating intheCompany has also allowed many people  totake advantage oftheCompany Social Benefits Fund  intheform of: cofinancing ofholidays or treatment  insanatoria, repayable housing loans and extremely  necessary nonrepayable hardship benefits. Thefact  that theCompany remembers about us – former emplo yees – is very important for our community. Jubilee  meetings are one of the ways to express this. Such  events, organized across Poland, are very popular and  positively welcomed. Participants ofthese meetings –  persons celebrating ajubilee of70th, 75th, 80th, 85th,  90th birthday are touched and grateful for thegestures  ofappreciation from theCompany they sacrificed ahuge  part oftheir life to. Such activities are an invaluable  and very beautiful proof ofappreciation and respect  for people from our community.  2007 2008 2009 No.	of	benefits No.	of	benefits No.	of	benefits Cash	equivalent	before	public	holidays 565 956 1,039 School	kits	for	children Benefit	introduced	in	2009 92 Co-financing	of	holidays	for	retired	employees 717 902 865 Co-financing	of	holidays	for	retired	employees	children 304 201 245 Hardship	benefits 639 731 1,299 Housing	loans 93 86 56 Meetings	with	retired	employees	celebrating	their	70th,	75th,	80th,	85th,	90th...birthday	jubilee	 774 795 915 Cultural	and	educational	meetings 2,147 5,057 3,585 Provision	of	specialist	health	care	by	the	Military	Medical	Institute	in	Warsaw 1,753 1,897 1,850 TOTAL 6,992 10,625 9,946 Activities	and	benefits	for	retired	employees in	2007–2009  /	41 /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	 Social	benefits	for	current	and	former	employees As	a	Company	caring	for	its	current	and	former	employ- ees,	we	provide	them	access	to	social	benefits.	They	are	 expected	to	support	employees	who	are	in	a	difficult	life	 situation,	as	well	as	to	help	improve	living	conditions	and	 promote	active	lifestyle.	 In	PKN	ORLEN	we	do	not	differentiate	additional	benefits	 on	the	basis	of	working	time. /	 Principles,	significance	and	effects	 	 of	cooperation	with	trade	unions	 	 for	the	Company	and	its	employees Any	 matters	 related	 to	 collective	 rights	 and	 interests	 of	emplo	yees	are	resolved	while	respecting	the	interests	 of	 either	 party	 and	 adhering	 to	 the	 principle	 of	 social	 dialogue.	The	Management	Board	perceives	it	as	a	very	 important	aspect	to	cooperate	in	the	best	possible	way	with	 the	trade	unions	which	represent	employees.	The	employer	 developed	 the	 initiative	 to	 organize	 cyclical	 meetings	 focused	on	the	exchange	of	information,	consultations	and	 negotiations	with	participation	of	the	PKN	ORLEN	Mana- gement	 Board	 members,	 the	 employers	 representatives	 and	leaders	of	the	trade	unions	operating	in	the	Company.	 They	concentrated	on	the	most	significant	current	social	 ad	employment	issues. As	 part	 of	 activities	 aimed	 at	 boosting	 the	 efficiency	 of	 the	 Company,	 PKN	 ORLEN	 and	 the	 trade	 unions	 in	the	Company	concluded	the	agreement	on	the	Voluntary	 Retirement	and	Redundancy	Programme	(PDOEiK)	addres- sed	to	employees	interested	in	termination	of	employment.	 The	programme	agreed	with	the	trade	unions	eliminated	 negative	social	effects	brought	about	by	reduction	of	emplo- yment	in	the	Company.	In	order	to	perform	restructuring	 processes	planned	in	PKN	ORLEN,	collective	agreements	 on	 rights	 of	 employees	 covered	 by	 these	 procedures	 were	concluded	with	the	trade	unions	in	the	atmosphere	 of	social	acceptance. Throughout	the	restructuring	processes	the	Company	main- tained	ongoing	contacts	with	the	trade	unions.	All	activities	 were	performed	in	compliance	with	legal	provisions	and	 did	not	disturb	social	peace. /	OCCUPATIONAL	HEALTH 	 AND	SAfETY In	 order	 to	 adapt	 to	 legislative	 changes	 and	 ensure	 safety	for	employees,	PKN	ORLEN	implemented	the	occu- pational	 health	 and	 safety	 management	 system.	 This	 constitutes	 a	 part	 of	 risk	 factors	 management	 strategy,	 which	resulted	in	decrease	of	the	number	of	accidents,	 ensuring	compliance	with	legal	provisions	and	increase	 of	 efficiency	 of	 activities	 carried	 out	 in	 the	 OHS	 area.	 The	 task	 of	 the	 newly	 established	 OHS	 Office	 is	 joint	 identification	and	control	of	threats	to	health	and	safety,	 reduction	of	probability	of	the	occurrence	of	accidents	and	 promotion	of	safe	and	healthy	work	environment.	Great	 emphasis	was	put	on	activities	performed	in	accordance	 with	the	PN-EN18001	norm,	which	helps	PKN	ORLEN	 efficiently	fulfil	requirements	set	for	the	Company.	 The	OHS	Office	has	taken	over	the	operational	control	 of	 ORLEN	 Medica	 Company	 and	 ORLEN	 Prewencja.	 Its	structures	include	also	the	In-house	fire	Brigade	whose	 members	are	trained	in	the	scope	of	firefighting,	working	 on	 heights	 and	 under	 water	 and	 provision	 of	 first	 aid	 to	 the	 injured.	 Under	 the	 protection	 and	 safety	 system	 these	services	ensure	safety	on	a	daily	basis	for	people,	 protect	production	units	of	the	Company,	and	if	necessary,	 also	help	the	local	community. In	2009	PKN	ORLEN	registered	the	total	of	23	accidents	 at	work,	13	of	which	were	reported	in	the	Production	Plant	 in	Pock,	and	10	in	regional	structures	of	the	Company.	 It	is	worth	emphasizing	that	in	2009	no	grave,	collective	 or	fatal	accidents	among	PKN	ORLEN	employees	were	 reported.	This	is	the	effect	of	initiating	the	process	of	imple- mentation	of	a	new	approach	towards	OHS.	It	is	focused	 on	reduction	of	the	number	of	inspections	to	be	replaced	 by	consultations	and	trainings	increasing	the	level	of	OHS	 awareness.	Reported	incidents	were	minor	communication	 accidents	resulting	from	incautious	movement	of	employees	 on	the	premises	of	production	units	or	office	facilities.	Thus,	 dominant	 types	 of	 accidents	 are	 fractures	 (about	 35%	 of	all	injuries)	and	sprains	(about	22%)	of	lower	limbs	 (61%)	and	upper	limbs	(about	22%).	No	repetitive	acci- dents,	 typical	 of	 the	 chemical	 industry,	 were	 reported.	 There	 was	 a	 decrease	 in	 accident	 rate	 by	 3	 accidents	 in	PKN	ORLEN.	 3.3.  /	42 /	Workplace	responsibility	 In	order	to	prevent	the	occurrence	of	accidents	the	Com- pany	developed	training	materials	related	to	good	OHS	 practices	 while	 moving	 on	 the	 premises	 of	 production	 units	and	office	facilities. Sick	 absence	 following	 accidents	 at	 work	 amounted	 to	 996	 days,	 which	 corresponds	 to	 43.3	 gravity	 rate	 (number	 of	 days	 of	 inability	 to	 work	 per	 1	 accident).	 The	 frequency	 rate	 was	 5.0	 (number	 of	 accidents	 per	 1,000	employees)	and	the	TRR	rate	(number	of	accidents	 per	1	million	man-hours)	–	2.90. Many	years	of	experience	in	development	of	safe	wor- king	conditions	has	led	to	the	reduction	of	accident	rates	 in	PKN	ORLEN.	These	rates	have	remained	on	the	similar	 level	for	several	years,	which	is	confirmed	by	statistical	data.	 	 This	level	of	accident	rates	is	also	influenced	by	developed	 good	practices	and	internal	regulations,	as	well	as	proce- dures	specified	in	the	Comprehensive	Prevention	System	 which	is	one	of	the	first	management	systems	in	Poland	 in	 the	 scope	 of	 occupational	 safety.	 We	 have	 revised	 the	procedure	applied	in	the	case	of	accidents	at	work	 and	used	them	for	reporting	and	analysing	accident	risks	 or	non-casualty	incidents.	The	new	procedure	for	reporting	 accident	 risks	 enables	 the	 reporting	 person	 to	 suggest	 proposals	of	preventive	measures.	61	non-casualty	inci- dents/accidents	were	reported	in	2009.	 PKN	 ORLEN	 puts	 an	 emphasis	 on	 identification	 and	 minimising	risks	at	the	very	source.	Surveys	and	measu- rements	concerning	hazardous	and	health-affecting	agents	 at	 workstations	 are	 systematically	 carried	 out	 and	 they	 provide	the	basis	for	performance	of	periodic	assessments	 of	occupational	risk.	 PKN	ORLEN Year Total Production	Plant	 in	Pock fuel	Terminals and	units outside	Pock Accidents	at	work 2007 26 13 13 2008 26 16 10 2009 23 13 10 Sick	absence	(calendar	days	starting	from	the	date	of	sick	leave) 2007 1	340 630 723 2008 952 611 341 2009 996 689 307 frequency	ratio	(no.	of	accidents	per	1000	employees) 2007 5,4 3,6 10,6 2008 5,5 4,4 9,2 2009 5,0 3,5 10,6 Gravity	ratio	(days	of	sick	absence	per	1	accident) 2007 51,5 48,5 55,6 2008 36,6 38,2 34,1 2009 43,3 53,0 30,7 Occupational	diseases 2007 0 2008 0 2009 0 TRR	ratio* (no.	of	accidents	multiplied	by	one	million	and	divided by	no.	of	man-hours	worked) 2007 3,17 2008 3,19 2009 2,90 Accident	data	in	2007–2009 *	 The	TRR	ratio	shows	correlation	with	the	frequency	ratio.	Due	to	more	precise	data,	this	ratio	better	presents	the	accident	status	of	the	Company,	which	is	comparable	to	other	 world	scale	refinery	and	petrochemical	corporations.  /	43 /	Corporate	responsibility	report further	activities	in	the	scope	of	OHS	and	fire	safety	have	 been	planned	for	2010,	including	e.g.	OHS	campaign	 related	to	equipment	under	the	European	OHS	Campaign,	 implementation	of	the	programme	concerning	appointment	 of	OHS	assistants,	initiation	of	the	implementation	pro- cess	of	e-learning	trainings	for	administration	employees. In	 order	 to	 ensure	 social	 control	 over	 the	 development	 and	observance	of	the	safe	and	healthy	work	conditions,	 PKN	ORLEN	has	its	Occupational	Health	and	Safety	Com- mission.	It	is	composed	of	representatives	of	the	employer	 and	employees.	The	rules	for	functioning	of	the	Commission	 were	stipulated	in	the	agreement	with	the	trade	unions	 concluded	on	the	basis	of	the	Corporate	Collective	Labour	 Agreement	 and	 generally	 applicable	 legal	 provisions.	 Its	 chairman	 is	 the	 PKN	 ORLEN	 Management	 Board	 member.	The	Commission	resolves	all	issues	concerning	 the	OHS	conditions	in	the	Company.	50%	of	the	Com- mission	members	are	employee	representatives. In	 the	 same	 way	 the	 social	 labour	 inspection	 operates	 on	the	basis	of	the	agreement	with	the	trade	unions	conclu- ded	in	compliance	with	the	CCLA	provisions	and	generally	 applicable	law.	Its	activities	are	managed	by	the	trade	 unions.	 Under	 cooperation	 aimed	 at	 developing	 good	 OHS	conditions	in	the	Company,	PKN	ORLEN	organizes	 meetings	 of	 the	 Company	 Social	 Labour	 Inspector	 and	 Department-level	Social	Labour	Inspectors	with	participation	 of	the	trade	unions,	the	PKN	ORLEN	Management	Board	 member	 and	 employers	 representatives	 responsible	 for	 contacts	with	the	social	labour	inspectorate. The	 OHS	 Management	 System	 functions	 in	 organi- zational	 units	 located	 in	 Pock	 and	 in	 Warsaw,	 which	 was	 implemented	 and	 certified	 in	 compliance	 with	 the	PN-N	–	18001:2004	norm. We	pay	particular	attention	to	education	of	our	employees.	 We	also	train	employees	from	external	companies	working	 on	the	premises	of	the	Production	Plant	in	Pock.	In	order	 to	visualise	and	make	the	employees	aware	of	the	risks	 on	the	Plant	premises,	the	Company	has	prepared	3	how-to	 films.	The	subjects	of	the	films	include:	occupational	health	 and	safety	during	overhaul	works	on	the	Plant	premises,	 safety	 of	 visitors	 entering	 the	 Company	 premises	 and	 existing	 risks.	 The	 films	 will	 make	 it	 possible	 to	 reach	 a	larger	group	of	employees. We	also	undertake	actions	aimed	at	monitoring	accidents	 of	employees	from	external	companies	on	the	premises	 of	the	Production	Plant	in	Pock.	If	such	accidents	occur,	 the	 post	 accident	 investigation	 will	 be	 carried	 out	 with	 the	 participation	 of	 an	 employee	 of	 our	 OHS	 service.	 In	 order	 to	 increase	 occupational	 safety	 during	 works	 performed	with	participation	of	external	employees	(con- tractors)	the	Company	introduced	the	clause	Occupational	 safety	to	agreements	concluded	with	external	contractors	 for	 overhaul,	 investment,	 design	 and	 implementation	 as	 well	 as	 research	 works	 on	 the	 Company	 premises.	 We	 also	 developed	 a	 draft	 Supervision	 System	 over	 external	contractors	in	the	scope	of	OHS.	 Moreover,	in	order	to	increase	the	awareness	of	employees	 in	the	scope	of	safe	conduct	during	work	on	different	work	 stations,	 the	 Company	 decreased	 in	 2009	 the	 number	 of	direct	OHS	inspections	to	replace	them	with	advisory	 meetings.	 Educational	activities	were	carried	out	through	corporate	 media.	 Employees	 were	 updated	 in	 articles	 published	 in	ORLEN	Ekspres	and	the	website	on	activities	of	the	OHS	 services,	changes	in	legal	provisions	and	issues	concerning	 employees.	 There	 was	 also	 an	 information	 campaign	 concerning	the	use	by	employees	of	personal	protective	 equipment	 and	 protective	 clothing,	 and	 in	 the	 scope	 of	norms	for	carrying	heavy	items.	 In	order	to	increase	safety	at	workstations	with	the	hig	hest	 risk	of	fire	hazard,	the	Company	introduced	anti-electrostatic	 and	 hard-inflammable	 protective	 clothing.	 All	 chemical	 rescuers	have	also	been	equipped	with	such	clothing.  /	Responsibility	towards	customers 	 and	partners  /	46 /	Responsibility	towards	customers	and	partners	 /	CUSTOMER	CARE In	2009	PKN	ORLEN	took	all	reasonable	efforts	to	main- tain	and	elevate	customer	service	standards.	Our	priority	 is	the	top	quality	of	products	and	services	to	ensure	that	 PKN	ORLEN	fuel	stations	are	places,	where	in	accordance	 with	the	principle	two	hours	of	driving,	twenty	minutes	 break	our	customers	may	safely	and	comfortably	relax.	 It	is	very	important	for	us	to	ensure	that	our	Customers	 are	professionally	served.	We	also	respect	their	privacy.	 In	2009,	we	did	not	find	any	justified	cases	of	customers	 complaints	which	would	arise	from	the	loss	of	personal	 data	in	the	VITAY	Programme. In	 comparison	 to	 the	 previous	 years,	 positive	 effects	 of	 these	 efforts	 were	 confirmed	 by	 results	 of	 surveys	 related	 to	 service	 standards	 and	 mystery	 shopping	 stu- dies.	 We	 constantly	 elevate	 our	 standards	 of	 customer	 care	 e.g.	 by	 implementing	 a	 comprehensive	 training	 system	 for	 fuel	 stations	 employees	 conducted	 by	 sales	 managers	–	coaches.	 The	year	2009	was	characterized	by	an	increased	number	 of	complaints	and	claims	filed	at	own	stations	in	compari- son	to	the	previous	years.	The	share	of	accepted	complaints	 and	claims	in	the	total	number	of	filed	complaints	and	 claims,	which	remained	on	the	same	level	in	2007	and	 2008,	grew	by	4%	in	2009.	Such	phenomenon	always	 causes	 concern,	 therefore	 its	 causes	 were	 thoroughly	 analysed.	It	turned	out	that	in	most	cases,	extreme	weather	 that	unfortunately	occurred	last	winter	sometimes	made	 it	impossible	to	win	with	natural	conditions,	although	our	 fuels	met	all	required	norms.	 As	 our	 products	 –	 fuels	 –	 are	 not	 sold	 in	 packages,	 in	 2009	 the	 Company	 did	 not	 recover	 materials	 from	 sold	products	and	their	packages. Suppliers	also	constitute	an	important	group	of	our	partners.	 The	quality	of	products	we	purchase	and	who	supplies	them	 are	very	important	factors	for	the	Company.	We	constantly	 work	with	suppliers	to	satisfy	current	needs	of	fuel	stations. We	introduce	new	products	in	line	with	significant	world	 trends,	e.g.	the	fair	trade	idea.	Coffee	offered	at	Stop	 Cafe	is	certified	by	fairtrade.	Although	statistics	show	that	 this	logo	is	still	not	very	popular	in	Poland,	we	believe	 our	duty	is	to	promote	this	idea	and	to	join	the	fair	trade	 movement.	Surveys	conducted	by	the	Company	indicate	 that	 the	 fairtrade	 certificate	 does	 not	 directly	 influence	 the	decision	to	buy	coffee,	however	when	the	customer	finds	 out	that	the	coffee	is	certified	by	this	logo,	he	or	she	feels	 satisfied	with	the	purchase	of	such	a	product.	This	is	very	 important	for	a	good	beginning. We	strive	to	make	life	easier	for	our	disabled	customers.	 The	 portal	 www.orlen.pl	 offers	 them	 functionality	 dedi- cated	to	them,	whose	additional	advantage	is	a	legible	 icon.	Customers	have	at	their	disposal	the	search	engine	 allowing	 them	 to	 find	 PKN	 ORLEN	 fuel	 stations,	 which	 enables	 them	 to	 plan	 their	 journey	 and	 locate	 stations	 on	their	route	corresponding	to	their	needs.	 After	marking	an	appropriate	criterion,	the	map	shows	 the	stations	which	have	a	wide	access	ramp	and	a	toilet	 adjusted	to	the	needs	of	the	disabled.	Disabled	customers	 may	 also	 use	 detailed	 selection	 criteria	 allowing	 them	 to	 select	 three	 features	 facilitating	 the	 visit	 at	 the	 fuel	 station.	It	is	worth	emphasizing	that	the	implementation	 of	these	ideas	was	guided	not	by	business	motives,	but	 by	 care	 and	 the	 sense	 that	 as	 the	 Company	 we	 may	 do	something	which	will	make	life	easier	for	other	people. The	website	www.orlen.pl	itself	offers	features	for	the	disa- bled	in	accordance	with	the	applicable	WCAG	1.0	stan- dard.	PKN	ORLEN	operates	in	compliance	with	all	points	 included	in	Priority	1	and	most	points	of	Priority	2	and	3.	 This	standard	applies	among	others	to	illustrations	captions,	 not	using	too	vivid	colours,	too	dynamic	animations	etc.	 2007 2008 2009 Total	CoDo	(own	stations) 1,174 1,150 1,418 Accepted 285 278 399 Number	of	complaints	and	claims in	2007–2009 4.1. 	 Do	you	know	that... The	fairtrade	certificate	means	that	our	suppliers	apply	 the	 principles	 of	 fare	 trade,	 the	 objective	 of	 which	 is	to	eliminate	farmer	exploitation.  /	47 /	Corporate	responsibility	report 	 Do	you	know	that... 	Our	 fuel	 station	 no.	 581	 at	 ul.	 Wczkw	 5	 in	 Cracow	 was	 distinguished	 as	 the	 cleanest	 station	according	to	the	Polish	nationwide	cam- paign	PATROL	CZYSTOCI	2012. 	In	2009	we	served	276,785,721	customers	at	 PKN	ORLEN	own	fuel	stations. 	Motoscan	recognized	us	as	the	leader	in	quick,	 polite	 Customer	 service	 and	 cleanliness	 at	 fuel	 stations. 	We	are	the	MasterCard	2009	Trade	and	Services	 Master. lopment	of	the	Company,	and	on	the	other	hand	resulted	 from	efforts	to	respond	effectively	to	market	needs	and	 provide	clear	cooperation	procedures. High	requirements	have	been	set	for	persons	responsible	for	 cooperation	with	suppliers.	The	Purchase	Office	personnel	 inform	–	in	the	course	of	bidding	procedures	–	about	appli- cable	purchase	procedures,	provide	explanations	concer- ning	individual	stages	of	selection	process,	work	schedule	 of	the	Evaluation	Teams	or	present	general	or	eligibility	 requirements	towards	the	bidders.	The	Company	appre- ciates	especially	contractors	who	apply	good	commerce	 practices	and	represent	the	highest	level	of	professional	 ethics.	Moreover,	the	Company	has	signed	an	agreement	 on	good	practices	with	the	Advertising	Agencies	Associa- tion	(Stowarzyszenie	Agencji	Reklamowych)	concerning	 the	purchase	of	marketing	services. PKN	ORLEN	organizes	annual	satisfaction	surveys	in	order	 to	ensure	the	best	cooperation	with	suppliers.	Regularity	 of	surveys	allows	us	to	determine	whether	cooperation	with	 respective	suppliers	is	developing,	deteriorating	or	remains	 stable	etc. The	principle	Think	globally,	act	locally	is	also	appli- cable	towards	cooperation	with	suppliers.	The	Company	 uses	the	services	of	local	suppliers	(whose	headquarters	 are	located	in	the	Pock	Poviat),	thus	supporting	the	local	 market	and	business.	Their	obvious	advantages	include	 good	knowledge	of	the	local	market	or	possibility	to	redu- ce	transport	costs.	However,	the	final	selection	criterion	 is	always	the	ability	to	satisfy	high	expectations.	Therefore	 the	Company	does	not	keep	statistics	specifying	the	share	 of	expenses	for	services	provided	by	local	suppliers. PKN	ORLEN	cooperates	with	reliable	suppliers	from	all	 over	the	world.	All	of	them	are	subject	to	regular	verifica- tion;	forms	of	long-term	cooperation	have	been	developed	 with	key	suppliers.	Apparently	as	a	result	of	such	actions,	 no	agreements	with	suppliers	have	been	identified	that	 would	require	the	application	of	human	rights	clause. One	of	the	effects	of	applying	due	diligence	in	the	purchase	 processes	is	the	fact	that	in	2009	no	penalties	were	impo- sed	on	the	Company	for	breach	of	law	and	regulations	 relating	to	delivery	and	usage	of	products	and	services. 4.2./	RELATIONS	WITH	SUPPLIERS There	are	several	primary	objectives	that	guide	the	PKN	 ORLEN	Purchase	Office	in	relations	with	suppliers.	These	 include	 developing	 partnership	 with	 reliable	 suppliers,	 maintaining	friendly	work	environment,	creating	the	model	 of	effective	cooperation	with	external	customers	by	satisfying	 their	expectations	in	the	best	possible	way	and	readiness	 to	provide	necessary	support.	 The	 Office	 mission	 is	 to	 acquire	 the	 status	 of	 the	 best	 purchase	 organization	 in	 the	 fuel	 and	 energy	 industry	 of	the	Central	and	Eastern	Europe.	Thus	it	is	our	priority	 to	timely	deliver	required	materials	and	services	of	desi- red	 quality,	 as	 well	 as	 to	 systematically	 optimise	 costs	 in	the	course	of	these	activities.		While	fulfilling	their	duties	 employees	must	be	professional,	but	simultaneously	respect	 the	 primary	 values	 and	 principles	 of	 the	 PKN	 ORLEN	 Code	of	Ethics. In	 cooperation	 with	 its	 suppliers	 the	 Company	 adheres	 to	the	purchase	policy	regulations.	One	of	its	key	docu- ments	is	the	PKN	ORLEN	Purchase	Instruction.	On	the	basis	 of	this	instruction	we	select	our	suppliers	in	a	clear	and	 transparent	way. Centralization	of	scattered	purchase	functions	carried	out	 a	few	years	ago	was	on	the	one	hand	the	effect	of	the	deve-  /	48 /	Responsibility	towards	customers	and	partners	 /	RESPONSIBLE	PRODUCTION PKN	ORLEN	is	one	of	the	largest	oil	industry	companies	 in	 Central	 and	 Eastern	 Europe.	 We	 process	 crude	 oil	 into	 unleaded	 petrol,	 diesel	 fuel,	 furnace	 oil,	 aviation	 fuel,	plastics	and	petrochemical	products.	The	Company	 manages	 seven	 refineries	 in	 Poland,	 the	 Czech	 Repu- blic	 and	 Lithuania.	 The	 Companys	 integrated	 refinery	 and	petrochemical	complex,	located	in	Pock,	is	ranked	 among	 the	 most	 modern	 and	 efficient	 facilities	 of	 its	 kind	in	Europe.	In	2009	the	refinery	in	Pock	processed	 14,526	mln	tonnes	of	crude	oil,	thus	increasing	its	result	 by	2.7%	compared	to	the	previous	year. In	2009	PKN	ORLEN	commenced	the	implementation	of	a	 new	project.	The	project	consists	in	design,	supply	and	 construction	(a	turn-key	investment)	of	a	modern	heat	 recovery	 steam	 generator	 at	 the	 fKKII	 unit	 for	 cooling	 of	 technological	 gases.	 The	 energy	 thus	 recovered	 will	 be	 used	 to	 produce	 up	 to	 40	 tonnes/hour	 of	 4	 MPag	 technological	 steam.	 We	 expect	 to	 start	 the	 operation	 of	the	steam	generation	in	the	autumn	of	2010. Also,	 early	 in	 July,	 we	 resumed	 an	 investment	 project	 involving	a	new	boiler	no.	8	at	the	Combined	Heat	and	 Power	 Plant	 of	 the	 Production	 Plant	 in	 Plock.	 With	 this	 boiler,	the	Plock	facility	will	improve	its	total	technological	 steam	balance	and	will	be	able	to	modernise	the	existing	 boilers	at	the	Combined	Heat	and	Power	Plant.	The	project	 is	necessary	to	fulfil	environmental	standards	with	respect	 to	nitrogen	oxide	and	dust	emission,	which	are	expected	 to	enter	into	force	in	2016.	The	boiler	will	generate	up	 to	420	tonnes	of	steam	per	hour,	the	steam	parameters	 being	 13.6	 MPag	 and	 5400C.	 We	 plan	 to	 start	 up	 the	boiler	no.	8	by	late	June	2012.	 following	 the	 fuel	 Study	 performed	 by	 Solomon	 Asso- ciates,	we	individually	developed	tools	enabling	monthly	 monitoring	 of	 key	 parameters,	 such	 as	 energy	 media	 consumption,	 number	 and	 reasons	 for	 production	 units	 arrests.	Monitoring	data	are	used	to	calculate	key	perfor- mance	indicators	of	production	units	and	refineries	in	order	 to	review	the	Companys	competitive	position.	They	are	 also	 used	 as	 guidelines	 for	 making	 current	 and	 future	 operational	decisions.	 Another	programme	in	the	production	area,	aimed	at	incre- asing	 our	 profit,	 was	 the	 NCM3	 project	 implemented	 in	association	with	the	Solomon	Associates	consulting	com- pany.	NCM3	led	to	development	of	a	number	of	initiatives	 to	change/improve	the	existing	situation	in	the	Production	 Plant	in	Pock	to	bring	it	to	level	with	the	best	practices	 applied	 in	 the	 world.	 In	 2009,	 the	 economic	 effects	 of	those	initiatives	amounted	to	approx.	PLN	23	mln. 2008 2009 2008/2009 Crude	oil	processed 14,218 14,526 2.17% Total	petrol 2,800 3,055 9.11% Total	diesel	fuel 5,078 5,330 4.96% Ekoterm	Plus	heating	oil 840 790 –5.98% Aviation	fuel 418 291 –30.38% Propane-butane	fraction 221 210 –4.98% Total	fuels 9,358 9,676 3.4% fuel	output	(%) 65.82 66.61 1.2% White	product	output	(%) 77.98 78.08 0.13% SO2 NO2 CO2 Dust Amount	from	the	begining	of	2009 17,904.1 4,515.8 3,184,076.0 357.6 Amount	left	for	use	in	2009 3,803.9 1,230.5 174,882.0 919.3 Permissible	emission	[Mg/year]* 21,708.0 5,746.3 3,358,958.0 1,277.0 Percentage	of	permissible	emission	used 82.5% 78.6% 94.8% 28.0% Production	volume	of	selected	refinery	products in	2008–2009	(000.	tonnes) Mass	of	pollutants	emitted	[Mg] 4.3. *	Acc.	to	the	integrated	permit	no.	P.V/KS/7600-120/08	of	21.07.2009	and	NAP	II	for	CO2	(Polish	Journal	of	Laws	2008.2784).  /	49 /	Corporate	responsibility	report Comparison	of	actual	mass	emision	of	pollutants	 for	12	months	of	2009 82.5% SO2 / 17.5% / 94.8% CO2 / 5.2% / 78.6% NOx / 21.4% / amount left for use 72.0% / 28.0% CO /  /	50 /	Responsibility	towards	customers	and	partners	 Actual	SO2	and	NOx	mass	emission for	12	month	of	2009 Actual	CO2	mass	emission for	12	month	of	2009 In	2009	we	started	preparing	for	pilot	energy	consumption	 tests	at	the	DRW	III	and	Olefins	II	units.	Particular	attention	 was	 paid	 to	 energy	 efficiency	 analyses	 and	 proposals	 were	developed	focusing	on	solutions	and	modernisation	 aimed	at	reducing	energy	consumption	levels.	These	are	 indispensable	actions	to	be	taken	in	order	to	be	able	–	 while	using	the	employees	potential	–	to	set	ambitious	 targets	to	keep	pace	with	the	best	in	the	industry.	 We	implement	an	Advanced	Process	Control	(APC)	sys- tem	at	the	Production	Plant.	In	2009	it	was	implemented	 on	 the	 Hydrocracking	 installation	 (fractionating	 column	 area).	It	is	expected	that	application	of	this	system	will	 significantly	 increase	 the	 output	 of	 the	 most	 valuable	 products,	such	as	aviation	fuel	or	light	diesel	fuel,	while	 ensuring	stable	operation	conditions	of	the	fractionating	 column	and	the	entire	Hydrocracking	installation.	 Another	hydrogen	production	unit	–	WW	II	was	started-up	 in	November	2009.	The	unit	was	planned	as	the	final	 stage	in	hydrogen	management	process	after	the	start-up	 of	the	Diesel	Desulphurisation	7	and	Paraxylene	units.	Cur- rently	(until	the	mentioned	units	are	in	operation),	WW	II	 stabilises	the	hydrogen	network	and	ensures	its	efficient	 utilisation.	Should	one	of	the	Hydrogen	Production	Units	 break	 down,	 the	 loss	 will	 be	 much	 reduced,	 as	 there	 will	 be	 less	 need	 to	 substitute	 it	 with	 other	 production	 units.	More	readily	available	supplies	of	hydrogen	mean	 more	flexibility	in	hydrogen	processes,	in	terms	of	their	 possibilities	and	intensification. 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 SO2 NOx 3,500,000 3,000,000 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 0 17,904 4,516 3,184,076 CO2  T/a 3,500,000 3,000,000 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 0 3,184,076 CO2  T/a  /	51 /	Corporate	responsibility	report Energy	consumption	in	2009 UM 2009 completion 2008 completion Crude	oil	processing 	Mg	 14,526,294 14,217,789 Soft	asphalt	consumption 	Mg	 909,820 928,322 Heating	oil	consumption 	GJ	 37,310,010 37,970,180 	Mg	 129,263 108,411 fuel	gas	consumption (incl.	natural	gas) 	GJ	 5,503,860 4,603,430 	Mg	 717,935 743,656 	GJ	 35,162,870 36,326,990 	Mg	 332,118 365,939 	GJ	 16,328,640 18,001,140 Diesel	fuel	consumption	in	PZC 	Mg	 287 384 	GJ	 12,320 16,360 Electricity	purchase 	MWh	 80,718 121,769 	 290,584 438,368 Heat	energy	purchase 	GJ	 302,792 373,084 Total	consumption	of	fuel and	purchased	energy 	GJ	 82,395,436 83,512,492 Electricity	sale	 	MWh	 507,123 476,052 	GJ	 1,825,644 1,713,787 Heat	energy	sale 	GJ	 4,264,558 4,344,479 Heat	energy	production in	PZC	boilers	(gross) 	GJ	 40,029,440 39,398,995 Heat	uptake	in	steam	by	the	Industrial Complex	(from	PZC	+	purchase from	Polyolefin	and	Asphalts) 	GJ	 23,784,933 25,063,702 	Heat	consumption	in	hot	water 	GJ	 2,361,490 2,273,321 	including:	–	city 	GJ	 2,094,738 2,024,088 	–	Industrial	Complex	 +	external	recipients 	GJ	 266,752 249,233 Steam	supply	to	network from	production	units 	GJ	 5,651,703 5,556,322 Heat	production	in	waste heat	boilers 	GJ	 19,252,965 19,427,191 Electricity	production 	MWh	 1,989,646 1,958,067 Electricity	consumption (Industrial	Complex	+	PZC) 	MWh	 1,563,240 1,603,784 /	 Pro-ecological	effects	in	fuel	production 	 Petrol Eurosuper	95	petrol	which	is	the	mixture	of	hydrocarbons	 obtained	 from	 crude	 oil	 processing.	 It	 is	 a	 basic	 type	 of	fuel	offered	on	the	domestic	market.	Thanks	to	the	most	 noble	components,	such	as	ether,	alkyls	and	isomerizate,	 it	has	the	required	octane	number	at	reduced	aromatic	 hydrocarbon,	 benzene	 and	 sulphur	 content.	 All	 types	 of	 petrol	 produced	 in	 PKN	 ORLEN	 are	 enriched	 with	 the	package	of	the	best	quality	special	additives,	whose	 main	 component	 is	 a	 detergent	 guaranteeing	 fulfilment	 of	the	highest	criteria	of	intake	valves	cleanliness	specified	 in	the	World-Wide	fuel	Charter. Super	Plus	98	is	a	sublime	mixture	of	hydrocarbon	obtained	 from	crude	oil	processing.	Specific	type	of	components	 ensures	the	required	octane	number	at	reduced	aromatic	 hydrocarbon,	benzene	and	sulphur	content. VERVA	98	is	a	sulphur-free	fuel,	whose	high	parameters	 help	 reduce	 fuel	 consumption	 and	 improve	 the	 engine	 performance.	It	also	ensures	high	efficiency	and	durability	 of	catalytic	converters.	This	is	a	new	generation	of	fuels	 formulated	with	the	aim	to	improve	engine	performance	 under	 various	 weather	 conditions	 and	 variable	 loads.	 Reduced	sulphur	content	(below	10	mg/kg)	guarantees	 significantly	lower	corrosion	in	the	fuel	feed,	combustion	 and	 exhaust	 system.	 It	 prolongs	 durability	 of	 catalytic	 converter.	It	also	ensures	reduction	of	CH	and	CO	hydro- carbons	in	fumes.	VERVA	98	has	a	beneficial	influence	 on	the	engines	lifetime,	increasing	mechanical	durability	 of	its	components	(cylinders,	pistons,	rings	and	valves).	 Quality	and	range	of	motor	fuels	in	2009 Production	 volume [Mg] Average	sul- phur	content	 [%	weight] Benzene	 content [%	V/V] Ethanol	 content	 [%	V/V] MTBE	ether	 content [%	weight] ETBE	ether	 content [%	weight] Eurosuper	95 140,689 0.0007 0.77 – – – Eurosuper	95	with	EETB 778,178 0.0008 0.80 – – 8.53 Super	Plus	98	with	EETB 295,200 0.0008 0.66 – – 10.56 Eurosuper	95	with	Ethanol	Pock	Production	Plant 917,906 0.0008 0.74 4.89 – – Eurosuper	95	with	EthanolStorage	facilities 920,024 0.0008 0.74 4.84 – – VERVA	98	Pock	Production	Plant – – – – – – VERVA	98	Storage	facilities 128,233 0.0008 0.66 – – 10.56 Average	content	of	substances	in	motor	fuels – 0.0008 0.62 1.39 – 4.24  /	52 /	Responsibility	towards	customers	and	partners	 VERVA	98	combustion	process	in	the	engine	is	enhanced	 by	 the	 use	 of	 carefully	 selected	 and	 optimally	 dosed	 additives	package	of	washing	agents	(detergents),	which	 help	maintain	cleanliness	of	the	fuel	feed	system	and	even	 guarantee	 removal	 of	 sediment	 built-up	 due	 to	 the	 use	 of	fuels	of	unknown	origin	and	not	containing	detergents.	 It	possesses	anti-corrosion	and	antioxidant	qualities	pre- venting	fuel	degradation	in	storage. Share	 of	 individual	 types	 of	 petrol	 in	 the	 entire	 petrol	production	in	2009	[%] Production	of	the	noblest	components	of	ecological	 petrol	in	2009	[Mg] Share	of	ether	in	unleaded	petrol	in	2009	[%] 2009 Unleaded	petrol	95 86.69 Unleaded	petrol	98 9.28 VERVA	98 4.03 2009 MTBE 0 ETBE 97,853 Alkylate 115,323 Isomerizate 477,458 2009 Eurosuper	95,	Super	Plus	98,	VERVA	98 MTBE 0.00 ETBE 9.55 /	 Diesel	fuel In	 2009	 PKN	 ORLEN	 produced	 the	 following	 types	 of	 diesel	 fuels	 with	 sulphur	 content	 below	 10	 mg/kg	 [0.0010%	(m/m)]: The	 Super	 urban	 diesel	 fuel	 produced	 only	 in	 few	 European	countries	under	the	name	City	Diesel.	This	fuel	 in	its	original	version	with	sulphur	content	of	200	mg/kg	 was	introduced	to	the	Polish	market	already	in	1994	and	 since	then	PKN	ORLEN	has	been	its	exclusive	producer	 in	Poland.	In	comparison	to	the	old	version,	the	product	 satisfies	significantly	higher	quality	requirements.	The	sul- phur	content	is	reduced	to	10	mg/kg.	The	final	distillation	 of	this	fuel	does	not	exceed	the	temperature	of	300 0C;	 the	norm	also	specifies	the	content	of	polycyclic	aromatic	 hydrocarbon	up	to	5%	(m/m),	which	in	comparison	to	stan- dard	diesel	fuel	guarantees	lower	level	of	hydrocarbon	 and	 solid	 particles	 emission	 and	 influences	 lower	 level	 of	nitrogen	monoxide	creation	and	its	emission	in	exhaust	 gases.	Additives	package	is	used	in	the	product,	which	 improves	 operating	 properties	 of	 the	 fuel,	 ensuring	 ap- propriate	washing,	anti-corrosion,	antioxidant	properties	 and	good	lubricant	properties.	As	other	diesel	fuels,	this	 product	is	protected	from	microbiological	contamination.	 Due	 to	 these	 factors	 the	 Super	 urban	 diesel	 is	 used	 in	land	transport,	mainly	in	public	transport,	in	big	urban	 agglomerations	and	environmentally	protected	areas. Ekodiesel	 Ultra	 is	 top	 quality	 diesel	 fuel	 which	 meets	 the	 strictest	 quality	 and	 environmental	 requirements	 for	 diesel	fuels	in	the	European	Union	member	states.	Its	most	 important	advantages	in	comparison	to	diesel	fuel	produced	 so	far	include:	trace	sulphur	content	(below	10	mg/kg),	 reduced	aromatic	hydrocarbon	content,	a	higher	cetane	 number,	better	operating	properties	in	winter	and	a	high	 microbiological	purity	level.  /	53 /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	 Heating	Oils Ekoterm	 Plus	 heating	 oil	 is	 a	 modern	 and	 safe	 energy	 source,	being	a	product	of	the	highest	quality,	complying	 with	global	norms	both	in	terms	of	operating	parameters	 and	environmental	protection	standards.	It	is	characterized	 by	low	sulphur	content	[since	2007	below	0.10%	(m/m)],	 low	adhesiveness,	low	flow	temperature	(below	–20oC)	 and	high	calorific	value. 2009 Production	 volume [Mg] Sulphur	 content [%	weight] ONM	Super 114,977 0.00046 Ekodiesel	Ultra	excl.	diesel	for	storage in	salt	caverns 5,179,475 0.00082 Range	and	quality	of	diesel	fuel Sulphur	content	in	fuel	produced	in	2009	[Mg] Total amount [Mg] Sulphur	content	in	heating	oils 19,476 Sulphur	content	in	diesel	oils 43 Amount	of	sulphur	recovered	from	processed	crude	oil 134,850 2009 Production	 volume [Mg] Sulphur	 content [%	weight] Light	heating	oil	Ekoterm	Plus Ekoterm	Plus	heating	oil 753,387 0.06 Heavy	heating	oil	C-3 930,999 2.00 Heavy	heating	oil	1 27,734 0.85 furnace	oil	for	technological	furnaces 129,263 0.13 Range	and	quality	of	oils /	 Innovation In	April	2009	the	invention	made	by	PKN	ORLEN	emplo- yees	was	awarded	a	gold	medal	at	the	37th	International	 Exhibition	of	Inventions,	New	Technologies	and	Products	 GENEVA	 2009.	 The	 authors	 of	 the	 project:	 Method	 of	measuring	the	temperature	of	heat	exchangers	pipes	 in	process	furnaces	are	Grzegorz	Goleniewski,	Antoni	 Waldemar	 Korytkowski	 and	 Wojciech	 Komasa	 from	 PKN	ORLEN	and	Piotr	Prgowski	from	the	PIRS	company.	 The	essential	aspect	of	the	solution	is	registration	of	a	10	 to	20	seconds	sequence	(50	frames/sec)	of	thermal	images	 in	conditions	of	constant	geometry	of	the	set	study	object	 –	metric	camera	instead	of	the	registration	of	individual	 thermograms	made	with	a	hand-held	camera.	 The	use	of	the	measurement	method	allows	us	to	eliminate	 most	disruptions	and	results	in	the	increase	of	a	measure- ment	field	as	well	as	reliability	of	imaging	of	temperatures	 distribution	in	pipes. This	 solution	 had	 previously	 received	 many	 prestigious	 distinctions.  /	Environmental	and	social	responsibility  /	56 /	Environmental	and	social	responsibility	 /	ENVIRONMENTAL	RESPONSIBILITY Our	Company	is	aware	of	its	environmental	impact,	and	 therefore	takes	responsibility	for	the	mode	of	its	operations.	 This	is	reflected	in	our	environmental	policy.	Environmen- tally-friendly	ORLEN	means	that	we	are: O		bliged	to	take	responsibility	for	the	use	of	natural 	 	resources R		eliable	in	informing	people	about	our	impact L	 	oyal	towards	stakeholders E		nergetic	in	undertaking	preventive	and	corrective 	 	measures N		ovel	in	the	implementation	of	environmentally	friendly 	 	techniques	and	technologies Aware	of	new	challenges	in	the	environmental	protection	 area,	we	started	to	develop	a	new	integrated	environmental	 policy	of	the	Company. The	PKN	ORLEN	Production	Plant	is	neither	located	on	any	 protected	 areas,	 nor	 within	 the	 Nature	 2000	 zones.	 Within	the	impact	of	the	Plant	there	are:	the	Brudzeski	 Landscape	Park,	large	areas	of	the	Gostynisko-Wocawski	 Landscape	 Park	 and	 extensive	 strips	 of	 protected	 land- scape	areas:	Nadwilaski,	Gostynisko-Gbiski	areas	 and	Raciska	Plain.	There	are	also	sanctuaries:	wietlista	 Dbrowa	in	Brwilno,	Sikrz	and	nearby	ck,	ckie	Mae	 Lake,	Korze,	Rzepki,	Kresy,	Jarzbek,	Oz	Gostyniski,	 Drzewce.	 A	 significant	 role	 is	 served	 by	 recreational	 areas,	even	of	sanatorium	character	or	traditionally	per- ceived	as	good	for	environmental	therapy.	These	include	 forests	in	the	Vistula	valley	on	its	right	bank	and	forests	 in	the	Gostyniskie	Lakeland. Already	for	many	years	the	area	occupied	by	the	Produc- tion	Plant	has	been	inhabited	by	falcons.	This	area	has	 become	the	habitat	of	the	most	enduring	and	productive	 couple	in	Poland	which	in	the	years	2002-2009	hatched	 25	nestlings. The	 Polish	 Red	 Book	 lists,	 among	 others,	 the	 peregri- ne	falcon	as	CR	–	critically	endangered	species.	Since	 2002	the	Company	has	participated	in	restitution	of	its	 population	 in	 cooperation	 with	 the	 Society	 for	 Wild	 Animals	SOK.	In	1999,	two	nest	boxes	were	fixed	 on	chimneys	of	the	Combined	Heat	and	Power	Plant	and	 Claus	Unit.	Since	2000	the	Company	has	cooperated	with	 the	Peregrine	falcon	Restitution	in	Poland	Programme	 Board	–	since	2002	–	Society	for	Wild	Animals	SOK.	 The	birds	hatched	for	the	first	time	in	2002. In	2002	the	presence	of	four	nestlings	of	peregrine	falcon	 was	 recorded	 in	 the	 nest	 box	 –	 two	 females	 and	 two	 males.	As	a	result	of	the	Name	the	peregrine	falcon	 competition	organized	for	the	first	time	among	employees,	 the	four	nestlings	were	called:	Oleka,	Petronela,	Rafek,	 and	Naftek. Production	 installations	 have	 not	 exerted	 a	 significant	 impact	on	biodiversity	thanks	to	applied	procedures	which	 guarantee	safe	use	and	adherence	to	permissible	emission	 parameters.	Lack	of	significant	influence	of	products	results	 from	their	proper	use	and	respecting	of	features	specified	 in	data	sheets	available	to	users.	 Maybe	this	was	the	reason	for	appearance	of	other	original	 guests	at	the	premises	of	the	Production	Plant	lat	year. In	february	2009,	periodic	inspection	of	the	Moczary	 reservoir	at	the	premises	of	the	Production	Plant	discovered	 the	 presence	 of	 beavers.	 The	 animals	 which	 inhabited	 the	 reservoir	 built	 two	 large	 lodges	 on	 the	 dike	 area.	 The	presence	of	beavers	was	confirmed	by	damage	done	 in	 the	 surrounding	 reservoir:	 disturbances	 of	 the	 banks	 of	the	reservoir	in	the	form	of	numerous	holes	and	a	large	 number	of	cut	down	trees.	Their	activities	posed	a	thre- at	 to	 facilities	 and	 installation,	 as	 well	 as	 operations	 of	the	reservoir.	With	the	aim	to	ensure	technical	safety	 of	the	objects	and	installation	the	Company	turned	for	help	 to	competent	public	administration	bodies.	In	September	 the	decision	was	issued	to	catch	and	resettle	the	family	 of	 European	 beavers	 from	 the	 reservoir	 to	 the	 middle	 section	of	the	Osetnica	River	below	the	Szczawiskie	Lake. 5.1.  /	57 /	Corporate	responsibility	report Arkadiusz	Kamiski Environmental	Protection	Office	Director in	PKN	ORLEN	 In 2009 the Environmental Protection Department,  apart from performing its ordinary duties, had todeal  with avery unusual task, whose aim was tocatch and  resettle thefamily ofbeavers which inhabited thePlant  premises. How was this task performed? PKN ORLEN contracted a group of specialists from  thePolish Hunting Association tocatch and resettle  thebeavers. Theaction was initiated on20 October  2009. To perform this task, PKN ORLEN engaged  theonly such team ofspecialists inPoland. Themost  difficult part ofthetask was tolocate thepositions where  thebeavers could be found, i.e. all lodges, holes, corri dors through which beavers may escape tothedarkest  corners. Theentire action was supported bytrained  dogs ofJagdterrier breed which can drive beavers out  oftheir holes and lodges. All such places were guarded.  A net was spread across the reservoir to the depth  ofat least 4 m.  The first beaver – an adult female weighing 18.5kg was  caught already onthefirst day. Then – amale weighing  19kg and two young female and male beavers oftwo  years ofage and weighing 15.5 kg and 14 kg, respec tively, were caught on21 October 2009. Thebeavers  were put into cages. The entire family was successfully transported on22  October tothearea oftheOsetnica River. Two days  of strenuous and difficult work was crowned with  success. Theteam ofbeaver catchers left Pock con vinced that atleast one beaver was left onthearea  oftheMoczary reservoir. Therefore, theoperation  was repeated in Decem ber. The hunters found one  adult beaver – afemale, which joined thebeavers that  had been caught earlier. /		Responsible	Care Since	1997	PKN	ORLEN	has	participated	in	the	Respon- sible	Care	Programme	(RC).	The	Programme	is	the	che- mical	 industrys	 global	 initiative	 under	 which	 chemical	 companies	 work	 together	 to	 continuously	 improve	 their	 safety,	health	and	environmental	performance	and	openly	 communicate	their	activities. The	entities	implementing	the	RC	Programme	each	year	 announce	the	execution	of	certain	tasks	aimed	at	impro- ving	their	activity	in	the	field	of	the	so-called	HSE	triad	 (Health,	Safety	and	Environment).	They	develop	required	 reports	and	submit	them	to	the	Programme	Secretariat.	 Based	on	such	information,	the	Polish	Chamber	of	Che- mical	 Industry	 –	 an	 employers	 organization,	 publishes	 annually	an	Environmental	Report	presenting	the	achie- vements	of	companies	in	the	scope	of	reduction	of	their	 negative	 impact,	 as	 well	 as	 results	 of	 the	 Programme	 implementation.	This	synthetic	form	constitutes	a	significant	 element	of	the	Programme	and	made	the	chemical	industry	 one	of	the	Polish	precursors	of	open	information	policy	 in	the	field	of	environmental	protection.	 In	2009	the	Company	completed	and	submitted	to	the	Pro- gramme	Secretariat	the	following	questionnaires: 	Indicators	–	reporting	for	2008, 		Environmental	database	for	2008, 		Report	on	execution	of	tasks	in	2008. Of	32	tasks	reported	for	implementation	in	2009	(inclu- ding	8	continuous,	12	continuations	of	tasks	implemented	 in	2008	and	12	new),	the	16	tasks	in	total	were	imple- mented	in	individual	areas:	 	environmental	protection	–	6	out	of	12	tasks,	4	tasks	 will	be	continued	in	2010,	while	2	tasks	were	given	 the	uncompleted	status	as	a	result	of	difficult	macro- economic	situation	and	their	implementation	was	res- cheduled	for	later,  /	58 /	Environmental	and	social	responsibility	 	improvement	of	process	safety	and	occupational	safety	 –	3	out	of	11	tasks,	the	rest	will	be	continued	in	2010, 	health	and	health	prophylaxis	–	4	out	of	6	tasks,	the	rest	 will	be	continued	in	2010, 	trade	in	chemicals	–	2	declared	tasks, 	other	–	1	declared	task. Moreover,	it	was	decided	to	implement	the	framework	 Responsible	 Care	 Management	 System;	 System	 Repre- sentative,	Supervisory	Team	and	Safety,	Environment	and	 Health	Protection	Working	Team	were	appointed. An	 important	 function	 of	 the	 programme	 is	 ecological	 education.	for	the	third	time	PKN	ORLEN	employees	took	 part	in	the	local	stage	of	the	3rd	edition	of	the	Polish	nation- wide	environmental	photo	contest	Zap	Zajca	(Catch	 the	Hare)	(the	national	stage	is	organized	by	the	RC	Prog- ramme	Secretariat).	In	2009	the	contest	as	always	focused	 on	promotion	of	the	RC	Programme	idea	and	integration	 of	the	industry	community	and	employees	on	environmental	 level,	but	apart	from	this	it	was	aimed	at	engaging	ORLEN	 employees	in	deciding	what	is	environmentally	beautiful	 or	 interesting	 and	 providing	 the	 opportunity	 to	 show	 their	works.	The	contest	was	advertised	in	all	corporate	 media	(intranet,	ORLEN	Ekpres	and	ORLEN	Studio)	and	 advertising	posters.	99	photos	sent	by	53	persons	were	 submitted	to	the	3rd	edition	of	the	local	contest.	The	best	 five	 works	 were	 sent	 to	 the	 RC	 Programme	 Secretariat	 and	 took	 part	 in	 the	 national	 stage.	 Zbigniew	 Wolski,	 the	PKN	ORLEN	employee	won	the	nationwide	contest.	 Moreover,	 two	 more	 photos	 sent	 by	 employees	 of	 our	 Company	were	also	distinguished.	 An	award	ceremony	took	place	during	the	International	 Environmental	 Protection	 Trades	 POLEKO	 2009,	 where	 all	distinguished	photos	were	shown	during	the	exhibition	 organized	after	the	contest.	 2008 2009 2009/2008 Water	uptake	from	the	Vistula 22,991,953	 22,448,565	 –	2.4% Water	uptake	from	deep	 water	wells 513,000	 489,000	 –	4.7% Volume	of	reused	water 2,643,956	 4,196,598	 58.7% Drainage	from	the	desalting	 of	blocks	for	industrial	and	 fire-fighting	water 1,261,677	 1,311,230	 3.9% Volume	and	type	of	water	uptaken in	2008–2009	(in	m3) /	 Water	consumption Water	in	the	Production	Plant	in	Pock	is	a	technological	 medium	used	in	production	processes:	for	the	production	 of	steam	in	the	CHP	and	as	a	cooling	medium.	It	is	also	 used	 for	 fire	 fighting	 and	 fire	 prevention.	 The	 Vistula	 is	a	natural	source	of	water	supply.	A	water	intake	with	 a	pumping	station	was	built	above	it	for	water	transport.	 The	Company	has	a	separate	water	permit	for	the	uptake	 of	surface	water	and	ground	water	for	the	entire	Produc- tion	Plant	in	Pock. In	 2009	 the	 amount	 of	 reused	 sewage	 was	 reported	 to	increase	by	58%,	which	was	caused	by	an	increased	 demand	 of	 the	 Production	 Plant	 for	 industrial	 and	 fire- fighting	 water.	 The	 increase	 of	 reused	 sewage	 amount	 resulted	in	reduction	by	8.3%	of	the	amount	of	sewage	 discharged	to	the	Vistula. Water	 management	 is	 developed	 in	 such	 a	 way	 that	 an	increasing	number	of	production	facilities	and	increasing	 crude	oil	throughput	does	not	translate	into	an	increased	 water	 uptake	 from	 the	 Vistula.	 There	 are	 several	 main	 reasons	for	such	a	favourable	situation.	The	most	important	 is	 the	 permanent	 modernization	 of	 production	 facilities	 in	order	to	decrease	their	energy	consumption	and	reuse	 of	some	part	of	purified	industrial	sewage	in	the	industrial	 water	network.	This	results	from	sewage	management	mo- dernization	and	improvement,	increase	of	efficiency	of	water	 blocks	in	the	refinery	and	petrochemical	part,	modernization	 of	water	treatment	system,	in	particular	decarbonisation	 and	modernization	of	water	demineralization	facilities. Odpowiedzialno i Troska Responsible Care  /	59 /	Corporate	responsibility	report Methods	of	water	use: 	surface	 water	 is	 used	 in	 technological	 processes	 of	 the	 Plant	 in	 Pock	 and	 by	 other	 entities	 located	 on	its	premises.	Depending	on	the	needs	of	installations	 the	following	types	of	water	are	uptaken: –	industrial	and	fire-fighting	water, –	decarbonised	water, –	softened	degassed	water, –	demineralised, –	circulating	water; 	deep	 water	 is	 used	 for	 drinking.	 It	 originates	 from	 Pleistocene	 water-bearing	 horizons	 from	 Quaternary	 formations.	This	is	used	exclusively	to	satisfy	employees	 sanitary	and	social	needs. /	 Direct	and	indirect	greenhouse	gas	emissions The	legislative	package	of	the	European	Parliament	has	 been	developed	in	response	to	climatic	changes	occur- ring	on	the	Earth.	This	is	meant	to	ensure	that	by	2020	 the	 share	 of	 renewable	 energy	 in	 the	 EU	 will	 increase	 from	8.5	to	20%,	and	emissions	of	CO2	–	the	gas	that	 in	the	opinion	of	scientists	is	the	cause	of	global	warming	 –	will	fall	by	20%	in	comparison	to	1990.	The	EU	is	pre- pared	to	reduce	CO2	emissions	even	by	30%,	if	under	 the	new,	global	agreement	–	post-Kyoto	–	other	developed	 countries	agree	to	undertake	comparable	efforts. By	a	decision	of	the	Polish	Council	of	Ministers	PKN	ORLEN	 received	CO2	emission	allowances	for	the	period	of	2008– 2012.	Those	allowances	will	be	used	to	calculate	the	actual	 and	auditor	revised	emission	in	the	period. In	2009	the	Company	obtained	new	permits	to	participate	 in	the	Community	Emissions	Trading	Scheme	for: 	the	Combined	Heat	and	Power	Plant	–	valid	until	31	Dec	 2019; 		crude	oil	refinery	–	valid	until	31	Dec	2019. Acquisition	of	permits	was	associated	with	implementation	 of	the	monitoring	plan	compliant	with	new	legal	require- ments.	The	petrochemical	cracking	unit	–	Olefins	II	–	has	 the	permit	valid	until	31	December	2017. In	2009,	we	reported	a	drop	in	CO2	emissions	by	more	 than	23,000	tonnes	from	installations	covered	by	the	Emis- sion	Trading	Scheme,	while	the	volume	of	processed	oil	 went	up	by	over	2%. GHG	 emission	 is	 generated	 from	 processes	 covered	 by	the	CO2	emissions	trading	scheme,	i.e.: 	fuel	combustion	process	in	fuel	combustion	units	(com- bined	heat	and	power	plant), 	combustion	process	in	refinery	units	devices,	in	particular	 in: –	furnaces, –	flares, –	stationary	combustion	engines; 	refinery	processes: –	hydrogen	production, –	catalyst	regeneration, –	decoking	of	furnace	chambers	(pipes), –	hydrogen	sulphide	utilisation. Greenhouse	gas	emission	in	2008–2009 Average	annual	 CO2	emission	al- lowances	in	NAP	 for	2008–2012 Revised	CO2	emission	[Mg] 2008 2009 Refinery 2,161,551 2,053,013 2,108,110 CHP 3,358,958 3,181,859 3,170,754 Olefins	II 1,058,638 850,723 783,642 TOTAL 6,579,147 6,085,595 6,062,506  /	60 /	Environmental	and	social	responsibility	 /	 Calculation	of	emissions According	to	guidelines,	fuel	combusting	facilities	may	only	 use	measured	fuel	streams	whose	emission	characteristics	 are	known.	fuel	consumption	is	measured	with	the	help	 of	 measuring	 systems	 used	 to	 measure	 the	 size	 of	 fuel	 consumption	and	subject	to	adjustment	and	control.	fuel	 consumption	in	PKN	ORLEN	is	continuously	balanced,	ba- sed	on	measuring	circuits	installed	at	fuel	feeders.	Calorific	 value	is	calculated	on	the	basis	of	gas	composition	specified	 with	the	application	of	chromatographic	analysis	method.	 Sampling	frequency	is	determined	by	analyses	schedule	 developed	on	the	basis	of	required	sampling	frequency.	 Analyses	 are	 performed	 by	 a	 laboratory	 possessing	 required	accreditations.	Emission	indicator	is	calculated	 on	the	basis	of	chromatographic	analysis	of	composition.	 In	 2009,	 we	 reported	 an	 approx.	 0.5%	 drop	 in	 total	 emissions	 to	 the	 atmosphere	 compared	 to	 the	 previous	 year,	while	the	volume	of	processed	oil	went	up	by	over	 2%.	The	drop	in	total	emissions	was	accompanied	by	incre- ased	 emissions	 from	 energy	 generation	 such	 as:	 SO2,	 NOx	and	CO,	while	the	emissions	of	hydrocarbon	and	 dust	dropped. The	 drop	 in	 total	 hydrocarbons	 by	 10%	 was	 caused	 by	the	permanent	shutdown	of	the	Ethylene	Oxide	and	 Glycol	I	unit,	while	dust	emission	fell	by	approx.	12%.	 This	 is	 due	 to	 lower	 ash	 content	 in	 fuel	 combusted	 in	 the	 Plants	 process	 boilers	 and	 furnaces,	 compared	 to	2008.	 Increased	 emission	 of	 carbon	 monoxide	 resulted	 from	 a	large	load	of	post-combustion	furnaces	at	the	Hydrosul- freen	unit	and	changeability	of	composition	of	post-combu- sted	chimney	gas	and	fuel	gas,	which	resulted	in	variable	 oxygen	demand.	The	increased	emission	of	this	pollutant	 remained	within	the	limits	specified	in	the	integrated	permit. Pollutant	 emission	 was	 continuously	 measured	 at	 three	 emitters	 at	 the	 CHP.	 Their	 scope	 covered:	 SO2,	 NOx	 (NO2),	dust. Periodic	measurements	of	pollutant	emission: 	in	2009,	we	performed	92	checks	of	pollutant	emission	 at	emitters	at	the	Production	Plant	in	Pock,	including	 54	emitters	subject	to	mandatory	measuring; 	emission	 measurements	 were	 carried	 out	 at	 emitters	 included	in	the	integrated	permit	twice	a	year,	once	 in	each	half-year; 	the	scope	of	periodic	emission	measurements	covered	 (depending	 on	 the	 emitter)	 the	 following	 pollutants:	 SO2,	NO2,	NOx	(NO2),	CO,	dust,	H2S,	aliphatic	hy- drocarbons,	aromatic	hydrocarbons:	benzene,	toluene,	 xylene,	cumene. Emissions	of	pollutants	in	2008–2009 Emission	volume	[Mg] Increase/Decrease 2008 2009 [Mg] [%] Sulphur	dioxide 20,444.59 	20,975.23 530.64 2.59 Nitrogen	oxides	(as	per	nitrogen	dioxide) 6,821.48 	7,124.27 	302.79 4.44 Carbon	monoxide 	812.16 	1,010.87 	198.71 	24.47 Total	hydrocarbons 1,384.01 1,238.12 –	145.89 	–	10.54 fuel	combustion	dust 	453.34 399.75 	–	53.59 	–	11.82 Carbon	dioxide 6,158,959.11 	6,126	894.42 	–	32,064.69 	–	0.52 Other	pollutants 270.71 370.05 	99.34 	36.70 Total	pollutant	emission 	6,189,145.40 	6,158,012.71 	–	31,132.62 	–	0.50  /	61 /	Corporate	responsibility	report Emission	of	pollutants	(excluding	carbon	dioxide)	 against	crude	oil	processing	in	2008–2009 33 000 32 000 31 000 30 000 29 000 28 000 27 000 26 000 14 800 14 600 14 400 14 200 14 000 13 800 13 600 13 400 13 200 13 000 2008 2009 Total pollutants emission (excluding carbon dioxide) Crude oil processed [ Mg] [ 000. Mg] 16 000 14 000 12 000 10 000 8 000 6 000 4 000 2 000 0 2008 2009 Crude oil processed GHG emission [000. Mg] Greenhouse	gases	emisions	acc.	to	weight	 in	2008–2009  /	62 /	Environmental	and	social	responsibility	 /	 Immission	measurements	around	the	Production 	 Plant	in	Pock PKN	ORLEN	measures	pollutant	immission	to	air	at	three	 automatic	monitoring	stations	located	outside	the	fenced	 Production	Plant	in	Pock: 	Junior	high	school	no.	5	–	in	the	scope	of	CO,	SO2,	 NO2,	benzene, 	Maszewo	Due	–	in	the	scope	of	O3,	CO,	SO2,	NO2,	 benzene, 	Trzepowo	–	in	the	scope	of	CO,	SO2,	NO2,	benzene. The	analysis	of	measuring	results	obtained	at	automatic	 air	monitoring	stations	in	2009	shows	that	the	emissions	 of	all	measured	substances	remained	within	the	environ- mental	standards	determined	in	the	Regulation	of	the	Polish	 Minister	of	Environment	of	3	March	2008	(Polish	Journal	 of	Laws	No.	47,	item	281). At	most	stations,	average	annual	SO2	and	NO2	concen- trations	in	2008	were	lower	than	in	2007,	and	benzene	 concentration	remained	on	a	similar	level	over	the	last	two	 years.	Detailed	results	of	measurements	were	submitted	to: 	the	Masovian	Environmental	Protection	Inspector	in	War- saw	and	the	Regional	Office	in	Pock, 	the	Marshal	Office	of	the	Masovian	Voivodeship, 	Pock	Municipal	Office. Automatic	air	monitoring	stations	located	around	 the	Production	Plant	in	Pock Nowa Biaa Maszewo Due Kolonia Biaa Dobrzyska W. Zgienieckiego Chemikw I. ukasiewicza Duga Oklna Sierpecka Krzywa Szpitalna Medyczna Bielska Maszewo Fabryka Maszyn Gimnazjum nr 5 Kostrogaj Stare Trzepowo 60 559 559 559 552 552 Nowe Trzepowo Trzepowo 60 CO, SO2, NO2, benzene CO, SO2, NO2, benzene CO, SO2, NO2, O2, benzene  /	63 /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	 Wastewater	management PKN	ORLEN	has	a	permit	to	participate	in	the	Commu- nity	system.	 The	 increase	 of	 reused	 wastewater	 amount	 resulted	 in	reduc	tion	by	8.3%	of	the	amount	of	wastewater	dis- charged	to	the	Vistula.	Increase	of	COD	load	discharged	 to	the	Vistula	by	7.4%	against	2008	was	caused	by	lower	 share	of	rainfall	wastewater	flowing	to	the	Central	Waste- water	Treatment	Plant	in	2009	in	comparison	to	2008. 	 The	Central	Wastewater	Treatment	Plant	is	located	within	 the	premises	of	the	Plant.	Its	purpose	is	to	treat	wastewater	 from	 the	 entire	 Plant	 to	 meet	 the	 parameters	 specified	 in	the	integrated	permit. Wastewater	from	the	Plant	is	discharged	via	four	sewer	 pipes	systems	leading	to	the	Central	Wastewater	Treatment	 Plant	area.	The	industrial	wastewater	sewer	system	(1.)	 is	characterised	by	a	large	amount	of	oil	products	and	 suspended	solids.	Wastewater	from	the	1st	industrial	sewer	 system	is	treated	mechanically	and	biologically	(2nd	degree	 of	biological	treatment).	In	emergency	cases,	when	pollu	tant	 concentration	in	wastewater	exceeds	admissible	values,	 such	sewage	may	be	directed	to	the	1st	degree	biologi- cal	treatment	devices	to	have	its	quality	improved.	This	 depends	on	wastewater	quality	measurements	at	check	 points.	Wastewater	is	monitored. The	industrial	wastewater	sewer	system	(2.)	also	covers	 wastewater	 which,	 apart	 from	 suspended	 soils	 and	 oil	 products,	contains	water	soluble	chemicals.	Wastewater	 from	the	2nd	system	is	treated	mechanically	and	biologically. Rainwater,	drainage	and	post-cooling	water	from	all	refi- nery	and	petrochemical	units	is	discharged	to	the	refinery	 and	petrochemical	rainwater	sewer	system. Rainwater	from	the	refinery	part	(KOR)	is	contaminated	 with	oil	products,	and	rainwater	from	the	petrochemical	 part	(KOP)	is	chemically	contaminated	mainly	with	phenol.	 All	wastewater	is	treated	in	a	4-stage	cycle: 	mechanical	treatment	(separate	for	the	1st	and	the	2nd	 industrial	sewer	system); 	biological	 treatment	 (1	 for	 wastewater	 from	 the	 2nd	 industrial	sewer	system	and	2	for	wastewater	of	both	 sewer	 systems:	 industrial	 (1.	 and	 2.)	 and	 rainwater- drainage	(KOP	and	KOR);	 	3	of	treatment	–	accelerators	(A-4	and	A-5)	(for	wa- stewater	of	both	sewer	systems:	industrial	(1.	and	2.)	 and	rainwater-drainage	(KOP	and	KOR).	Wastewater	 is	 optionally	 directed	 to	 this	 system	 when	 pollution	 load	flowing	to	the	Central	Wastewater	Treatment	Plant	 exceeds	standard	levels; 	4	of	treatment	–	algal	and	reed	ponds	(for	wastewa- ter	of	both	sewer	systems:	industrial	(1.	and	2.)	and	 rainwater-drainage	(KOP	and	KOR). Moreover,	on	the	plant	premises	there	are	21	local	pre- treatment	plants	linked	with	respective	units.	They	play	an	 important	role	in	reducing	pollution	load	in	wastewater	 delivered	 to	 the	 Central	 Wastewater	 Treatment	 Plant.	 They	are	mainly	mechanical	pre-treatment	facilities,	and	 the	 total	 amount	 of	 pre-treated	 wastewater	 is	 approx.	 11,306	m3/d.	Pre-treatment	facilities	at	individual	units	may	 be	periodically	shut-down	upon	the	consent	of	the	Water	 and	Wastewater	Plant,	provided	that	pollutant	concentra- tions	in	sewage	are	maintained	on	permissible	levels. In	 1996	 PKN	 ORLEN	 started	 implementing	 a	 solution	 developed	by	the	Water	and	Wastewater	Plant:	Method	 of	wastewater	treatment	for	industrial	purposes	consisting	 in	closure	of	water	and	wastewater	circuit	and	production	 of	industrial	water	from	treated	wastewater.	This	solution	 required	addition	of	the	3rd	degree	wastewater	treatment	 (accelerators	for	coagulation	and	flocculation)	and	4th	de- gree	 of	 wastewater	 treatment	 (algal	 and	 reed	 ponds)	 to	the	wastewater	treatment	line	and	construction	of	an	 inhibitor	node,	where	treated	wastewater	is	inhibited	 and	sanitized	with	chlorine	water.	Moreover,	to	enable	 the	functioning	of	the	3rd	and	the	4th	degree	of	wastewater	 treatment	 it	 was	 necessary	 to	 modernize	 the	 water	 de- carbonisation	unit	at	the	Water	Preparation	Department. Volume	and	quality	of	wastewater in	2008–2009 2008 2009 Increase/ Decrease	 Wastewater	discharge to	the	Vistula	[m3] 12,381,024 11,351,599	 –	8.3% COD	load	in	wastewater	 discharged to	the	Vistula	[kg/y] 676,524 726,812 	7.4%  /	64 /	Environmental	and	social	responsibility	 Two	accelerators	(A-4	and	A-5)	from	water	decarbonisa- tion	process	were	used	in	the	3rd	stage	of	wastewater	 treatment.	Here	it	was	possible	to	repeatedly	use	sediment	 from	raw	water	decarbonisation	process	in	wastewater	 coagulation	process.	 Wastewater	 is	 used	 as	 industrial	 water	 for	 cleaning,	 washing	and	fire	fighting	purposes.	 The	new	technologies	yielded	environmental	and	economic	 benefits.	The	volume	of	water	uptaken	from	and	waste- water	discharged	to	the	Vistula	has	significantly	dropped. However,	the	closed	water	circuit,	apart	from	advanta- ges,	caused	certain	problems	and	restrictions.	In	2000,	 we	resigned	from	directing	reversed	wastewater	to	cooling	 systems,	as	it	resulted	in	excessive	salinity	of	water	at	water	 blocks.	High	salinity	of	circulating	water	made	it	necessary	 to	desalt	cooling	systems	and	as	a	consequence	caused	 increased	 ballast	 water	 discharge	 to	 the	 wastewater	 treatment	 plant.	 Thus,	 in	 order	 to	 be	 able	 to	 still	 use	 recycled	water,	we	will	have	to	reduce	salt	consumption	 in	the	water	and	wastewater	system.	Proposal	to	be	applied	 Amount	of	waste	generated	in	2008–2009* Waste	utilisation	methods	in	2008–2009 Volume	[000	Mg] 2008 2009 Total	generated	waste: 11.9 7.8 including:	–	hazardous	waste 4.3 4.7 						–	other	waste	(excl.	municipal	waste) 7.6 	3.1 Volume	[000	Mg] 2008 2009 Recovered 10.7 10.7 Total	neutralised	waste 0.5 0.8 including:	–	thermal 0.3 0.5 												–	stored 0.2 0.1 												–	other 0.0 	0.2 Stored	waste 0.7 0.8 *	according	to	data	for	the	Polish	Central	Statistical	Office. in	 this	 scope	 may	 be	 the	 use	 of	 membrane	 processes,	 e.g.	reverse	osmosis	process	(in	place	of	ion	exchangers)	 which	is	carried	out	without	the	use	of	chemicals. In	2008,	we	reported	a	significant	drop	in	the	amount	 of	 gene	rated	 waste	 in	 the	 group	 of	 waste	 other	 than	 hazardous.	 This	 was	 the	 effect	 of	 completion	 in	 2008	 of	preparatory	works	for	investments	projects.	Works	carried	 out	in	2009	were	not	associated	with	generation	of	incre- ased	amount	of	waste.	The	amount	of	recovered	waste	 remains	stable	at	approx.	90%	ratio	to	generated	waste. In	2009	we	generated	4.7	thousand	Mg	of	hazardous	 waste,	of	which	3.5	thousand	Mg	were	directed	to	reco- very	processes	outside	the	territory	of	Poland,	whereas	 the	remaining	1.2	thousand	Mg	of	hazardous	waste	were	 supplied	to	Polish	recipients. In	2009,	no	accidental	release	of	hazardous	substances	 happened	at	the	Production	Plant	in	Pock	which	could	 affect	human	life,	soil,	vegetation,	water	reservoirs	or	under- ground	water. Transfer	 of	 hazardous	 waste	 in	 2009	 was	 carried	 out	 in	the	following	way: 	within	the	territory	of	Poland –	for	the	purpose	of	recovery	–	265.0	Mg, –	for	the	purpose	of	neutralising	–	502.4	Mg; 	to	 other	 countries	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	 recovery	 –	 4,372.4	Mg. This	applied	both	to	waste	generated	in	2009	and	stored	 from	the	previous	years. The	 proper	 operation	 of	 the	 Production	 Plant	 in	 Pock	 was	 checked	 by	 the	 Masovian	 Regional	 Environmen- tal	 Protection	 Inspectorate,	 which	 performed	 3	 checks	 in	2009,	of	which	one	was	a	comprehensive	check,	one	 was	investment	project	check	and	one	was	a	check	with	 respect	to	major	failures.	The	results	of	the	checks	did	not	 reveal	any	parameters	in	excess	of	the	limits	determined	 in	relevant	permits	and	decisions,	and	no	penalties	were	 imposed.	A	post-check	disposition	was	issued	stipulating	 recommendations	 concerning	 the	 requirement	 to	 notify	 the	Regional	fire	Service	Chief	and	the	Regional	Environ- mental	Protection	Inspector	about	the	date	of	termination	 of	the	use	of	Olefin	I	unit.	  /	65 /	Corporate	responsibility	report In	 2009,	 capital	 expenditure	 on	 tasks	 related	 to	 envi- ronmental	 protection	 at	 the	 Production	 Plant	 in	 Pock	 amounted	to	PLN	191.76	mln.	financial	expenditure	was	 approx.	26%	lower	than	in	2008.	Capital	expenditure	 on	environmental	projects	constituted	9.24%	of	the	total	 expenditure	 incurred	 for	 implementation	 of	 investment	 projects	at	the	Production	Plant	in	Pock	in	2009. The	Company	continued	investment	projects	from	2008	 aimed	at	limiting	the	Plants	impact	on	respective	natural	 components: 	construction	of	HON	VII	Unit	and	the	accompanying	 infrastructure, 	construction	 of	 Claus	 II	 Unit	 and	 the	 accompanying	 infrastructure, 	reconstruction	of	the	fuel	system	in	the	Combined	Heat	 and	Power	Plant, Environmental	fees	for	the	Production	Plant in	Pock	–	PLN	in	2008–2009 Total	fee	amount	[PLN] Increase/Decrease 2008 2009 [Mg] [%] Total 16,572,326.63 	17,226,918.00	 654,591.37	 3.95 for	emission	(including	transport) 14,784,628.49	 15,461,484.00 676,855.51 4.58 for	water	uptake 1,085,832.47 1,082,459.00 –	3,373.47 –	0.31 for	sewage	discharge 701,865.67 682,975.00 –18,890.67 –	2.69 	muting	the	air	ventilators	at	K4,	K5,	K6	and	K7	boilers	 in	the	CHP	(EC)	–	a	fully	completed	project.	 In	 2010	 it	 is	 planned	 to	 continue	 the	 implementation	 of	the	above	mentioned	projects,	and	additionally: 	enclosing	oil	pipeline	HVGO	from	HOG	unit	to	EC	fuel	 tanks, 	replacement	of	burners	on	flares	in	the	Production	Plant	 in	Pock, 	commencement	of	a	long-term	energy	and	environmental	 investment	programme	in	the	Combined. The	reason	for	the	increase	of	environmental	fees	in	2009,	 despite	 the	 drop	 in	 total	 emissions,	 was	 the	 increase	 of	emissions	of	pollutants	from	energy	generation	(SO2,	 NOx,	CO).   18.00 16.00 14.00 12.00 10.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 2.00 0.00 Total Emission Water intake Sewage 2008 2009 [ 000. PLN] 17.23 14.7815.46 1.09 1.08 0.70 0.68 16.57  /	66 /	Environmental	and	social	responsibility	 /	 Implications	of	climatic	changes All	initiatives	undertaken	by	PKN	ORLEN	are	aimed	at	ensu- ring	 maximum	 environmental	 neutrality	 of	 production,	 storage	and	distribution	processes.	 We	 reduced	 the	 total	 emission	 of	 pollutants	 in	 2009	 by	0.5%,	given	a	2%	increase	in	crude	oil	throughput	 in	2009;	for	carbon	dioxide	the	drop	amounted	to	over	 23,000	tonnes.	 Apart	 from	 carbon	 dioxide,	 a	 drop	 in	 emissions	 was	 reported	 for	 total	 emissions	 of	 hydrocarbon	 and	 dust,	 while	an	increase	occurred	in	the	area	of	sulphur	dioxide,	 nitrogen	oxide	and	carbon	monoxide. Zbigniew	Gajewski Public	Relations	Department	Director Polska	 Konfederacja	 Pracodawcw	 Prywatnych	 Lewiatan (Polish	Confederation	of	Private	Employers	Lewiatan) The organization you represent has for some time been  directing increased attention toresponsible operations  ofcompanies. In your opinion, what isthesignificance  for entrepreneurs ofacting inaccordance with corporate  social responsibility principles? We have engaged ourselves inthepromotion ofcorporate  social responsibility, convinced that this isan opportunity  for theentire Polish economy. Thefirst decade ofPolish  transformations was completed with enormous success,  but there are new challenges ahead ofus. In thenext twenty years wehave real chances tocatch  upwith theexisting Eurozone countries asfar asGDP per  capita isconcerned. To achieve this, however, wemust  bemore competitive, innovative and efficient. We will not  be able toreach this objective, if wedo not start looking  for new, qualitative sources ofgrowth: if wedonot impro ve our intellectual and social capital indicator, wewill  not be able tocope with thedemographic problem,  wewill not learn todevelop inour employees innovative  approach towards their tasks.  Today, there are huge social barriers ontheway toeco nomic growth. We might say that itis theState, school,  NGOs that should take care ofthem...However, thetruth  isthat business – inthename ofincreasing its own chan ces for development – should do so aswell. Accor ding  tous, these are theareas, which – aspart ofimple mented social responsibility strategy – Polish enterprises  must concentrate on. Therefore thecorporate social  responsibility has crucial significance for us.  /	PUBLIC	RELATIONS When	 developing	 our	 strategic	 approach	 to	 the	 issue	 of	 social	 involvement,	 we	 act	 in	 line	 with	 key	 values,	 which	include	consistency	in	pursuing	goals,	ability	to	coo- perate,	honesty,	professionalism,	responsibility	and	entrep- reneurship.	 We	 strive	 to	 respond	 to	 the	 needs	 of	 our	 environment	in	order	to	incorporate	social	responsibilities	 into	the	PKN	ORLEN	development	strategy.	People	are	 in	the	centre	of	our	attention,	which	is	why	our	actions	 in	 the	 scope	 of	 corporate	 social	 responsibility	 are	 sup- posed	 to	 satisfy	 their	 needs	 and	 expectations	 as	 fully	 as	 possible.	 The	 Company	 is	 involved	 in	 many	 social	 initiatives.	The	range	of	activities	is	broad:	from	charity,	 intersectoral	 partnerships,	 support	 of	 sport	 and	 culture,	 to	dealing	with	serious	social	problems.	 5.2.  /	67 /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	 Involvement	in	organizations	and	associations In	 2009,	 PKN	 ORLEN	 continued	 its	 active	 involvement	 in	organizations	and	associations,	treating	this	as	a	signi- ficant	element	of	functioning	on	the	Polish	and	Euro	pean	 economic	 arena.	 The	 Company	 representatives	 were	 active	in	41	organizations,	associations	and	other	exter- nal	 institutions.	 The	 list	 of	 organizations	 participated	 by	PKN	ORLEN	in	2009	is	available	at	www.orlen.pl. The	 main	 advantages	 resulting	 from	 the	 participation	 include:	opportunity	to	acquire	knowledge,	access	to	cur- rent	 information	 on	 normative	 act	 drafts	 concerning	 the	 refinery	 and	 petrochemical	 industry	 on	 the	 Polish	 and	 European	 market,	 ability	 to	 influence	 the	 shape	 of	 final	 legal	 regulations	 by	 consulting	 and	 evaluating	 governmental	and	parliamentary	legal	act	drafts,	access	 to	research	results	and	technical	solutions	from	abroad,	 participation	 in	 seminars	 and	 conferences,	 preferential	 participation	 conditions	 in	 paid	 trainings	 for	 members	 of	a	given	organization,	promotion	of	PKN	ORLEN. PKN	 ORLEN	 is	 active	 on	 the	 European	 scene	 through	 its	direct	involvement	and	active	participation	in	European	 oil	industry	associations.	Particularly	worth	emphasising	 is	the	Companys	involvement	in	the	work	of	EUROPIA	 (Euro	pean	 Refining	 Industry	 Association),	 an	 associa- tion	 which	 brings	 together	 all	 major	 oil	 corporations	 on	the	European	market	representing	over	90%	of	crude	 oil	processing	capacities	in	the	EEA.	In	cooperation	with	 other	European	oil	Companies	PKN	ORLEN	participates	 in	the	implementation	of	the	mission	of	the	Association.	 This	 consists	 in	 constructively	 contributing	 to	 the	 deve- lopment	of	policies	whose	purpose	is	to	ensure	safe	and	 sustainable	manufacture,	supply	and	use	of	oil	products	 by	providing	support	in	the	form	of	knowledge	to	com- petent	experts	of	EU	institutions	and	state	administration,	 as	well	as	public	opinion. These	objectives	are	also	served	by	scientific	and	technical	 research	which	PKN	ORLEN	participates	in	together	with	 other	members	of	CONCAWE	(Conservation	of	Clean	Air	 and	Water	in	Europe)	–	an	association	whose	members	 include	nearly	all	oil	companies	form	the	EEA.	The	work	 of	 CONCAWE	 is	 a	 source	 of	 objective	 information	 on	the	impact	of	the	European	oil	industry	on	the	natu- D.	Eng.	Stanisaw	Szafran Secretary	of	the	Museum	of	Oil	and	Gas	Industry	 foundation	Council	in	Bbrka What isso special about theMuseum ofOil and Gas  Industry inBbrka?    Bbrka isaplace which, thanks tonature and activities  ofwise people, was given apioneer role inthedevelop ment ofPolish and world oil industry. Itwas here that  Ignacy ukasiewicz, thecreator ofoil industry, established  in1854 thefirst crude oil mine intheworld with Tytus  Trzecieski. Theentire production ofthemine was direc ted toprocessing indistilleries and toone oftheoldest  refineries intheworld, built in1856 byIgnacy ukasie wicz inUlaszowice, and later inPolanka, Chorkwka  and other places. This museum ofmining, oil and gas industry isthebig gest inEurope and one ofthebiggest intheworld.  Itpresents all aspects ofoperations related tooil geo logy and geophysics, drilling, borehole exploitation,  natural gas industry and some branches of refinery  industry and oil products distribution. Exhibits presented  inthemuseum are original or reconstructed artefacts:  mining excavations, oil mine buildings from the2nd half  ofthe19th century and drilling and exploitation devices,  appliances, measurement equipment and historical  objects, aswell asarchival documents, which make  this place aworldwide unique panorama ofoil mining.  /	68 /	Environmental	and	social	responsibility	 ral	 environment.	 It	 also	 supports	 technical	 preparation	 of	 oil	 companies	 for	 implementation	 of	 projects	 such	 as	limiting	negative	impact	of	chemicals	on	people	and	 natural	environment	through	implementation	of	the	REACH	 system,	 or	 participation	 in	 preventing	 climatic	 changes	 through	 the	 ETS	 system	 implementation,	 and	 launching	 engine	fuels	derived	from	vegetable	oil. PKN	ORLENs	representatives	actively	participate	in	acti- vities	of	working	groups	from	both	associations,	they	are	 also	members	of	management	bodies	of	these	associations:	 the	 CONCAWE	 Management	 Board,	 the	 CONCAWE	 Scientific	 Council,	 the	 EUROPIA	 Advisory	 and	 Coordi- nating	Committee,	and,	from	the	second	half	of	2010,	 also	the	EUROPIA	Management	Board. The	 significance	 of	 both	 association	 on	 the	 European	 scene,	as	well	as	the	importance	of	the	issues	they	work	 on,	allows	to	conclude	that	membership	in	such	organiza- tions	is	a	project	of	strategic	character	for	PKN	ORLEN. /	 Charity Charity	 activities	 of	 the	 Company,	 including	 through	 the	ORLEN	Dar	Serca	foundation	established	in	2001,	 are	well	known.	PKN	ORLEN	has	established	priorities	 of	 its	 charity	 policy,	 which	 are:	 protection	 of	 life	 and	 health	 as	 well	 as	 education.	 Remaining	 in	 compliance	 with	its	provisions,	in	2009	the	Company	did	not	make	 any	 financial	 or	 in-kind	 donations	 to	 political	 parties,	 politicians	or	any	other	institutions	of	similar	nature. Main	programmes	of	the	foundation	concentrate	on	the	sup- port	of	education,	promotion	of	foster	parenting	in	the	form	 of	family	childrens	homes,	actions	aimed	at	improving	 the	level	of	safety,	including	in	particular	a	broad	prog- ramme	of	cooperation	with	fire	brigade	units	in	Poland.	 The	foundation	pays	great	attention	to	education.	It	mana- ges	several	scholarship	programmes	dedicated	to	various	 groups	 of	 children	 and	 youth,	 including	 a	 nationwide	 programme	 and	 a	 programme	 addressed	 to	 children	 from	family	childrens	homes.	Since	2009,	scholarships	 are	also	provided	to	the	group	of	several	dozen	of	junior	 high	school	and	high	school	students	from	Pock. /	 Support	of	sport PKN	ORLEN	constantly	searches	for	new	forms	of	com- munication	to	reach	a	wide	group	of	stakeholders.	These	 activities	include	promotion	of	talents	and	support	of	deve- lopment	of	Polish	professional	sport.	The	Company	strives	 to	achieve	the	status	of	sport	patron	and	supports	global	 initiatives	and	events	as	well	as	individual	sportsmen. We	support	Polish	athletes	who	achieve	successes	in	Euro- pean	and	world	events.	The	ORLEN	Sports	Team	included	 in	 2009:	 Anita	 Wodarczyk,	 Tomasz	 Majewski	 i	 Piotr	 Maachowski. for	 11	 years,	 we	 have	 sponsored	 the	 ORLEN	 TEAM,	 the	first	fully	professional	cross-country	racing	team	in	Po- land.	The	Team	represents	Poland	on	international	arenas,	 e.g.	in	the	Dakar	Rally. In	 2009	 PKN	 ORLEN	 was	 the	 general	 sponsor	 of	 two	 prestigious	 international	 events:	 European	 Basketball	 Championships	and	Womens	European	Volleyball	Cham- pionships.	The	Company	also	assumed	the	function	of	the	ti- tular	sponsor	of	the	Rally	of	Poland	–	the	round	of	World	 Rally	Championship.	The	Company	concentrates	on	sports	 associated	with	strength,	dynamism	and	speed,	which	are	 also	attributes	characteristic	of	the	PKN	ORLEN	brands.	 What	is	important,	the	Company	also	supports	initiatives	 aimed	 at	 promoting	 athletics	 among	 the	 youngest	 and	 cares	 for	 development	 of	 physical	 education	 in	 Poland	 by	sponsoring	Thursdays	with	Athletics.	This	is	a	cyc- lical	event	for	children	aged	10-12	years	and	younger.	 By	 the	 end	 of	 2009	 PKN	 ORLEN	 became	 the	 partner	 of	the	Polish	Olympic	Movement.	  /	69 /	Corporate	responsibility	report 5.3./	PRO–SOCIAL	WORK	 /	 Safety for	 several	 years	 PKN	 ORLEN	 has	 largely	 participa- ted	 in	 activities	 aimed	 at	 improving	 the	 level	 of	 safety	 in	 the	 broad	 meaning	 of	 the	 word.	 We	 pay	 particular	 attention	 to	 professional	 and	 voluntary	 fire	 brigades	 across	Poland,	which	play	an	extremely	important	role	 in	 this	 area.	 Particularly	 important	 is	 the	 great	 number	 and	 diversity	 of	 tasks	 performed	 by	 them.	 It	 is	 worth	 reminding	that	a	fireman	is	a	job	which	has	invariably	 enjoyed	a	very	high	level	of	social	trust	for	many	years. PKN	ORLEN	cares	not	only	about	its	own	safety.	On	many	 occasions	the	Company	has	proved	that	it	cares	about	 external	safety	through	various	activities,	including	active	 participation	in	the	Hazardous	Materials	Transport	Assistan- ce	System,	the	National	Rescue	and	Extinguishing	System,	 or	financing	and	co-financing	the	purchase	of	equipment	 and	making	donations	in	the	form	of	fire-fighting	equipment. The	programme	of	assistance	for	fire	brigades	implemented	 by	PKN	ORLEN	is	addressed	to	professional	and	voluntary	 fire	brigades	across	Poland.	Since	2000	the	Company	 has	allocated	over	PLN	4	mln	for	this	purpose.	In	2009	 alone,	25	units	received	financial	and	in-kind	donations. The	excellent	PKN	ORLEN	In-house	fire	Brigade	is	syste- matically	improving	its	skills.	Our	workplace	is	secured	 in	accordance	with	the	highest	international	standards.	 PKN	ORLEN	firemen	offer	help	also	to	citizens	of	Pock	 and	others	in	need /	 ORLEN.	Safe	roads	programme This	programme	is	one	of	important	elements	of	PKN	ORLENs	 activities	 promoting	 safety,	 including	 road	 traffic	 safe- ty.	 It	 was	 initiated	 in	 2006–2007	 by	 the	 action	 which	 in	 an	 innovative	 way	 presented	 threats	 resulting	 from	 failure	to	abide	by	safe	driving	principles.	In	2008–2009	 we	concentrated	on	the	role	of	parents	in	educating	chil- dren	 on	 issues	 relating	 to	 road	 traffic	 safety.	 The	 main	 objective	of	last	years	campaign	Parents	set	example	for	 children	was	to	direct	attention	to	the	fact	that	parents	 are	the	first	and	the	most	important	teachers	for	their	child.	 The	earlier	adults	instil	in	childrens	minds	good	patterns	 of	behaviour	in	road	traffic,	the	greater	the	chances	that	 children	will	follow	these	proper	patterns	in	future. /	 ORLEN	for	industry	tradition The	year	2004	marked	the	opening	of	the		foundation	for	 the	Ignacy	ukasiewicz	Memorial	Museum	of	Oil	and	Gas	 Industry	in	Bbrka,	established	by	PKN	ORLEN,	Polskie	 Grnictwo	Naftowe	i	Gazowe	SA	and	Stowarzyszenie	 Naukowe	Inynierw	i	Technikw	Przemysu	Naftowego	 i	 Gazowniczego	 (Association	 of	 Oil	 and	 Gas	 Industry	 Engineers	and	Technicians).	 The	objective	of	the	foundation,	operating	at	the	premises	 of	the	world	oldest	(established	in	1854)	crude	oil	mine,	 is	to	support	the	Museum	which	is	a	worldwide	unique	 construction.	Activities	of	the	Museum	include	collection	 and	preservation	of	devices	documenting	the	development	 of	 oil	 and	 gas	 techniques.	 The	 extraordinary	 location	 of	the	Museum,	its	great	tradition,	very	original	collections	 and	rich	educational	offer	encourage	pupils,	students,	and	 tourists	to	visit	looking	for	original	places	where	history	 meets	modernity. www.orlenbezpiecznedrogi.pl BEZPIECZNE DROGI  /	70 /	Environmental	and	social	responsibility	 /	 ORLEN	locally for	obvious	reasons	most	of	the	activities	of	social	character	 are	carried	out	in	Pock.	The	history	of	the	Company	has	 been	for	50	years	inseparably	connected	with	the	history	 of	 this	 city,	 and	 lives	 of	 many	 families	 has	 been	 tied	 to	the	Production	Plant	for	generations.	We	do	everything	 to	 be	 a	 reliable	 and	 a	 good	 neighbour	 and	 a	 valued	 partner	of	the	local	community.	 Since	 2002	 we	 have	 participated	 in	 the	 intersectoral	 partnership	project.	The	project	is	evolving	and	developing	 systematically.	 Its	 coordinator	 is	 the	 foundation	 Grant	 fund	for	Pock	established	in	2005,	and	PKN	ORLEN	 is	 one	 of	 its	 founders	 and	 donors.	 It	 supports,	 among	 others,	initiatives	to	increase	the	level	of	education	among	 Pock	inhabitants,	prevent	social	and	economic	exclusion,	 increase	safety,	and	improve	the	level	of	health	protection	 and	 promotion.	 What	 is	 important,	 it	 also	 organizes	 educational	activities. for	many	years	we	have	celebrated	together	with	Pock	 citizens	 the	 Chemists	 Day	 accompanied	 by	 the	 Pock	 History	 Days.	 The	 rich	 cultural,	 sport,	 educational	 and	 entertainment	offer	is	used	by	employees	with	their	families	 and	all	interested	people.	During	celebrations	of	the	Che- mists	Day	the	inhabitants	may	also	visit	the	Production	 Plant	in	Pock. We	 support	 activities	 aimed	 at	 keeping	 the	 memory	 of	 prominent	 citizens	 of	 Pock	 who	 created	 the	 history	 of	 this	 city.	 The	 Company	 co-financed	 the	 construction	 of	a	monument	in	the	form	of	a	bench	to	commemorate	 Wacaw	Milke.	He	was	an	extraordinary	person	thought	 to	be	the	most	renowned	and	deserving	representative	 of	cultural	life	in	Pock.	Wacaw	Milke	was	a	nestor	and	 active	animator	of	cultural	life,	creator	of	the	Pock	History	 Days,	initiator	of	the	Peace	Bell,	a	great	patriot,	extraordi- narily	righteous	and	modest	person,	who	popularized	Pock	 in	Poland	and	abroad	until	the	end	of	his	life.	He	was	 also	the	creator	and	for	many	years	an	artistic	director	 of	the	Scout	Song	and	Dance	Group	Children	of	Pock. Last	 year	 the	 support	 of	 PKN	 ORLEN	 made	 it	 possi- ble	 to	 expand	 the	 collection	 of	 the	 Masovian	 Museum	 in	Pock.	The	Company	in	cooperation	with	the	Masovian	 Voivodeship	local	government	purchased	one	of	the	best	 self-portraits	by	Jacek	Malczewski. We	identify	problems	which	are	the	most	important	for	 inhabitants	of	Pock.	Therefore,	we	consistently	support	 actions	 aimed	 at	 improving	 the	 level	 of	 medical	 care	 in	this	city.	Within	the	last	five	years	the	Company	and	 its	foundation	supported	the	Regional	Hospital	in	Pock	 with	the	amount	of	almost	PLN	4.5	mln.	The	latest	joint	 project	which	is	now	taking	an	actual	form	is	creation	 of	intensive	care	posts	in	the	Regional	Hospital	in	Pock.	 In	2009	the	Dar	Serca	foundation	financed	the	programme	 for	diagnosing	spine	diseases	addressed	to	all	inhabitants	 of	 Pock.	 As	 a	 result	 queues	 for	 magnetic	 resonance	 imaging	became	significantly	shorter.	 for	 many	 years	 PKN	 ORLEN	 has	 also	 made	 a	 unique	 in	 kind	 donation	 in	 the	 form	 of	 liquid	 nitrogen.	 This	 is	a	valuable	gift	for	medical	and	research	institutions.	 Because	 of	 technical	 difficulties	 related	 to	 making	 this	 kind	of	donation,	the	Company	treats	it	as	a	special	form	 of	support	and	provides	only	to	selected	institutions	from	 Pock	and	the	region	whose	activities	are	important	for	 the	local	community. Similar	goodwill	is	felt	in	relations	with	the	police	force	 of	Pock	and	the	Masovian	Voivodeship,	which	the	ORLEN	 foundation	 supports	 financially	 and	 by	 making	 in-kind	 donations	 –	 mainly	 cars	 and	 computers.	 An	 important	 aspect	of	this	cooperation	is	education,	especially	edu- cation	of	children	and	the	youth	or	participation	in	joint	 activities.	The	most	recent	one	Shine	like	a	zebra	with	 reflective	stripes	encourages	the	use	of	reflective	elements. All	these	activities	are	guided	by	our	care	about	health,	 safety	 and	 improvement	 of	 the	 quality	 of	 life	 for	 Pock	 inhabitants.	  /	71 /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	 The	most	important	awards	and	certificates 	 received	by	PKN	ORLEN	in	2009 	ORLEN	considered	to	be	the	most	valuable	Polish	brand	 in	the	MARQA	2009	ranking	of	Polish	most	valuable	 brands	organised	by	Rzeczpospolita	daily. 	Two	awards	for	PKN	ORLE	Social	Responsibility	Report	 in	the	2009	Social	Responsibility	Reports	competition	 organised	by	the	Polish	Corporate	Responsibility	forum.	 	The	Best	Investor	Relations	in	Poland	2009	award	gran-	 	 ted	by	IR	Magazine.	 	The	Queen	of	Sport	Laurel	in	the	Sponsor	category	 granted	by	the	Polish	Athletics	federation.	 	Consumer	Laurel	and	Builder	of	the	fleet	Market	 statuette	in	recognition	of	PKN	ORLEN	achievements,	 awarded	by	consumers	and	industrial	circles,	respec- tively.	 	PKN	 ORLEN	 fleet	 cards	 awarded	 the	 fleet	 Product	 of	 the	 Year	 title	 in	 the	 Polish	 fleet	 Awards	 2009	 plebiscite	organised	by	Magazyn	flota	periodical	and	 fleet	Management	Institute	Central-Eastern	Europe. 	1.	place	in	the	WarsawScan	ranking,	in	the	category	 of	websites	devoted	to	investor	relations. 	ORLEN	Team	among	the	winners	of	Dakar	Rally:	Jakub	 Przygoski	–11th	place,	Jacek	Czachor	–	20th	place,	and	 Hoowczyc/fortin	car	team	–	5th	place	in	the	general	 classification. 	The	success	of	ORLEN	Team	motorcyclists:	Jakub	Przy- goski	 –	 2nd	 place	 and	 Jacek	 Czachor	 –	 3rd	 place	 in	fIM	World	Cup.	 	Prestigious	Abu	Dhabi	Spirit	of	the	Rally	award	won	 by	 ORLEN	 Team:	 Krzysztof	 Hoowczyc	 and	 ukasz	 Kurzeja	 awarded	 for	 great	 driving	 and	 very	 good	 results	at	ORLEN	Platinum	66th	Rally	of	Poland,	eighth	 eliminations	for	the	World	Rally	Championship. 	ORLEN	MONSTER	JAM	awarded	in	the	event	marke- ting	category	of	the	Golden	Arrow	competition. 	1.	place	in	the	friendliness,	Sector,	Industry	cate	gory	 of	 the	 5th	 edition	 of	 the	 KOMPAS	 Polish	 employer	 ranking. 	3.	place	in	the	Employer	for	Engineer	plebiscite. 	Industry	Leader:	fuels,	oils	award	in	the	Universum	 Student	Survey	2009.  /	72 /	Corporate	responsibility	report	 /	 Certificates	held	by	PKN	ORLEN	 	 to	confirm	compliance	with	applicable	standards 	Quality	Management	System	Certificate	 	 –	ISO	9001:2000, 	Environmental	Management	System	Certificate	 	 –	ISO	14001:2004, 	Occupational	Health	and	Safety	Management	System	 Certificate	–	PN-N-18001:2004, 	Quality	Management	System	Certificate	 	 –	AQAP	2120:2003, 	Information	Safety	Management	System	Certificate 	 –	PN-I-07799-2:2005. /	 Index	of	website	addresses	quoted	in	the	Report www.orlen.pl (Polski	Koncern	Naftowy	ORLEN) www.raportroczny.pl (PKN	ORLEN	Annual	Report) www.darserca.pl (ORLEN	Dar	Serca	foundation) www.funduszgrantowy.plock.eu (Grant	fund	for	Pock	foundation) www.funduszgrantowy.pl (Good	Neighbourhood	Grant	fund	Association	for	Ostrw	 Wielkopolski) www.orlenbezpiecznedrogi.pl (ORLEN.Safe	Roads) www.bobrka.pl (foundation	for	the	Ignacy	ukasiewicz	Memorial	Museum	 of	Oil	and	Gas	Industry	in	Bbrka) www.pppt.pl (Industry	and	Technological	Park	in	Pock) www.globalreporting.org (Global	Reporting	Initiative) www.peregrinus.pl (Society	for	Wild	Animals	SOK) www.unglobalcompact.org (United	Nations	Global	Compact)  /	73 /	Corporate	responsibility	report /	 GRI	Indicator	Index Indicator Page Strategy	and	Analysis 1.1 5 1.2 5,	11,	27 Organizational	Profile 2.1 5 2.2 14–15 2.3 8 2.4 9,	74 2.5 9 2.6 20 2.7 8–9 2.8 10,18 2.9 20 2.10 71 Raport	Parameters 3.1 11 3.2 11 3.3 11 3.4 74 Report	Scope	and	Boundary 3.5 11 3.6 8–9,	11 3.7 8,	11 3.8 8 3.9 11 3.10 11 3.11 11 GRI	Content	Index 3.12 73 Assurance 3.13 11 Governance 4.1 24–26 4.2 24 4.3 24 4.4 22,	30–31 4.5 24 4.6 24–25 4.7 26 4.8 8,	30–31 4.9 24–26 4.10 24–26 Commitments	to	External	Initiatives 4.11 27 4.12 8,	25–26,	57–58 4.13 67-68 4.14 11 4.15 11 4.16 11 4.17 11–12,	19,	21,	37,	40,	 66–67 Indicator Page Economic	Performance	Indicators EC1 10 EC2 66 EC5 37 EC6 47 EC7 35 EC8 68–70 EC9 8,	47 Environmental	Performance	Indicators EN1 10,	51 EN3 51 EN4 51 EN8 58–59 EN9 58 EN10 58 EN11 56 EN12 56 EN15 56 EN16 59 EN20 60 EN21 63 EN22 64 EN23 64 EN24 64 EN26 51–53,	63–65 EN28 64 EN30 65 Labour	Practices	and	Decent	Work LA1 35 LA3 38–41 LA4 35 LA5 35 LA6 43 LA7 42 LA9 43 LA10 35–36 LA11 36 Human	Rights	Performance	Indicators HR1 47 HR4 31 HR8 37 Sociaty	Performance	Indicators SO3 30–31 SO6 68 Product	Responsibility	Performance	Indicators PR5 46	 PR8 46  /	74 /	Corporate	responsibility	report	 /	 Contact	data Polski	Koncern	Naftowy	ORLEN	Spka	Akcyjna ul.	Chemikw	7,	09–411	Pock Switchboard: tel.:	+	48	24/365	00	00,	fax:	+	48	24/365	40	40 www.orlen.pl Warsaw	Office: Warsaw	Trade	Tower ul.	Chodna	51,	00–867	Warszawa Switchboard: tel.:	+	48	22/695	35	50,	fax:	+	48	22/695	35	17 Corporate	Social	Responsibility	Team: Barbara	Tcza,	Head	of	CRS	Team tel.:	+	48	22/695	35	92,	fax:	+	48	22/695	34	70 e-mail:	barbara.tecza@orlen.pl The	Ethics	Ombudsman: tel.:	+	48	24/365	33	02,	fax:	+	48	24/365	53	12 e-mail:	rzeczniketyki@orlen.pl Press	Office	in	Pock: Beata	Karpiska tel.:	+	48	24/365	41	50,	fax:	+	48	24/365	56	13 e-mail:	media@orlen.pl EU	fLOWER	 –	certificate,	which	is	an	official	 EU	label	used	for	products	manu- factured	from	virgin	fibres	as	well	 as	recovered	fibres.	It	defines	the	cri- teria	for	pollutant	emission,	energy	 consumption,	origin	of	raw	materials	 and	specific	chemical	compounds NORDIC	SWAN	 –	introduced	by	the	Nordic	Council	 of	Ministers	is	an	eco-label	used	for	 products	from	both	virgin	and	reco- vered	fibres.	It	defines	the	criteria	 for	pollutant	emission,	energy	con- sumption,	origin	of	raw	materials	 and	specific	chemical	compounds. THE	BLUE	ANGEL	 –	 symbol	 is	 an	 official	 German	 eco-label.	In	the	scope	of	paper	 products	 Blue	 Angel	 is	 awarded	 only	to	products	manu	factured	from	 100%	recovered	fibres	and	defines	 the	criteria	for	quality	of	used	che- micals	and	recycled	paper. NAPM	Recycled	Paper	Mark –	symbol	is	an		official	German	 eco-label.	In	the	scope	of	paper	 products	 Blue	 Angel	 is	 awarded	 only	to	products	manufactured	from	 100%	recovered	fibres	and	defines	 the	criteria	for	quality	of	used	che- micals	and	recycled	paper. The	Cyclus	Offset	awarded	the	following	certificates:    Environmental report 2006    Environmental report 2006    Contents:  1. Introduction  2. Environmental policy  3. We invest in the environment  4. Responsible care  5. Air protection  6. Water intake and sewage discharge   7. Waste management  8. Recycling  9. Noise  10. Soil-cum-water environment   11. Charges for use of environment  12. Restitution of peregrine falcon  13. Pure fuels  14.  Green Police  15. Green ORLEN Group  16. Ecology in ORLEN Group  17. Trade in  CO2 emissions  18. Awards and distinctions    1. Introduction    Proecological activities undertaken by our company are covered by Environmental  Policy of ORLEN based on execution of sustainable development with full respect for  the natural environment.   The basic directions of our activities in 2006 included:    Nature-friendly production, that is, with respect for effective environmental  standards and ecological safety,    Responsibility for ecological parameters of products launched on the  marked,    restitution of endangered elements of environment.     We are proud of the fact that many years of consequence in execution of  environmental tasks, accompanied by continuous growth of production, allowed to     Environmental report 2006    meet standards of environmental quality and to respect ecological standards defined  in permissions which we obtained.    It should be emphasised that in 2006 investments in environment-related tasks only  in ORLEN Production Plant accounted for 37% of total investment expenses of the  Company.     In the result of investments which we carry we have reached a very high level of  quality of fuels whose exploitation brings measurable results for the environment. At  the same time, thanks to such activities as modernisation of installations, air- tightening of a series of storage centres and fuel stations, emission of contamination  for warehouse-cum-distribution part of ORLEN has considerably decreased.   We have performed over 600 environmental tasks on ORLEN fuel stations, in  warehouse centres and separate plants. We have adapted the existing structures  and built new ones fully provided with ecological equipment and security system  against penetration of contamination to the environment.     2006 was also another period of execution of tasks resulting from Integrated  Permission obtained a year before, confirming application of  BAT (Best Available  Techniques) and meeting environmental standards outside areas to which we have  legal right.     New projects to protect natural environment undertaken by us in 2006 are not only  the effect of compliance of ORLEN operations with legal regulations of the European  Union implemented by Polish law but, first of all, own initiative to obtain maximally  possible ecological neutrality of the Company. It is worth stressing that our refinery  and heat power station installations together with six companies from ORLEN Group  participate in the Community system of trade in rights in carbon dioxide emissions.         Chapter II  Environmental policy    Aware of the influence of activity of Polski Koncern Naftowy ORLEN S.A. on the  environment, we declare systematic adjustment of methods of planning and process  execution to the requirements of the permanent and sustainable development  through integrated treatment of the process of prevention of contamination and of  that of environmental protection.   To this objective we subordinate Company strategy translated into existing and future  development programs and into other activities executed on the basis of the  implemented Environmental Management System  according to the requirements of  the standard PN – EN ISO 14001:2005. We undertake to implement it in other units  of the Company on the domestic market and to create an integrated Management  System.   We declare that our efforts will aim at meeting the following environmental aims:   1) Assure integrated prevention and monitoring of contamination emitted to air,  water and soil and produced waste so as to guarantee a high level  of     Environmental report 2006    environmental protection as a whole, following also the rule of sustainable  growth,   2) Reaching the level of full compliance with effective law and ecological  standards and other applicable requirements,   3)  Application of best available techniques (BAT) for new and modernised  structures,   4) Undertaking preventive activities in relation to serious industrial breakdowns,   5) Assurance of acoustic protection of area and premises around the production  plant in Pock covered by such protection,   6) Optimisation of environmental parameters of produced fuels through  application of low-sulphur content components and of biofuels,   7) Minimisation of the risk of spreading of contamination in soil and water and  their effect on human health and life,   8) Assurance of access to information on Company influence on the environment  to all interested persons,   9) Increasing environmental awareness of the personnel,   10)  Continuation of the program Responsible Care,  11) Continuous improvement of Environmental Management System and its  integration with the Quality Management System in order to create one effective  Management System guaranteeing constant decrease of the negative impact on  the environment in all domains of activity of our Company.    In October 2006 we had an audit to recertify the Environmental Management  System. The aim of the audit was to assess consistence of the Management System  with the requirements of the standard PN-EN ISO 14 001:2005. In result of the audit   BVQI issued a new certificate of the Environmental Management System.   Our goal is to reach maximally possible ecological neutrality of the production plant in  Pock and other organisation units of the Company on the domestic market and for  their direct environment with simultaneous minimisation of the impact on the  environment resulting from use of products produced by us.       Chapter III  We invest in the environment  Investments in tasks connected with environmental protection in refinery-cum- petroleum complex of ORLEN in Pock in 2006 were PLN 150 M   (PLN150 486 556.49). Their importance shows in the fact that they made up 37.02%  of all outlays borne on investments in Pock in 2006.   The project of hydrodesulphuring of cracked petroleum is one of most important  proecological undertakings which we finished in 2006. The direct and considerable  ecological effect of that undertaking is lowering of sulphur content in petrols produced  by ORLEN.  In practice, this means 1500 tonnes of sulphur less annually (in result of  desulphuring) and a decrease of emission of sulphur dioxide to the atmosphere from  car engines by circa 3,000 tonnes annually.      Environmental report 2006    Moreover, in 2006 in the refinery-cum-petrochemical complex in Pock we did a  series of investments limiting the impact of our company on particular environmental  components.   The most important among these are:    modernisation of sewer networks   modernisation of condensate treatment station,     construction of a centre of liquid sediment utilisation (stage I)    construction of a system for Hydrrefining of Diesel Oil from HOG system  *Hydrodesulphuring of Soft Asphalt),   adjustment of HON VI system (Hydrodesulphuring of Diesel Oil) for production  of diesel oil with sulphur content below 10 ppm,   construction of  HON VII system,    On ORLEN petrol stations, in warehouse bases and separate plants Regional  Organisation Units (RJO) we performed 603 environmental tasks. Financial outlays  for these projects were higher by 8% in comparison with 2005 and were almost PLN  81.5 million.   Proecological investments on ORLEN fuel stations were related, first of all, to further  adaptation of premises to effective regulations and construction of new ones, fully  furnished with ecological facilities like sewers, separators, water-tightness system  and other protection against penetration of contamination to the environment like  water-tightness, double wall tanks.   The most important undertakings related to environmental protection executed in  warehouse bases, fuel stations and plants – separate (in RJO) in 2006 are:   modernisation of Warehouse Bases in: Sokka and Gutkw    finishing of water-tightness of Warehouse Bases in Gdask, Lublin, Szczecin,   Nowa Sl and Wrocaw,   construction on new premises of 48 fuel stations fully supplied with ecological  plant and security against penetration of contamination to the environment    complex modernisation of 76 fuel stations    test of water-tightness of tanks on fuel stations and their laminating,    renovation of wastewater treatment facilities,   recultivation of soil-cum-water environment on fuel stations and warehouse  bases,    assessment of situation of soil-cum-water environment on bases and fuel  stations,    analyses of wastewater and water from piezometers,   cleaning of separators and tanks,    maintenance of water-tightness systems on fuel stations.     Chart – Total outlays for environmental tasks on RJO premises in 2005- 2006.     Environmental report 2006    75,5 69,0 81,5 66,4 0 20 40 60 80 100 [mln. z] 2005 2006 nakady na przedsiwzicia z zakresu ochrony rodowiska ogem nakady na inwestycje ochrony rodowiska   nakady na przedsiwzicia= total investment in environmental protection  undertakings  nakady na inwestycje= investments in environmental projects     Chapter IV  Responsible Care   Since 1997 we participate in the international proenvironmental program  Responsible Care which was initiated by the Canadian Association of Chemical  Industry. The program is co-created and executed by chemical companies from all  over the world who produce together over 85% of global chemical production.  Practically all important chemical companies and corporations from the Old Continent  participate in the program.   In Poland Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry supervises directly execution of the  program  Responsible Care and the Chapter of the Program supervises on its behalf  the content of activities undertaken under the program.      During the last nine years of active participation in the program Responsible Care  ORLEN, in accordance with its idea, has aimed at continuous improvement of its  activity under so called HSE triad: Health, Safety, Environment.   To meet the obligations we undertook in 2006 we undertook to execute 25 tasks in  areas of HSE triad:    environmental protection (13 tasks: 9 executed; 4 in execution),   improvement of process safety and work safety (6 tasks: 3 executed, 3 in  execution),   in relation to health protection and health prevention (5 tasks – all executed),    under execution is also the tasks from category others, related to ecological  education, which is executed during consecutive years of duration of the  Program.            Environmental report 2006        The program Responsible Care is executed also by companies from Group ORLEN:     ANWIL S.A.   Inowrocawskie Kopalnie Soli SOLINO S.A.   Basell Orlen Polyolefins Sp. z o. o.   ORLEN Asfalt Sp. z o. o.   ORLEN Eko Sp. z o. o.    Chapter V  Air protection    In 2006 we did not infringe any of permitted standards of emission to atmosphere.  Below is presented emission of characteristic substances to air for refinery-cum- petrochemical complex ORLEN in Pock:       Emission of main pollutants in production plant in Pock in 1997 – 2006  51,8 40,4 37,8 26,2 32,4 31,7 33,0 35,2 34,2 40,9 38,4 29,4 28,7 16,4 21,0 22,6 24,5 27,0 25,5 30,6 3,0 2,5 2,6 2,3 3,3 1,6 1,2 1,1 1,1 1,2 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 [tys. Mg] emisja czna (bez dwutlenku wegla) dwutlenek siarki suma weglowodowrw   emisja czna= total emission (without carbon dioxide)  dwutlenek siarki= sulphur dioxide  suma wglowodorw = total hydrocarbons    A decrease of CO emission was recorded thanks to an improvement of control  processes and an increase of emissions to air of substances which are products of  fuel combustion (SO2, NO, CO2, sum of hydrocarbons ) which resulted from:      An increase by more than 1 million tonnes of the quantity of petroleum  processed in 2006 (in comparison with 2005)   Development of 5 furnaces and full-time operation of intensified Olefin II  system,    An increase of the quantity of steam and energy produced in the Heat and  Power Plant for new systems,      Environmental report 2006     An increase of emission of dusts from fuel combustion caused by an increase  of steam production in Heat-cum-Power Plant,     PKN  ORLEN S.A. participates in the system of trade in rights to emission carbon  dioxide. This system covers some sources of emission of carbon dioxide defined  in the permission given to ORLEN.     Number of rights to CO2 emission verified in 2005 and 2006*    system  mean annual allocation of  rights  verified rights for 2005  Heat and  power plant  3 169 500  2 998 337  Refinery  2 547 700  2 452 541    *1 allocation corresponds to emission of 1 Mg CO2    Information on trade in CO2 emissions in ORLEN Capital Group is provided in  chapter XVII of the report.    Impact of activity of warehouse bases and fuel stations of PKN ORLEN S.A. on  particular components of the environment  Warehouse activity and distribution of ORLEN influence the natural environment (air  and soil-cum-water environment) but thanks to our consequent activities negative  impact decreases virtually every year. At present, there is a process of technical  adaptation of both fuel stations and warehouse bases to technical requirements  assuring environmental protection and there is recultivation of soil-cum-water  environment. New and modernised fuel stations fully meet technical requirements  related to environmental protection and assure its protection. Some structures (that  is, fuel stations, warehouse bases or separate plants) are liquidated or sold and soil- cum-water environment is recultivated in the event of contamination.     In warehouse bases and fuel stations many activities are undertaken to protect  atmosphere air; these include:     Decrease emission to air of substances created in the process of distribution  and storage of engine petrols through water-tightening of warehouse bases  and construction of systems to recover petrol fumes,    Decrease emission to air of substances created from combustion of fuel in  boiler houses through a change of, among others, the heating agent to low- sulphur heating oil or gas and installation of energy-saving furnaces,     Decrease emission to air of substances created during combustion of fuels in  car engines through launching of environment-friendly fuels.     In 2006 Province Environmental Protection Inspectorates controlled 121 premises in  Regional Organisation Units of ORLEN (103 fuel stations,  13 warehouse bases and  5 Separate Property plants). No decision to cease activity was issued in relation to  any of these premises.         Environmental report 2006    Chapter VI  Water intake and sewage discharge   In 2006 there was an increase by circa 25% of water abstraction from the Vistula  River. Bigger demand for water resulted both from an increase of production capacity  of ORLEN system after reconstruction and modernisations (e.g. first full year of  operation of Olefin II system after revamping) and construction of new systems for  companies located on the premises of the refinery-cum-petrochemical complex in  Pock (e.g. first full year of operation of new systems Basell Orlen Polyolefins, that is,  PE III and PP III). The amount of water abstraction from the Vistula River was also  influenced by an exceptionally sweltering summer which directly translated into a  considerable growth of demand for supplementary water for cooling systems.        Quantity of abstracted water and quantity of discharged wastewater from  the Vistula River versus processed petroleum in years 2005 - 2006  0 5 000 10 000 15 000 20 000 25 000 2005 2006 [ty. m3] 12 000 12 400 12 800 13 200 13 600 14 000 [ty. Mg] Ilo wody pobranej z Wisy Io ciekw odprowadzonych do Wisy Przerb ropy   ilo wody = quantity of water abstracted from the Vistula River  ilo ciekw= quantity of wastewater discharged to the Vistula River  przerb= petroleum processing  Loads of contamination in treated wastewater discharged to the Vistula  River        Environmental report 2006    713 58 953 94 0 200 400 600 800 1 000 [Mg] 2005 2006 ChZT Zawiesina   ChZT= COD  Zawiesina= suspension    Regular and complex controls carried out in 2006 by Province Environmental  Protection Inspectorate both in Wastewater Department and in Water Production  Department and controls of sewage discharged to the Vistula River proved that  ORLEN complies with legal requirements for water and wastewater management.  Chapter VII  Waste management    Wide scope of investments and modernisation of existing production systems on the  premises of refinery-cum-petrochemical complex of ORLEN in Pock contributed to  an increase in 2006 of the quantity of waste produced by us. Production of 1.3  thousand Mg waste more than in 2005 is caused mostly by a bigger amount of steel  and cast iron scrap coming from dismantling of systems.    It should be emphasised that every year ORLEN recovers more and more waste. We  recover iron sulphate which we use to produce a solution to treat water. In 2006 we  recovered 0.2 thousand Mg of that waste.   We also collect waste in warehouses in accordance with the obtained permission.  In  2006 we collected about 0.6 thousand Mg waste in total, which came mostly from  companies which operate on the premises of the refinery-cum-petrochemical  complex of ORLEN in Pock.                      Quantity of waste produced in 2005 – 2006     Environmental report 2006    12,0 11,1 6,7 5,3 13,3 11,8 8,0 5,3 0,0 2,0 4,0 6,0 8,0 10,0 12,0 14,0 [ tys. Mg ] 2005 2006 wytworzone ogem odzyskane inne ni niebezpieczne z wyczeniem odpadw komunalnych niebezpieczne     wytworzone og = produced in total  odzyskane = recovered  inne niz niebezpieczne = other than dangerous excluding municipal waste  niebezp = dangerous  tys. = thousand  Chapter VIII  Recycling – package management    In 2006 ORLEN launched on the Polish market five types of packages:   -  plastic,  -  paper and cardboard,  -  natural materials,  -  steel (including steel sheet),  -  and wooden palettes.  It is worth mentioning that the quantity of packages introduced by us on the market  has decreased significantly: by 73% for paper and cardboard packages, by 83% for  packages from natural materials, by 8% in relation to plastic packages and by 7% for  wooden palettes. Only the number of steel packages increased (only by 5%)  including steel sheet packages.      Comparison of the weight of packages introduced on the domestic market  in years 2005 and 2006       Environmental report 2006    2 807 123 241 85 363 15 045 109 596 755 113 579 89 470 2 097 102 405 0 20 000 40 000 60 000 80 000 100 000 120 000 140 000 [kg] 2005 2006 opakowania z papieru i tektury opakowania z tworzyw sztucznych opakowania ze stali w tym z blachy stalowej opakowania z materiaw naturalnych (z wyczeniem palet drewnianych) palety drewniane   opakowania z papieru= paper and cardboard packages  opakowania z tworzyw=plastic packages  opakowania ze stali= steel packages including steel sheet  opakowania z mat nat= natural material packages (except from wooden palettes)  palety drew= wooden palettes  In accordance with new legal provisions (effective since January 2006) companies  which introduce packages on the domestic market are obliged to reach 43% of  recovery of all types of packages (including wooden palettes).   ORLEN has met all legal obligations and has met both general level of recovery and  detailed required levels of recycling for particular groups of packages.   In 2006 we have recycled:  -  18% of plastic packages  -  42% of paper and cardboard packages      -  11% of natural material packages   -  14% of steel packages (including steel sheet)  -  43% for all types of packages (including wooden palettes)     Comparison of the weight of packages recycled in 2005 and 2006.     Environmental report 2006    1 179 22 183 11 950 1 654 340 24 987 16 105 273 0 5 000 10 000 15 000 20 000 25 000 [kg] 2005 2006 opakowania z papieru i tektury opakowania z tworzyw sztucznych opakowania ze stali w tym z blachy stalowej opakowania z materiaw naturalnych (z wyczeniem palet drewnianych)     opakowania z papieru= paper and cardboard packages  opakowania z tworzyw=plastic packages  opakowania ze stali= steel packages including steel sheet  opakowania z mat nat= natural material packages (except from wooden palettes)  Chapter IX  Noise    The refinery-cum-petrochemical complex in Pock is a source of noise emitted to the  environment. On the basis of measurements of the level of noise around our  company it was concluded that the level of noise is increased periodically. In 2006  we installed three stations for continuous monitoring of noise close to the refinery- cum-petrochemical complex of ORLEN. Measurements are taken at the height 4.0m  and the registered parameters are collected at one minute intervals.  The analysis of our measurements indicates that mostly road noise influences the  noise level during the day (notable increases during transport peaks) and at night –  operation of the production part of our company and of systems situated on the  premises of ORLEN and belonging to Companies from ORLEN Group and other  companies.   To minimise the inconvenience made by the noise in 2006 we finished execution of  the following tasks:    on the premises of Catalytic Cracking II 3 pieces of control valves for steam  were replaced and partly steam pipeline  insulation,     on the premises of Claus and Hydrosulfreen systems 2 blowers were  installed with power supply and control,     on the premises of Aroma Extraction system during section standstill  engines and ventilators for air coolers were replaced,     on the premises of Olefin II system noise silencers were installed for  drainage to steam system for turbines,      Environmental report 2006     on the premises of Reforming V system systems of liquid control on air  cooler ventilators was built.     Chapter X  Water-cum-soil environment  In accordance with the obligation resulting from the integrated permit obtained for our  refinery-cum-petrochemical complex in Pock, in 2006 we continued in ORLEN  recultivation works involving bailing of petroleum-derivative products and monitoring.   It is worth mentioning that in result of intensification of bailing in 2006 406 504 dm3 of  petroleum products were bailed, that is, by 28 524 dm3 more than in the previous  year. A high influence on so good results had very favourable environmental  conditions, that is, low level of underground water table which accelerated the  process of release of hydrocarbons deposited in the rock mass.    Systematic observations and measurements (including monitoring of underground  water) allow to state that the spots of petroleum products existing on the premises of  refinery-cum-petrochemical complex of ORLEN, located on the water table of  groundwater do not spread and do not pose danger to human health.       Chapter XI  Charges for use of environment in PKN ORLEN S.A.  In result of bigger processing of petroleum and start-up of new systems on the  premises of the production plant in Pock as well as with other operators who get  power from Company Heat and Power Plant, charges for use of environment in the  refinery-cum-petrochemical complex in Pock increased in 2006. The biggest share,  that is, about 97% in environmental charges in 2006 constituted charges for emission  of gases and dusts to the atmosphere.       Charges for use of environment in Pock plant in years 2005 – 2006     Environmental report 2006    17,41  21,27  15,85  19,15  0,80  1,04  0,76 1,07  0 5 10 15 20 25 [mln z] Ogem Emisja Pobr wd cieki 2005 2006   ogem=total  emisja=emission  pobr wody= water abstraction  cieki=wastewater  miln z= million PLN      It should be stressed that in 2006 there was a considerable decrease of charges for  use of environment in relation to emission in Regional Organisation Units of our  company. It resulted from such activities as:    finishing  of  water-tightening  of  7  warehouse  bases  (in  Gutkw,    Sokka, Gdask, Lublin, Szczecin, Nowa Sl, Wrocaw)   water-tightening of 159 subsequent fuel stations,     decrease of the number of structures (in result of sales or liquidation of some  structures).       Total charges for use of the environment in Regional Organisation Units of  Polski Koncern Naftowy ORLEN S.A. in years 2005 – 2006.     Environmental report 2006    5,1 3,6 5,0 3,5 0,006 0,007 0,1 0,1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 [mln z] Ogem opaty za rodowisko opaty za emisj opaty za pobr wd opaty za odprowadzanie ciekw 2005 r. 2006 r.     .ogem opaty= total environmental charges  opaty za emisj= emission charges  opaty za pobr= water abstraction charges  opaty za odprowadzanie= wastewater discharge charges    Chapter XII  Restitution of peregrine falcon    We have been co-operating for the fifth year with the Association for Wild Animals  SOK which reconstructs the domestic population of peregrine falcon through  settlement of birds in the environment which creates good conditions for their  existence.   Presence of peregrine falcons within our refinery-cum-petrochemical complex in  Pock is observed during the whole year which involves, among other, a review of  breeding shelters, making film and photographic documentation and ringing of  nestlings.   In 2006 in the breeding shelter installed on the chimney of the company Heat and  Power Plant, three nestlings of peregrine falcon were born (2 female and 1 male)  who were ringed with ornithological rings (DA 13192 and DA 13193) and with  observation rings (3M, 3N).  We are proud of the fact that since 1999 (time of placement of breeding shelters on  ORLEN premises in Pock) 14 nestlings of peregrine falcon were born there.    Birds about three weeks and a half old.      Environmental report 2006          Chapter XIII  Pure fuels - proecological effects in relation to fuel production     Constant investment and modernisation of refinery-cum-petrochemical complex,  technological progress, construction and rendering production systems operational  and other ecological activities of ORLEN make fuels from Pock meet the highest EU  quality standards and be environment-friendly.   All our petrols contain the highest quality package of purifying additives – a detergent  additive which guarantees meeting the highest purity criteria of engine valves defined  in the World Fuel Card. All our diesel oils are protected against microbiological  contamination thanks to special additives.     Petrols  Engine petrols produced by ORLEN in 2006 included:   * Eurosuper 95   * Super Plus 98   * VERVA 98    Petrol Eurosuper 95 is a mix of hydrocarbons obtained from petroleum processing.  This is the basic type of petrol offered on the domestic market. Presence of purest  components like ether, alkylate and isomerizate guarantees the required octane  number at decreased content of aromatic hydrocarbons, benzene and sulphur.     Petrol Super Plus 98 is a sublimated mix of hydrocarbons obtained from petroleum  processing. The specifics of applied components assures the required octane  number at decreased content of aromatic hydrocarbons, benzene and sulphur whose  level often did not exceed even 10 ppm.  VERVA 98 is a petrol without sulphur which assures high effectiveness and durability  of catalyst. A decrease of sulphur content below 10 mg/kg guarantees assurance of  considerably less corrosive environment in the engine power supply system,     Environmental report 2006    petroleum combustion and fumes discharge system. It prolongs life of fume catalyst.  It assures reduction of hydrocarbons CH and CO in fumes. The combustion process  of petroleum VERVA 98 in an engine is additionally improved by application of a  specially chosen and optimally dosed package of cleaning additives (detergents),  assuring maintenance of cleanliness of the inlet system and even guaranteeing  elimination of sediments created during application of fuel of unknown origin and  without detergents. It has anticorrosive and antioxidating properties which protect fuel  against degradation during storage.       Production of most noble ecological components of petrols in years 2004 –  2006 [Mg]    Year  Component  Type  2004  2005  2006  MTBE  38 171  2 258  0  ETBE  47 685                 89 767  101 496  Alkylate  94 595               112 525  126 515       Isomerizate             452 559               492 528  362 940      Diesel oils  From the beginning of 2005 we began production of Diesel oil at quality which will be  required by provisions of EU law only in 4 years. In 2006 ORLEN produced the  following types of diesel oil:   City Diesel Oil Super   Ekodiesel Ultra  All Diesel oils produced by us contain less than 0.001% of sulphur.   City Diesel Oil Super is a fuel produced only in few European countries under the  trade name City Diesel. This fuel was launched on the domestic market already in  1994 and since then ORLEN is its only producer in Poland. The product meets  quality requirements: sulphur content is decreased to 10 ppm, content of aromatic  multiring hydrocarbons – to 5% (m/m). The product contains a package of purifying  additives which improves usable properties of fuel providing it with suitable cleaning,  anticorrosive, antioxidating properties and good lubricating properties. Similarly to  other diesel oils, this fuel is protected against microbiological contamination.   City Diesel Oil Super is used in land transport in city, in agglomerations, big cities  and ecological protection zones.   Ekodiesel Ultra is the highest quality fuel meeting the strictest quality and ecological  requirements imposed on fuels for diesel engines in the EU. The most important  attributes of this fuel in comparison with diesel oil produced by now  are trace content  of sulphur (below 10 ppm for Ultra), lowered content of aromatic hydrocarbons,  increased from 49 to 51 the value of cetane number, better operating properties in  winter and high level of microbiological purity.       Environmental report 2006                          Assortment and quality of diesel oils    Sulphur content   weight %   n o.  Assortment  2004  2005  2006  1. Ekodiesel Plus  50  0.002  0.0007  0.002 6  2. Ekodiesel  Ultra*)  0.000 6  0.0007  0.000 75  3. City Diesel Oil  Standard 25  0.001 6  0.0004 5  -  4. City Diesel Oil  Super  0.000 5  0.0004 5  0.000 36    *) including diesel oil Verva.    Heating oils (heat oils)  Light heating oil Ekoterm Plus is modern and safe to operate source of energy  which is the highest quality product which meets world standards both in relation to  operating standards and environmental protection requirements. It is characterised  by low sulphur content (0.20%), low viscosity, low flow temperature (below –20oC)  and high caloric value.                                                         Assortment and quality of heating oil    Sulphur content   weight %   n o.  Assortment  2004  2005  2006  1. Light heating oil  Ekoterm Plus  0.1  0.056  0.117  2. Heating oil C-3   1.91    1.91     1.79  3.  Heating oil for  technological  furnaces    0.14    0.16  0.166  4.  Light heating oil  to store in soil   cavities  0.002  -  -      It should be emphasised that in the recent years we have recovered more and more  sulphur which results from deepening of petroleum processing in ORLEN, further  purification of products and an increase of petroleum processing.        Environmental report 2006      Amount of sulphur recovered from processed crude oil in relation to crude  oil processing  95 000 100 000 105 000 110 000 115 000 120 000 125 000 2004 2005 2006 [Mg] 11 000 11 500 12 000 12 500 13 000 13 500 14 000 [ty.Mg] Ilo odzyskanej siarki z przetworzonej ropy naftowej Przerb ropy     ilo= quantity of sulphur recaptured from processed petroleum  przerb= petroleum processing  ty Mg=thousand Mg    Chapter XIV  Green Police – Company Ecological Inspection   In 2006 Company Ecological Inspection recorded 377 applications in total out of  which the decisive majority (285) were planned activities and the remaining were  chance events and interventions.   The events of which it was informed included: system standstill for renovation,  blowing, rinsing and steaming of pipelines, tanks, devices, columns, decoking and  cleaning of furnaces, dewatering of slope tanks, regeneration of catalysts, adjustment  of safety valves, discharge of the condensate to sewers.    Chance events were connected with system blackouts, increased discharge of gases  to torches, furnace extinguishing, leakage created in result of lack of water-tightness  of pipelines, devices and accessories, asphalt leakage to tray during filling of tank  trucks.  During the whole 2006 the Green Police recorded 18 interventions from inhabitants  of Pock and internal calls from ORLEN employees. Notifications related mostly to  smell inconveniences and were specially checked and investigated by Company  Ecological Inspection. In the area of existence of inconveniences concentration of  contamination was measured and actions were undertaken to identify sources of the  problems. A review of meteorological situation and of concentration of contamination  in automatic air monitoring stations was done as well.           Environmental report 2006    Chapter XV  Green ORLEN Group    Proecological activities in companies of ORLEN Group in 2006   Formal-cum-legal situation  All companies in ORLEN Group have regularised formal-cum-legal status in relation  to environmental protection, that is, waste production, wastewater discharge,  abstraction of surface water, etc.   In accordance with the Decision of the Minister of Environment of 26 July 2002 on  types of systems which might cause considerable contamination of particular natural  elements or of the environment as a whole (the Journal of Laws 122, item 1055) the  following companies from the Capital Group have obtained the integrated permission:    ORLEN Oil Sp. z o.o.   ORLEN Asfalt Sp. z o.o.   ORLEN Eko Sp. z o.o.   Basell ORLEN Polyolefins Sp. z o.o.  - for systems: Polyethylene I, II and III,    - for systems: Polypropylene I, II and III.   ANWIL S.A.  - to run systems which make up polyvinyl chloride complex,   - to run the system of fuel combustion in Heat and Power Plant operated in the  Energy Complex,   - to run systems which make up the Fertiliser Complex.   Refinery Trzebinia S.A.  - for biodiesel system,  - for paraffin hydrorefinery system.   Kerosene Refinery Jedlicze S.A.  - to run Used Oil Regeneration system,   - for Raf Energia Sp. z o.o. to run an Heat and Power Plant,    - for Raf Ekologia Sp. z o.o. to run Waste Incineration Plant system.      In accordance with the act Environmental Protection Law (the Journal of Laws,  06.129.902 as amended), some companies belonging to Capital Group were  classified as plants with increased or high risk of occurrence of industrial breakdown.  Therefore, they are obliged to have a safety report. Such reports, approved by  respective Fire Brigade are in possession of:    Refinery Trzebinia S.A.   Basell ORLEN Polyolefins Sp. z o.o.   ORLEN Oil Sp. z o.o.   Inowrocaw Soil Mines SOLINO S.A.   ANWIL S.A.    Kerosene Refinery Jedlicze S.A.  ANWIL S.A. and Refinery Trzebinia S.A. have also a Program to Prevent  Breakdowns and an Internal Operating-cum-Rescue Plan.        Environmental report 2006      Chapter XVI  Ecology in ORLEN group, that is, tasks in environmental protection and their  effects      In 2006 ORLEN Group executed many proecological projects and activities which  had direct impact on natural environment.   The most important included:     Refinery Trzebinia S.A.    Construction of wastewater treatment plant for biodiesel system   The goal of the task is protection of soil-cum-water environment through  construction of a wastewater plant from which wastewater will be preliminary  treated to the level allowing to discharge it to the next structures of the  wastewater plant. Commencement of construction of the wastewater treatment  plant is planned for 2007.     Construction of umbrella roofs to create a stand for microbiological  treatment of soil. Construction of two umbrella roofs is planned on the  premises of the wastewater treatment plant with total cubage7 020 m3 and  area 1 080 m2. An increase of the area through laying of additional umbrella  roofs shall shorten time of removal of petroleum-derivative substances from  soil and, by that, an increase of processing capacity.     Refinery Trzebinia S.A., on the basis of a complex proecological program, has  executed consequently for years projects and done modernisation aiming at an  improvement of environment and its protection.     ORLEN Asfalt Sp. z o.o.   Replacement of tank truck  dosers  – in result emission of bad smell to  atmosphere will decrease,    replacement of cooling boxes on periodical oxidising – elimination of leakage  to soil.    ORLEN Eko Sp. z o.o.   purchase of the system to condense wastewater sediment, executed under  the task Modernisation of sediment management system in Water-cum- Wastewater Plant of Production Plant of PKN ORLEN S.A.   choice in a public tender of a constructor for the system for thermal processing  of dangerous waste,    winning non-returnable financial support for execution of the project Purchase  of  fluidal furnaces to obtain an integrated permission.   .  ORLEN Oil Sp. z o.o.   choice and application of new environment-friendly technologies – the  Company as one of the leading oil companies in Poland launched in the offer  of Platinum oils products for engines which meet Euro4 requirements. Oils for  passenger cars and delivery cars meet requirements Euro4 and most rigorous  quality specifications of car producers (Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen, Volvo,  MAN), as well as the requirements of ACEA 2004 classification.       Environmental report 2006    Basell Orlen Polyolefins Sp. z o.o.   limitation of unorganised emission of aliphatic hydrocarbons from PE2 by 10%  in relation to 2005 – in result emission decreased by 39%.    Inowrocaw Salt Mines Solino S.A.   Renovation of saline pipeline (Salt Mine and PMRiP Gra – Chemical Plant  Zachem Bydgoszcz) 285 m long.    Dismantling of a reinforced concrete tank, a railway transport building and a  workshop building on the premises of Salt Packaging Department,    Purchase of a system for wastewater treatment for Salt Mine Mogilno,   Replacement of sanitary wastewater tank on the premises of Water Pumping  Station Wjcin,   Renovation of cyclones that stop salt dust on the premises Of Salt Packaging  Department.    ANWIL S.A.   Modernisation of the turbine of synthesis gas compressor on A line ammonia  resulting in a decrease of gas use through a limitation of use of high-pressure  steam    Construction of a steam boiler 0.3 MPa in fume utilisation section on line A  ammonia in whose result the use of gas decreased through creation  additionally of low-pressure steam    Modernisation of the drinking water pipeline through replacement and water- tightening of the oldest sections of drinking water system.    Kerosene Refinery Jedlicze S.A.   Commencement of construction of a system for solvent production on the  basis of Pentana system – the planned project involves management of  sulphated petroleum fractions rich in aromatic hydrocarbons and heterocyclic  nitrogen compounds. The new system will produce environmental-friendly  products.    The process of securing tanks and antisplit trays against penetration of  petroleum products to soil and groundwater. In 2006 four storage tanks were  completely modernised. Respective securities for tanks and antisplit trays  were executed and a system of leakage signalling was started.    The method of wastewater intake from waste combustion plant was changed.  The project allowed to fully control the discharged wastewater in relation to  quality and quantity and the possibility to direct it to preliminary treatment.      Chapter XVII  Share of businesses from ORLEN Group in national system of trade in  CO2  emissions.  In accordance with the Act of 22 December 2004 on trade in rights to emission to air  of glasshouse gases and other substances, the following systems are covered by the  CO2 emission trade system:      PKN ORLEN S.A.     Environmental report 2006    -  Heat and Power Plant  -  Refinery   ANWIL S.A.  -   Heat and Power Plant    ORLEN Asfalt  -  Refinery system    Kerosene Refinery Jedlicze S.A.  -  Refinery system    Refinery Trzebinia S.A.   -  Refinery system  The company has an account in National Register of Authorisations to emissions.      RAFENERGIA Sp. z o. o. - Jedlicze  -  Heat and Power Plant    ENERGOMEDIA Sp. z o. o. - Trzebinia  -  Heat and Power Plant    Al the above systems obtained permissions for participation in the system of trade in  emission rights in which the method of carbon dioxide emission monitoring was  defined. The report as of 31 December of the previous year is the basis for  settlement of received rights and it is verifiable by an authorised verifier. After a  verification of annual reports 2005 none of the systems was short of rights.       Chapter XVIII  Awards and certificates    ORLEN Oil Sp. z o.o.   Innovativeness Certificate 2005 – placement of the Company by the  International Scientific network on the list of 500 domestic companies whose  business is directed at development and innovativeness,    I place in the category Best product on IV Automotive Fair: Auto Show 2006  for engine oil Platinum Max Energy Euro4 5W/30,   The award Product of the year 2006 on XIII International Fair Fuel station  2006 given for engine oil  Platinum Max Energy Euro4 5W/30,   Title Grand Prix XI of International Fair of Kerosene and Gas Industry Nafta i  Gaz 2006 for the line of oils Platinum for modern engines meeting the  standard Euro4.    ORLEN Eko Sp. z o.o.   In January 2006 the Company received the certificate BVQI Polska related to  consistence of environmental management with the standard ISO 14001:2004.    Inowrocaw Salt Mines Solino S.A.   The Company has a certified Environment Management System according to  the standard DIN EN ISO 14001:1996.       Environmental report 2006    Refinery Trzebinia S.A.   On 18 and 19 October 2006 an audit to recertify the Quality management  System was carried out and it was recommended to issue the certificate. The  certificate covers: design, production and sales of liquid fuels, biocomponents and  liquid biofuels, kerosene products and other petroleum-derivative and chemical  products. The certificate is valid till 20 August 2009.    The company has a certificate which confirms consistence of the Environment  management System with the requirements of the standard ISO 14001. For the  Capital Group of Refinery Trzebinia S.A. this is the second certificate in this domain  whose validity expired in January 2007. Therefore in the second half of 2007 a  recertifying audit will be held.     Basell Orlen Polyolefins Sp. z o.o.   In 2006 BOP participated in national competition under the auspices of the  Ministry of Environmental Protection Company close to the environment and  obtained the title Company close to the environment.     The Company received the Integrated Management System Certificate (ZSZ),  consistent with world standard ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001:2004, PN-N- 18001:2004,  OHSAS  18001:1999  (quality,  environment,  safety  and  occupational health). In March 2006 during an audit carried in BOP auditors  from BVQI did positive verification of consistence of the implemented  Environment Management System with the new edition of the standard ISO  14001:2004 and confirmed suitable implementation and operation of the  Quality Management and Work Safety System in changed working conditions  after start-up of new systems.