Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011  Contents Management Information Disclosure / Sustainability Report Editorial Policy Hitachi Group Pro le TOP COMMITMENT  Hiroaki Nakanishi, President, Hitachi, Ltd. TOP DIALOGUE  Dialogue with WBCSD President Eff ect of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Hitachis Response VISION  Hitachis Management Strategies and CSR Corporate Credo and Management Plan / 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan /  Creating a Sustainable Society / Material Issues for Hitachi FEATURE  Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi Urban Planning for Tianjin Eco-City Hitachi Projects Extending around the World Third-Party Expert Opinions  Management Report Message  Toshiaki Kuzuoka, Senior Vice President and Executive Offi  cer Corporate Governance Strengthening Governance / Internal Control CSR Management CSR Management Structure / The Five-Year CSR Roadmap /  CSR Self-Assessment Tool / FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans Risk Management  Responding to the Great East Japan Earthquake /  Reinforcing the Risk Management System / Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) Compliance Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct / Implementing  Corporate Ethics Month / Compliance Reporting System / Preventing Corruption / Preventing  the Recurrence of Misleading Representations / Protecting Personal Information and Information  Security / Export Control Innovation Management  Research and Development Strategy / Research and Development Goals /  Enhancing Overseas Research Bases / R&D Plan and Investment /  Hitachi Fellow System / Examples of R&D Achievements Intellectual Property (IP)  Globalization of Intellectual Property / Building a Strategic Patent Portfolio /  Strengthening International Standardization / Business Contributions /  Respect for Intellectual Property / Reward System for Employee Inventions /  Cultivating Human Capital Brand Management  Global Brand Strategy / Improving the Global Brand / Web Management /  Internal Brand Management / Evaluating the Eff ectiveness of Brand Initiatives /  Reputation Management / Action against Infringement of the Brand Value Environmental Report Message  Shigeru Azuhata, Senior Vice President and Executive Offi  cer Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives  The Hitachi Environmental Vision / Long-Term Plan Environmental Vision 2025 /  Environmental Action Plan Activities to Preserve Ecosystems Environmentally Conscious Products and Services  Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products / Recycling Product Resources /  Managing Chemical Substances Contained in Products /  Participating in the Development of International Standards 003 005 007 009 010 015 019 025 026 027 028 030 034 036 041 044 046 049 050 051 060 063 Hitachi Group  Sustainability Report  2011 Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  001  Environmentally Conscious Production Creating Super Eco-Factories and Offi  ces / Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions /  Reducing Waste / Water Conservation / Chemical Substance Management /  Managing Environmental Risk / Environmental Load Data Generated through Business  Operations (FY 2010) Environmental Management Framework and Communication Environmental Management Framework / Environmental Education /  Environmental Accounting / Environmental Communication Independent Review Social Report Message  Makoto Ebata, Senior Vice President and Executive Offi  cer;  Naoki Mitarai, Vice President and Executive Offi  cer Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction  Quality Assurance Activities / Quality and Reliability Education /  Strengthening Quality Assurance Systems in China and throughout Asia /  Handling Product Accidents / Customer Satisfaction / Universal Design Public Policy Initiatives  External Relations Policy / External Relations Structure / Stakeholder Engagement /  Partnerships for Combating Global Warming / Global External Relations Initiatives Communication with Shareholders and Investors  Policy on Information Disclosure / Proactive IR Approach /  General Meeting of Shareholders / Socially Responsible Investment and  Sustainable Investment Assessments in Fiscal 2010 /  Basic Policy for Prevention of Takeovers Social Contribution Activities Philosophy and Policy / Education / The Environment / Social Welfare /  Hitachi's Foundations / Support for Volunteer Activities / Disaster Relief and Recovery Respect for Human Rights Human Rights Policies / Framework for Promoting Respect for Human Rights /  Raising Awareness of Human Rights / Applying Human Rights Worldwide Supply Chain Management Promoting Globalization / Sharing Procurement Policies / Building Partnerships /  Helping Create International Guidelines / Sharing CSR Awareness / Green Procurement /  Response to Con ict Minerals Issue Diversity Management Diversity Development Project / European Diversity Project /  Employing People with Disabilities / Model Project for Promoting the Employment of  People with Mental Disabilities Global Human Capital Development Aligning Hiring with Global Business / Global Education for Young Employees /  Global Manager Training / Training Future Managers / HITACHI BASIS / Training System Employee Health and Safety Health and Safety Programs / Mental Health Care / Basic Attitudes to HIV/AIDS Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects   Comparative Table with the UN Global Compact   Policy, Vision, and Guidelines  Major Results Data  Inquiries 071 081 090 091 092 093 099 101 104 116 119 123 130 132 134 144 145 146 147 149 Hitachi Group  Sustainability Report  2011 Symbol Marks Used in This Booklet      Technical terms, proper nouns, etc., in the text requiring explanation     * Additional explanation of terms, etc., in tables or diagrams WEB  Indicates the title and URL of the Web page related to the article. The Environmental    Report (pages 049–090) can be downloaded as a file from the Web site below   http://www.hitachi.com/environment/data/ Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  002  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  003 Web PDF booklet Management Information Disclosure Sustainability Report Editorial Policy Non-Financial Information Reports Financial Information Reports We disclose non- nancial information, mainly our activities in  scal 2010, ended March 31, 2011, in the Hitachi Group  Sustainability Report 2011. Operating and  nancial information for shareholders and other investors is in the Annual Report 2011.  Our Web site provides the latest information on these and other topics. The Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 is a combination of the Hitachi Group Corporate Sustainability Report and the Hitachi  Group Environmental Sustainability Report, which we published through  scal 2010. We publish the Hitachi Group Sustainability  Report 2011 Digest (24 pages), a summary of policies, areas of special social interest, and reports on key management issues from  the larger Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 (149 pages), which is issued as a PDF. (The Japanese and English versions of this  digest are scheduled to be released in September and October, respectively.) Our Web site also reports on detailed activity, as well  as news releases and other up-to-date information. Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Note: We also disclose operating and  nancial  information on Hitachi, Ltd. in the Form 20-F   lings with the United States Securities and  Exchange Commission (see page 102). CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Environmental Activities Global Community Relations and Activities (Social Contribution Activities) Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Printed version Hitachi Group  Sustainability Report  2011 Digest Annual Report 2011 WEB  CSR  (Corporate Social Responsibility) http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ index.html WEB  Environmental Activities http://www.hitachi.com/ environment/index.html WEB  Investor Relations http://www.hitachi.com/IR-e/ index.html WEB  Global Community Relations  and Activities (Social Contribution Activities) http://www.hitachi.com/Int-e/skk/ index.html Latest information Reports on material issues Reports on detailed activities On Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  004 Reports on Detailed Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report Reports on Material Issues Hitachi Group Sustainability Report Digest Latest information Major CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility)  Content on the Web Site Hitachi Group Pro le  Top Commitment Eff ect of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Hitachis Response  Hitachis Management Strategies and CSR Corporate Credo and Management Plan / 2012 Mid-Term Management  Plan / Creating a Sustainable Society / Material Issues for Hitachi  FEATURE Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi Third-Party Expert Opinions Management Report  Message from the Executive Offi  cer for Management Audits / Corporate  Governance / CSR Management / Risk Management / Compliance /  Innovation Management / Intellectual Property / Brand Management  Environmental Report Message from the Executive Offi  cer for Environmental Strategy / Corporate  Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives / Activities to  Preserve Ecosystems / Environmentally Conscious Products and Services  / Environmentally Conscious Production / Environmental Management  Framework and Communication  Social Report  Message from Executive Offi  cer for Procurement / Message from Executive  Offi  cer for Human Capital Group / Quality Assurance and Customer  Satisfaction / Public Policy Initiatives / Communication with Shareholders  and Investors / Social Contribution Activities / Respect for Human Rights  / Supply Chain Management / Diversity Management / Global Human  Capital Development / Employee Health and Safety  Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines / Comparative Table with ISO  26000 Core Subjects / Comparative Table with the UN Global Compact /  Policy, Vision, and Guidelines / Major Results Data Scope of Reporting [Period] The main period covered is  scal 2010 (April 1, 2010, to March 31, 2011) [Companies] Hitachi, Ltd. and 913 consolidated subsidiaries (including modi ed entities  to which the equity method of consolidated reporting applies): total 914  companies [Scope of data] Financial data   Hitachi, Ltd. and 913 consolidated subsidiaries (including  modi ed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting  applies) and 164 affi  liated companies that use the equity method Social data   Scope of data indicated under each item Environmental data   Hitachi, Ltd. and 913 consolidated subsidiaries  (including modi ed entities to which the equity method of consolidated  reporting applies): total 914 companies. However, for environmental load  data generated through business operations, companies that cover 90%  of the load (based on Hitachi calculations) are included. The data for each   scal year indicates the results according to the scope of data in that  scal  year. The base  scal year data have been revised in accordance with the  scope of data for  scal 2010. Guidelines Referred to in Preparing This Report Environmental Reporting Guidelines (FY 2007 version), Ministry of the  Environment, Japan Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2001—With Focus on Stakeholders,  Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1), Global Reporting Initiative This sustainability report is published annually. Initiatives That We Participate in We have been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since  February 2009. External Evaluations We were selected in September 2010 for the Dow Jones Sustainability  World Indexes (DJSI World), one of the worlds leading sustainability  investment fund indexes. We were also awarded the Silver Class in the  Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) Sustainability Yearbook 2011  (February 2011 issue). We have been a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable  Development since 1995. Eff ect of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Hitachis Response  Hitachi Group Pro le  Top Commitment Hitachis Management Strategies and CSR Corporate Credo and Management Plan / 2012 Mid-Term Management  Plan / Creating a Sustainable Society / Material Issues for Hitachi FEATURE Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi Caring for the Environment / Respect for Human Rights/ Supply Chain  Management / Diversity Management / Public Policy Initiatives The CSR Web site has a full PDF version with details on our activities and  the following content. The Environmental Activities Web site reports on  environmental protection initiatives. The Social Activities Web site discloses  social contributions. Contents Disclosed Solely on the Web Site CSR at HITACHI:  Vision and Policies Highlights: Spotlighting 2005 through 2010 Policies on preventing the recurrence of misleading representations Diversity management* Employee safety and health* Welfare Supplementary data for Environmental Report* *Expanded version of detailed activities report (PDF) PDF Web booklet  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  005 12,000 1,200 6,000 600 10,000 1,000 4,000 400 8,000 800 2,000 2006 182.5 10,247.9 345.5 11,226.7 127.1 10,000.3 444.5 202.1 9,315.8 8,968.5 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 200 0 0 Hitachi Group Pro le Company Pro le (as of March 31, 2011) Consolidated Business Overview and Results for Fiscal 2010 Corporate Name Hitachi, Ltd. Incorporated  February 1, 1920 (founded in 1910) Head Offi  ce  1-6-6 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku,    Tokyo 100-8280, Japan Representative  Hiroaki Nakanishi, Representative   Executive Offi  cer and President  Revenues  9,315.8 billion yen   (104% compared with the previous year) Operating income  444.5 billion yen   (220% compared with the previous year) Capital investment  556.8 billion yen   (102% compared with the previous year) R&D expenditures  395.1 billion yen   (106% compared with the previous year) Overseas output as a percentage of consolidated net sales  27% Other 431.6 (5%) Number of companies: 50 Number of employees: 5,832 Others 767.4 (7%) Financial Services 372.9 (4%) Digital Media & Consumer Products 951.5 (9%) Components & Devices 809.8 (8%) Automotive Systems 737.9 (7%) High Functional Materials  & Components 1,408.1 (13%) Construction Machinery 751.3 (7%) Electronic Systems & Equipment 1,079.3 (10%) Social Infrastructure & Industrial Systems 1,156.9 (11%) Power Systems 813.2 (8%) Information &  Telecommunication Systems 1,652 (16%) Net sales 9,315.8 billion yen Total Sales by Industry:  10,500.8 billion yen Consolidated Net Sales:  9,315.8 billion yen Asia 2,073.7 (22%) Number of companies: 291 Number of employees: 114,150 Europe 760 (8%) Number of companies: 142 Number of employees: 9,833 North America 781.1 (8%) Number of companies: 79 Number of employees: 15,537 Japan 5,269.2 (57%) Number of companies: 351 Number of employees: 216,393 Capital  409,129 million yen Number of employees (unconsolidated basis)   32,926 Number of employees (consolidated basis)  361,745 Number of consolidated subsidiaries  913   (Japan: 351, outside Japan: 562) Number of equity-method affi  liates  164   (Japan: 72, outside Japan: 92) Revenues and Operating Income Sales Revenue by Geographic Region (billions of yen) Revenues by Industry Segment (billions of yen) Revenues  (billions of yen) Revenues Operating income Operating income (billions of yen)  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  006   Systems integration, outsourcing services, software, disk array subsystems, servers, mainframes,  telecommunications equipment, ATMs   Hitachi-Omron Terminal Solutions, Corp., Hitachi Computer Products (America), Inc., Hitachi Computer  Products (Europe) S.A.S., Hitachi Electronics Services Co., Ltd., Hitachi Information & Control Solutions, Ltd.,  Hitachi Information Systems, Ltd., Hitachi Solutions, Ltd., Hitachi Consulting Corporation, Hitachi Data  Systems Corporation, Hitachi Information & Telecommunication Systems Global Holding Corporation   Industrial machinery and plants, elevators,    escalators, railway vehicles and systems   Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems Co.,  Ltd.,    Hitachi Elevator (China) Co., Ltd., Hitachi  Building Systems Co., Ltd., Hitachi Plant  Technologies, Ltd. Major Fields of Business and Products Information & Telecommunication Systems   Thermal, nuclear, hydroelectric, and wind  power generation systems   Babcock-Hitachi K.K., Hitachi-GE Nuclear  Energy, Ltd., Hitachi Engineering & Services  Co., Ltd.,    Hitachi Power Europe GmbH, Hitachi Power  Systems America, Ltd. Power Systems   Semiconductor and LCDs manufacturing  equipment, test and measurement  equipment, medical electronics equipment,  power tools, electronic part processing  equipment   Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation,  Hitachi Koki Co., Ltd., Hitachi Kokusai  Electric Inc., Hitachi Medical Corporation,  Hitachi Via Mechanics, Ltd. Electronic Systems & Equipment   Wires and cables, copper products,  semiconductor and display-related  materials, circuit boards and materials,  specialty steels, magnetic materials  and components, high-grade casting  components and materials   Hitachi Cable, Ltd., Hitachi Chemical Co.,  Ltd., Hitachi Metals, Ltd. High Functional Materials & Components   Hard disk drives, LCDs, information storage  media, batteries   Hitachi Displays, Ltd., Hitachi Maxell, Ltd.,  Hitachi Display Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.,  Viviti Technologies Ltd. Components & Devices   Leasing, loan guarantees   Hitachi Capital Corporation   Major Products & Services    Major Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2011)  The products marked with an asterisk (*) in the table above are those of Hitachi, Ltd. (Notes.) 1. Hitachi Solutions, Ltd. was formed through a merger between Hitachi Software Engineering Co., and Hitachi Systems & Services, Ltd. as of October 1, 2010.   2. Hitachi Automotive Products (USA), Inc. changed its name to Hitachi Automotive Systems Americas, Inc. as of January 1, 2011.   3. Viviti Technologies Ltd. is a holding company whose operating companies include Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Inc., a company engaged in the manufacture and sale of  hard disk drives, and was established on October 5, 2010. Financial Services   Logistics, property management   Chuo Shoji, Ltd., Hitachi Life, Ltd., Hitachi  Transport System, Ltd., Hitachi America,  Ltd., Hitachi Asia Ltd., Hitachi (China) Ltd.,  Hitachi Europe Ltd. Others   Optical disk drives,  at-panel TVs,  LCD projectors, room air conditioners,  refrigerators, washing machines, air- conditioning equipment   Hitachi Appliances, Inc., Hitachi Consumer  Electronics Co., Ltd., Hitachi Media  Electronics Co., Ltd., Hitachi Consumer  Products (Thailand), Ltd., Hitachi-LG Data    Storage, Inc. Digital Media & Consumer Products   Engine management systems, electric powertrain systems, drive control  systems, car information systems   Clarion Co., Ltd., Hitachi Automotive systems, Ltd., Hitachi Automotive Systems  Americas, Inc. Automotive Systems   Hydraulic excavators, wheel loaders, mining  dump trucks   Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. Construction Machinery Social Infrastructure & Industrial Systems Enterprise storage platform Ultra supercritical steam turbine Hitachi High-Technologies device  characterization system Hitachi Chemicals carbon  anode materials for lithium-ion  batteries 2.5-inch hard disk drive  by Hitachi Global Storage  Technologies Hitachi Capitals multifunctional  IC card Syo-ene No Tatsujin PREMIUM,  Hitachi Appliances Air Conditioners  for use in shops and offi  ces Hitachi Transport Systems Keihin  Distribution Center, a distribution  center equipped with security systems Hitachi Automotive  Systems stereo camera Sewage treatment plant built by  Hitachi Plant Technologies, Ltd.  in Malaysia  Hitachi Construction Machinerys  hydraulic excavator  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  007 T O P  C O M M I T M E N T Creating social and economic value at the same time to contribute to realizing a sustainable society I would like to begin my message by off ering the  deepest condolences of everyone in the Hitachi  Group to the victims of the Great East Japan  Earthquake on March 11. Im afraid some of  our customers experienced disruptions due to  Hitachis supply chain in the aff ected disaster areas.  Although the earthquake damaged several Hitachi  Group plants, we restored most of the aff ected  manufacturing operations through concerted  companywide eff orts.  Hitachi was established a century ago in Hitachi  City, Ibaraki Prefecture, northeast of Tokyo, and  just south of the accident at the Fukushima Nuclear  Power Station. Hitachi has since grown within the  community of Ibaraki as well as the region as a  whole. We believe that it is our responsibility to give  back to the city and the region that nurtured our  business, as well as to help eastern Japan recover  from the earthquake by rebuilding devastated towns  in safer and more sustainable ways. To that end, we  are focusing our energies to use our technologies  and expertise in a concerted eff ort to help deal  with and overcome the accidents at the Fukushima  Daiichi Nuclear Power Station.  Changing Perceptions of Value  Following the Great East Japan  Earthquake The earthquake damage temporarily halted  production at many plants across Japan, while it  deeply aff ected the global value chain, and has  cast doubt on the business continuity planning of  Japanese manufacturers. As part of Japans social  infrastructure, we are reinforcing our risk and  crisis management policies for business continuity  planning and the entire value chain. The earthquake caused temporary shutdowns of  electricity, telecommunications, water, and sewage,  as well as other parts of the infrastructure that  people take for granted. It highlighted many risks  for a secure and reliable infrastructure, including  the possibility of major power shortages. Today,  as I write this, I feel that this disaster forces us  to reprioritize our commitments for the social  infrastructure. Accordingly, I now believe that our  mission is to help create safe, secure, and vibrant  communities, and that we contribute to building  a social, industrial, and daily life infrastructure  that can better withstand disasters. We will  continue striving to create a sustainable society  that conserves resources and energy. We will ful ll  this mission by focusing on our Social Innovation  Business. Pursuing Further Growth Despite the impact of the earthquake, our 2012 Mid- Term Management Plan has borne fruit in several  respects during  scal 2010, the  rst year of the plan.  For example, while all business segments were  pro table, we re-engineered our in-house company  system and began other internal reforms.  Im  rmly committed to position Hitachi  to lead the drive toward creating a sustainable  society, amid economic globalization, by devising  and implementing growth strategies centered  on Social Innovation Business. We will therefore  concentrate investments in eleven key regions,  such as the Asian Belt Zone1 where economic   Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  008 growth is remarkable, South America, and Central  and Eastern Europe. We will achieve true global and  transnational management by positioning Japan  as one of the key areas, and by strengthening local  leadership. We will recruit globally and employ the  right people in the right places.  CSR: the Foundation of Global  Management I believe that CSR is the foundation of global  management and, indeed, any management. The  world faces such global problems as climate change  and ecosystem destruction, as well as energy  depletion, human rights abuse, and other issues.  I think that in order to resolve these fundamental  social issues in line with Hitachis corporate credo,  it is important to create value that can be handed  down 10 to 20 years in the future by collaborating  with partners and stakeholders. We will contribute  to building a sustainable society by simultaneously  creating social and economic value and by  integrating CSR with management and strategy. We  aim to become the worlds most trustworthy and  reliable enterprise. July 2011 Hiroaki Nakanishi  President, Hitachi, Ltd. 1  Asian Belt Zone consists of countries and areas, 24 in all, such as China, the  ASEAN countries, India, Middle Eastern countries and other countries located  within those territories.  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  009 to long-term business environment outlook,  how to handle business in emerging countries,  contributions to ecosystem preservation, and the  role of the WBCSD.  Mr. Stigson lauded Hitachi Groups Social  Innovation Business as an innovative society- focused strategy that clearly delineates the role  of companies. He noted that a combination of  innovation, markets and appropriate regulation  would be essential in achieving a sustainable society.  Dialogue with WBCSD President on Sustainable  Development and the Role of Firms Bjrn Stigson, President, WBCSD (left) Hiroaki Nakanishi, President, Hitachi, Ltd. (right) About the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)  The WBCSD is a CEO-led, global coalition of some 200 companies advocating for progress on sustainable development. Its mission is to  be a catalyst for innovation and sustainable growth in a world where resources are increasingly limited. The Council provides a platform  for companies to share experiences and best practices on sustainable development issues and advocate for their implementation,  working with governments, non-governmental and intergovernmental organizations. The membership has annual revenues of US$ 7  trillion, spans more than 35 countries and represents 20 major industrial sectors. The Council also benefits from a network of 60 national  and regional business councils and partner organizations, a majority of which are based in developing countries. During his May 2011 trip to Japan, WBCSD (World  Business Council for Sustainable Development)  President Bjrn Stigson visited Hitachi to talk with  Hitachi, Ltd. Representative Executive Offi  cer and  President Hiroaki Nakanishi.  Hitachi, Ltd. has been a WBCSD member  company since  scal 2010 and co-chairs the  WBCSD Ecosystems Focus Area Core Team. This  team has been developing ESR*1 and CEV*2 as tools  for evaluating the ecosystem impact of corporate  activities as part of its mission to gauge the impact  of corporate activities on ecosystems and to preserve  ecosystems.  At their meeting, Mr. Stigson and Mr. Nakanishi  discussed issues such as the impact of the Great East  Japan Earthquake on Japan and Hitachi, the status   of the recovery from the disaster, the medium-  WEB  http://www.wbcsd.org/web/esr.htm (various languages) *1  ESR:  The Corporate Ecosystem Services Review WEB  http://www.wbcsd.org/web/cev.htm (various languages) *2  CEV:  The Guide to Corporate Ecosystem Valuation WEB  http://www.hitachi.com/environment/dialogue/ Details of the meeting appear on Hitachis environmental Web site. T O P  D I A L O G U E  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  010 Eff ect of the Great East Japan Earthquake and  Hitachis Response We wish to express our deepest condolences to all those aff ected by the earthquake that occurred  off  the Paci c coast of northeastern Japan on March 11, 2011 and the subsequent tsunami and  aft ershocks. We sincerely hope for the fastest possible recovery in all regions. The March disaster heavily impacted the Hitachi Group too, particularly our production plants in  prefectures in the Tohoku and Kanto regions. We also lost six of our staff  to the tsunami. The disaster  brought  scal 2010 sales down by 130 billion yen and operation income fell by 75 billion yen. Given  the current economic trends, we expect that  scal 2011 sales will drop by around 350 billion yen and  operation income by around 110 billion yen. Our stakeholders too have felt anxiety and have been  inconvenienced by the damage to production equipment and disruption to material and resource  procurement and logistics. Immediately aft er the disaster, at our head offi  ce we established the Hitachi Group Emergency  Headquarters for Response to the Tohoku Earthquake, headed by Hitachi, Ltd. President Hiroaki  Nakanishi, to provide support for aff ected areas and customers, gather information on losses and  damage suff ered by employees and their families and our various plants, and to launch emergency  measures. On March 23, the role of the Coordination Headquarters was expanded by launching the  Hitachi Group Headquarters for Post-earthquake Reconstruction and Redevelopment to accelerate  recovery and redevelopment activities. We recognize, however, that the extensive impact of the  disaster will require a long-term response. Drawing on our experiences following the March disaster,  we will build greater disaster resilience into our corporate structure and lend our weight as a  company involved in the Social Infrastructure Business to the recovery of not only Hitachi but also  of Japan. 1. Eff ect of the Disaster on Group Management and Recovery Status (1) Eff ect on Factories and Recovery Status   Our factories in Ibaraki Prefecture in particular suff ered damage to buildings and production  facilities, but extremely rapid recovery work has seen our main factories now almost fully  restored.      Hitachi created business continuity plan (BCP) guidelines back in December 2006, and  many of our factories have BCPs in place to deal with outbreaks of a novel strain of in uenza  and earthquakes. We also conduct yearly tabletop exercises covering the eventuality of a major  earthquake, as well as carrying out regular drills and installing emergency facilities, including  having satellite phones set up in key factories. As a result, we were able to establish the Hitachi  Group Emergency Headquarters for Response to the Tohoku Earthquake on the same day as the  earthquake to centralize information and share it across the Group, and to launch immediate  recovery support. Due also to the hard work of our staff , the recovery proceeded much faster  than anticipated, despite the enormous damage. Pillar damaged at Mito Works Response room at Hitachi Works  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  011 Timing Action March 11 14:46 Great East Japan Earthquake occurs 15:07 First damage reports received by Risk Management HQ from Group companies 15:10 Hitachi Group Emergency Headquarters for Response to the Tohoku Earthquake established 15:40 First Group-wide noti cation sent out from Risk Management HQ (earthquake outline, request  for damage status reports) March 12 First relief supply delivered (12 loads, mainly to districts in Ibaraki and Sendai), including 50,000  liters of water, 65,000 packages of food, and 11,000 rolls of toilet paper March 13 Meeting of the relevant board members Status update, people  rst policy con rmed March 14 Board meeting held Decision to move swiftly on response measures, including gauging the situation, providing relief  supplies, and dispatching personnel March 15 Board Chairman Takashi Kawamura visits factories to con rm the damage  March 17  Con rmation of one employee death, thought to be due to the tsunami March 23 Hitachi Group Headquarters for Post-earthquake Reconstruction and Redevelopment set up Actions Taken Immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake On March 11, 2010 at 14:46, Hitachi, Ltd.s Hitachi Works was struck by a powerful shock with a  strong seismic intensity of a high 6. Violent tremors continued for the next two minutes, causing  an unprecedented amount of damage. However, restoration of key infrastructure elements, such as power, gas and water in the  Hitachi district, saw commuting return to normal as of March 22, when Hitachi launched a  full-scale initiative involving up to 2,000 people to restore production line and design offi  ce  operations. Thanks to employees laboring day and night—with manufacturers of large processing  machinery, tools, and jigs off ering unstinting support—Hitachi was able to resume production at  the remarkably early date of March 29. A week later, on April 3, a gas turbine was shipped from  the Hitachi Port in Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture, for the  rst time since the disaster. That  rst gas  turbine to ship from Hitachi Port, which was massively damaged in the March disaster, epitomizes  the Hitachi Works determination to get manufacturing back up and running. Cracked road at Hitachi Works (top left)  Toppled air conditioner inside the plant (bottom left) Power generation machinery assembly resumes (top right) First post-disaster gas turbine shipped from Hitachi Port (bottom right) Hitachi Works Recovery Initiative  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  012 (2) Impact on Customers and Subsequent Recovery Status   Widespread factory damage, rolling power outages, and ongoing problems in procuring  materials and resources caused major delays in deliveries of car parts and other items, but that  backlog has now been almost cleared. Hitachis full and careful response to customers radiation  concerns also prevented any impact on product shipments. Long-term measures will, however,  be needed in areas such as power saving and repairing damage to our reputation. To support  customers safety and security, Hitachi will gear production to the parts and material inventory  on hand and ensure that products are delivered on schedule, as well as enhancing our service  information. 2. Support for Aff ected Regions   Up to June 2011, Hitachi Group companies worldwide have together provided support totaling  940 million yen to aid victims of the disaster and to assist in recovery, including the provision,  free of charge, of  at-panel TVs, dry cell batteries and Disaster Victim Support Systems for local  authorities. Some company housing in Tokyo has also been lent to disaster victims. Hitachi will  continue to take swift  support action geared to conditions in the aff ected regions. We have also  been sending staff  volunteers to the Corporate Volunteer Program Supporting People in Regions  Aff ected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. This program, organized by the Joint Committee  for Coordinating and Supporting Voluntary Disaster Relief Activities,1 enables members of the  One Percent Club2 to volunteer for aff ected regions, in response to local requests.   3. Supporting Social Infrastructure Restoration (1) Assistance at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station   Hitachi established the 24-hour Emergency Response Center for Nuclear Power immediately  aft er the earthquake struck, and has collaborated with GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy to help  improve the situation at the power plant. To date, Hitachi has worked on recovering electricity  within the power station, pouring seawater and fresh water, and installing nitrogen injection  systems. We will continue to install nuclear fuel cooling systems, water decontamination  systems, and nuclear reactor covers. About 2,200 staff  members of Hitachi Group have been  providing support and assistance, with around 1,200 employees dispatched to the site. We will  Clearing away the sand piled up on roads by  the tsunami Photo credits: Joint Committee for Coordinating and Supporting Voluntary Disaster Relief Activities Cleaning and sorting precious photographs 1  Joint Committee for Coordinating and Supporting Voluntary Disaster Relief Activities:  A network organization made up of compa- nies, NPOs, social welfare councils, community chests, and other organizations. In normal times, it engages in surveys and research, hu- man resource development, and education related to disaster support. When disaster strikes, a wide range of institutions, organizations,  and people work together to provide victim support.  2  Keidanren 1% (One Percent) Club:  Established by Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) in 1990. Members are enterprises and  individuals who pledge to contribute one percent or more of their ordinary pro ts or disposable incomes to social contribution activities.  Hitachi is a 1% Club member.  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  013 continue to extend our full cooperation in response to requests from the Tokyo Electric Power  Company (TEPCO) and the government.  (2) Assistance Resolving the Power Supply Shortage   Immediately aft er the earthquake, the Emergency Response Center for Thermal Power that  included Group companies was established and 140 employees were deployed to provide an  immediate response to requests for resumption of operations at the various power companies  thermal power plants. 400 engineers and other staff  have been dispatched to power plants, and  we will continue sending them as they are required. Resolving power supply shortages will  require the installation of new power sources, and the Hitachi Group is throwing its full weight  behind  tting new gas turbines and other power generation facilities as well as expanding  existing facilities. We have also begun to supply some of the power outside the company that is  produced by Hitachi, Ltd.s three in-house power generation facilities. (3) Disaster Recovery Support Services   To respond quickly to requests from aff ected customers, Hitachi has set up a dedicated Damage  Response Reception Center. We are also providing a wide range of disaster recovery support  services for between 3 and 12 months at no charge, including disaster support system creation,  email and Web security services, data backup, teleconferencing systems, and small-scale  wireless telecommunication systems. Our main focus is on systems and cloud services for local  governments and companies.  4. Timing of FY 2012 Recruitment Selection Period and Selection Methods   To provide students who have been personally aff ected or whose families have been aff ected by  the disaster with the same opportunity as all other students for taking examinations, the start  of the recruitment selection period at Hitachi, Ltd. was changed from April 1 to June 1. Open  recruitment  nal selection was also held not only in Tokyo and Osaka but also in Sendai in the  Tohoku Region. 5. Summer Electricity Conservation Activities   Based on the Japanese governments energy conservation action plan, as well as discussions  with customers and various industry organizations, Hitachi will reduce power use in regions  where power is supplied by TEPCO and the Tohoku Electric Power Company (Tohoku EPCO)  by at least 15 percent. In other regions too, we will actively promote various measures, making  every possible eff ort to reduce power consumption at the Groups activities. (1) Equalization of Summer Weekday Power Use through Rolling Holidays and Dispersed    Summer Vacations    From July to September in regions where power is supplied by TEPCO and Tohoku EPCO,  Hitachi will shift  employees regular weekly holidays from Saturdays and Sundays to weekdays  (Monday to Friday) on a rolling basis to spread these holidays throughout the week (generally  excluding hospitals, sales and service divisions). Summer vacations, which in normal years are  concentrated around August 15, will be dispersed based on the business group. Other employee  vacation days, such as national holidays that were originally scheduled for October onward,  will also be rescheduled as substitute holidays to fall within the July–September period, adding  approximately  ve vacation days. These eff orts will help cut maximum power use by at least 15  percent during the summer period from July to August when power consumption peaks.      Hitachi will add rolling holidays and spread out summer vacations for a number of  programs to assist employees caring for children or nursing care for family members. These   Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  014 include a subsidy system for child and nursing care facility and service costs; temporary  workplace childcare facilities; and the promotion of working from home and  extime,  together with child-caring and nursing care leave.  (2) Energy Conservation Measures at Each Works   In May 2011, we launched the Hitachi Group Summer Energy Conservation Campaign,  promoting energy-saving measures such as cutbacks in the use of indoor lighting, adjusting  air-conditioning temperatures, suspending the operation of some elevators, and extending the  period of time during which employees may come to work without neckties and jackets (based  on the Ministry of the Environments Cool Biz campaign). At our manufacturing bases, we are  striving to equalize production and increase effi  ciency to level out and reduce production line  power use. We are also promoting other measures, such as using Green Curtains,1 which help  to reduce room temperatures at around 300 production bases, branches, and training facilities,  as well as distributing bitter gourd seeds for planting to Hitachi Group employees.  (3) Use of real-time electric power monitoring systems   Hitachis own smart meters, which measure power use in real time, have already been  installed at most plants for real-time monitoring and data gathering. In regions where electric  power is supplied by TEPCO and Tohoku EPCO, these real-time electric power monitoring  systems will be further expanded, and we will build cloud computing systems using Hitachis  EcoAssist-Enterprise, an environmental information management system. These steps will  increase the visibility of power use at the Hitachi Group in those regions and encourage more  effi  cient management of power consumption. 6. Hitachis Position on Nuclear Power Business   Nuclear power plants are one of the key elements of the social infrastructure, and nuclear  power is a valuable energy source for protecting the global environment, enabling, for example,  reduced CO2 emissions. Recognizing that outside Japan too, several countries are planning to  introduce nuclear power to meet energy demand, we will continue our nuclear power business  while giving full consideration to safety. Nuclear power is an essential element of our core Social  Innovation Business, and we will continue to cooperate with those countries around the world  that need to generate electricity by nuclear power.     We will also reinforce our work on thermal power generation—the current power  generation mainstay—and in natural energies for the future, helping to diversify power sources  and further stabilize the electric power supply. 1  Green Curtains:  When climbing vines are grown in front of windows or on walls, the eff ects of transpiration and sunlight blocking by  the leaves can reduce room temperatures by 3–5C. WEB  Material in this section is based on current information as of the end of June 2011. For more details and updates, please refer to the Hitachi  Web site: http://www.hitachi.com/New/cnews/index.html (News Release: Corporate)  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 015 Hitachis Management Strategies and CSR Corporate Credo and Management Plan The Hitachi Group formulated a Group Vision to  help resolve fundamental issues facing a global  society and to pursue a safer, more comfortable  society in line with the Corporate Credo which  is Hitachi Founding Spirit. We also created the  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct, which apply to all  Hitachi Group employees worldwide. Based on the 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan,  produced in  scal 2010, we deployed management  policies to pursue growth through our Social  Innovation Business, to solidify our  nancial  position, and to help resolve global social issues.  Three Focuses of Social Innovation Business Global Leverage the Groups knowhow, experience, as well as the trust of our  regional customers and partners, to become a truly global enterprise.  Fusion Address every nations need for Social Innovation Business by  integrating our social infrastructure and IT expertise to produce unique  value.  Environment Draw on a wide range of environmental technologies and  accumulated experience to build better environmental systems,  helping to resolve global environmental issues.  2012 Mid-Term Management Plan Growth driven by Social Innovation Business Solid  nancial base Formulated May 2010 Fiscal 2010 results Fiscal 2012 targets Revenues 9,315.8 billion 10 trillion Operating income 4.8% Over 5% Net income  attributable to  Hitachi, Ltd. 238.8 billion Consistently generate  at least 200 billion *Debt-to-equity  ratio 1.03 0.8 times or below Total Hitachi, Ltd.  stockholders equity  ratio 15.7% 20% * Including the non-controlling interests and liabilities associated with the  consolidation of securitized entities We have integrated management strategies and CSR as part  of our goal to transform into a truly global enterprise that  shares societys values Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Adopted August 2010 WEB  http://www.hitachi.com/about/vision/conduct/ Corporate Credo  Adopted June 1983 V I S I O N Hitachi Group Vision We will contribute to the solution of  fundamental global issues, and pursue the  realization of a better, more prosperous  global society, in line with Hitachis  founding spirit, utilizing the Groups  knowledge and technology.   Adopted November 2006 Social Innovation Business Focus We intend to strengthen our Social Innovation  Business by focusing on global, fusion, and  environmental issues.  Management Goals We intend to generate revenues of 10 trillion yen  and an operating margin of more than 5 percent by   scal 2012. We will drive growth through the Social  Innovation Business, which is around 60 percent of  revenues. We will reinforce our  nancial position by  improving operating income while steadily  increasing net income to consistently secure  earnings of around 200 billion yen from  scal 2012. WEB  http://www.hitachi.com/about/vision/credo/  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 016 We will boost revenues from outside Japan to  more than 50 percent of net sales, partly through  employing more local people.  The prime focus of our global growth strategy  is to localize and expand worldwide. Based on our  New Globalization Plan, we chose 11 key regions  Three Key Management Policies in the 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan I. Global Growth Strategies to Harness Hitachis Strengths Fiscal 2010 results Fiscal 2012 targets Outside Japan  revenue ratio 43% More than 50% Percentage of  employees outside Japan 33%* 36% III. Strengthening the Business Structure to Secure Pro tability We will reinforce our business structure and stabilize earnings by pursuing speedy operational management and by bolstering our  nancial position 4. Value creation and CSR  Create both social and economic value at the same time and  contribute to the creation of a sustainable society 2. Reinforce  nancial position  Reduce total assets and improve asset effi  ciency  Reduce interest-bearing debt by pooling funds 1. Cost-structure reform  Transform cost structure to be cost competitive globally  Conduct companywide project, while strengthening individual  businesses by promoting the in-house company system 3. Global human capital  Talent management to realize Hitachis targeted value  Rebuild the Hitachi Groups entire human capital platform * Re ecting HDD business transfer and strengthened the six-part global framework  close to markets to speed up strategies that use  local leadership. The second focus is to collaborate with partners  for more opportunities, working with government  agencies and other partners, particularly in  fast-growing emerging nations, to increase  opportunities for Social Innovation Business. The third focus is to use our strengths to  create business, employing our technologies and  experience to build environmentally conscious  cities and other next-generation urban areas,  suggesting a new lifestyle as a total solution. II. Focusing Business Resources on the Social Innovation Business Investments from  scal 2010 to 2012 Investment 1,100 billion R&D investment 670 billion From  scal 2010 through 2012, we will invest over  1,700 billion yen in Social Innovation Business,  up 170 billion yen from our target. We intend to  generate growth as well as medium- and long-term  expansion. From the total, we are allocating 1,100  billion yen to investment, including data center  operations and high-effi  ciency thermal power  systems, and 670 billion yen to R&D for smart  grids, lithium-ion batteries, and other technologies.  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 017 WEB  CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group http://www.hitachi.com/csr/introduction/hitachi-csr/ CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group 1. Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 2. Contribution to Society through Our Business 3. Disclosure of Information and Stakeholder Engagement 4. Corporate Ethics and Human Rights 5. Environmental Conservation 6. Corporate Citizenship Activities 7. Working Environment 8. Responsible Partnership with Business Partners Adopted March 2005 Hitachis Management Strategies and CSR V I S I O N For us, CSR means making our Corporate  Credo and Group Vision a reality. We address  the UN Millennium Development Goals of  ending poverty and hunger, universal primary  education, combating diseases, and environmental  sustainability with our technologies and solutions.  We create social and enterprise value with social  and management sustainability.  Our 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan will help  us tackle societys fundamental problems based on  the Social Innovation Business. We will work on  key areas of our main focuses—global, fusion, and  environment—looking at them from management  and social perspectives, using dialogues with  stakeholders, and will reduce risks and improve  management.  Also, we will apply our CSR Policy throughout  the Group, drawing on dialogue and stakeholder  engagement to integrate management and CSR,  and to become a truly global company.  Our core competency is Social Innovation  Business, which draws on intelligent IT to  provide an advanced social infrastructure. Social  Innovation Businesses include information and  telecommunication systems, power systems,  as well as industrial, transportation and urban  development systems—all combined  elds—  supported by materials and key devices. The   ve major business segments, information and  telecommunication systems, power systems, social  and industrial systems, construction machinery,  and high functional materials & components,  together account for around 60 percent of  consolidated net sales.  Hitachi Social Innovation Business Creating a Sustainable Society Social Innovation Business  Framework  Industrial, Transportation and  Urban Development Systems  Eco-cities  Water treatment  Construction machinery   Elevators and escalators  Green mobility  Healthcare Information and  Telecommunication  Systems  Cloud computing  Consulting  Data centers  Storage Power Systems  Energy (thermal, nuclear,  and renewable) Materials and key devices  Smart grids  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 018 Selection Process for Material Issues We evaluate and verify issues identi ed through stakeholder dialogue with international organizations, and we identify sustainability issues in public policy trends from  the standpoints of importance for stakeholders and the in uence on business. The importance for stakeholders includes human rights, international development, the  environment, reporting, ethics, and regional and international requirements. The in uence on business includes the global, fusion, and environmental focuses of our  2012 Mid-Term Management Plan, as well as the perspectives of innovation, risk, reputation, and cost eff ectiveness. The digest of this report presents these important  issues in the two assessment areas. Material Issues for Hitachi 1. Products that deliver   sustainable society  (Sustainable business)  3. Public policy initiatives 5. Supply chain management 4. Respect for human rights 6. Diversity management 2. a. Environmental burden  reductions from operations 2. b. Making energy-effi  cient  products In uence on business Importance for stakeholders Hitachis Management Strategies and CSR V I S I O N Hitachi includes the participation of stakeholders  in the decision-making process for CSR activities. We engage in stakeholder dialogue worldwide  to identify social and environmental issues,  conducting assessments and veri cations from the  perspectives of stakeholder materiality and the  impact on management. We report on these key  issues in the Sustainability Report Digest.  4. Respect for Human Rights As a global enterprise, we face risks because we operate under  diff erent national laws, cultures and business practices. We respect  the laws and ordinances of every country, and we act with respect for  international norms to prevent human rights violations.  5. Supply Chain Management Supply chain risks are gradually increasing with the globalization  of business, especially for the environment and human rights. We  openly share our procurement policies with suppliers, and we reduce  supply chain risk through ongoing surveys of CSR practices with our  suppliers.  6. Diversity Management We believe that diversity is much more than the human rights issue  of gender equality. It is a fundamental challenge for sustainable  management, generating synergies beyond the Hitachi Group,  business  elds, and globalization. We therefore have initiated  worldwide programs that maintain personnel systems while  respecting diversity, by improving workplace environments, and by  cultivating human capital that can accelerate the globalization of  Hitachi and contribute to market-based sustainability needs . 1. Products That Create a Sustainable   Society (Sustainable Business) Developing innovative technologies and products is vital to growing  our business and realizing a sustainable society. We are developing  products that both lower environmental burden and improve the  quality of life so that we can contribute to a prosperous, safe, and  secure society.  2. Protecting the Environment We feel that we can help protect the environment by reducing the  environmental burden of products throughout their life cycles. We  have created our Environmental Vision with three pillars: prevention  of global warming, conservation of resources, and preservation of  ecosystems. Under this vision, we provide environmentally conscious  products and services by reducing the environmental burden from  operations and improving their energy effi  ciency.  3. Public Policy Initiatives Our Social Innovation Business is subject to the policies of national  governments, therefore we assess policy trends while engaging  in dialogue with stakeholders who in uence public policy and  regulations. As a result, we can propose technologies and solutions  that both bene t society and contribute to better policies.  Material Issues for Hitachi  Using information  technology to link energy,  transportation, and water Energy  The start of a  comfortable day Room temperatures and lighting adjust  automatically according to the season,  weather, and lifestyle requirements.  A day in a next-generation smart city  starts in comfort.  Smart commuting to  work and school An information terminal suggests the  safest, easiest, and most ecologically  conscious transportation route for the  day. People could choose from public  transportation, car pools, or rental  bicycles. Eco-offi  ces Offi  ces would run on natural energy and  recycle heat, water, and other resources.  Air conditioners and elevators would  be environmentally conscious. Recycled  water would feed Green Curtains. Lively communities The community would connect schools  and public centers in various towns and  countries to provide life-long learning  and remote learning. Senior citizens  would safely and easily go out in their  electric carts. Transportation  Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi We off er comprehensive solutions combining social infrastructure systems  for energy, transportation, and water with Intelligent IT to build next- generation cities—safe, convenient, comfortable living spaces that are  environmentally conscious and address issues such as an aging society F E A T U R E Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 019 cities that will be comfortable and environmentally  conscious. These cities would mainly be in  emerging economies that are continuing to invest  heavily in infrastructure. Hitachi designs cities  with a vision giving consideration to lifestyles  and values. These cities would effi  ciently and  stably supply electricity and sewage systems as  well as provide and treat water, enabling balanced  demand and supply. They would also deliver safe,  convenient, and energy-saving transportation,  advanced medicine and education, and government  services. All these services would be part of a  comprehensive social infrastructure package that  New Cities That the World Desires  Since we entered the 21st century, such issues  as global warming, resource depletion, urban  crowding, economic disparities, and aging  have come to the fore. The common need of all  nations is to resolve these issues to ensure social  sustainability. In cities around the world, people  want their cities to overcome all these challenges.   Hitachis Vision for Next-Generation  Smart Cities In April 2010, Hitachi established the Smart City  Business Management Division for proposing new   Data Center  Parks abundant with  water and greenery Cities would be green and care for their  water resources. They would purify  water discharged from households  and factories, collecting rainwater  and recycling it for park fountains and  greenery. 24/7 health care Wristband monitors would check health  daily. Telemedicine would provide  access to specialists at local hospitals.  People would enjoy healthy and secure  lives.  At the end of a smart  day People would return to smart homes  that can use solar, wind power and  other natural energy effi  ciently, relaxing  with their families. Electric vehicles  would be charged at night, when power  use is low.  Safe and waste-free  shopping CO2 emissions from foods would be  checked according to production  and transportation methods. Mobile  terminals would check refrigerators to  reduce shopping for unnecessary items  and cut waste.  Water  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 020 is linked and managed by safe, high-capacity  information and telecommunications systems using  cloud technology and eco-conscious data centers.  Hitachis vision for next-generation smart cities:  ensuring comfortable living spaces while reducing  the environmental burden. Cities would grow and  develop sustainably and be distinctively attractive  for citizens.  Drawing on Our Expertise in Social  Infrastructure to Build Next-Generation  Cities  To support lifestyles, Hitachi has long been  an innovator of such social infrastructure  systems as energy, transportation, water, and  telecommunications. We believe our mission is to  bring to the world our Corporate Credo: contribute  to society through the development of superior,  original technology and products.  We propose solutions that link infrastructural  components by integrating social infrastructure  systems with IT and telecommunications. The  Hitachi Group contributes to create a sustainable  society by building next-generation smart cities  that maintain an eff ective relationship between  people and the earth.  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 021 Harnessing Our Smart City Business  to Participate in an Eco-Conscious  Urban Development that Has Captured  Worldwide Attention We are capitalizing on our global smart city  expertise to participate in Chinas Sino-Singapore  Tianjin Eco-City Project, an initiative capturing  worldwide attention.  Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City is a large  model eco-city that is a joint venture between  Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City Investment and  Development Co., Ltd. (SSTEC), and the Chinese  and Singaporean governments. The goal is to build  a city of 350,000 with 110,000 houses by around  2020 on a 30-square-kilometer salt evaporation  pond on the outskirts of Tianjin.  The new city will use 26 KPIs to minimize the  environmental burden of housing, energy,  and  transportation. As well, it will recycle resources,  including renewable energy for 20 percent of total  energy, make all tap water 100 percent drinkable,  and recycle 60 percent of waste. The city will have  90 percent green transportation and 100 percent  green buildings.  Leveraging Our Expertise from  Tianjin Eco-City to Contribute to  Environmentally Conscious Urban  Planning in China  The project heads of Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco- City want energy-saving technologies, new energy  and storage battery technologies, and information  control platforms from Japanese companies. In  May 2010, Hitachi and SSTEC agreed to evaluate  and use Hitachis technologies and solutions. We  intend to help develop environmentally conscious  cities by setting up a smart city R&D center in  Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City to create advanced  solutions for further progress in this  eld in China. Speci cally, we will help build the Eco Central  Hitachis Involvement in Tianjin Eco-City   Providing advanced energy and mobility technologies  required for eco-conscious cities and supplying  information control platform solutions.  Helping construct the Eco Central Business District.   Participating in the Eco-City New Electric Vehicle Alliance.   Deploying our home energy management systems for  high-rise residential buildings under construction. Urban Planning for Tianjin Eco-City  Hitachi is helping to construct Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, a joint project between the Chinese and Singaporean governments,  by providing smart grid technologies and solutions Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi F E A T U R E  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 022 Beijing Tianjin  Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City  Tianjin Binhai International Airport  Bohai Bay  Business District that minimizes CO2 emissions and  enhances worker convenience. Our wide-ranging  business contributions include solar power and  other new energy technologies and solutions;  effi  cient community, building, and home energy  management systems; and charging systems  for electric vehicles, as part of the Eco-City New  Energy Vehicle Alliance. We also will collaborate on  building data centers and other IT infrastructure.  The smart city business is pivotal to our Social  Innovation Business. Through our involvement in  Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, we will contribute  to lower environmental burden urban development  in China, reinforcing the development of our own  smart city business.  VOICES Solid Collaboration in Low Environmental  Burden Urban Development Lim Kingboon General Manager, Economic Promotion,  Sino-Singapore Tianjin  Eco-City Investment and  Development Co., Ltd.  (SSTEC) SSTEC and Hitachi have cooperated since  signing an agreement in May 2010 to develop  Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City. Hitachi is  unique, off ering all parts of information  control and IT, including products and  solutions. This is Chinas  rst large urban  development that cuts environmental burden  by conserving and recycling. We plan to try  many new ideas, and believe that Hitachis  expertise will be essential. I look for Hitachi to  showcase itself at this city, and I hope to build  stronger ties in the years ahead.   Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 023 Hitachi Projects Extending around the World We have undertaken feasibility studies and experiments worldwide for building next- generation cities as part of our Social Innovation Business. We have also started projects in  health care—essential in an aging Japan. Next-Generation Smart Cities by Hitachi F E A T U R E Supplying Charging Management Systems  for Rental Electric Vehicles in Japan  Providing Infrastructure to Aid in the Spread of Electric  Vehicles in Okinawa  Yokohama Smart City Project The Advanced Energy Company (AEC) adopted Hitachis  electric vehicle (EV) charging system as part of Okinawa  Prefectures plan to install a rapid and medium-speed  charger infrastructure for EVs rented to tourists. That  program began in February 2011.  Hitachis solution is a system that processes  information and monitors user authentication, fees, and  payments for chargers in tourist and commercial areas.  AEC plans to install 50 rental EV charging stations on  Okinawas main island by 2014. The company intends  to eventually set up stations throughout the main island  so residents can use rental cars once they have  nished  service. We will therefore continue to provide our  charging management solution. Kanagawa Prefecture chose our energy management  system for recharging electric vehicles for the Yokohama  Smart City Project, and we are pushing ahead with other  experiments.  Charger for rental electric vehicles in Okinawa Storage battery from Hitachi  Group company Shin-Kobe  Electric Machinery Co., Ltd.,  that was adopted for the  Yokohama Smart City Project Contributing to the Development of  a Low-Carbon Economy by Building a  Low-Carbon Metropolis in China   Building Guangzhou Knowledge City  Dalian Eco-Science and Technology City Hitachi is the  rst Japanese company to participate in  Guangzhou Knowledge City, a next-generation city  being built by the governments of Guangdong Province  and Singapore. When completed in 2030, the city—on  123 square kilometers outside Guangzhou—will house  around 500,000.  For this city, we launched a development center  and are conducting a feasibility study for energy  management, renewable energy, IT platforms, and  next-generation transportation. Hitachi is also collaborating with the city of Dalian on  smart grids, water treatment, and appliance recycling.  We will supply technologies, products, and solutions.  Verifying Environmentally  Conscious Package  Infrastructure   Helping Set Up a Low-Carbon, Environmentally  Conscious Infrastructure for India Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor, a joint  Japan-India project, is a 1,500 km high- speed freight line between New Delhi,  Indias capital, and Mumbai, its largest city,  with industrial sites, roads, ports, and other  infrastructure over 300 km from south to  north. In Dahej in Gujarat, a petrochemical  zone, we made a study for a smart  community in 2010. In 2011, Japans METI  commissioned us to explore a low-carbon  infrastructure there. We will help create  the infrastructures for urban and regional  communities.   Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ 024 Improving Water Environments with Intelligent  Water Systems  Water and Sewage Management in the Maldives  Waste Water Recycling in Dubai  Since June 2010, the Water Environment Solution Division  has provided intelligent water solutions—cycling water  more effi  ciently with improved processing, information  control and energy conservation. In the Republic of  Maldives, we digitalized water distribution information,  downsized puri cation plants and streamlined water and  sewage systems. In Dubai, the UAE, our advanced waste  water treatment helps with water shortages by recycling  water and desalinating seawater as well as treating ballast  water to preserve the environment. With intelligent water  systems, we are increasing water cycle effi  ciency. Building a water and sewage management facility in the  Maldives  Natural Energy Control Technologies in Smart  Housing in Japan  Smart Grid Experiment in Rokkasho Village  In September 2010, we jointly launched Japans  rst smart  grid in Rokkasho, Aomori Prefecture, a project for wind,  solar, and other energy, with our partners, Japan Wind  Development, Toyota Motor Corporation, and Panasonic  Electric Works. We are testing energy applications between  users and suppliers with energy storage equipment and  management. For wind and solar, as well as smart meters  for electricity generation and consumption in houses, we  provide the demand and supply controls, including HUB  batteries. We also monitor EcoCute water heaters and  ensure effi  ciency of surplus electricity from solar power.  Hitachinaka Hospital, the focus of the  Health & Vitality Development Project Participating in a Consortium: Industry, Academia, and Government in Urban Planning for a Graying Society in  Japan   Health & Vitality Urban Development Project in Hitachinaka  Gerontology Consortium, the University of Tokyo Industry-Academia Collaboration* Believing that next-generation cities should be safe, secure and foster  physical and mental health, we participate in graying society projects.  We collaborate on the Health & Vitality project in a company hospital  in Hitachinaka, Ibaraki. In the Gerontology Consortium, we propose  solutions and roadmaps, together with various member companies,  toward realizing an ideal graying society. We will continue helping with  rural and urban revitalization through industry-academia-government  collaboration, contributing with the realization of next-generation cities  for a graying society.  *This initiative continued from June 2011 as the University of Tokyo Industry-Academia Collaboration  Gerontology Network Rokkashomura-Futamata Wind Power Station   Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  025 the strategic company focus on social innovation,  more indicators, targets and achievement are  expected to be reported in the future.  What stands out in the 2011 Report is the clear  description of how corporate social responsibility is  integrated into the companys management strategy  and vision. Sustainability analysis, besides being  an important pillar for the de nition of the key  corporate policies and medium-term targets, is also  used to ascertain the materiality for stakeholders  of the many environmental and social issues  that Hitachi faces. Regular communication with  stakeholders on themes related to sustainability  enables Hitachi to further re ne the business strategy  around its social innovation core competency. Third-party Expert Opinions For companies of Hitachis size, stakeholders  expectations are high: through its operations, the  company has the ability to shape business, society,  and the environment. For that reason, broad and  transparent public communication is paramount.  Besides extensive reporting on key environmental  and social performance indicators, qualitative  aspects and materiality analysis also deserve a  central role in Hitachis reporting. Showing progress  on targets set is considered best practice. Notable is  the section devoted to innovation and intellectual  property management, a  eld where companies tend  to be reluctant in disclosing details to stakeholders.  Hitachis Sustainability Report is therefore very  complete from an international standpoint. The environmental reporting section discusses  the direct environmental impact of the companys  own operations and the indirect environmental  impact of its products and services. Hitachi  addresses both aspects extensively by describing  its approach, formulating targets, and presenting  achievements and examples for diff erent product  groups. Noteworthy is the comprehensive product  lifecycle approach Hitachi uses for evaluating the  environmental performance of its products.  In the social section of Hitachis Sustainability  Report, material challenges impacting employees,  communities and supply chains, are seriously  discussed, supported by numerical evidence and  targets. For a global company like Hitachi, the  management of diversity and community impact  deserves special attention. The report covers aspects  such as diversity development, human rights, and  supply chains, providing suffi  cient data. Considering  Jvan Gaffuri Senior Manager Sustainability Services SAM Research AG The number of companies integrating sustainability in their business strategy is growing every  year, underlying the importance of non-financial aspects in increasing the value of a company.  Considering sustainability aspects in corporate strategy is perceived to have a positive impact on  long-term value generation, innovation capability, operational efficiency, and reputation through  the better management of stakeholders expectations. Companies are required to demonstrate  a superior ability in managing sustainability issues and communicating transparently to their  stakeholders.  Management  Report  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  027 M E S S A G E Management Report From a global perspective, CSR has progressed dramatically  in recent years, in part because of the trend that CSR is core  to management and strategy, but also because of a new  international standard (ISO 26000), which is a newly signed  international social responsibility agreement. We have  also seen vigorous debate, particularly in Europe and the  United States, over corporate transparency, especially on  disclosure obligations related to corporate governance, the  environment, and social issues. All Hitachi Group companies have traditionally grown  their businesses independently, in line with a spirit of respect  for management independence and innovation originality.  However, today when we generate more than 40 percent of  our business outside Japan, its not enough  to comply with  other countries business practices, laws, and regulations.  We need to extensively and continually communicate on  sustainable corporate strategies, business operations and  compliance based on leading international concepts, customs  and trends. These considerations prompted us to create the Hitachi  Group Codes of Conduct in  scal 2010. This document  codi es our corporate philosophy, the Hitachi Founding  Spirit, and respect for human rights and so on. We shared  these codes with Group companies globally by translating it  into 17 languages. We will establish a global framework of  six regions—the Americas, Europe,  India, Southeast Asia and  China, complementing Japan—to reinforce local governance  by giving them regional corporate responsibilities.  To  respond swiftly to social demands and expectations, we will  implement highly transparent CSR management by engaging  regularly with our stakeholders. Through our Social Innovation Business, we aim to solve  fundamental global issues and contribute to social and  environmental progress that creates a sustainable society.  Moreover, we will respond to market-based sustainability  challenges by collaborating with local communities and  pursuing activities tailored to their particular circumstances in  order to help them resolve their sustainability challenges. Globally Reinforce Group Governance to Cultivate Highly Transparent CSR Management Toshiaki Kuzuoka, Senior Vice President and Executive Offi  cer  in charge of Human Capital, Government & External Relations and  Corporate Auditing Hitachi, Ltd.  Management Report  Corporate Governance Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  028 By enhancing corporate governance, the  Hitachi Group is promoting speedier, more  effi  cient management and is meeting the  expectations of stakeholders as a business that  merits the publics trust. Strengthening Governance Hitachi operates under a committee system.1 We  have strictly separated business supervision and  execution to establish a business structure for  speedy, highly transparent management. We task  outside directors to draw on their knowledge,  experience, and independent perspective when  supervising executives and other senior managers  to reinforce the role of the Board of Directors. We  formulated the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct to  develop common values for all Group members and  to enable us to share among all Group companies  a common understanding of our corporate social  responsibility.  Compensation Compensation for every director and executive  offi  cer is set by the Compensation Committee  based on the Japanese corporate law governing  companies with committees. Corporate Governance Compensation for directors and executive  offi  cers consists of monthly salaries together  with year-end allowances for directors and  performance-based bonuses for executive offi  cers.  While compensation for directors is generally   xed, performance-based bonuses for executive  offi  cers are set at around 30 percent of annual  compensation. Bonuses are determined individually  according to business performance and the  outcome of work carried out under the offi  cers  management. Beginning with compensation for  scal 2008,  the scheme for directors and executive offi  cers was  revised to eliminate retirement allowances. In  scal  2010, executives were compensated as follows: Internal Control As a public company listed on the New York Stock  Exchange, Hitachi, Ltd. is registered with the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission and is subject  to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX1). A comparable  assessment and report on internal control over   nancial reporting (J-SOX2) came into eff ect in  Japan at the beginning of  scal 2008. Accordingly,  the Hitachi Group as a whole and all listed Group  companies now evaluate internal control systems  Election General Meeting of Shareholders Executive Offi  cers: Timely execution of company business Election Supervision Nominating Committee (4 members, including 3 from outside) Audit Committee (3 members, including 2 from outside) Compensation Committee (4 members, including 3 from outside) Board of Directors (13 members, including 4 from outside) Governance Structure of Hitachi, Ltd. 1  Committee system:  A corporate governance system where a board of  directors makes basic policy decisions and oversees the execution of business  by executive offi  cers, while the executive offi  cers, appointed by the board of  directors, execute the companys business aff airs. FY 2010 Compensation Category Salaries and year-end allowances or  performance-based bonuses Recipients  (number) Total amount  (millions of yen) Directors  (outside directors) 12 (5) 231 (99) Executive offi  cers 28 1,586 Total 40 1,817 * The number of directors indicated doesnt include three serving concurrently as  executive offi  cers. * Compensation to directors includes the monthly salaries, from April 2010 to  the time of retirement, of three directors who retired upon the expiration of  their terms, eff ective as of the close of the 141st Ordinary General Meeting of  Shareholders on June 29, 2010. * We additionally provided 3 million in retirement allowances to two outside  directors who retired on June 24, 2011, and 313 million in retirement  allowances to seven executive offi  cers who retired on March 31, 2011.  Management Report  Corporate Governance Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  029 and report the results on a consolidated basis. The Hitachi Group is committed to full  compliance with these and other applicable laws  and regulations. Beyond that, we consider it an  important social responsibility to thoroughly  implement our internal control systems, to improve  the transparency and credibility of our businesses,  and to strengthen our management structure  by clarifying, examining, and visualizing our  management and operational frameworks. As a conglomerate of many companies, we have  adopted a framework that assigns accountability  at the Group level, including responsibilities for  the design and operation of internal controls.  Therefore, all Hitachi Group companies are required  to revise, document, and evaluate the eff ectiveness  of their operations in line with guidelines  determined by speci c levels of corporate scale  and business content. Management assessment of  each company is collected at the Group level, and is  reported to Hitachi, Ltd. along with certi cations. Group Management Hitachi, Ltd. optimized the management structure  and instituted an in-house company system in  October 2009 to ensure swift management action  and to become more competitive by restructuring,  particularly in the Social Innovation Businesses.  These eight in-house companies (businesses) are  Power Systems, Rail Systems, Industrial & Social  Infrastructure Systems, Urban Planning and  Development Systems, Information & Control  Systems, Information & Telecommunication  Systems, Defense Systems, and Battery Systems.  From  scal 2011, we rated each company and  transferred authority to them so that they could  speedily pursue independent management. We  base the ratings of each company on such factors  as FIV,1 operating pro t, and cash  ow, re ecting  these ratings in compensation evaluations for  company management teams.  The Group Strategy Committee deliberates on  Group-wide management measures to optimize  overall Group strategies and management  resources.  1  SOX:  Section 404 of this act, enacted in July 2002, mandates company  management with the responsibility of establishing, maintaining, and  evaluating internal control over  nancial reporting, and requires that control  be assessed by independent auditors. 2  J-SOX:  A framework for evaluating and reporting internal control over   nancial reporting under the Japanese Financial Products Transaction Law.  It came into eff ect since April 2008 with the promulgation of the Financial  Instruments and Exchange Law in June 2006. 1  FIV (Future Inspiration Value):  Hitachis economic value-added evaluation  index, in which the cost of capital is deducted from after-tax operating income. *1  SEC: Securities and Exchange Commission   *2  CFO: Chief Financial Offi  cer Management  assessment report Monitoring report Monitoring report Monitoring Report Report Independent auditors Financial  Services  Agency SEC *1 Certi cation, management  assessment report Internal Control Committee Report Board of Directors Audit Committee Hitachi Group  subsidiaries Internal Auditing Offi  ce Hitachi, Ltd. President and CFO *2 Hitachi Internal Control Assessment Framework Monitoring Hitachi Group HQs  (Hitachi Group HQs and In-House  Companies of Hitachi, Ltd.) Internal Control Committee Offi  ce  Management Report  CSR Management Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  030 We strive to live up to our Corporate Credo  of contributing to society through the  development of superior, original technology  and products. We are also mindful of our vision  to contribute to the solution of fundamental  global issues and to pursue the realization of  a better, more prosperous global society. We  intend to become a truly global entity that  shares its values with society by integrating  CSR into management and operation strategies. CSR Management Structure To promote CSR, Hitachi executive offi  cers in  charge of corporate divisions on the CSR Promotion  Committee discuss Group-wide CSR issues and  policies. The committee develops speci c global  initiatives with the CSR Promotion Team of the  CSR-related departments within Hitachi, Ltd. and  CSR promotion offi  cers at regional headquarters  outside Japan. Hitachi, Ltd. and Group company  CSR promotion offi  cers meet regularly to discuss  issues that need attention and to follow a common  direction. To meet our responsibilities as a global  enterprise, we take on sustainable activities for the  entire Group by using two management systems.  CSR Management One is the jointly developed CSR Self-Assessment  Tool, which we use to improve Group-wide activities  and to clarify the issues that we face as a global  entity, and the other is the materiality process. By  engaging in dialogue with global stakeholders,  we proactively integrate global social issues within  management to create sustainable management  and social programs. Management issues identi ed  through these processes are presented to and  discussed at the CSR Promotion Committee on a  semiannual basis to investigate and decide on new  initiatives for the upcoming  scal year. The Five-Year CSR Roadmap We marked the centennial of Hitachi, Ltd. in  scal  2010 by creating the Five-Year CSR Roadmap,  a medium-term plan for CSR. The goal is to  coordinate this initiative with the medium-term  management plan, or corporate strategy, to  become a truly global enterprise. Using this  roadmap, we have reinforced the foundation of  Group-wide operations, quantitatively measured  CSR activities, and improved corporate transparency  to demonstrate leadership in resolving global  challenges and opportunities confronting society. Based on this roadmap, CSR promotion  President Production  facilities Affi  liated  companies CSR Promotion  Committee CSR Division CSR Promotion  Department  (Secretariat) Senior  Executive  Committee Structure of Hitachi Group CSR Promotion CSR Promotion Team: Group Management, Corporate  Brand Management, Customer  Satisfaction, Overseas Operations,  Employee Relations & Human  Resources, Legal Aff airs, Corporate  Citizenship, Environmental  Conservation, Compliance, Quality  Assurance, Procurement, Public  Relations, Research and Development,  Government and External Relations Hitachi, Ltd. and 913 consolidated subsidiaries  (in total 914), and 164 companies that use the  equity method Senior Executive Committee: Decides CSR management  policies at the executive level CSR Promotion Committee: Consists of Executive Offi  cers  responsible for CSR Discusses policies and plans for  CSR activities CSR Promotion Team: Consists of managers responsible  for CSR in each department.  Prepares, implements and  follows up on detailed plans for  CSR activities In-house companies Presidents CSR promotion offi  cers  Regional headquarters  outside Japan Regional executives CSR promotion offi  cers Affi  liated companies Presidents CSR promotion offi  cers  Management Report  CSR Management Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  031 team at Hitachi, Ltd. and our overseas regional  headquarters outside Japan have created action  plans and set assessment targets to make CSR  programs more eff ective (see pages 032 and 033). CSR Self-Assessment Tool In  scal 2008, Hitachi, Ltd. and Group companies  jointly developed the Hitachi Group CSR Self- Assessment Tool, which benchmarks our companies  against other leading global companies. The goal  is to tackle issues and clarify initiatives based on  our policies for pursuing CSR and continuously  improving performance. Including Hitachi, Ltd., 35 Group companies—23  in Japan and 11 in North America and Asia— employ this tool, which has been translated into  English and Chinese. Results of Fiscal 2010 Self-Assessment Hitachis scores in  scal 2010 were higher than  a year earlier, including those for commitment  to CSR, corporate ethics and human rights, and  the working environment. The prime reasons for  this success are holding CSR courses for Group  company directors, the Hitachi Group Codes of  Conduct, wider implementation of e-learning, and  the creation and publication of the Hitachi Group  Health and Safety Policy. In  scal 2011, we plan  to review these evaluation items, using ISO 26000  standards, to attain even higher global results. Five-Year CSR Roadmap Reinforce Group governance and globalize operations and activities Integrate management strategies with CSR and instill CSR principles in operations Collaborate with key stakeholders to resolve global social issues Demonstrate leadership as a  social innovation enterprise Becoming a  truly global  corporation,  realizing  One Hitachi April 2010 April 2011 April 2012 April 2013 April 2014 Policy 3 76.0% 74.2% 74.2% Policy 7 89.7% 87.6% 83.4% Policy 8 74.0% 70.0% 64.0% Policy 2 73.1% 71.5% 71.5% Policy 6 83.5% 83.5% 83.5% Policy 4 81.8% 78.2% 67.3% Policy 1 73.6% 72.6% 69.5% Policy 5 74.0% 74.0% 74.0% FY 2010 FY 2008 FY 2009 100 50 0 FY 2010 Self-Assessment Results (Hitachi, Ltd.) Main Topics Covered in Each Policy of the CSR Self-Assessment Tool Policy 1: Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)   CSR vision; CSR education; risk management Policy 2: Contribution to Society through Our Business   Coordination with business strategies; sustainable designs;   customer satisfaction Policy 3: Disclosure of Information and Stakeholder Engagement   Information disclosure; dialogue with stakeholders Policy 4: Corporate Ethics and Human Rights   Corporate governance structure; awareness of ethics; compliance;    human rights Policy 5: Environmental Conservation   Carbon management strategies; resource recycling;   ecosystem conservation Policy 6: Corporate Citizenship Activities   Strategic social contribution; participation in local communities;   social enlightenment Policy 7: Working Environment   Respecting diversity; ful lling work environments; work-life balance Policy 8: Responsible Partnership with Business Partners   CSR procurement; communication with suppliers  Management Report  CSR Management Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  032 CSR Policy of the  Hitachi Group Hitachi Group Activities in FY 2010 Results in FY 2010 Achievement  level Page(s) FY 2011 Goals/Plans 1. Commitment to  Corporate Social  Responsibility  Increase the number of  companies worldwide using  the Hitachi Group CSR Self- Assessment Tool  Twenty-four companies within Japan and 11  outside Japan used our CSR Self-Assessment  Tool p. 031  Review CSR Self-Assessment  Tool based on ISO 26000 and  other standards, and develop  these for the entire Group  Build a comprehensive risk  assessment structure and PDCA  techniques  Strengthen the risk  management system  Expanded risk assessments to cover all  companies, Group companies, and research  laboratories to consolidate and collectively  assess risk p. 034 2. Contribution to  Society through Our  Business  Implement CSR-oriented  business assessments and  re ect the results in business  strategy, operations, and/or  management issues  Conducted third-party assessments of  business areas in 22 countries where we  can resolve social issues and where we  can make the greatest contribution, and  incorporated these results into business and  communication strategies pp. 046–048  Hold stakeholder dialogues  based on business materiality  and cultivate business  opportunities from the  perspective of CSR  Continue implementing Hitachi  Group QF Innovation Movement  and assess the results  Complete work on global  network for Web inquiry  responses  Continue to implement process  improvement for business  divisions prioritized by the  need for quality improvement  and to reinforce OCHIBO  HIROI* 1 activities  Launched the Hitachi Group QF (Quality  First) Innovation Movement and continued  to improve processes for priority business  divisions and OCHIBO HIROI  Held quality assurance (QA) managers  conferences in China and Thailand pp. 093–094  Improve our responses to Web  inquiries worldwide  Expand access to and  enhance the Web Inquiry  Responsiveness Improvement  Course  Produced a global network improvement  plan based on inquiries  176 Hitachi Group employees took the  Web Inquiry Responsiveness Improvement  Course p. 095 3. Disclosure  of Information  and Stakeholder  Engagement  Engage in stakeholder  dialogues globally  Conducted dialogues in Asia, the Americas,  and Europe about Hitachis solutions for  regional social issues pp. 099–100  Continue to hold stakeholder  dialogues worldwide  Participate in international  debate on sustainability, and  express our views  Strengthen internal  dissemination of CSR  information  Held CSR training courses for Group  company directors  p. 031 4. Corporate Ethics  and Human Rights  Expand global human rights  initiatives  Produced educational materials covering  global human rights issues  Held human rights discussions with  stakeholders in Europe pp. 116–118  Promote human rights globally  and collaborate with non- governmental and other  organizations working in this  area  Publish and distribute Hitachi  Group Codes of Conduct  Handbook  Produce English and Chinese  versions of e-learning tools  on the Hitachi Group Codes of  Conduct  Continue educating and  auditing regional headquarters  outside Japan  Continue to hold Hitachi Group  Corporate Ethics Month every  October  Implemented annual Corporate Ethics  Month in October  Formulated Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct  and translated it into 17 languages  Used e-learning tools to broadly publish the  codes pp. 036–037  Raise compliance awareness  relating to operations outside  Japan  Held a brie ng by legal and compliance  offi  cers, including those from regional  headquarters outside Japan, on measures  to prevent corruption p. 037 5. Environmental  Conservation  Reduce CO2 emissions from  Hitachi products (target for the  year: 14 million tonnes)  Helped reduce CO2 emissions by 15.51  million tonnes pp. 051–053  Reduce CO2 emissions from  Hitachi products FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans  Management Report  CSR Management Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  033 6. Corporate  Citizenship Activities  Deploy programs where  employees contribute  to society, focusing on  biodiversity  Implemented programs involving volunteers,  including those preserving endangered  species, an aff orestation tour to Chinas  Horqin Desert, and conservation initiatives  for satoyama (woodlands) pp. 108–109  Set up and published medium- term themes to Group  businesses globally  Improve disclosure of external  information  Continue to implement social  contribution programs on the  environment, energy, and other  areas  Implement social contribution  programs in emerging  countries and markets to meet  their social needs  Undertake training programs for young  South African and Indian engineers p. 105  Undertake social contribution  programs covering the  environment, energy, and  other areas  Implemented educational support programs  on the environment for children in China  Held forums in Singapore and the United  Kingdom on the environment and energy p. 100 7. Working  Environment Promote the diversity of human  resources and work styles  Promotion of more female  executives and managers  Encourage employment of  more people with disabilities  within the Hitachi Group  Produced plan for appointing female  executives at in-house companies  Hitachi Europe produced e-learning  materials in four languages p. 123 p. 126  Follow up once a year on  progress with the hiring plans  of each company  Establish balanced working  styles by continuing to  implement WLB-Up Month  Strictly comply with legal  employment rate for disabled  people at all Hitachi Group  companies in Japan  Implemented WLB (Work-Life Balance) -Up  Month to help people balance their work  with their lives pp. 123–124  Held four study sessions on employing  people with disabilities within the Hitachi  Group  Hired six people as part of the Japans  Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfares  model business program to promote hiring  the mentally disabled p. 129 8. Responsible  Partnerships with  Business Partners  Rebuild supply chain from  global perspective  In addition to creating the Global  Procurement Promotion Department, we  improved our worldwide procurement  network in several ways, including setting  up a procurement unit in Brazil p. 119  Plan monitoring suppliers  globally  Continue to convey useful  information for suppliers  environmental management  Support voluntary  environmental management  initiatives by suppliers through  the New MMM Club* 2  Launched the New MMM Club, and  exchanged information on environmental  regulations and outstanding environmental  case studies at suppliers p. 121 Achieved Partially achieved *1   OCHIBO HIROI (gleaning) is Hitachis program for adopting the customers  perspective when re ecting on past accidents and working to prevent  recurrences. *2   The New MMM Club is an organization run primarily by suppliers who have  acquired environmental certi cation through Hitachis activities to support  their environmental programs. Mottainai, which means regrettable waste in  Japanese, is now an international environmental term. The three Ms come  from the  rst letter of the word mottainai.  Management Report  Risk Management Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  034 Reducing the frequency and impact of risks  globally by strengthening policies and  programs to meet the goals of the 2012 Mid- Term Management Plan. Responding to the Great East Japan  Earthquake A massive earthquake, followed by a devastating  tsunami, hit Japans Tohoku region and the  Paci c coast on March 11, 2011. We responded  by immediately setting up the Emergency  Headquarters for Response to Large-Scale  Earthquakes to con rm the safety of all employees  and their families, while assessing the damage.  Some facilities were heavily damaged, particularly  some in Ibaraki and Fukushima prefectures.  In response, we broadened the emergency  headquarters role and established the Hitachi  Group Headquarters for Post-Earthquake  Reconstruction and Redevelopment, headed by  the president, on March 23, which functions as a  control tower, combining information on damage  with assistance requests. The headquarters is  driving the concerted Group initiative to optimize  support and restoration (see pages 010–014).  Reinforcing the Risk Management System  We manage the business and operational risks  of every division with internal audits. The entire  Group is reinforcing management systems to  address increasingly global and complex risks. In   scal 2009, we audited the risks of Hitachi, Ltd.  Group corporate divisions and those at regional  headquarters outside Japan (in the Americas,  Europe, China and elsewhere in Asia). In  scal 2010,  we expanded auditing to all in-house companies,  Group companies, and research institutes to  assess risks that could undermine Group-wide  credibility and business sustainability. Such risks  include environmental and reputation risks, as  well as emerging human rights issues that include  Risk Management employee diversity and poor working conditions in  the supply chain. Other risks are more traditional,  such as natural disasters, the market environment,  and raw material prices.  We will reinforce our risk management  framework by improving our assessment standards,  by analyzing and evaluating accumulated risk  information in greater detail, and by evaluating  responses at the management level. In addition, we  will improve risk awareness among all employees,  especially through information sharing, education  and training. Business Continuity Plans (BCPs)1  To guard against risks, and being deeply  committed to the social infrastructure, we are  enhancing our BCPs to minimize the impact on  society of any interruption to business operations.  Since December 2006, the Hitachi Group has  disseminated the Guidelines for Formulation of BCPs  to all Group companies to mitigate risks, such as  major natural disasters. In  scal 2010, we translated our BCP guidelines  into English and Chinese, and then distributed them  to all Group companies around the world. Every  Hitachi Group company and business site prepares  for emergencies by producing a BCP using the  guidelines that are relevant to them. 1  Business Continuity Plan (BCP):   A plan for ensuring the continuation of core  operations and for promptly restoring operations in the event of a disaster or  accident. Guidelines for Formulation of BCPs  (Chinese version)  Management Report  Risk Management Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  035 disasters by sharing the results of tabletop drills  with the entire Hitachi Group. We also hold  monthly drills that use a satellite communications  system. Providing Information through Our Internal Web Site The Hitachi Group internal Web site has provided  a risk response page for all Group employees since  1997. This internal Web site features information  from wire services and Japans Ministry of Foreign  Aff airs as well as problems that Hitachi Group  employees have experienced. If emergencies arise,  this site presents responses and alerts based on top  management policies and disseminates information  on damage. The risk response Web site adds or updates  around 80 news items every day. Page views per  month reached one million when the H1N1  u  spread worldwide; the average number of page  views per month is about 400,000. These  gures  underscore the essential role that the internal risk  response Web site plays for risk response activities.  This page also has top management policies  and disaster updates for the Great East Japan  Earthquake for the entire Hitachi Group. Novel Strain of In uenza Action Plan and BCPs In 2008, as a precaution against a novel strain of  in uenza that gave rise to fears of a pandemic,  we set up a special organization called the Risk  Management Headquarters, headed by the  president. In the event of a worldwide outbreak,  the Risk Management Headquarters will take the  lead in securing the safety of all Hitachi Group  employees and their families. Every eff ort will  be made to ensure that operations essential for  maintaining social functions, such as medical  services, public security, and lifelines, are continued  without interruption. As part of these preparations, we formulated the  Guidelines for Pandemic1 In uenza Preparedness in  2009. We distributed these to all Group companies  in  scal 2010, after translating them into English  and Chinese. Tabletop Exercise to Prepare for Large-Scale  Disasters Hitachi, Ltd. has held annual disaster simulation  drills since  scal 1998—so far at 18 sites throughout  Japan. For these drills, teams of people make  decisions under disaster scenarios that have been  developed over six months and include a range of  crises. The objective is to verify and improve the  eff ectiveness of prevention plans for large disasters.  Personnel in charge of risk management at business  sites participate in the drills, then report on their  experience and results at a general assembly  of around 200 offi  cers responsible for handling  risk. We are reinforcing our plans for large-scale  1  Pandemic:  An infectious disease epidemic that spreads worldwide Guidelines for Pandemic In uenza  Preparedness (English version)  Management Report  Compliance Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  036 reinforce awareness of the Hitachi Group Codes  of Conduct. During the month, we placed  computerized learning tools on our intranet. To  date, 20,000 employees throughout the Hitachi  Table of Contents — Hitachi Group Codes of  Conduct  Chapter 1: Sincere and Fair Business Activities 1.1 Provision of Safe High-Quality Products and Services 1.2 Sales Activities 1.3 Procurement Activities 1.4 Respect of the Hitachi Brand 1.5 Observance of Engineering Ethics Chapter 2: Environmental Protection 2.1 Promoting Environmental Management 2.2 Environmentally Conscious Business Activities and  Environmental Management 2.3 Communication with Stakeholders Chapter 3: Relations with Society 3.1 Disclosure of Company Information 3.2 Contribution to Local Communities 3.3 Relations with Politics and Government Administration 3.4 Prevention of Anti-social Transactions 3.5 Regarding Gifts, Business Entertainment, Etc. 3.6 Observance of Laws and Regulations and Respect of the Culture  and Customs of Each Nation and Region Chapter 4: Respect of Human Rights 4.1 Promoting Respect of Human Rights 4.2 Eliminating Discrimination 4.3 Respect of Human Rights in Information Management 4.4 Respect of Basic Rights at Work Chapter 5: Management Foundations 5.1 Management and Use of Information 5.2 Use of Inside Information and Related Considerations 5.3 Management and Preservation of Company Assets 5.4 Arranging a Work Environment That Draws Out Employee  Strengths 5.5 Observance of Laws and Regulations Governing Imports and  Exports Chapter 6: Complete Observance of Codes of  Conduct 6.1 Complete Observance of Rules 6.2 Implementation of Self-Audits 6.3 Internal Reporting System Chapter 7: Responsibilities of Top Management Supplementary Provision Hitachi Group Implementation of Codes of  Conduct WEB  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct http://www.hitachi.com/csr/csr_images/codeofconduct.pdf Raising awareness and reinforcing compliance  among Group companies worldwide during  international expansion to ensure fair  competition. Formulating and Ensuring Awareness  of the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Hitachi, Ltd. formulated the Hitachi Group Codes  of Conduct in August 2010 as speci c common  conduct codes for the Group. This was in line with  the shift to a new Group management structure  to mark Hitachis centennial. Based on translations  of this document into 17 languages, consolidated  subsidiaries worldwide then formulated their own  codes of conduct in line with the same content.  We ensure broad awareness of the Hitachi Group  Codes of Conduct by displaying them on computer  startup screens during Hitachi Group Corporate  Ethics Month. We also produced an e-learning  tool based on case studies for speci c code items  to help employees consider how best to act, and  are extending this tool to Group employees in  Japan. We ask managers to submit a statement  electronically con rming that they have taken the  course and are pledging to comply with the code.  In  scal 2011, we are extending this request to  consolidated subsidiaries outside Japan.  Implementing Corporate Ethics Month Corporate ethics and compliance are the bedrock  of all our activities. Every October has been Hitachi  Group Corporate Ethics Month since  scal 2009.  Top management leads the way to improving  adherence to ethics and complying fully with laws  and regulations. Executives and employees are  making compliance central to all their actions. In   scal 2010, we also distributed top management  messages on compliance to all Group employees  and familiarized employees with the Hitachi Group  Codes of Conduct (described here). In addition, we  arranged a presentation by an outside, non-Hitachi  lawyer for compliance offi  cers and managers to  Compliance  Management Report  Compliance Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  037 Group in Japan have participated in seminars and  video courses on speci c risk levels. Compliance Reporting System To prevent illegal or unethical behavior, to promptly  address infractions, and to enhance the ability  to self-regulate, we instituted a company-wide  compliance reporting system. Employees can  report directly to the division responsible at Hitachi  (Compliance Division) or to an outside attorney.  This system can be used not only by Hitachi  employees but also by former employees, business  partner companies, and temporary staff . Another  system—Channel to the Board of Directors—has  been introduced to allow employees to report  problems anonymously straight to Hitachis board  of directors. Preventing Corruption Our 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan focuses  on Social Innovation Businesses and strategic  progress in emerging nations. Global compliance is  now becoming ever more important, as Japanese  corporations face tighter controls on bribery of  foreign public offi  cials. Key examples include the  United Kingdom and the United States, which have  enacted new bribery prevention laws.  In  scal 2008, we formulated corporate rules  and guidelines to prevent bribery worldwide, and  we are ensuring adherence through audits and  education. In the second half of  scal 2010, we  requested top executives at Group companies in  the Americas, Europe, China, and elsewhere in Asia  to further improve compliance. In March 2011,  we held a meeting at which legal and compliance  offi  cers from subsidiaries overseeing businesses in  the Americas, Europe, China, and Asia reported on  bribery prevention. Two hundred and twenty-four  compliance offi  cers and managers from Hitachi,  Ltd. and Group companies in Japan attended the  meeting and shared information and case studies. Worlds Most Ethical  Companies mark Hitachi Data Systems employees TOPICS Recognized as One of the Worlds Most  Ethical Companies After a rigorous review, Ethisphere  Institute, a U.S. think tank that researches,  develops and promotes best practices in  CSR and corporate ethics, awarded its  Ethics Inside Certi cation to Hitachi Data  Systems Corporation in the United States  in November 2010. Ethisphere certi es  organizations that establish, maintain,  and share ethical conduct beyond legal  requirements and which can be models  for other organizations. In March 2011,  Ethisphere also chose Hitachi Data  Systems as one of the Worlds Most Ethical  Companies for 2011. For this award,  the institute evaluates several thousand  companies from 36 industries in more  than 100 countries, choosing one or  two companies per industry. Ethisphere  recognized the commitment to compliance  of Hitachi Data Systems management and  lauded the companys innovative initiatives,  including a video-based education program  and computer tools that give employees  timely, relevant information on ethics.  Management Report  Compliance Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  038 Protecting Personal Information We established a personal information protection  management system based on our Personal  Information Protection Policy. With this system,  through e-learning courses for all employees and  through periodic audits, we ensure the protection  and safe handling of personal information. Hitachi, Ltd. received Privacy Mark certi cation  in March 2007 and renewed certi cation in  March 2011. As of March 2011, 72 Hitachi Group  companies have received the Privacy Mark.1 In July 2007, the Odaira Memorial Tokyo  Hitachi Hospital became the  rst corporate  medical institution in Japan to earn Privacy Mark  certi cation. The Hitachi Yokohama Hospital and  Ibaraki Hospital Center (both are located in Japan)  also obtained certi cations. These hospitals work  hard to protect and carefully handle personal  information. Hitachi also strives to safeguard  personal information at Group companies outside  Japan based on the Personal Information Protection  Policy and in accord with all national and regional  legal and social requirements.  Preventing the Recurrence of  Misleading Representations The entire Hitachi Group is working to prevent a  recurrence of misleading information following  the Hitachi Appliance, Inc. misrepresentation of  refrigerators in  scal 2009. Hitachi Appliances  has since reinforced their systems to check  environmental information in catalogs and  other publications. We decided to make April  the month for improving representations, and  now use intensive education to ensure that all  regulations are followed, particularly the Act  against Unjusti able Premiums and Misleading  Representations. In June 2010, representatives  from consumer groups inspected manufacturing,  product testing, and appliance recycling at Hitachi  Appliances Tochigi Works, which manufactures  refrigerators and air conditioners.  The entire Hitachi Group is now setting up a  check system for corporate rules, making internal  audits, and building understanding through  ecology awareness education and training  tailored to personnel levels. By February 2011, we  had held seven regular meetings of an advisory  group on product environmental information  and expressions, which we created in  scal 2009,  and obtained advice on consumer perspectives  from outside experts. We explained this advice  at a training seminar, sponsored by the Nippon  Association of Consumer Specialists, to consumer  product managers. Protecting Personal Information and  Information Security The Hitachi Group emphasizes two points in policies  to protect personal information and information  security: (1) Precautionary measures and prompt security  responses Hitachi clearly classi es information assets to be protected and  takes safeguarding measures based on vulnerability and risk  analysis. We also have an emergency manual for security breaches,  based on the assumption that these are inevitable, not just  possible. (2) Promotion of stronger ethical and security  awareness among data users Hitachi has prepared a curriculum tailored to various personnel  levels—staff , managers, etc.—and is working to raise the  prevailing sense of ethics and security awareness through Group- wide education using e-learning. We are also working on the use of  audits to identify and address problems early on. WEB  Personal Information Protection Policy http://www.hitachi.com/privacy-e/index.html 1  Privacy Mark:  Certi cation awarded by the Japan Information Processing  Development Corporation to companies and organizations to recognize eff ec- tive personal information management. Privacy Mark  Management Report  Compliance Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  039 speci c policies, coordinating extensively with units  in the United States, Europe, Southeast Asia, and  China to ensure that these measures are being  taken. The Information Security Report details our  initiatives. Export Control For basic export control, we use the Hitachi  Standards of Corporate Conduct, which states  that we shall help maintain international peace  Information Security Initiatives The rapid spread of digital information and  computer networks has made it essential for  businesses to strengthen security to maintain public  trust. For that reason, we established information  security policies and processes. We are striving  company-wide to improve security in line with  our information security management system.  For example, we develop information security  procedures, educate employees about security, and  audit information security.  We formulated the Three Principles for  Preventing Leakage of Con dential Information,  ensuring accident prevention and the highest level  of care of customer information. Our policies ensure  that we minimize damage in the event of accidents  by promptly contacting customers, reporting to  government agencies, investigating causes and  acting to prevent recurrences.  Group companies worldwide are taking these  steps to prevent information leaks: using Hibun  encryption software; security PCs that do not store  data; Katsubun electronic document access control  and expiration processing software; and email and  Web site  ltering. Group companies worldwide are reinforcing  information security management in line with  Global Information Security Administration  standards. We have set up PC security and other  Basic Approach to Information Security Governance Clearly designate assets to be protected  Sort through information assets and conduct risk analysis Establish information security system  Develop rules (security policy)  Create managerial framework   Establish audit and follow-up system  Ensure solid feedback through extensive PDCA cycles for  prevention and accident response  Information  assets to be  protected Implement preventive techniques    Widely implement administrative measures  Deploy technological processes Improve user literacy   Supply security education materials  Educate managers and staff  WEB  Information Security Report (only in Japanese) http://www.hitachi.co.jp/csr/csr_images/securityreport.pdf Three Principles for Preventing Leakage of  Con dential Information Rule 1. In principle, con dential information cannot be taken from the  workplace. Rule 2. Permission must be obtained from an information assets  administrator when employees are required to take con dential  information from the workplace for business. Rule 3. Necessary and appropriate measures to prevent information leaks  are mandatory for con dential information that needs to be taken  from the workplace for business. Notes: 1. Con dential information includes all trade information for which access is  restricted to internal areas and relevant third parties. 2. These rules also apply to con dential information taken from customer  business sites.  Management Report  Compliance Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  040 and security through compliance with trade laws  and regulations. We adopted rules for controlling  security exports based on this policy in 1987, and  we continue to strive for the strictest possible  export controls. This means screening the destination, end- use, and end-user of all goods and technologies  intended for export and promoting all legal  compliance. In addition, we are promoting Group- wide export controls by providing guidance to  all Hitachi Group companies worldwide on rules  and organizations for export control, as well as  supporting education and compliance training to  ensure that every Hitachi employee follows the  same export control policies. In  scal 2010, we held meetings for export  control managers at regional Group companies  in China, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and  Thailand, and provided practical training on export  control. We augmented the Japanese version of  the e-learning course with a Chinese version, and  broadly implemented basic education courses.   Management Report  Innovation Management  Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  041 represents 60 percent of the total R&D investment  of 1.2 trillion yen allocated for  scal 2010–2012.   Further, to enhance R&D effi  ciency and speed up  technology development supporting the Social  Innovation Business, locally-led research outside  Japan will be increased and the role of domestic  laboratories in disseminating cutting-edge  technologies to the world will be reinforced. In  April 2011, the Technology Strategy Offi  ce was  established within the Research and Development  Group to integrate the technology strategy for  the entire Hitachi Group as well as to formulate  medium-to-long-term technology and development  plans linked with business strategies.  Since the beginning, Hitachi has applied R&D  to ful ll our Corporate Credo of contributing  to society through the development of  superior, original technology and products.   The sustainable growth of the Hitachi Group  is driven by this continuous generation of  innovation with R&D at its core. Research and Development Strategy The Hitachi Group is investing 670 billion yen in  R&D in the Social Innovation Business areas in order  to accelerate research and promote growth in the  global market based in this business area.  This  Innovation Management Major Indices  ROI 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) 0.31 0.45 0.82 0.37 1.1 0 1.2 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 (ROI) 1.0 (Target)  Research investments  R&D expenditures to revenues 5 (%) 2 4 3 1 0 (billions of  yen) 0 450 400 350 300 412.5 428.1 416.5 372.4 395.1 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) 4.2 4.0 3.8 4.2 4.3 Trend in R&D effi  ciency Trend in R&D expenditure New R&D Organization of Hitachi, Ltd. Prior to April 2011 From April 2011 Research and Development Group Power Systems Company Central Research Laboratory Advanced Research Laboratory Mechanical Engineering Research Laboratory Hitachi Research Laboratory Systems Development Laboratory Production Engineering Research Laboratory Design Division Reserch centers outside Japan Reserch centers outside Japan Energy and Environmental Systems Laboratory Consumer Electronics Laboratory Technology Strategy Offi  ce Central Research Laboratory Hitachi Research Laboratory Yokohama Research Laboratory Design Division Research and Development Group  Management Report  Innovation Management  Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  042 Research and Development Goals The R&D expenditures of the Hitachi Group are  being maintained at around 4 percent of total  revenue. For R&D investment effi  ciency, our target  is to deliver an ROI,1 operating income divided by  R&D expenditure, of greater than 1.0. For the R&D  contribution to the environment, we use a green  research index, which is de ned as research for  the development of environmentally compatible  products.  The target is for 100 percent of research  to be green research by  scal 2015.  We also use  the number of papers accepted by the Institute  of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the  worlds largest professional technology association,  as a benchmark for the Hitachi Groups technology  standards and activities worldwide.  In  scal 2010,  the IEEE adopted 47 research papers from the  Hitachi Group, ranking us number three in the  world electronics industry and number one in  Japan. Enhancing Overseas Research Bases As our Social Innovation Business expands  globally, the four key R&D bases outside Japan  will be enhanced to target regional needs. First,  the number of R&D personnel outside Japan will  be doubled from the current 150 to roughly 300  in  scal 2012, localization will be reinforced, and  collaboration with local government, business and  research institutions will be strengthened. We will  pursue locally-led R&D that is grounded in regional  needs. Further, we will select R&D themes focusing  on the Social Innovation Business being promoted  in each region. R&D Plan and Investment  At Hitachi, Ltd., 70 percent of R&D investment  comes from sponsored and advanced sponsored  research from Hitachi in-house companies and  Hitachi Group companies. The remaining 30 percent  1  ROI:  return on investment Initiative 1  Increase overseas personnel FY 2012: approx. 300 (2x) Initiative 2  Foster global R&D human capital FY 2012: 90%+ local staff , 30%+ doctoral degree holders Initiative 3 Focus on local Social Innovation Business themes Global Research Policies at Four Bases outside Japan China   Participate in national Social Innovation Business programs  R&D base for local Hitachi Group companies Europe  Promote open innovation in cutting-edge physics   Accelerate development in Social Innovation Business such as rail and    power systems  United States  Reinforce R&D in next-generation storage systems  Develop environmentally conscious vehicle technologies  Asia   2011 establishment of R&D base in India  Alliance with research organizations in India Hitachi Cambridge Workshop participants TOPICS Hitachi Cambridge Workshop  In August 2010, the Hitachi Cambridge  Laboratory invited eight British and  Japanese students to the Hitachi Cambridge  Workshop. The goal was to foster mutual  cultural understanding and a sense of  community. Four British students and four  Japanese students, aged 16 and 17, formed  a nanotechnology project team to explore  the future of electronics.  The students designed, assembled,  and measured simple electronic devices,  then made presentations at the end of the  workshop on what they had learned.   Management Report  Innovation Management  Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  043 Examples of R&D Achievements Long-Life Lithium-Ion Batteries  A new manganese-based cathode material which  roughly doubles the life of industrial lithium-ion  batteries was developed. A prototype battery  cell was developed in collaboration with Shin- Kobe Electric Machinery Co., Ltd. employing this  material. After evaluation, it was con rmed that  the battery capacity could be roughly reduced by  half, thus opening the way to achieving a battery  life of 10 years or more. Prospective applications  include power storage in renewable energy  generation such as wind power, and as a power  source for electrical construction machinery and  other industrial equipment designed to reduce  greenhouse gas emissions. Service Robots  Under a unique concept of human symbiosis,  Hitachi, Ltd. has developed EMIEW to co-exist  with humans, applying various technology  such as agility, obstacle avoidance and distance  communication. In EMIEW2, mobility and voice  recognition features are further improved.  EMIEW2 is able to safely move over small ground  obstacles such as thresholds or electric cables, as  well as clearly distinguish human  voices from background noise.   Such features will improve the  functionality of EMIEW2 in safely  serving the daily needs of people  in hospitals or offi  ces as a guide,  or as a surveillance robot during  rounds. We aim to realize a  society in which robots can safely  serve people in various ways. comes from corporate funds and is allocated  for basic and platform research. Sponsored and  advanced sponsored research is conducted with  a target of expanding core business, and aims  at commercialization within three to  ve years.  Basic and platform research is based on the mid- to-long-term Technology Plan, and aims to create  innovative technologies forming the base for future  core businesses.  Hitachi Fellow System  In June 1999, the Hitachi Fellow system was  established to recognize the distinguished service  and contributions of an employee to the progress  of science and technology on a global level, and  for the international acknowledgement of Hitachis  high standard of technology. The position of Hitachi  Fellow is appointed by the Board of Directors,  and it is the highest technical position within  the company. The position of Hitachi Fellow is  equivalent to that of executives. A Fellow is assured  freedom of choice for research theme, research  funding and support for external professional  activities.  WEB  Fellow details http://www.hitachi.com/rd/fellow_intro.html Dr. Akira Tonomura Field: Holographic electron microscopy  Dr. Hideaki Koizumi Field: Optical topography  Dr. Toshihiko Odaka Field: Mainframe computers Dr. Kiyoo Itoh Field: Semiconductor memory Dr. Hideki Kambara Field: DNA sequencers Hitachi Fellows (as of March 2011)  New manganese-based  cathode material (left) Prototype battery cell (right)  EMIEW2 service robot   Management Report  Intellectual Property (IP) Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  044 The mission for our intellectual property  activities is to maximize their contribution to  business. While these contributions can vary  from one business to another, we categorize  them by diff erentiation and prevention,  securing business freedom, and patent  licensing income. We will forge ahead with our  IP strategy, that is in line with a management  focus on global, fusion, and environment—or  more speci cally, global development that  fuses social infrastructure with intelligent IT  and environmental systems. Globalization of Intellectual Property Increasing the number of patent applications is  vital for the globalization of intellectual property  activities. We will strengthen our benchmarks  against those of other companies and reinforce our  patent position. Assuming that revenues from outside Japan will  account for more than 50 percent of net sales in   scal 2012, we intend to generate 55 percent of our  patent applications outside Japan in that year, up  from 51 percent in  scal 2010. Intellectual Property (IP) Reinforcing Intellectual Property Initiatives in  Emerging Markets Our growth strategy mainly targets China and  elsewhere in Asia, as well as emerging countries.  We intend to increase the number of patent  applications in these areas.  The number of patents that the Hitachi Group  has obtained in China over the past  ve years is  comparable to major rivals in the Social Innovation  Business. We will also  le more patents in emerging  countries using Patent Cooperation Treaty  applications. Building a Strategic Patent Portfolio We are supporting management strategies focused  on global, fusion, and environment with our  intellectual property by building a patent portfolio  that is  consistent with our management strategy. Examples of Focused Themes of IP Activities Field Key themes Global Storage systems Smart grids Fusion Information platform for social infrastructure Environment New power devices Inverters Lithium-ion batteries Green mobility 2009 2010 2012 (FY) 47 51 0 60 40 50 (%) 55 (Target)  55 Major Targets Patent Application Ratios outside Japan *Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries 49% Around 30%  45% Around 20%  Around 20%  Around 35% Breakdown of Patent Filing Countries / Regions Japan U.S.A. and Europe China and other Asian nations* (FY 2012 target) (FY 2010) *Including international  lings through the Patent Cooperation Treaty, which  has a single application for a patent and has legal eff ect in treaty member  countries.  Management Report  Intellectual Property (IP) Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  045 Strengthening International Standardization We are leveraging our combined human capital,  knowhow, knowledge, and other resources for  standardization so that we can expand our strong  businesses. For example, at our environmentally  conscious data centers, we have standardized  interfaces for IT and air-conditioning control  equipment. We also have key leaders from inside  the company working within global standardization  organizations, notably through the vice-presidency,  chairmanship, and other positions on the  International Electrotechnical Commission. Business Contributions Intellectual property activities have no value unless  they contribute to supporting businesses. We  categorize the results from IP by diff erentiation and  prevention, securing a degree of business freedom,  and patent licensing income. We start by building a patent portfolio that  focuses on technology consistent with Hitachis  strengths, from the standpoints of market  needs and technology trends. We prevent other  companies from using our technologies without  our authorization and we diff erentiate our products  and services. We have built a competitive patent  portfolio, and have cross-licensing agreements  with other companies to ensure business freedom.  We also obtain patent licensing income from  other companies and invest it in new research and  development. Constantly aware of these results, we have been   ling and prosecuting patent applications, and  enforcing our patents so that we contribute to and  protect our businesses. Respect for Intellectual Property We respect the intellectual property rights (IPR) of  other companies as we expect them to respect ours.  We follow in-house rules on preliminary searches  of other companies patents to avoid infringements  during product development. For IPR that belongs  to others, we obtain licenses from IPR holders  before using them. For our own IPR, in principle,  we provide licenses to businesses wishing to make  use of these IPRs, subject to royalty payment. If any  company is found to have infringed our IPR, we  encourage them to acquire the necessary license,  and we will take legal actions, if necessary. Reward System for Employee Inventions We motivate employees on the research and  development frontlines with a reward system for  new inventions. We more clearly de ned these  rewards in 2005, when Article 35 of Japans  amended Patent Act took eff ect. We revised,  and carefully manage, our reward system for  employee inventions to increase the satisfaction  of inventors. Hitachi provides rewards for  led  patent applications and granted patents, as well  as performance-based rewards for patents which  are used for our products/services and/or bring in  patent licensing income. We do not set any upper  limit for performance-based rewards. Cultivating Human Capital We drive forward IPR initiatives by cultivating  quality human resources who are highly skilled and  globally aware. As of April 1, 2011, our Intellectual  Property Group had 100 registered patent attorneys  and seven lawyers registered in the U.S.A. or the  UK. Every year, we assign four to six people for  internships at patent and law offi  ces in the United  States and Europe. To date, 60 people have served  as interns outside Japan.  Management Report  Brand Management Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  046 To grow Hitachis Social Innovation Business  worldwide, we must improve our brand  recognition and reputation, and establish the  Hitachi brand as a social innovation company.  We communicate globally in many ways with  stakeholders to ensure a full understanding  so that we increase the value of, or minimize  damage to, our brand. Global Brand Strategy For developing business globally, we need to  correctly communicate our vision and brand  promise to our stakeholders. People have tended  to perceive Hitachi as an appliance or consumer  products manufacturer, particularly outside Japan.  So, to establish a reputation as a social innovation  company, we must promote the brand externally  through advertising, public relations, and CSR  initiatives, while raising our own employees  awareness of the brand promise and encouraging  employees to engage in activities based on that  brand promise. Together as One Hitachi, we will  evaluate the eff ectiveness of our activities to  improve the value of the Hitachi brand. Improving the Global Brand Inspire the Next, our corporate statement,  embodies our brand vision. We set up corporate  communication departments in North America,  Europe, Asia, and China to completely localize  and convey this vision to stakeholders. Market  characteristics and business methods diff er from  region to region. So, by employing eff ective  communications and combining core businesses  and solutions for speci c markets, we convey  messages that are consistent with our commitment  to environmental issues as a social innovation  company. For example, we concluded that mass media  advertising is an eff ective way to promote our  Brand Management brand in such emerging nations as China and  India. There, we focus on corporate advertising  campaigns through television commercials,  newspaper advertising, and on our Web sites. The  corporate advertising campaigns have improved  our brand recognition and brand image in those  countries. In advanced nations, however, we  found that word of mouth and Web sites are more  eff ective, and therefore in those markets we mostly  focus on the Internet. We participate extensively in environment- related exhibitions and other events around the  world, including eco-product shows, to spotlight  how we address environmental issues. WEB  Hitachi Brand Strategy http://www.hitachi.com/about/vision/brand/ Corporate advertising campaign in North America  Management Report  Brand Management Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  047 Web Management We have responded to increased Internet use  worldwide by enhancing our Web portal sites in  every country and region, making them the key  tools for publishing important information. We  convey consistent Group brand messages, while  improving Internet searches, to match local needs.  As well, in every region, we produce content that  focuses on our local businesses. In recent years, we  have built Web sites in the emerging nations that  we position as focused markets. At the end of March 2011, we had 58 Web sites  in 27 languages covering 47 countries and regions,  and we uni ed our brand image with a common  design format. Internal Brand Management Our employees are important contact points for  building the brand, as they deal directly with  stakeholders. We promote internal initiatives  globally as well as increase awareness of Hitachi  Groups brand promise to ensure that employees  thoroughly understand and apply the Hitachi  brands vision, mission, and value. In  scal 2010, 1,103 employees attended  12 brand seminars worldwide. We strengthen  employee awareness of the Hitachi Brand by giving  an award to good initiatives that help improve  Hitachi brand value. These awards are called The  Inspiration of the Year awards. In  scal 2010, we  received 382 applications for the Inspiration of the  Year awards. A program that improved the value  of the Hitachi brand through our UK rail business  won the Special Top Prize. During  scal 2010,  we commemorated our centennial by increasing  the number of awards, with around 50 entrants  receiving Grand Prix, Innovation/Reliability, and  Eco-Spirit Awards. Hitachis Global Portal Europe China Middle East and North Africa Asia Global Site Japan Oceania U.S.A. WEB  Portal: Portal site to access Web content http://www.hitachi.com/  Management Report  Brand Management Environmental Report Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  048 Evaluating the Eff ectiveness of Brand Initiatives We evaluate the eff ectiveness of communications  for our brand strategy with questionnaires and  online surveys. We summarize the responses and  evaluations of customers and other targeted  stakeholders, then we use this information to  make improvements. We also conduct an annual  brand image survey to create a snapshot of the  global strength of the Hitachi brand. We use these   ndings to analyze and report on the overall impact  of brand initiatives. When conducting these assessments and  brand image surveys, we set benchmarks based  on the Hitachi Brand Platform, and use them for  monitoring brand initiatives. Reputation Management Globally, all Hitachi Group companies share the  Hitachi brand. This sharing generates group  synergies for innovation and trust in the brand. We  recognize that accidents and rumors can damage  the brand globally, so we set up communication  divisions at regional headquarters outside Japan  to handle risks to our reputation. These divisions  ensure the broad recognition of our activities by  regularly informing the media and government  agencies, as well as members of nongovernmental  organizations and opinion leaders in every country  who are particularly interested in human rights and  environmental issues. These divisions work hard to  correct public misperceptions about our operations.  Hitachi, Ltd. and regional headquarters outside  Japan collaborate to mitigate risks to the brand and  resolve problems arising from accidents or rumors.  Moreover, they seek to proactively prevent future  occurrences by investigating similar and related  incidents in other areas or businesses. Action against Infringement of the  Brand Value The Hitachi brand is an important and clear  promise to all stakeholders of our fundamental  worth, and that includes our management  philosophy, social mission, and speci c corporate  activity. To reach our goals, it is essential to  communicate consistently with one voice based on  the integral principles of the Hitachi brand. Management of the Hitachi Brand Impression We globally uni ed the presentation and use of  our logo and trademark to roll out our message as  a single global entity, or One Hitachi. The Hitachi  Group Identi cation Standards Manual lays out  how to use the logo. We have integrated visual  impressions of the Hitachi brand, by developing a  design system for each medium. Safeguarding the Hitachi Brand We provide legal protection for the Hitachi brand  by working hard to eliminate counterfeit appliances  and parts in such high-risk regions as China, the rest  of Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. In countries or  regions where brand infringements are particularly  widespread, we collaborate with local companies to  step up anti-counterfeiting programs. Brand education content: Growing the Brand WEB  Hitachi Brand Platform  http://www.hitachi.com/about/vision/brand/statement/index.html Corporate statement logo  Environmental Report Wind Power Ibaraki Co., Ltds Wind Power Kamisu  (seven 2,000-kW wind power turbines)  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  050 Nations around the world must work together if  we are to deal with increasingly apparent climate  change, ecosystem destruction, and other global  environmental threats. We must also foster high  levels of environmental consciousness in each  of our employees and use their core business  strengths to help resolve environmental problems. The Hitachi Group is currently focusing  management resources on the Social Innovation  Business to contribute to the development of  a sustainable social infrastructure. In 2008, we  created Environmental Vision 2025, our long-term  plan for reducing CO2 emissions—a top-priority  issue—through business operations. Our goal is to  help reduce annual CO2 emissions by 100 million  tonnes by  scal 2025 through Hitachi products and  services. In  scal 2010, we succeeded in reducing  CO2 emissions by 15.51 million tonnes. We achieved  this reduction through the use of highly effi  cient  gas turbines, wind power generation systems, and  other energy infrastructure that emit less CO2, as  well as through the global provision of power- saving products and services. Sales of Eco-Products,  products meeting rigorous environmentally  conscious criteria, jumped by 7 percent on the  previous year to 60 percent of all sales. We aim to  make all Group products and services Eco-Products  by  scal 2025. The recent Great East Japan Earthquake  prompted countries around the world to review  their energy policies as well as energy supply  and demand. Current mechanisms will have to  be revised in the coming years to respond to  increasingly diverse energy-related values and  needs. The Hitachi Group will lead the way by supplying  products and services, such as low-carbon power  supply systems, energy-saving solutions for  transportation and industry, and IT-based energy  control and monitoring technologies. We will  also contribute to the use of sustainable energies  that off er energy security through technology  development geared to diversifying needs. In  the short term, we will focus on optimizing and  boosting the effi  ciency of products and services;  over the long term, that focus will shift to  developing city functions that enable high energy  effi  ciency and minimal environmental loads. In  scal 2011, we launched the Third  Environmental Action Plan, which sets out a high- level goal of reducing global CO2 emissions by  10 percent per unit of production by  scal 2015  (compared with  scal 2005 levels). We will steadily  move ahead with that plan, as well as work to  develop more environmentally conscious products,  factories, and offi  ces. We also look forward to  working together with customers using Hitachi  products and services to help reduce CO2 emissions  through our products. We are committed to re ecting world trends  and stakeholder views in our future improvements  and innovations, growing as a corporate group  that contributes to the realization of a sustainable  society. Based on Our Commitment to the Environment,  We Will Deploy Our Social Innovation Business Worldwide  to Help Resolve Global Environmental Issues Shigeru Azuhata Senior Vice President and Executive Offi  cer,  Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group Chief Environmental  Strategy Offi  cer Environmental Report M E S S A G E  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  051 Corporate environmental management is a  focus of the Hitachi Group 2012 Mid-Term  Management Plan looking ahead to  scal 2012  (see pages 015–016). When providing products and services,  and during our business operations, we  believe that initiatives to reduce the load on  the environment are essential for the Mid- Term Management Plan pillars of growth  driven by social innovation business and  establishment of a solid  nancial base. Based  on this management policy, and guided  by the Environmental Vision aimed at  achieving a sustainable society, our corporate  environmental management is being carried  out to implement the long-term Environmental  Vision 2025 and our Environmental Action Plan. The Hitachi Environmental Vision We have drawn up our Environmental Vision  describing the aim of our corporate environmental  management to achieve a sustainable society.  The worlds population will reach 7 billion in 2011  and is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050.1 At  the same time, the annual growth in worldwide  GDP has averaged more than 3 percent for at least  the past 20 years, except for the downturn that  Hitachis Environmental Vision Corporate Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives occurred in 2009.2  With the increase in economic and social  activities has come growing demand for energy,  water, minerals, and other resources, making  environmental problems worse, from resource  depletion to climate change. These are problems  faced by the entire world. To solve them, the load  on the environment must be limited to the least  possible and society must be made sustainable.  The Hitachi Environmental Vision, giving priority  to actions for prevention of global warming,  conservation of resources, and preservation of  ecosystems, shows our commitment to contributing  through our business to solving environmental  problems. As a milestone on the road to realizing  this Environmental Vision, we drew up the long- term plan Environmental Vision 2025 for the period  to  scal 2025.  Long-Term Plan Environmental Vision 2025 In its Fourth Assessment Report published in  2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate  1  According to the United Nations report:  World Population Prospects: The 2010  Revision 2  According to the World Bank:  World Development Indicators World Outlook for Energy-Related CO2 Emissions and Reduction Scenarios Based on energy-related CO2 emissions in IEA World Energy Outlook 2009 2005 2030 0 25 35 30 40 45 (FY) Scenario assuming world energy policies implemented to date Scenario stabilizing at 450 ppm 40.2 billion tonnes 26.4 billion tonnes Power 27.1 (sector and reduction amount) 9.3 billion tonnes 1.6 billion tonnes 1.6 billion tonnes 1.3 billion tonnes Necessary reduction 13.8 billion tonnes (billions of tonnes/year) Transportation Industries Other  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  052 million in the transportation, commercial, and  residential sectors. A leading indicator on the way to this goal is  the extent to which we can make all our products  Hitachi Eco-Products (see page 063) by  scal 2025,  reducing their burden on the environment. We  plan to expand business opportunities further by  working with partners in global markets and by  developing and creating new environmentally  conscious products and businesses. Since the amount of contribution to CO2  reduction is an important indicator of our business  management that requires eff ective progress  assessment and information disclosure, we are  receiving reviews by a third-party organization  about the calculation methods and results to  ensure trustworthiness. Fiscal 2010 Results and Coming Initiatives Our contribution to CO2 reduction in  scal 2010  is estimated to be 15.51 million tonnes, meeting  the target of 14 million tonnes. A wide range of  services and products contributed to this reduction  in emissions, including high-effi  ciency gas turbines  Change (IPCC), a UN panel assessing and advising  nations on the causes and eff ects of climate  change, concludes that CO2 emissions must peak  by 2015 and be reduced by 50 to 85 percent of  their 2000 levels by the year 2050 in order to  meet the minimum stabilized density scenario for  greenhouse gases (450 ppm stabilization scenario). The International Energy Agency (IEA) has  drawn up a CO2 emission reduction scenario  indicating the  elds where CO2 emissions can  most feasibly be reduced for meeting the 450  ppm stabilization scenario, and the percentages of  reductions in each  eld. These  elds extend widely  across the Hitachi Group, including the electric  power, transportation, and industrial sectors. On this basis, the long-term Hitachi Group  Environmental Vision 2025 states our goal of  helping to reduce annual CO2 emissions by 100  million tonnes by  scal 2025 through Hitachi  products and services. This means that as we reduce CO2 emissions— by improving the environmental effi  ciency of  Hitachi Group products, and by other means—our  contribution to lowering CO2 emissions through the  use of our products and services by 2025 from the  products of  scal 2005 will be 100 million tonnes  annually. The target of 100 million tonnes was calculated  based on growth strategies in each business sector.  It breaks down to 70 million tonnes in the power  sector, 20 million in the industrial sector, and 10  Initiatives in Each Sector toward Achieving Targets Power sector*  Building nuclear power plants  Delivering high-effi  ciency coal- red thermal  power plants and gas turbines  Providing equipment for renewable energy Industrial sector  Providing high-effi  ciency inverters and  transformers  Providing high-effi  ciency information equipment  and energy-saving solutions for data centers,  etc. Transportation,  commercial, and  residential sectors  Providing lithium-ion batteries for industrial and  automotive use  Making home appliances more energy effi  cient *The accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, due to the Great  East Japan Earthquake, is expected to prompt a global review of and changes  in energy policies, including plans for new installation and operation of nuclear  and thermal power plants. In case this review results in major changes to the  business plans of the Hitachi Group power sector, the eff ects of the changes  on the long-term plan Environmental Vision 2025 will be assessed and goal  achievement strategies or targets may be revised. 2025 (FY) Contributions to CO2 Emission Reduction  (Base: FY 2005) (millions of tonnes) 0 100 80 60 40 20 11.77 35 63 100 million tonnes/year 15.51 *The 2008  gures in the IEAs CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion  Highlights (2010 Edition) were used for CO2 emission  coeffi  cients. Contribution to CO2 emission reduction 2009 2010 (estimate) 2015 2020 Power  generation 70% Industry 20% Transportation, commercial & residential 10% Key Indicators WEB  Details of methods for calculating contribution of Hitachi products and  services to the reduction CO2 emissions http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/third/method.html  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  053 and inverters, energy-saving information systems  and hard disk drives, and parts and materials used  in energy-effi  cient products. In  scal 2010, the  methods for calculating CO2 emission reductions  and the results were subjected to third-party  reviews in the case of 17 products, including hydro  power plants, hard disk drives, monorail systems,  transformers, drilling machines, amorphous metal  ribbons, and cordless impact drivers (see page 090).  To improve trustworthiness, these reviews will be  expanded to include more products in  scal 2011  and the following years.  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  054 Main Products Contributing to CO2 Emission Reductions in Fiscal 2010 duty design 1 and outstanding durability. Due to high-performance  turbine cooling and compressor technologies, the thermal efficiency  when using natural gas is 34.8 percent, the highest level among gas  turbines in the same class. It can be used with multiple fuels including  light oil, natural gas, and LPG, and it supports environmental measures  using wet/dry low-NOX burners. In December 2010 the H-25 began  operation as a gas turbine in cogeneration power equipment 2 at a  coke production plant in China. Gas generated in the coke production  process is used as fuel in the H-25 to supply electrical power. At the  same time, the heat generated by the H-25 is used to produce steam  in a heat recovery boiler, achieving thermal effi  ciency of 80 percent or  more for the facility as a whole and contributing to effective energy  use. Moreover, capitalizing on our experience with conventional power  generation systems, we developed an 80 MW-class H-80 gas turbine  with a thermal efficiency of 38 percent, which is a heavy duty two- shaft gas turbine with the worlds largest capacity. 3 The  rst unit is in  operation at a Kyushu Electric Power Company power plant. In fiscal 2010, some 30 new gas turbines went into operation,  including the 30 MW-class H-25 and the 80 MW-class H-80. These  turbines, along with the 89 units already in operation, contributed to a  reduction in CO2 emissions by 1.55 million tonnes in  scal 2010. 1  Heavy duty design:  Highly reliable gas turbines which need less  frequent maintenance 2  Cogeneration power equipment:  Equipment supplying electric power  and heat at the same time 3  As of February 22, 2010 (Hitachi, Ltd. survey) Gas turbines Power Systems Company, Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi gas turbines are highly regarded for their reliability and  effi  ciency. They are in operation around the world for power generation  and general industrial use, and as gas turbines in oil and gas  elds. The  30 MW-class H-25 gas turbine achieves high reliability with its heavy  Cogeneration power plant equipment: Jingyuang Redian in China  adopting the H-25 gas turbine Facing sharply rising information volume, and increases in power  use by IT equipment as a consequence, Hitachi servers use the latest  processors and high-capacity memory while applying a variety of  power-saving techniques. Our BladeSymphony 2000 blade server  and HA8000/RS220 PC servers, for example, use high-efficiency  power supplies with 80PLUS GOLD certification (power conversion  effi  ciency of 92 percent or above*). They also use a fan control system  to adjust rotation speed based on the temperature inside the server. In  these ways, they reduce overall power consumption. Wasteful power  and power supply costs can also be reduced through virtualization  techniques that use server resources carefully, and by power capping  to control processor performance so it doesnt exceed a preset power  consumption level. The use of servers with improvements like these in  information processing capacity and energy effi  ciency accounted for a  reduction in CO2 emissions by 0.42 million tonnes in  scal 2010. When supplying electric power, limiting energy loss during  transmission—in addition to effi  cient generation and natural energy  utilization—is an important issue for reducing CO2 emissions.  Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems has been working on  ways of raising effi  ciency and reducing energy loss from distribution  transformers. Since  scal 2006, we manufacture and ship transformers  that are top-level in the industry in energy use. Among these,  amorphous transformers which use an amorphous metal alloy as the  steel core, are greatly contributing to CO2 reduction with an energy  effi  ciency of 40 percent or more. Approximately 23,000 high-effi  ciency  transformers including amorphous transformers were shipped in  scal  2010, for a cumulative total of around 124,000 since  scal 2006. The  use of transformers accounted for a reduction in CO2 emissions by 0.28  million tonnes in  scal 2010. Servers Information & Telecommunication Systems Company, Hitachi, Ltd. Blade server BladeSymphony 2000 Distribution transformers Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems Co., Ltd. Amorphous transformer  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  055 Environmental Action Plan The Hitachi Group adopts environmental action  plans every  ve years that de ne speci c action  items and targets for achieving the Environmental  Vision and for promoting the long-term plan  Environmental Vision 2025. One aim is to achieve  emission neutral by  scal 2015. The last year of the  Second Environmental Action Plan was  scal 2010,  so we reviewed the results of the actions to date,  and drew up Third Environmental Action Plan with  high targets that will push us to further lower the  environmental load. Emission Neutral  The emission neutral concept is geared at  minimizing the environmental load throughout the  life cycle of products. Emission neutral is achieved  when the direct environmental load becomes  an equal to the reduction in environmental  load during product use and disposal (social  environmental load). Direct environmental load  means the total impact in the stages from raw  materials re ning and processing to production and  distribution. It includes such impacts as greenhouse  gas emissions, waste materials, chemical emissions,  and other environmental loads that can be reduced  by self eff orts. Social load reduction means the  amount reduced in greenhouse gas emissions  during product use and recycling, waste generated,  and so on compared with products marketed in   scal 2005 through product energy effi  ciency  and resource conservation. Besides pursuing  effi  ciency improvements that will reduce the direct  environmental load from production, we are  expanding eff orts at social load reduction through  development and sales growth of Eco-Products,  with the aim of achieving emission neutral by  scal  2015. Successes of the Second Environmental Action Plan When implementing the Second Environmental  Action Plan, covering  scal years 2006 to 2010, we  used 17 action items and targets as main indicators  for environmental management. In  scal 2010,  the  nal year of the plan, we were able to exceed  our targets for 16 of these items. One standout  achievement, aimed at reducing the environmental  load by providing environmentally conscious  products and services, was reaching 60 percent of  Eco-Product sales (compared with the target of 55  percent). Tackling the global environmental issue  of CO2 emissions, we invested 29.7 billion yen in  energy effi  ciency measures over the  ve-year period  starting in  scal 2006, resulting in a reduction  in CO2 emissions by 290,000 tonnes. In addition,  through energy conservation measures taken by  the Hitachi Group as a whole, such as fuel switching  and energy effi  ciency diagnoses, we achieved a  21-percent reduction in Japan (target: 12 percent)  and a 7-percent improvement outside Japan per  unit of production (target: 5 percent), compared  with  scal 1990 levels.  The one area where we fell short of our target  was in the percentage sales of Super Eco-Products  (actual 26 percent versus target of 30 percent;  Direct Environmental Load Material production/ processing CO2 emissions  from material  production/ processing CO2 emissions  from manufacturing CO2 emissions  from waste recycling Manufacturing Distribution CO2 emissions  from transportation Reduced Social (Indirect) Load Use Take-back/recycling Reduced CO2 emissions  during product use  through energy-saving products Reduced CO2 emissions  in product take-back  and recycling The Emission Neutral Concept  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  056 see page 066). In the Third Environmental Action  Plan, the target management indicator has been  changed to the number of product models so that  progress can be assessed more accurately.  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  057 Item Action goal Index Fiscal 2010  targets Fiscal 2010 results Achievement  level Page(s) Eco-Mind & Global Environmental Management Establish  environmental  management  systems (EMSs) Set up an integrated  environmental management  system in every in-house  company/Group company Integrated EMS certi cation Integrated  EMS certi ed Integration completed in 8  divisions p. 082 Nurture  environmental  literacy Boost percentage of employees  receiving Hitachi Group-wide  training (environmental e-learning) Percentage of employees receiving training 90% 95% p. 085 Green purchasing Purchase products such as  environmentally conscious offi  ce  products Green purchasing percentage 90% 95% pp. 120–122 Next-Generation Products & Services Promote  Eco-Products Expand Eco-Product lineup Percentage of sales 55% 60% p. 065 Percentage  of  registered  products ICT systems, digital media,  consumer products, etc. 100% 100% Power systems, social/ industrial systems, high  functional materials &  components, etc. 80% or more 86% Percentage of Super Eco-Products 30% 26%   p. 066 Environmentally Conscious Factories & Offi  ces Promote Super  Eco-Factories &  Offi  ces Build industrys most advanced  factories  and offi  ces Certi cation of Super Eco-Factories & Offi  ces 30 production  facilities  (total) 35 production facilities (total) pp. 071–072 Prevent global  warming Reduce CO2 emissions from energy  sources CO2 emission reduction rate  (base: FY 1990, Japan) 12% 21% pp. 072–074 Rate of reduction in CO2 emissions per unit  production (base: FY 2003, outside Japan) 5% 7% Reduce energy used in  transportation Rate of reduction in energy for shipping per  real unit output (base: FY 2006, Japan) 11% 29% p. 074 Use resources  effi  ciently Reduce waste Rate of waste volume reduction  (base: FY 2000) 25% 33% (total reduction) 25% (per unit production  reduction) pp. 075–077 Promote resource recycling Resource recycling rate  (base: FY 2005, Japan) 10% 13% Use water eff ectively Rate of reduction in water used (base: FY  2005, outside Japan) 10% 10% pp. 077–078 Chemical  substance  management Reduce chemical substance  emissions Rate of reduction in VOC* atmospheric  emissions (base: FY 2000, Japan) 50% 69% pp. 079–080 Rate of reduction in the ratio of VOC  atmospheric emissions (base: FY 2005,  outside Japan) 10% 29% Worldwide Environmental Partnerships Environmental  communication Enhance environmental  activities through more two-way  communication Improve dissemination of  environmental action Continue  to improve  dissemination Introduced initiatives on Web  site Placed ads in newspapers and  magazines Issued press releases, etc. pp. 087–089 Participate in eco-product exhibitions Continue to  participate in  exhibitions Exhibited at Eco-Products 2010 Exhibited at 7th Eco-Products  International Fair (India)   Achieved   Partially achieved Hitachi Group Second Environmental Action Plan: Targets and Results Sustainability Compass The Sustainability Compass depicts the four  directions of environmental initiatives to be taken  based on the Hitachi Group Environmental Action  Plan. All the initiatives are designed and carried  out in accord with the Action Guidelines for  Environmental Conservation (see page 059). Eco-Mind & Global Environmental Management Next-Generation Products & Services Super Eco-Factories & Offi  ces Worldwide Environmental Partnerships *Volatile Organic Compounds  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  058 Category Action goal Index Fiscal 2011 targets Final  scal year (2015)  targets Eco-Mind and Global Environmental Management Establish  environmental  management systems  (EMSs) Ecosystem (biodiversity)  preservation Assessment on ecosystem preservation Strategy proposals Preparation of ecosystem-preserving  assessments for business Completion of ecosystem- preserving assessments  for business and their  announcement Next-Generation Products and Services Promote Eco-Products Expand Eco-Product lineup Percentage of Eco-Product sales 58% 65% Number of models in Eco-Products Select program 20 models 100 models Environmentally Conscious Factories & Offi  ces Build industrys most  advanced factories &  offi  ces Promote Eco-Factories & Offi  ces  Select certi cation Eco-Factories & Offi  ces Select certi cation Roll-out of new certi cation criteria Average of one or more  certi cations per company/ group company Prevent global  warming Reduce CO2 emissions Rate of reduction in CO2 emissions (base: FY 1990,  Japan) 16% 20% Improve CO2 emissions per unit  production Rate of reduction in CO2 emissions per unit  production (base: FY 2005) 6% 10% Reduce energy used  in transportation Improve energy for shipping  per real unit output Rate of reduction in energy for shipping per real unit  output (base: FY2006, Japan) 12% 15% Use resources  effi  ciently Improve waste generation per  unit production Rate of reduction in  waste generation per unit  production (base: FY 2005) High Functional  Materials Group 7% 15% Assembly Industry Group (other than high  functional materials) 16% 20% Use water eff ectively Rate of reduction in water use per unit production (base: FY 2005, outside Japan) 16% 30% Reduce VOC  atmospheric  emissions Decrease ratio of VOC  atmospheric emissions (emissions/used amounts) Ratio of VOC atmospheric emissions (emissions/used amounts) 5.8% 5 percent or less Worldwide Environmental Partnerships Global citizenship  program Social contributions through  environmental activities Carry out environmental communication as the   agship activity of each company or group company Five-year plan drafting and  implementation One or more  agship activity  per company/group company Hitachi Group Third Environmental Action Plan Overview of Third Environmental Action Plan The Third Environmental Action Plan covering   scal years 2011 to 2015 seeks to strengthen the  initiatives of the second plan, and sets higher  targets for environmental load reduction for each  of the action items. New action plans and targets  were also drawn up in order to have the entire  Hitachi Group become involved in preserving  ecosystems, a pillar of the Hitachi Environmental  Vision. In addition, the existing certi cation programs  for Super Eco-Products and Super Eco-Factories  & Offi  ces were changed to Eco-Products Select  and Eco-Factories & Offi  ces Select programs, with  revised certi cation criteria. The new certi cation  program Eco-Products Select has the additional  requirement of a large CO2 reduction rate for the  product, in order to accelerate the contribution to  reducing CO2 emissions through our products. The  new Eco-Factories & Offi  ces Select program now  de nes separate certi cation criteria for factories  and offi  ces, taking into account their diff erent  characteristics, rather than setting the same criteria  as before. Moreover, higher levels of achievement  have been set, re ecting current technology levels.  Through these programs, we will expand the  number of certi ed products, factories, and offi  ces,  promoting a further reduction in environmental  load.  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  059 Hitachi Action Guidelines for Environmental  Conservation Purpose In order to realize an environmentally harmonious and sustainable  society through products and services, Hitachi is committed to  meeting its social responsibilities by promoting globally-applicable  MONOZUKURI (designing, manufacturing or repairing of products),  which is aimed at reducing environmental burdens of products  throughout their entire life cycles, ensuring global environmental  conservation. Action Guidelines 1. Global environmental conservation is a critical challenge  shared by all humans. Hitachi is committed, therefore, to  ful lling its responsibilities by assisting in the realization of an  environmentally harmonious and sustainable society as one of  its management priorities. 2. Hitachi will make eff orts to contribute to society by developing  highly reliable technologies and production processes, while  identifying needs considering concerns related to the prevention  of global warming, conservation of resources, and preservation  of ecosystems. 3. Members of the board in charge of environmental conservation  are responsible for facilitating appropriate environmental  conservation activities.   Departments responsible for environmental conservation should  endeavor to promote and ensure environmental conservation  activities, including improving environment-related rules  and regulations and setting goals for environmental burden  reduction. These departments should also con rm that their  environmental conservation activities are conducted in a proper  manner and ensure that these activities are maintained and  improved. 4. Hitachi will promote globally-applicable MONOZUKURI with  the aim of understanding and reducing environmental burdens  at every stage, including product research and development,  design, production, distribution, sales, usage, and  nal disposal. 5. Hitachi will investigate and review the environmental impact  caused in the course of its MONOZUKURI processes. Hitachi  will also introduce excellent technologies and materials useful  to safeguard the environment, in other words, to reduce  environmental burdens through energy and resource saving,  recycling, chemical substance management, consideration for  the ecosystem, and other measures. 6. Hitachis environmental conservation eff orts are not only to be  focused on observing international environmental regulations  and those of national and local governments, but also on  conserving the environment by implementing voluntary  environmental standards when necessary. 7. Regarding globally-applicable MONOZUKURI activities, impact  on the local environment and community are to be considered.  In addition, measures that meet local communities requests  should be implemented. 8. Hitachi will educate its employees to take action in order to obey  environment-related laws, raise their global environmental  awareness, and encourage their interest in environmental  conservation having wide-view about society activities. 9. Hitachi will evaluate potential environmental problems  and prevent them from occurring. In the event that any  environmental problem occurs, Hitachi will take appropriate  measures to minimize the environmental burden. 10. Hitachi will make eff orts to disclose information on  its environmental conservation activities to its relevant  stakeholders. Hitachi will also actively communicate with these  stakeholders so as to strengthen mutual understanding and  forge cooperative relationships with them. Adopted March 1993, revised July 2010  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  060 Activities to Preserve Ecosystems The Concept of Ecosystem Preservation To promote ecosystem preservation, we  have made the preservation of ecosystems  a pillar of our environmental vision. We  have also incorporated consideration for  ecosystem preservation into our Action  Guidelines for Environmental Conservation.  Speci c initiatives in this area are de ned in  the Hitachi Group Ecosystems Preservation  Guideline and are conducted accordingly. Corporations depend on ecosystem  services such as the paper used in the  manufacturing stage (use of wood, a  biological material) and water use in  factories (use of clean water). In order to  maintain and recover these ecosystem  services, we believe that we can contribute  to ecosystem preservation both through  business and through contributions to  society in the area of nature conservation.  Speci cally, for contributions through  business, we are promoting designs  and production that reduce the impact  on ecosystems during the product life  cycle (material procurement, production,  transportation, use, recovery, recycling and  appropriate disposal), as well as increasing  the products and services for direct  preservation of ecosystems in such areas as  water and air puri cation. For contributions  to society in the area of nature conservation,  we encourage tree planting and ecological  surveys of rare plants and animals by  employees in volunteer programs, along  with other programs that lead to ecosystem  preservation. Assessing the Corporate Relationship  with Ecosystems Corporate Ecosystem Valuation (CEV)  is an assessment methodology used to  evaluate both ecosystem degradation  and the bene ts provided by ecosystem  services, so that improved business decisions  can be made that will lead to ecosystem  preservation. The Hitachi Group, as a  member of the World Business Council for  Sustainable Development (WBCSD), has  helped to develop the Guide to Corporate  Ecosystem Valuation, as well as translating  it into Japanese. We will perform CEV  within the Hitachi Group on a trial basis  and contribute to the widespread use of  CEV outside the Group in the days ahead.  In 2010, Hitachi, Ltd.s Representative  Executive Offi  cer and President, Hiroaki  Nakanishi, was appointed co-chair of  the WBCSD Ecosystems Focus Area Core  Reducing the burden on ecosystems  arising from corporate activities Creating products and services that  preserve ecosystems Corporations and Ecosystems Ecosystem Services Production dependent on ecosystems Minimizing the negative impact (reducing burden on ecosystem) Expanding the positive impact (contributing to ecosystem  preservation) Ecosystems Contributions to Society through  Nature Conservation Provision of raw materials (marine  resources, wood materials, etc.) and water Guide to Corporate Ecosystem  Valuation  Contributions through business Corporations  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  061 Team (policy board). The Hitachi Group is  committed to supporting these eff orts and  contributing to ecosystem preservation. Preserving Greenery at Company Sites Since Hitachis Central Research Laboratory  was built in 1942, the wild natural  environment of the site has been preserved,  respecting the instructive message of the  Hitachi, Ltd. founder not to cut down  good trees but to build around them. This  landscape continues to be maintained and  managed today. A pond on the site formed  from the water of natural springs, which are  the source of the Nogawa River, is a habitat  for swans and mallards. Approximately  27,000 trees, including more than 120  species such as zelkova trees and Himalayan  cedars, provide a resting place for over 40  species of wild birds, among them Chinese  bamboo partridges and gray starlings. To understand the role played by this  natural environment in preserving the  ecosystems of the surrounding areas, we  have conducted an analysis of the satellite  images of the area supported by Mitsui  Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. and InterRisk  Research Institute & Consulting, Inc. The  studies showed that because of its large  scale, the greenery of the Central Research  Laboratory site plays the role of a core  green space necessary for maintaining an  ecosystem, and contributes to the formation  of an ecosystem network of the rivers  having their source in the natural springs on  the laboratory site. The Hitachi Group has many more  business sites that retain green space. Six  of these sites were chosen as among the  100 Outstanding Examples of Preservation,  Creation, or Utilization of Accessible  Greenspace by Corporations announced  in  scal 2010 by the Urban Green Space  Development Foundation. By continuing to  maintain these green spaces in the future,  we will contribute to the preservation of  local ecosystems. Contributions to Society through Nature  Conservation The Hitachi Group contributes to society  through nature conservation at many  company locations (see pages 108–110). Protecting endangered species is an  important part of maintaining biodiversity.  Working with the NPO Earth Watch Japan  every year since  scal 2007, we have taken  part in habitat surveys of the Reverdins  Blue butter y (Lycaeides argyrognomon), an  endangered species, around Mt. Fuji. Ecosystem network diagram in the Musashino area around the  Central Research Laboratory (example of satellite image-based  analysis; data provided by Eco-Asset Consortium) Reverdins Blue butter y Hitachi Central Research  Laboratory – Musashi  Kokubunji Park – Kurogane  Park Musashino Park  – Nogawa Park Fuchu no mori –  Heiwa no mori Tamagawa Koganei Park  Management Report Environmental Report  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  062 IT Eco Experimental Village The Information & Telecommunication  Systems Company, Hitachi, Ltd. opened an  IT eco experimental village in Kanagawa  Prefecture in April 2011 as part of the  GeoAction 100 plan, a nature restoration  project intended to contribute to the  environment through IT. Habitat survey for Reverdins Blue butter y IT eco experimental village (April 2011) In cooperation with local residents,  fallow farmland and forests that had been  overrun with bamboo are being restored,  turning them into rural landscapes full of  life. Experiments are also being carried out  using IT systems for information gathering  and observations of living creatures to  nd  out how IT can be used in the future for  preserving ecosystems.  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Products and  Services Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  063 We assess the environmental burden of  products and services at the design and  development stage, designating those products  with a reduced environmental burden as Eco- Products. In  scal 2010, 60 percent of our sales  were for Eco-Products.  We are moving ahead with designing  and developing environmentally conscious  products to meet the goal set in our long- term Environmental Vision 2025 of making all  Hitachi products Eco-Products by  scal 2025. Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products In 1999, we introduced a Design for Environment  (DfE) assessment system (see page 064) that sets  speci c environmentally conscious criteria for  designing and developing products and services to  minimize their environmental burden. Products that  meet DfE standards are designated as Eco-Products.  One of our goals is to increase the Eco-Product  sales ratio, or the ratio of Eco-Product sales to total  product sales.  In  scal 2010, the number of models designated  as Eco-Products rose by 1,069 to 9,456. This  brought the Eco-Product sales ratio to 60 percent,  topping our goal of 55 percent. Key factors driving  the improved sales ratio were the registration  of more Eco-Products for systems, software, and  services, as well as business growth in construction  machinery and automobiles.  Next Steps Our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 2011– 2015) sets the goal of boosting the Eco-Products  sales ratio to 65 percent by  scal 2015. Given the  growing localization of design, production and  sales in recent years, our particular focus is to use  DfE assessments to promote more Eco-Product  development outside Japan. Environmentally Conscious Products and Services 0 100* 40 20 60 (%) 80*  (No. of  models) 0 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 Key Indicators 4,900 5,741 6,954 8,387 9,456 Trend in the Eco-Product Sales Ratio 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) 47 31 38 53 60 0 60 40 30 50 (%) 55* *FY 2010 target Eco-Product Increase 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) 98 86 94 78 97 84 98 85 100 86 The Eco-Product registration ratio is the ratio of Eco-Product  sales to sales of all products for which DfE is applicable. Up  until  scal 2010, we were increasing the number of Eco- Products in speci c product areas, but from now on we  intend to make all our new products Eco-Products.  Number of Eco-Product models (*FY 2010 target)  Eco-Product registration ratio (Product categories:  information and telecommunications systems, digital  media, and consumer products)  Eco-Product registration ratio (Product categories:  power systems, social infrastructure and industrial  systems, high functional materials and components)  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Products and  Services Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  064 How a DfE Assessment Is Performed Under the DfE system, the environmental load  for each product life cycle stage—from material  procurement to production, distribution, use, and  disposal—is quantitatively assessed using the eight  DfE assessment criteria such as environmental  protection and energy effi  ciency, with results  recorded as a level from 1 through 5. If a product  scores at least equal to or more than level 2 (the  reference level before the latest major model  change) in all 8 criteria and its average over all the  criteria is level 3 or more, it is designated as an  Eco-Product. Management of the whole environmentally  conscious design and development process is  coordinated using the Hitachi Group Ecodesign  Management Guidelines. Based on the IEC 62430  international standard on generic procedures for  environmentally conscious design, the guidelines  require divisions, such as business planning, design,  procurement, manufacturing, and quality control,  to be environmentally conscious and keep records  on processes and results. This includes the use of  DfE assessment and Eco-Product development. How a DfE Assessment Is Performed Non-qualifying products Eco-Product designation DfE assessment criteria (examples) Life cycle stage (examples) Focal points of assessment (examples) 1. Mass and volume reduction Material production, manufacturing Size and weight reduction, yield of parts and materials, assessment of mass and volume reduction of  the product 2. Long-term usability Use  Upgradability, ease of maintenance and repair, durability, reliability 3. Recyclability Reuse or recycling Selection of materials and parts that are reusable or recyclable, use of recycled resources, recyclability  rate 4. Ease of dismantling & treatment Manufacturing, collection and  disassembly Structure for easy disassembly, ease of separation, reduction of disassembly time, easy collection  and transportation of product, safety in treatment, ease of crushing treatment 5. Environmental protection Material production, manufacturing,  collection and disassembly, disposal Environmental protection of parts and units, safety of equipments and materials for maintenance,  environmental protection in manufacturing process, environmental protection for facilities 6. Energy saving Material production, manufacturing,  use, collection and disassembly,  disposal Energy-saving design of products, energy saving in production process, energy saving in distribution 7. Information provision Use, collection and disassembly Information provision to requesting parties, mechanism for information provision 8. Packaging materials  Distribution Reduction in mass and volume of packaging materials, recycling of packaging material, ease of  collection and transportation of packaging materials, environmental protection in treatment and  nal  disposal of packaging materials Eight Criteria Used to Quantitatively Assess Environmental Load at Each Stage of the Product Life Cycle  Qualifying products Implementation of Assessment for DfE Product Life Cycle Resource conservation Eight Assessment Criteria (example) 1. Mass and volume reduction 5. Environmental protection 2. Long-term usability 4. Ease of dismantling & treatment 6. Energy saving 7. Information  provision 8. Packaging  materials 3. Recyclability Reuse or recycle Material production Manu- facturing Distri- bution Disposal Collection  and dis- assembly Use  Design for Environment  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Products and  Services Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  065 Sector Information &  Telecommunication  Systems Electronic Equipment &  Systems, Components &  Devices Power Systems, Social  Infrastructure & Industrial  Systems, Construction  Machinery, Automotive  Systems Digital Media & Consumer  Products  High Functional Materials  & Components, Other  Breakdown (sales ratio) 18% 17% 35% 9% 21% Key products   Fiscal Year 2010 Breakdown of Eco-Products by Sector and Examples  Monitoring software for IT systems TFT LCD modules Amorphous transformers Washer-dryers Anisotropic conductive  lms Transmitters Transmission electron microscopes Highly effi  cient gas turbines HD televisions Eco material cables Disk Array 1 Opening the way for effi  cient, power-saving data center operations High-Performance Steel for Diecasting die Improves durability of molds and improves resource use Examples of Eco-Products supply to extra disk drives not in use, achieving a power saving of up  to 75 percent across the whole system, compared with times when  this feature is not used.  Hitachi Dynamic Provisioning, volume capacity virtualization reduces  the number of hard disk drives by maximizing capacity. This means,  for example, if 30 TB is initially used for an eventual capacity of 40  TB, power consumption can be reduced by around 20 percent before  the extra 10 TB is required (in the case of a Serial Attached SCSI 300  GB drive in an AMS2300 model).  Third-party evaluation Received the Green IT Promotion Council Chairmans Award in the   Energy Consumption of IT category of the Green IT Awards 2010 2  Product: AMS 2500 Top model in the Hitachi Adaptable Modular Storage 2000 family of  mid-range disk arrays Information & Telecommunication Systems Company, Hitachi, Ltd.  Environmentally conscious features and characteristics  Hitachis Tray Power Saving technology enables stopping power  1  Disk array:  A data storage equipment using a redundant array of  independent disks (RAID) attached externally to a computer; it boosts  storage capacity, performance, reliability, and availability. 2  Green IT Awards:  Awarded to IT equipment, software, and services,  as well as proposals using them, which achieve outstanding energy  savings (from the Green IT Promotion Council, backed by METI). 1  Toughness:  Steels resistance and ability to withstand external forces 2  Best 10 New Products Awards:  Sponsored by Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun,  a leading newspaper, for new products meeting one of these criteria:  an original invention with major impact in Japan and other countries;  world-leading performance; a major contribution to enhancing  Japans industrial technology; or a pioneering role in promoting the  advancement of industry or society.  Makes more eff ective use of mold steel by extending the life span 1.5  to 2 times more than traditional diecasting die steel.  Greater strength at high temperatures, as well as greater heat  crack resistance, helps boost the productivity of aluminum die  cast products which opens the way for lighter cars with lower fuel  consumption and more recyclability.  Third-party evaluation Received the Best 10 New Product Prize 2 at the 53rd Best 10 New  Product Awards in 2010  Product: DAC-MAGIC Advanced die steel for diecasting (Hitachi Metals, Ltd.)  Environmentally conscious features and characteristics  DAC-MAGIC diecasting die steel retains the toughness 1 of traditional  die casting steel but has greater strength at high temperatures.  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Products and  Services Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  066 Development of Super Eco-Products Eco-Products that meet even more demanding  requirements are designated as Super Eco-Products.  Super Eco-Products must have either a global  warming prevention factor or resource factor of  10 or more, or be leaders in their industry for their  energy effi  ciency standard achievement rate1 or  other similar factors, or be highly rated outside  the company. Factor 10 or more indicates that the  product has a global warming prevention effi  ciency  or resource effi  ciency of at least ten times more  than reference products that were sold in  scal  2000 in principle. We are committed to increasing  the number of Hitachi Super Eco-Products by  improving the Super Eco-Product ratio, which is the  ratio of Super Eco-Products to total Eco-Product  sales.  In  scal year 2010, an additional 182 models  were designated as Super-Eco Products, bringing  the total to 721. However, booming Eco-Product  sales produced a relatively low Super Eco-Product  ratio of 26 percent, under the 30 percent target. Next Steps  Our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 2011- 2015) raises the environmental performance  standards for the designation of Super-Eco Products  even higher, introducing a new designation:  Eco-Products Select. The reference products used  to calculate the global warming prevention and  resource factors have been changed from  scal  2000 products to  scal 2005 products. Product  function, one element used in calculating global  warming prevention effi  ciency and resource  effi  ciency, will now be assessed based on the  1  Energy effi  ciency standard achievement rate:  Based on the Act on the  Rational Use of Energy (also known as the Energy Conservation Law), this  value indicates the rate of achievement for energy effi  ciency targets of certain  home appliances. The target values are de ned using the most energy  effi  cient products available at the time. 2  Amount of resources used over the products life cycle:  amount of new  resources + discarded resources Hitachis Eco-Product System Eco-Products Products Products that meet  DfE assessment  criteria  Either a global warming  prevention factor or a resource  factor of 10 or more  Industry leading level  Highly regarded outside Hitachi Super Eco-Products Global Warming Prevention Factor Calculation The global warming prevention factor is the amount of improvement  in effi  ciency of global warming prevention compared with a reference  product. The effi  ciency of global warming prevention is based on  the concept of environmental effi  ciency that balances the value  of products contributing to the quality of life and the reduction of  their environmental load. We gauge the improvement in product  value by function and life span, using the amount of greenhouse  gases emitted over the product life cycle to calculate the reduced  environmental load. Product function Product life span Volume of greenhouse gas emissions  throughout the product life span De nition of effi  ciency of global warming prevention Effi  ciency of Global  Warming Prevention Effi  ciency of global warming  prevention of evaluated product Effi  ciency of global warming prevention of reference product De nition of factor of global warming prevention Factor of Global Warming Prevention Resource Factor Calculation The resource factor is the amount of improvement in resource  effi  ciency compared with a reference product. Drawing on the same  concept as global warming prevention effi  ciency, we gauge the  improvement in product value by function and life span, using the  amount of resources used over the product life cycle2 to calculate the  reduced environmental load. Product function Product life span   (life cycle resource use  value coeffi  cient of each resource) De nition of resource effi  ciency Resource Effi  ciency Resource effi  ciency of evaluated product  Resource effi  ciency of reference product De nition of resource factor  Resource Factor  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Products and  Services Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  067 function creating the added value most vital to that  product. We have also introduced a new condition:  the carbon emission reduction must be at least 50  percent greater than  scal 2005 products. Through  these changes, we aim to lift the environmental  performance of our product development to new  heights, gaining Eco-Products Select for 20 models by   scal year 2011 and 100 models by  scal year 2015. Super Eco-Products that meet these new  standards will be designated as Eco-Products Select.  Addressing Carbon Footprint   The Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) is  the carbon equivalent of the total amount of  greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted over the entire  life cycle of a product or service—from procurement  of raw materials through to disposal and recycling.  It is displayed on an easily understood label.  This allows people to compare the CFP of similar  products and services to select the product or  service with the lowest environmental burden, and  also helps businesses supply products and services  to improve their own global warming prevention  eff orts. We participated in the CFP Pilot Project run  by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and  Industry (METI) and other ministries, and in  scal  year 2010 acquired permission to use the CFP label  for our interactive whiteboard (StarBoard) based  teleconferencing system. Disclosure of Environmental Information In 1999, Hitachi introduced an environmental  information labeling system that uses symbols  and data sheets to provide environmental  information on environmentally conscious products.  Hitachis environmental mark indicates that a DfE  assessment has shown the product to be an Eco- Product, informing stakeholders that the products  environmental burden has been highly improved.  We also use our Web site to disclose environmental  information, such as data sheets that include power  consumption for each environmentally conscious  product and case studies of products that helped  improve environmental effi  ciency. Recycling Product Resources To promote resource recycling, the Hitachi Group  is building used product recovery systems and  developing recycling technologies. Developing Rare Earth Recycling Technologies  Rare earth magnets containing rare earths1 can  be used at very high temperatures and can exert a  strong magnetic force. Since these properties make  products highly energy effi  cient, rare earth magnets  are in increasing demand for cars, generators and  consumer appliance motors, as well as for hard  disk drives (HDDs). However, the uneven global  distribution of rare earths makes it vital for us to  develop alternative materials, as well as to secure a  stable rare earth supply by, for example, recovering  these resources from products. Hitachi has been working since  scal 2008 to  recycle rare earths by developing technologies to  CFP Label for the Interactive Whiteboard StarBoard- based Teleconferencing System The top  gure (4,750 kg) is the amount of GHGs  that will be emitted over the products entire life  cycle, where it is used in the following scenario  during use for ten years. GHG emissions per conference hour: 8.93 kg The 8.93 kg  gure is the amount of GHGs emitted over the products entire life  cycle where it is used for one-hour conferences based on this scenario. *This  gure was calculated and veri ed based on a particular scenario; if the  scenario changes, so will the  gure. Product scenario Hitachi Solutions holds a 1.15-hour conference involving six people 0.89 times  per week (53.2 hours and 46.3 times per year) over the 500 km distance  between Tokyo and Osaka. Details of the system setup are available on the  offi  cial CFP Web site (http://www.cfp-japan.jp/). Hitachis environmental mark WEB  Lists and datasheets of Eco-Products http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ecoproducts/ WEB  Environmental Efficiency of Hitachi Products Based on Factor X http://www.hitachi.com/environment/library/pdf/factorx_en.pdf  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Products and  Services Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  068 remove the rare earths from the magnets in hard  disk drives and compressors. In  scal 2010, we developed a dedicated device  to separate and recover rare earth magnets from  used HDDs and compressors, and we succeeded  in extracting rare earths from magnets through  an experimental dry process that uses a special  extraction medium.2 This extraction device reduces  the amount of time required to separate and  recover rare earth magnets from used products  to around one-tenth of the time for doing this  by hand. In addition, because the new process  does not employ the chemicals now often used,  recycling will be both cheaper and have a smaller  environmental burden. The next steps will be to conduct more veri cation  experiments using the dry process to extract rare  earths, and to investigate the reuse of the rare  earths from rare earth magnets for launching the full  operation of rare earth recycling in 2013. of resources. In  scal year 2010, we set up the  Product Recycling Service Center to bring in and  recycle even more used IT products. At this center,  we consult with sales and other divisions to devise  plans for recovering end-of-life IT products from  corporations. This includes recycling or purchasing  for reuse, according to the type and condition of  the product. In  scal year 2010, Hitachi recovered  around 5,700 tonnes of used IT products through  the Hitachi Recycle Hotline and product recovery  services. Looking ahead, we plan to improve  recycling using the technologies we are currently  developing for extracting rare earths from used  HDDs. Product Recycling in the Information/ Telecommunications Field  We set up the Hitachi Recycle Hotline in  scal  year 2002 to provide recovery and recycling of  computers and peripheral devices via the Internet  and other methods. Over the nine years up to   scal year 2010, we recovered 284,000 units  (3,090 tonnes) and have recycled 2,090 tonnes  1  Rare earths:  17 elements including lanthanum and scandium. Rare earth  magnets are magnetic alloys of rare earth elements such as neodymium and  dysprosium. 2  Undertaken using a FY 2009 New Resource Recycling Promotion Project  Subsidy (Urban Resource Recycling Promotion Project: Development of  technologies for recycling rare earths from high-performance magnetic  motors, etc.) Rare Earth Recycling Process HDDs Voice coil motors Rare earth  extraction Rotors and  magnets Rare earth Compressors HDD dis- assembly  device Compressor  disassembly  device Dry process Separation  using dedicated  device Rare earth  magnet recov- ery TOPICS Carbon Off set Service To prevent global warming, reducing carbon  emissions needs to be considered not just  when a product is manufactured or in use but  across the entire product life cycle, including  reuse, recycling and disposal. We meet this  need by adding the Carbon Off set1 Service  to our reuse and recycling package. Hitachi Group Carbon Off set Service Hitachi Group Emission  rights amortization Hitachi Capital  Corporation  Procurement and  provision of emission  rights Japanese government Emission rights amortization account Customers Emission  rights Carbon off set  certi cate Used IT equipment Hitachi Transport System, Ltd.  Collecting and shipping of  used IT equipment Used IT equipment Tokyo Eco Recycle Co., Ltd.   Disassembly, separation, recycling Hitachi Capital Services Co., Ltd.  Purchase, reuse The Hitachi Group off ers a carbon off set  service to customers using the emission   credit to compensate for carbon emitted  in the course of reusing and recycling used  IT equipment. We handle the collecting,   Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Products and  Services Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  069 Classi cation Application Substance (Group) Names Level 1 Prohibited  substances Chemical substances that the Hitachi Group prohibits from  being included in procured products (chemical substances  banned or restricted for use in products, including packing  materials, by domestic or foreign regulations and potentially  used for procured products for the Hitachi Group) Cadmium and its compounds, hexavalent chromium compounds, lead and its compounds, mercury and its  compounds, bis (tributyltin) oxide (TBTO), polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers  (PBDE), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), polychlorinated naphthalene (with 3 or more chlorines), short- chain chlorinated paraffi  n, asbestos, azo dyes and pigments, and ozone layer depleting substances Level 2 Controlled substances  Substances that are not restricted for inclusion in procured  products but for which monitoring and control are required  by domestic or foreign regulations, or for which special  consideration for recycling or appropriate disposal is required Antimony and its compounds, arsenic and its compounds, beryllium and its compounds, bismuth and  its compounds, nickel and its compounds (excl. alloys), selenium and its compounds, brominated  ame  retardants, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), phthalate esters, tributyltins (TBT) and triphenyltins (TPT), ozone layer  depleting substances (HCFC), radioactive materials, and potential REACH SVHC Hitachi Groups Voluntarily Controlled Chemical (VCC) Substances 1  Carbon off set:  Greenhouse gas emissions not easily reduced  by direct measures are off set by purchasing the equivalent  greenhouse gas reduction or absorption amount achieved in  another location or by another company, or by undertaking  projects that achieve emissions reductions and absorption. procedures to ensure compliance with REACH  and other regulations. Brie ngs are held in Japan  and other countries to ensure that regulations are  understood and actions are taken throughout the  Hitachi Group and to educate the employees who  are responsible. Registration for the EUs REACH regulations was  completed by November 2010 for the substances  and compounds the Hitachi Group exports to  Europe for more than 1,000 tonnes per year.  Investigations and preparations are also underway  on submitting the REACH noti cation on particular  substances in articles by the June 2011 deadline. Working with the Supply Chain Working closely with suppliers and customers, we  have been gathering and sending out information  about chemical substances across the supply  chain via the Integrated Management System for  Chemical Substances Contained in Products. In  July 2009, we linked this management system to  the cross-industry JAMP1 information exchange  platform via Hitachis enterprise cloud service TWX- 21.2 The direct connection between customer and  supplier databases has opened the way for fast,  effi  cient information collection and transfer across  the entire supply chain. At the end of March 2011,  chemical substance information for 890,000 parts  and products was registered in our integrated  management system. Managing Chemical Substances Contained in Products To manage the chemical substances contained  in products, we created Regulations for  Environmental CSR-Compliant Monozukuri in 2005.  This helps us to manage chemical substances from  product development and design to procurement,  production, quality control, and sales. To voluntarily  control chemical substances, we have de ned 13  prohibited substances (Level 1) and 13 controlled  substances (Level 2), including potential REACH1  substances added in 2009. We have also been  using our Integrated Management System for  Chemical Substances Contained in Products  created in 2005, as a way to gather and send out  information about chemical substances contained  in products. We will continue to revise and improve  our regulations and product information gathering  WEB  Status of product packaging recycling http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/wrapping.html 1  REACH regulation:  the European Unions regulation on Registration,  Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (EU) shipping and disposal of used IT equipment  and also procure and pass on the emission  credit, for providing the customer with a  carbon off set certi cate. We transfer the  carbon credit to the Japanese government  free of charge, helping Japan meet its Kyoto  Protocol commitments. In  scal 2010, we arranged 17 carbon  off sets. 1  JAMP:  Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium 2  TWX-21:  Cloud-based business service providing an intercompany  e-marketplace  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Products and  Services Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  070 Participating in the Development of  International Standards We work with the following international standards  organizations for environmental issues and  environmentally conscious product technology:  the International Organization for Standardization  (ISO), Ecma International, the International  Telecommunications Union (ITU-T), the World  Business Council for Sustainable Development  (WBCSD), and the International Electrochemical  Commission (IEC). This helps us discover global  business opportunities and ensure our products  competitiveness. In  scal 2010, the IEC Technical  Committee for Environmental Standardization  for Electrical and Electronic Products and Systems  (TC111), which is chaired by Hitachi, Ltd., adopted  Japans proposal on a method for quantifying  greenhouse gases emitted across the product  life cycle. Hitachi also serves as a co-chair for the  WBCSD Ecosystems Focus Area Core Team and  supported its creation of the Guide to Corporate  Ecosystem Valuation (see page 060). In recent  years, Hitachi has been making proposals for the  development of international standards for Smart  Cities, which have been attracting attention,  particularly in emerging nations, as a conceptual  framework for building environmentally conscious  cities. Integrated Management System for Chemical  Substances Contained in Products Registration database Managing the  amount of designated  chemical substances  contained in a product  by material and part Linking our integrated management system with the JAMP Global Portal  enables a more effi  cient exchange of chemical substance information over  the supply chain Integrated Management System for Chemical  Substances Contained in Products Survey/register, communicate Collection database Managing the total  amount of designated  chemical substances  by product and busi- ness JAMP information exchange platform (JAMP-GP (Global Portal)) Materials manufacturers Parts manufacturers Final product manufacturers TWX-21 Suppliers Environmental information Disclosing environmental  information Customers/ society Communicate Survey/register Design for  Environ- ment (DfE) Green  procurement Reduction of  environmen- tal burden  Risk management  (traceability of in- dividual products) Proposing international standards for Smart Cities at a WBCSD meeting  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  071 To reduce the environmental burden of  business activities, we have set targets  for reducing greenhouse gas emissions,  waste, chemical substance emissions, and  water use. Facilities that show a high level  of environmental consciousness as well as  outstanding results in these areas receive  Super Eco-Factory & Offi  ce certi cation as a  way of promoting environmentally conscious  production and encouraging environmental  activities. Creating Super Eco-Factories and  Offi  ces Super Eco-Factory & Offi  ce certi cations are given  to facilities that have achieved an industry-leading  environmental load reduction. We certify those  facilities as Eco-Factories & Offi  ces that have both  met their targets for the  scal year under our  GREEN 21 system for comprehensively evaluating  environmental action (see pages 083–084) and  have performed above the given criteria in areas  Environmentally Conscious Production Examples of Super Eco-Factories Hitachi Elevator Motor in Guangzhou, China, makes hoists, a core component of elevators. To save  energy, production effi  ciency has been boosted on production lines, which use many types of machine  tools. The plant has also promoted introducing high-effi  ciency air conditioners, LED lighting, and other  energy-saving devices. For example, all 1,360 ceiling lights are now LED. Also, a new building which  was added due to the need for production growth is designed for optimal use of natural light inside  the building to reduce power consumption. As a result, the  ve-year average energy consumption rate  per unit for  scal 2010 was improved by 10 percent. Other environmentally conscious manufacturing  initiatives include changing the type of forklifts used in the plant from diesel engines to electric (battery)  motors, and using adsorption instruments to lower VOC emissions during the painting process.  The Hamura Works designs and manufactures wireless communications systems, and has many   production areas to accommodate manufacturing of a wide range of the products. Hamura Works has  cut power usage by improving the layout of assembly areas and by sharing facilities with other Group  companies located nearby. Adoption of energy-saving machinery and equipment, such as high-effi  ciency  Hf inverter fluorescent lights and air conditioners, enabled Hamura Works to improve its five-year  average energy consumption rate per unit by 8.2 percent for  scal 2010. Waste paper, including documents on speci cations and other con dential documents, accounts  for more than 20 percent of the Hamura Works total waste. In  scal 2010, the Works achieved zero  nal  waste disposal rate through rigorous sorting and recycling, including using wet shredders so that waste  paper can be recycled into copy paper.  The works has more energy-saving plans, including using LED lamps on employees desks, and  shifting the responsibility of switching on and off the fluorescent lights in the work area from the  managers to individuals. The amount of power used across the whole Works will also be monitored using  a demand controller.  Hitachi Elevator Motor (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. Hamura Works, Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc. Super Eco-Factory & Offi  ce Certi cation Criteria Super Eco-Factories  & Offi  ces Eco-Factories &  Offi  ces Offi  ces and Factories Certi ed as achieving industry- leading environmental load  reduction 1. Energy effi  ciency 2. Improvements in resource  recycling 3. VOC emissions reduction 4. Water recycling 5. Renewable energy use 6. Other (special  commendation or use of  original technologies to  meet targets) Facilities that have  met their targets  for the  scal year  under the GREEN  21 evaluation  system  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  072 such as energy effi  ciency, improvements in resource  recycling, and volatile organic compound (VOC)  emissions reduction. Our target was to bring up  to 30 facilities, or 10 percent of the approximately  300 facilities eligible for certi cation, to the level of  Super Eco-Factories & Offi  ces by  scal 2010, and the  facilities themselves have worked hard to achieve a  high level of load reduction in order to be certi ed.  As a result, three more facilities were named Super  Eco-Factories & Offi  ces in  scal 2010, bringing the  total to 35 (23 in Japan and 12 outside Japan). To encourage environmental conservation,  information on initiatives at these facilities are  shared within the Group, along with energy- saving and water-processing technologies that  are relevant to other Group companies. Facilities  yielding outstanding results after introducing  Hitachi Group energy-saving products conduct  factory tours to demonstrate these products to  people within Hitachi and to others. Next Steps As part of our Third Environmental Action  Plan, we will review Super Eco-Factory & Offi  ce  certi cation criteria and mechanisms, launching  a new designation: Eco Factory & Offi  ce  Select. Certi cation criteria will be developed  individually according to the characteristics of our  manufacturing (factory) and non-manufacturing  (offi  ce) divisions. For factories, standards will be  raised for energy effi  ciency, renewable energy use,  as well as water recycling and other Super Eco- Factory & Offi  ce certi cation criteria used to date.  For offi  ces, evaluation criteria will be established in  areas such as energy saving for lighting, renewable  energy use, and a buildings overall environmental  protection. To maintain and raise the level of environmental  activities in Eco Factories & Offi  ces Select, certi ed  facilities will be re-evaluated every year to check  whether their performance for that  scal year still  meets the certi cation criteria. Our goal is for every  in-house company and Group company to have at  least one facility certi ed by  scal 2015.  Facilities already certi ed as Super Eco-Factories &  Offi  ces will be re-evaluated based on the new criteria. Trend in CO2 Emissions in Japan 1990 2008 2009 2007 2006 2010 (FY) (kt CO2) 0 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 94 100 86 88 75 79 3,322 2,893 2,482 2,630 3,104 2,805 0 100 50 25 75 (%) 88*  CO2 emissions  Normalized CO2 emissions   *FY 2010 target value Emissions were calculated using CO2 emission coeffi  cients  for each electric power company of each  scal year, as  published by the Ministry of the Environment Key Indicators Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions We are promoting reduced energy-related CO2  emissions from production activities as well as CO2  emissions from shipping to help cut greenhouse  gases and prevent global warming. To reduce energy-related CO2 emissions in Japan,  we intend to cut CO2 emissions by 12 percent from   scal 1990 by  scal 2010. Outside Japan, we aim  to improve CO2 emissions by 5 percent per unit of  production from  scal 2003, a goal re ecting the  increase in both the number of production sites  outside Japan as well as the increase in capacity  of those sites. In Japan, our sustained investment  programs in energy saving include the introduction  of energy effi  cient machinery and switching to  alternate fuels. Outside Japan, we have improved  production processes and also introduced the  knowhow for energy savings which proved  outstanding in Japan and resulted in improvements  in effi  ciency of energy use. The amount of CO2  emissions rose in  scal 2010 due to the increase in  production of auto-related parts in Japan as well  as production growth in China and Southeast Asia  in particular. Due to ongoing programs to increase   Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  073 effi  ciency, however, we cut domestic CO2 emissions  to 79 percent of the  scal 1990 level in Japan, while  outside Japan, CO2 emissions per unit of production  improved by 7 percent compared with  scal 2003. Improving Energy Effi  ciency through Sustained  Investment in Energy Saving  As part of our Second Environmental Action Plan  for  scal 2006–10, we implemented sustained  investment. Over that  ve-year period, we invested  29.7 billion yen in high-effi  ciency equipment  and fuel switching, achieving a 290,000-tonne  reduction in CO2 emissions. In  scal 2010, we  installed solar power generation equipment in two  more factories and made progress on switching  to LED tube lamps for a drastic reduction in CO2  emissions.  Fuel Switching Initiative  Based on our plan to reduce heavy fuel oil use  across the entire Group to one-tenth or less  from  scal 2005 by  scal 2012, since 2006, we  systematically switched to natural gas in the  10 plants which accounted for 80 percent of  the Groups heavy fuel oil use in  scal 2005. In   scal 2010, Hitachinaka General Hospital was  also switched entirely to electricity when it was  renovated. This and other measures have reduced  heavy fuel oil use by around 45% compared with  the  scal 2005 level.  Global Energy Conservation Diagnoses The Hitachi Group conducts energy conservation  diagnoses worldwide. Group engineers with  Energy Conservation Investment and CO2 Emission  Reduction in Japan 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Energy  conservation  investment 53 64 77 52 51 CO2 emission  reduction 58 102 50 44 32 (unit: investment (billion yen), emission reduction (kt)) Local energy conservation diagnoses FY 2005 49% 17% 12% 22% FY 2009 26% 9% 48% 17% FY 2010 28% 9% 47% 16% FY 2012  (planned) 4% 11% 74% 11% Trends in Fuel Use Ratios Heavy oil Kerosene Town gas  LNG* Lique ed petroleum  gas (LPG) *Lique ed Natural Gas Trend in CO2 Emissions outside Japan 2003 2008 2009 2007 2006 2010 (FY) (kt CO2) 0 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 98 100 98 97 95 93 1,242 1,419 1,397 1,694 1,407 1,483 0 100 80 60 90 (%) 95* 70  Normalized CO2 emissions per unit   production   *FY 2010 target value CO2 emissions Europe Americas China Asia Breakdown by Region 2003 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Europe 20 5 4 4 6 9 Americas 369 524 443 416 361 473 China 339 436 476 510 554 626 Asia 514 518 484 489 476 586 Total 1,242 1,483 1,407 1,419 1,397 1,694 (kt CO2) Key Indicators  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  074 advanced knowledge of the total equipment (air  conditioning and boilers, for example) propose  measures to improve energy use that will reduce  CO2 emissions. Especially now when more factories  are being built in China and Southeast Asia and  when Japanese production lines are being moved  there, CO2 emissions from production facilities  outside Japan account for around 40 percent  of total Group emissions. This is making energy  conservation an urgent task. We provide facilities  outside Japan with energy conservation support  programs to encourage them to make their own  daily and ongoing improvements. Hitachi experts  with energy conservation knowhow developed in  Japan have also gone to the Philippines, Malaysia  and other countries to conduct energy conservation  diagnoses, identifying wasteful energy use and  introducing high-effi  ciency equipment upgrades  to improve energy conservation. In  scal 2010,  energy conservation diagnoses were conducted  in 12 Japanese plants and 4 plants in Thailand,  bringing the number of factories diagnosed since   scal 2005 to more than 50. We will continue  to implement these global energy conservation  diagnoses, outside Japan in particular, to spread  energy conservation expertise and to train energy  conservation personnel. Introducing Renewable Energy We are committed to using solar and wind power,  and other renewable energy sources. In  scal 2010,  we introduced a 170 kW solar power generator,  bringing the amount of power generated from  renewable sources to 1,245 MWh from solar power  and 76 MWh from wind power. We have also  bought Green Power Certi cations from Japan  Natural Energy Company for around 1,000 MWh of  natural energy every year, using it for Hitachi, Ltd.  offi  ces and for trade fairs, etc. Reducing Transportation Energy We have worked to curb CO2 emissions from  transportation toward the target of improving  transportation energy consumption per real unit of  output by 11 percent from  scal 2006 by  scal 2010.  Key steps to reach this goal include reducing product  sizes, weights, and packaging to improve truck load  effi  ciencies; making modal shifts from truck to rail  and ship transportation; shipping complete rather  than part orders for large products; and combining  truck, rail, and ship transportation to boost effi  ciency.  As a result, we improved transportation energy  consumption per real unit of output by 29 percent  in  scal 2010 and reduced CO2 emissions by 63,000  tonnes from  scal 2006.  Green Power Certi cation symbol FY 2010 3.9% 0.1% 8.8% 87.2% Trends in Transportation Mode Ratios in Japan Rail Marine Truck Air FY 2008 FY 2007 FY 2006 78.5% 74.0% 90.1% 12.8% 16.3% 3.3% 0.1% 0.1% 0.4% 8.6% 9.6% 6.2% FY 2009 4.8% 0.1% 10.7% 84.4% Trend in CO2 Emissions from Transportation  in Japan 2008 2009 2007 2006 2010 (FY) (kt CO2) 0 200 150 100 91 100 90 74 71 155 128 125 174 188 0 100 50 70 30 10 90 (%) 89*  CO2 emissions  Normalized transportation energy consumption    per real unit of output     *FY 2010 target value  Key Indicators  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  075 Next Steps To promote energy-related CO2 emission reduction,  our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 2011–15)  sets the goal of reducing CO2 emissions per unit of  production across all Group production facilities by  6 percent from  scal 2005 by  scal 2011 and by 10  percent by  scal 2015. For production facilities in  Japan, the target is a 16-percent reduction in CO2  emissions from  scal 1990 by  scal 2011, and a  20-percent reduction by  scal 2015. To reach these  overall targets, each in-house company and Group  company has been assigned a target according to  growth in their particular business area.  Steps taken toward achieving our targets include  systematic fuel switching and using high-effi  ciency  machinery. We will also create a mechanism for  monitoring monthly CO2 emissions at every in-house  and Group company and assess the status of reaching  that  scal years goals, bolstering the PDCA cycle. To curb CO2 emissions from transportation, we  are aiming for an ongoing reduction of 1 percent  per year in transportation energy consumption per  unit of output. We will press ahead with modal shifts  and product weight reduction to cut transportation  energy consumption per unit of output in Japan by  12 percent from  scal 2006 by  scal 2011, and by 15  percent by  scal 2015. Reducing Waste We reduce and recycle waste materials generated  during manufacturing, including valuable resources  (reusable resources with residual value). To meet  our goal of reducing waste by 25 percent from   scal 2000 by  scal 2010, we have promoted  the reuse of resources from manufacturing by  recycling material residue as raw resources, as  well as by  ltering and reusing cleaning oil. These  technologies and measures were shared across the  Group, enabling the total-waste reduction group  to achieve a 33-percent cut by  scal 2010 and the  waste-per-unit production reduction group to  achieve a 25-percent reduction, both meeting the  years targets. We will also recycle waste into resources rather  than disposing of it in land lls. Using the Groups  3R load index to assess the environmental load  13 Trend in Resource Recycling Rate in Japan 2005 2008 2009 2007 2006 2010 (FY) (terajoules) 0 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 13 0 14 18 20 2,913 2,401 2,342 2,542 2,541 2,496 20 0 (%) 10*  3R load  Resource recycling rate   *FY 2010 target value Trend in Amount of Waste Generated  2000 2008 2009 2007 2006 2010 (FY) (kt/year)  0 1,000 750 500 250 76 78 100 85 80 75 75 67 76 67 75 870 737 608 738 760 784 0 100 25 50 (%) 75* Breakdown by Region 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Europe 2 2 0 0 1 1 Americas 113 73 52 53 38 54 China 39 52 58 59 51 80 Asia 64 60 60 61 54 78 Japan  652 597 590 564 464 525 Total 870 784 760 737 608 738   * FY 2010 target value  Normalized amount for total-waste      reduction group  Normalized amount for waste-per-   unit production reduction group Amount of waste generated Europe Americas China Asia Japan  (kt/year)  Key Indicators  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  076 incurred in waste disposal, we are developing  technologies and applications to promote reuse  and recycling. In  scal 2010, we raised the resource  recycling rate1 in Japan by 13 percent from  scal  2005, clearing the years goal of 10 percent. In our  initiative to boost the number of zero emission2  sites that have minimized land ll disposal, 159  facilities achieve that goal in  scal 2010. Promoting Appropriate Disposal To reduce the risk of inappropriate waste disposal,  we have developed a waste management system  that electronically records information from  manifests1 on waste type, disposal method  and disposal completion, and can register the  e-manifests2 being promoted by the government.  We have bolstered our mechanisms for ensuring  appropriate waste disposal, with the system  now issuing a warning if there are mistakes in a  manifest or if disposal cannot be completed. A  function has been added for collating data on  waste volume, disposal methods, and disposal  volume from electronic manifest information to  boost operational effi  ciency and promote resource  recycling. In  scal 2010, enhancing support  mechanisms for the introduction of e-manifests to  promote greater e-manifest use within the Group,  which resulted in 62 facilities adopting e-manifests. 1  Manifest:  An evidence document for industrial waste management issued by  waste generators and relayed along the waste stream to ensure appropriate  disposal  2  Electronic manifest (e-manifest):  Mechanism for centralized management  of digital manifests, with waste generators and waste disposal companies  sharing relevant information 1  Calculated as (base year 3R load minus subject year 3R load) divided by base  year 3R load  2  De ned as a  nal disposal rate (land ll disposal/waste) of no more than 1  percent and less than 5 tonnes of  nal waste in any given year WEB  Zero emission sites  http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/zeroemission.html 3R Load Concept The 3R load is the expected environmental load from waste disposal. The  smaller the environmental load, the more resources are being recycled. The  following are totaled for each waste type and disposal method:  [1] Energy used in re ning natural resources into materials  [2] Energy used in waste disposal  [3] Heat energy recovered through waste recycling and reduction in re ning  energy Materials Manufacture Reuse  Recycling  Heat recovery Simple  incineration Land ll  disposal Heat energy  recovered Energy for re ning Energy for  incineration Energy for  incineration Energy for  using land lls Energy for  recycling Re ning  energy  saved Natural resources Input Waste disposal  Management of contractors  contract information Offi  ce Wastes Information  management server Data on waste  contractors Waste data Intranet  Collate and analyze waste  disposal volume  Print and issue manifests  Manage manifest recovery period * Japan Waste Network, operated by the Japan  Industrial Waste Technology Center JWNET* E-manifest registration Waste Management System Internet  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  077 de nition of zero emissions will be revised as of   scal 2011 and the  nal disposal rate (land ll  disposal/waste) will be cut from no more than 1  percent to less than 0.5 percent, as we work to  develop and increase the number of zero-emission  sites.  Water Conservation Given the global shortage of water resources, we  are committed to promoting eff ective use of the  water by reducing the amount of water consumed  in our operations. Outside Japan, where water  conservation is a pressing issue, our production  facilities had recovered and recycled water  during manufacturing process or reused it for  non-technical uses to reach the goal of reducing  water consumption by 10 percent from  scal  2005 by  scal 2010. In  scal 2010, the 10-percent  target was achieved despite increased water  Next Steps Our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 2011–15)  aims to further reduce the amount of waste  generated by increasing the target for improving  waste generation per unit of production from   scal 2005 by 16 percent in  scal 2011 and by 20  percent by  scal 2015. Facilities manufacturing  high-function materials, such as copper products  and magnetic materials, are expected to achieve  a 7-percent improvement by  scal 2011 and 15  percent by  scal 2015, considering the heavy  energy use of production processes in these areas.  To improve appropriate waste disposal rates, our  target is to lift the e-manifest registration rate in  Japan to at least 90 percent by  scal 2015. The  TOPICS Reducing Waste from Transportation  Packaging Hitachi Transport System is promoting  activities to reduce waste by improving  packaging. The initiative in  scal 2010  was to reduce wood waste by switching  from one-way wooden packing crates to  collapsible, reusable metal crates. These  crates were made more compact to  t into  Japan Freight Railway Company  ve-tonne  containers, enabling a modal shift from  truck to rail transport and helping to reduce  CO2 emissions during transportation. The  shorter unpacking time has also enhanced  work effi  ciency and service. Due to these  improvements, the company received an  Electric Equipment Packaging Category  Award at the Japan Packaging Contest 2010,  which is sponsored by the Japan Packaging  Institute.  One-way wooden crates (left) replaced by collapsible, reusable  crates (right) Trend in Water Use outside Japan 2005 2008 2009 2007 2006 2010 (FY) (million m 3) 0 20 15 10 5 78 100 81 75 71 90 18.21 13.61 12.90 16.40 14.26 14.68 0 100 60 20 80 (%) 90* 40 Breakdown by Region 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Europe 0.04 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.02 Americas 5.21 5.05 4.05 3.89 3.71 4.05 China 4.68 4.71 4.84 4.80 4.94 5.16 Asia 8.28 4.91 5.35 4.90 4.24 7.17 Total 18.21 14.68 14.26 13.61 12.90 16.40  Normalized water use   *FY 2010 target value Europe Americas China Asia Water use (million m 3) Key Indicators  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  078 use—particularly in China and Southeast Asia—due  to the rise in production volume. We will pursue a  range of measures to boost water use effi  ciency,  ensuring a steady reduction.  Next Steps Our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY 2011–15)  aims to balance increased production outside Japan  with water resource conservation by improving water  use per unit of production by 16 percent from  scal  2005 by  scal 2011 and by 30 percent by  scal 2015. Chemical Substance Management To deal with chemical risk and comply with laws  and regulations, we assess chemical substances,  managing risk in three ways: prohibition, reduction,  and control. Since 1998, we have operated  an online database for chemical substance  management called CEGNET to index the latest  laws and regulations and our own voluntary  regulations, ensuring appropriate management of  newly introduced chemical substances. Chemical  substances used in our operations are also  registered with CEGNET. Collecting and aggregating  the data on the amount of chemical substances  used, emitted, or transferred helps to reduce our  use of chemicals. In addition, we train chemical  substance managers and regularly communicate  the risks to deepen local residents understanding  of how we manage chemical substance risk. Reducing Chemical Substances To prevent air pollution, we cut emissions of 41  volatile organic compounds (VOCs) based on a  program from the Ministry of the Environment. Our  goal was to reduce VOC atmospheric emissions in  Japan by 50 percent from  scal 2000 by  scal 2010,  and to cut the rate of reduction of VOC atmospheric  emissions1 outside Japan by 10 percent from  scal  2005. The rate of reduction of VOC atmospheric  emissions—intended to reduce the ratio of  emissions to the volume of VOCs handled—is used  as an indicator outside Japan because of production  growth there. We are improving manufacturing  processes to introduce VOC alternatives and install  equipment to recover and render them harmless.  Hitachi Construction Machinery, for example, has  achieved a 40-percent reduction in the volume of  VOC emissions by adopting low-solvent paints and  introducing an electrodeposition coating process  using water-based paint for coating large hydraulic  shovels. Outside Japan, Hitachi Elevator (Shanghai)  has cut the volume of VOC emissions to less than 1  percent by introducing devices for absorbing and  recovering VOCs during the painting process for  elevator parts and by switching to water-based  paints. As a result of all these activities, in  scal  2010, we cut VOC emissions in Japan by 69 percent  from  scal 2000, and outside Japan reduced  emissions by 29 percent from  scal 2005, in both  cases achieving our targets.  We comply with Japans PRTR Law2 through  The CEGNET Chemical Substance Management System Chemical information management server New chemical risk  searches Regulatory/voluntary  control information  Chemical data Registration of amounts  handled / data collation Production facilities Network Trend in VOC Atmospheric Emissions in Japan 2000 2008 2009 2007 2006 2010 (FY) (kt)  0 15 10 5 51 100 56 38 32 31 11 4 3 3 5 6 100 0 60 40 20 80 (%) 50*  VOC atmospheric emissions  Normalized VOC atmospheric emissions   * FY 2010 target value Key Indicators  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  079 Group-wide monitoring of chemical substances  released into the atmosphere or into public waters,  or transferred outside our plants as waste, or  discharged into sewage systems, reporting this  to local Japanese governments. Although some  substances are exempt from reporting due to  their small quantities, our policy is to keep data  on all PRTR substances, provided the amount is 10  kilograms or more per year, so that we can control  these substances as well. Next Steps To reduce the ratio of VOC emissions to VOCs  used, our Third Environmental Action Plan (FY  2011–15) established the rate of reduction of  VOC atmospheric emissions as the indicator used  worldwide. It sets the targets of reducing that  rate to 5.8 percent in  scal 2011 and to less than  5 percent in  scal 2015, further reducing VOC  emissions into the atmosphere.  Managing Environmental Risk In the Hitachi Group, we go the extra mile in  environmental management by considering the  environmental burden of all our business activities  and setting voluntary management criteria more  stringent than regulations. At every business site,  we monitor water quality and noise, for example,  and work to minimize environmental risk. We also  share information on environmental regulations  and violations to prevent recurrences and to  strengthen management. In  scal 2010, four incidents exceeded statutory  environmental limits and there were nine noise  complaints, and all were promptly resolved. We  will continue to audit and monitor data to prevent  recurrences. To prevent soil and groundwater contamination  caused by chemical leaks, we replace underground  pipes, pits, and tanks with ones above ground.  We have now completed soil and groundwater  decontamination or con rmed the sites  where chemical substances were used to be  conatmination free. Cleanups and monitoring will  continue at the remaining sites. Violations of Statutory Standards Water quality Air Total  Japan  2 0 2 Outside Japan  2 0 2 Key Indicators Trend in Reducing VOC Atmospheric Emissions  outside Japan 2005 2008 2009 2007 2006 2010 (FY) (t)  0 900 600 300 96 100 97 76 86 71 704 523 577 439 774 752 0 100 75 50 25 (%) 90* * Top  gures show VOC atmospheric emission volumes. Bottom  gures in  parentheses show the volume of VOCs handled.  Normalized the ratio of VOC atmospheric    emissions    *FY 2010 target value Europe Americas China Asia VOC atmospheric emissions Breakdown by Region 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Europe 15 0 8 9 7 9 (26) (0) (14) (13) (10) (12) Americas 33 17 29 37 29 41 (46) (25) (44) (44) (41) (48) China 336 459 430 288 268 131 (445) (655) (639) (607) (502) (310) Asia 320 276 307 189 273 258 (525) (532) (496) (356) (452) (539) Total 704 752 774 523 577 439 (1,042) (1,212) (1,193) (1,020) (1,005) (909) (t/year) 1  The rate of reduction of VOC atmospheric emissions:  The percent  diff erence between the 2005 emission ratio and the emission ratio in the  subject year. The emission ratio is calculated as VOC atmospheric emissions  divided by total volume of VOCs handled.  2  PRTR Law:  Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmentally Conscious Production Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  080 This chart shows resource inputs and the environmental load for Hitachi Group business activities in  scal  2010. Environmental Load Data Generated through Business Operations (FY 2010) In Japan Outside Japan Electricity 4.7 billion kWh 2.1 billion kWh Gas Town gas, LNG 100 million m 3 24 million m 3 LPG 42,000 t 18,000 t Fuel oil (heavy oil, kerosene, etc.)  109,000 k  14,000 k  Total Input of Resources Total Energy Input In Japan Outside Japan CO2 emissions 2,630 kt 1,694 kt Other GHGs SF6 (sulfur hexa uoride)  68 GWPkt 0 PFCs (per uorocarbons)  18 GWPkt 0 HFCs (hydro uorocarbons)   17 GWPkt 4 GWPkt Total Output of Environmental Load Volume of products shipped: 3,378 kt (in Japan); 831 kt  (outside Japan) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Electricity 81% Gas 12% Fuel oil  7% In Japan 71% Outside  Japan 29% CO2 emissions 98% Other 2% In Japan 62% Outside Japan  38% In Japan Outside Japan Public water 39.92 million m 3  3.29 million m 3 Sewerage system  8.64 million m 3  12 million m 3 Underground in ltration, etc. 1.74 million m 3  0.71 million m 3 Water quality BOD (biological oxygen demand)   247 t 455 t COD (chemical oxygen  demand)  187 t 1,024 t Total Volume of Wastewater Wastewater 66.31 million m 3 Underground  in ltration, etc. 4% Sewerage  system  31% Public water  65% In Japan 76% Outside Japan 24% In Japan Outside Japan Waste reduction 33 kt 15 kt Recycling 450 kt 151 kt Volume reused 80 kt 5 kt Volume of material recycled 341 kt 144 kt Volume of thermal (heat)  recycled  29 kt 2 kt Final disposal 42 kt 47 kt  Chemical substances Discharge or transfer volume of chemical substances covered under the PRTR Law   4.6 kt 0.4 kt SOx (sulfur oxides)  47 t 10 t NOx (nitrogen oxides)  471 t 45 t Volume of discharge for ozone-depleting  substances  2 t (0.1 ODP 3t) 0.3 t (0 ODPt) Total Volume of Waste Waste generated 738 kt Waste reduction 6% Final disposal 12% Recycling 82% In Japan 71% Outside  Japan 29% In Japan Outside Japan Metals 1,275 kt 722 kt Plastics 169 kt 83 kt Rubber 6 kt 21 kt Other materials 478 kt 764 kt  Chemical substances Handling volume for chemical substances covered under the PRTR Law 1  183 kt 14 kt Handling volume for ozone- depleting substances  2 t 543 t Handling volume for  greenhouse gases 1,531 t 374 t Total Input of Materials Materials 3,519 kt Plastics 7% Rubber 1% Metals 57% Other 35% In Japan 55% Outside Japan  45% Total energy  consumption (crude  oil equivalent) 2.07 million kl 1  The 354 chemical substances covered under Japans PRTR Law 2  GWP (Global Warming Potential):  Coeffi  cient derived by converting the global warming potential into CO2 equivalent tonnes 3  ODP (Ozone Depletion Potential):  Coeffi  cient derived by converting the global depletion potential into trichloro uoromethane (CHC-11) equivalent tonnes In Japan Outside Japan Surface water 6.51 million m 3  8.74 million m 3  Industrial water 25.65 million m 3  4.75 million m 3  Groundwater 22.9 million m 3  2.9 million m 3  Total Water Input Water used 71,470,000 m 3 Surface water  21% Groundwater 36% Industrial water 43% In Japan 77% Outside Japan  23% al  alall ener Greenhouse gases  (GHGs) 2 4,431 GWPkt Volume of water reused In Japan: 34.61 million m 3 Outside Japan: 4.46 million m 3  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  081 Environmental Management System(EMS) In-House Companies  Integrated EMSs Group Companies  Integrated EMSs Eco-Management  Sub-committee Eco-Products Sub-committee Eco-Business Sub-committee Eco-Factory Sub-committee President Environmen- tal Strategy  Offi  ce Senior Executive  Committee for  Environmental Policy Regional Environmental Meeting Environmental Strategy  Offi  cers Meeting Environmental  Committee In the Hitachi Group, we have built a global  network and are using environmental  management systems to foster sound  environmental practices and instill Eco- Mind in all our employees. We also work  to deepen stakeholders understanding of  our environmental activities by disclosing  information, and we encourage two-way  communication to improve those activities. Environmental Management Framework The Hitachi Group is made up of Hitachi, Ltd.s  in-house companies and Group companies. We  are building a global environmental management  system to support environmental decision making  and action at Hitachi, Ltd., 913 consolidated  subsidiaries, and 164 equity-method affi  liates.  The Hitachi, Ltd. Environmental Strategy  Offi  ce is responsible for developing Group-wide  environmental policies. It drafts basic management  policies and action plans that are deliberated on  and approved by the Senior Executive Committee  for Environmental Policy, chaired by the president.  The Environmental Strategy Offi  cers Meeting,  made up of representatives from in-house  companies and major Group companies, ensures  that environmental strategies are implemented  throughout the Group. We also have an  Environmental Committee and subcommittees  of working level experts in each policy area who  develop speci c targets and measures for achieving  them. In  scal 2011, we established the new Eco- Business Committee to promote the globalization  of our environmental business operations. Outside Japan, we hold regular regional  environmental meetings to promote environmental  action. In  scal 2010, information was shared  during meetings in China, the United States, and  Europe on the Third Environmental Action Plan (FY  2011-15) and the latest environmental regulations.  In addition, views were exchanged on local  environmental issues. We will continue using these  worldwide regional networks to improve our global  activities, keeping the special character of each  region in mind. Environmental Management Framework and Communication In-House Companies Presidents Environmental strategy offi  cers Major Group Companies Presidents Environmental strategy offi  cers Factories and  Offi  ces Division heads Environmental  management offi  cers Group Companies Presidents Environmental  management offi  cers Environmental Management System under  the Hitachi Group Environmental Promotion Organization* *Organization built around the environmental  promotion departments of the Hitachi, Ltd.  Research & Development Group, four in-house  companies, and 20 Group companies 913 consolidated subsidiaries and 164 equity-method affi  liates Group Companies Presidents Environmental  management offi  cers Factories and  Offi  ces Division heads Environmental  management offi  cers  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  082 Building Environmental Management Systems To ensure effi  cient management of each business  sites environmental load, we have set the criteria  for environmental management. Twenty- ve  business units which have approximately 300 sites  meeting these criteria—the R&D Group, four in- house companies, and 20 Group companies—and  the Environmental Strategy Offi  ce have together  developed and implemented the Hitachi Group  Environmental Promotion Organization EMS  to consistently promote the implementation of  environmental policies. In  scal 2010, the Hitachi Group Environmental  Promotion Organization EMS had its  rst ISO 14001  surveillance audit since a recerti cation audit. No  corrective action was required, and certi cation  remains in eff ect. Also, at the same time, the in-house and  Group companies covered by the Hitachi Group  Environmental Promotion Organization EMS have  been working to develop their own EMSs. In  scal  2010, three in-house and  ve Group companies  carried out EMS integration for multiple business  sites. With this completed, EMS integration has  now been done at all major in-house and Group  companies. Every business site meeting the criteria for  environmental management continues to maintain  ISO 14001 certi cation. In fact, business sites  that did not meet the criteria have also obtained  certi cation, so that 591 Hitachi Group business  sites were certi ed as of March 2011. Monitoring Environmental Performance Data For eff ective environmental management, we  collect environmental performance data on  business operations using the Environmental  Load Evaluation System. This system collects  environmental load data from some 300 Hitachi  business sites worldwide on such items as  energy use, CO2 emissions, and waste generated,  together with information on outside complaints,  honors received, and other items. By analyzing  this information, we identify environmental  management issues, share instructive examples  within the Group, and improve environmental  practices. We will continue to expand this system to  keep pace with new laws and policies. For example,  we added a function for registration to the electronic  manifests promoted by the Japanese government to  prevent inappropriate disposal of wastes (see page  76) and upgraded our system to collect and analyze  energy-use data from all relevant sites in response to  Japans amended Energy Conservation Law.1  Further improvements will allow the system  to assess progress toward reduction targets for  CO2 emissions and other environmental load  indicators. These measures will heighten awareness  of what needs to be done to meet the goals of the  Environmental Action Plan. Criteria for Environmental Management Level (major items) Employees   500 Electric power consumption   6,000 MWh/year Waste generated   500 tonnes/year Water used   600 m3/day Paper purchased   50 tonnes/year Europe 16 North America 18 Japan 453 China 42 Asia 62 Status of ISO 14001 Certi cations (as of March 2011) Japan Outside Japan Total Production  Sites Non- Production  Sites Production  Sites Non- Production  Sites No. of  Certi ed  Sites 240 213 111 27 591 WEB  List of ISO 14001–certified sites http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/iso14001.html 1   Energy Conservation Law:  Act on the Rational Use of Energy  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  083 Environmental Activity Evaluation System We use our own evaluation system, GREEN 21, to  improve the level and quality of our environmental  activities. It divides environmental activities into  eight categories and evaluates achievements and  progress toward Action Plan targets by rating 55  items on a scale from 1 to 5, then showing the  results on radar charts. For any category, a perfect  score is 200 green points (GPs). The results of  GREEN 21 evaluations are incorporated into the  business performance evaluations of all Hitachi  in-house companies and some Group companies.  In  scal 2010, the  nal year, we surpassed the  overall Group target of 1,280 GPs with a total score  of 1,286, due to steady improvements at business  sites around the world. In the areas of reducing  global warming and worldwide environmental  partnerships, where results fell short of their  targets, we intend to improve scores in the future  by continuing the shift to more energy-effi  cient  systems and by ramping up communication on  environmental action outside Japan. Under our Third Environmental Action Plan  (FY 2011–15), we are adding new GREEN 21  evaluation items with which we increase the level  of activity: contributing to business growth and  preservation of ecosystem through expanded  environmental business operations, and collecting  and communicating environmental data across our  supply chain. 180 90 0 3. Eco-Products: Manufacturing 166 GPs 7. Eco-Factories: Resource  Recycling 161 GPs 8. Worldwide  Environmental  Partnerships 151 GPs 2. Eco-Mind 168 GPs 6. Eco-Factories: Reducing Global  Warming 148 GPs 4. Eco-Products: Green Procurement 164 GPs 1. Eco-Management 163 GPs 5. Next-Generation Product / Service Strategy 165 GPs Categories and Evaluation Items 1. Environmental management action plan, environmental accounting,  risk management, and statutory compliance 2. Environmental training and education for employees (general  education, specialized education, auditor training) 3. Ecodesign, Eco-Products, management of chemical substances in  products 4. Green procurement, green purchasing 5. Next-generation Eco-Product strategy, sustainable business 6. Energy conservation at business sites, environmentally responsible  transportation 7. Waste reduction, chemical substance management 8. Stakeholder-oriented information disclosure, communications, global  citizenship activities FY 2010 target: 1,280 GPs FY 2009: 1,194 GPs FY 2010: 1,286 GPs FY 2007: 966 GPs FY 2006: 845 GPs FY 2008: 1,108 GPs Green Point (GP) Average: Results and Targets Key Indicators  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  084 Hitachi Group Environmental Award Program To encourage environmental activities and  disseminate best practices throughout the Group,  we established the GREEN 21 Award program  honoring environmentally conscious products,  technologies, and activities. Awards are based on  multiple criteria, including the results of GREEN  21 overall environmental evaluations, reduction  of environmental load, innovation, and ongoing  bene t. In  scal 2010 there were 30 entries, 10 of  which were selected for awards. Fiscal 2010 GREEN 21 Awards Category Recipient Achievement Grand Prize Hitachi Works, Power Systems Co. (Hitachi, Ltd.) Hitachi Engineering & Services Co., Ltd. Contributing to CO2 emission reduction through development and spread of  wind power generation system Division  Awards Eco-Mind & Global  Environmental  Management Hitachi Elevator (China) Co., Ltd. Adopting green policies to save energy, reducing toxic chemicals, etc.,  and implementing them at sites around China; winner of Chinas Excellent  Corporate Citizen in China award Next-Generation  Products & Services Hitachi Plant Technologies, Ltd. Product development of onboard ballast-water puri cation system using  magnetic separation; winner of the 7th Eco-Products Awards, Ministers Prize,  the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Worldwide  Environmental  Partnerships Shenzhen Hailiang Storage Products Co., Ltd. Promoting environmental education and conservation through community  programs involving employees, their families, and local residents Super Eco-Factories &  Offi  ces Hamura Works, Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc. Improving energy effi  ciency and reducing volume of  nal waste disposal (see  pages 075–077) Special Award Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Ltd. Global company-wide GREEN 21 campaign Honorable Mentions Hitachi IE Systems Co, Ltd. Air-conditioning system for environmentally conscious modular data center Taga Home Appliance Works, Home Appliance Group,  Hitachi Appliances, Inc. Developing low-steam-emission rice cooker that steams without added  water for lower electricity and water consumption and improved taste Shikoku Area Operation, Hitachi, Ltd. Contributing to the environment and the local community through  aff orestation Sakado Operations, Hitachi Intermedix Co., Ltd.  Adopting energy conservation and waste-reducing measures to win METIs  Commerce and Information Policy Bureau Director-General Award for energy- effi  cient factories Grand Prize Winner: Contributing to CO2 Emission Reduction through Development and Spread of Wind Power Generation System GREEN 21 Grand Prize  Criteria for Decision Hitachi Works, Power Systems Co. (Hitachi, Ltd.)   Developed a 2 MW downwind turbine, among the worlds largest,  and commissioned 19 turbines as of the end of FY 2010, contributing  to an annual CO2 emission reduction of 45,000 tonnes. Hitachi Engineering & Services Co., Ltd.   Launched  rst output power stabilization system for wind power  generation in Japan with a combined power rating of 15.44 MW and  equipped it with an energy storage system using long-life lead-acid  batteries. Minimized power generation cost increases and reduced   uctuations in output to ensure consistent power supply. Opened  facilities to viewing by more than 150 visitors from around the world,  helping spread wind power generation.   Off ered environmental education by giving more than 800  schoolchildren and local residents tours of wind farms during  construction from FY 2006 to FY 2010. Wind Power Ibaraki Co., Ltds  Wind Power Kamisu Elementary school children touring  wind farms during construction  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  085 Hitachi Group Education and Training System Target General  education All employees Specialized  education Working level  employees Internal en- vironmental  auditors Online e-learning: Eco-Mind education (General Topics: Global environmental issues, environmental law, etc.) Basic environmental management course for working-level employees (management of waste, air/water quality, hazardous materials, etc.) (development & operation of management systems, etc.) Online e-learning: Eco-Mind education (Hitachi Group Topics: Environmental policy,  Environmental Action Plan, etc.) Education for Eco-Factories Eco-Product development training Risk communicator training Introductory Beginning Intermediate Brush-up training for ISO 14001 auditors ISO 14001 auditor  certi cation training ISO 14001 senior auditor  certi cation training Advanced Environmental Education Hitachi Group Training is off ered to all Group  employees with a view to raising awareness and  spreading understanding of environmental issues.  Training is divided into general education, covering  subjects such as Hitachis Environmental Vision and  environmental strategies, and specialized expert  training.  For general education, we off er an Internet- based e-learning course in three languages:  Japanese, English, and Chinese. To date 174,977  employees worldwide (95% of the target group)  have taken this course. Specialized training aims to nurture skilled  personnel in such areas as environmentally  conscious product design, risk communication  regarding chemicals, and factories environmental  protection. In  scal 2010, we instituted a new  training course for staff  in charge of factory  management to familiarize them with the  latest environmental laws and explanations of  amendments. In addition to Hitachi Group Training,  individual companies and units provide special  education tailored to their own business area. From  scal 2011, we will intensify training to  enhance the knowledge and skills of staff  in charge  of factory management, using case studies to  illustrate compliance, noncompliance, and the need  for environmental management, while providing  opportunities for discussion with outside experts.  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  086 Environmental Accounting We have adopted, and are making public,  environmental accounting conforming to Japans  Environmental Accounting Guidelines. The results  help us to raise the effi  ciency of environmental  investments and activities. Environmental Protection Costs Item Costs (billions of yen) Overview FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Expenses Business area 39.24 39.72 33.31 28.20 27.98 Costs of maintenance, of equipment with low  environmental burden, depreciation, etc. Upstream/ downstream 2.89 2.79 1.97 1.70 1.60 Green procurement expenses, recovery and recycling  of products and packaging, recycling expenses Administration 10.31 11.30 11.20 8.92 8.61 Labor costs of environmental management,  implementation and maintenance of environmental  management system Research and  development 41.66 46.63 50.25 52.81 57.56 R&D for the reduction of environmental burden  caused by products and production processes, product  design expenses Social activity 1.20 0.48 0.35 0.25 0.31 Planting, beauti cation, and other environmental  improvement expenses Environmental  remediation 2.89 0.80 0.99 0.68 0.37 Environmental mitigation costs, contributions, and  assessments Total 98.18 101.72 98.06 92.56 96.44 Total investment 15.48 15.38 10.17 7.95 7.60 Investment in energy-saving equipment and   equipment that directly reduces environmental load Equipment depreciation costs are calculated using the straight-line method over  ve years. Environmental Protection Eff ects Bene ts from equipment investment are calculated using the straight-line method over  ve years, as with costs. *1 Economic eff ects include the following items:  Net income eff ects: bene ts for which there is real income, including income from the sale of resalable material and income from environmental technology patents  Reduced expenses eff ects: reduction in electricity and waste treatment expenses arising from environmental load reduction activities *2 Calculation for household-number equivalent for energy-use reduction: decrease in energy used during production (or during product use)  total annual power  consumption per household.  Source: The Energy Conservation Center, Japan, FY 2008 Survey on Standby Power Consumption (only in Japanese). *3 Calculation for household-number equivalent for  nal-waste disposal reduction: decrease in  nal waste generated during production  (total annual volume of non- industrial  nal waste  number of households).  Sources: Ministry of the Environment, Annual Report on the Environment in Japan 2009; Statistics Bureau, 2005 Population Census. Economic Eff ects* 1 Item Costs (billions of yen) Major FY 2010 Activities FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Net income eff ects 12.28 14.50 10.90 8.30 9.62 Finding value from waste by sorting and recycling Reduced expenses eff ects 20.15 22.02 18.24 15.00 18.45 Reducing resource costs through resource and energy  conservation; reducing waste disposal costs through  waste reduction Total 32.43 36.52 29.14 23.30 28.07 Physical Eff ects Item Amount Reduced (parentheses: equivalent number of households) * 2 * 3 Major FY 2010 Activities FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Reduction in energy used  during production 159 million  kWh (46,000) 161 million  kWh (34,000) 158 million  kWh (33,000) 191 million  kWh (40,000) 129 million  kWh (27,000) Reviewing clean room operating conditions;  consolidating worksites and facilities (relocation of  production bases); limiting the number of refrigerator  units and switching to inverter technology; partnering  with electric supply companies to save energy Reduction in amount of waste  for  nal disposal 6,375 t (42,000) 7,361 t (53,000) 6,752 t (48,000) 5,955 t (43,000) 3,623 t (26,000) Switching to PRF (solid waste fuel); recycling grinding  sludge and slag; reducing effl  uent volumes; reducing  packaging materials for goods received  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  087 Effi  ciency of Environmental Load Reduction* *This is an indicator of the effi  ciency of environmental load reduction, calculated as the amount of environmental load reduction divided by the expenses needed for the reduction. Item FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Reduction in energy used during production (million kWh/billion yen) 0.30 0.28 0.33 0.42 0.32 Reduction in amount of waste for  nal disposal (t/billion yen) 18.0 20.0 19.4 22.9 14.7 FY 2010 Investment Ratio by Countermeasure Prevention of Global  Warming 35% Waste Reduction 4% Pollution  Prevention 30% Other  31% Environmental Communication Communicating Environmental Information We publish reports every year on our environmental  protection initiatives, their results, and our plans.  In  scal 2011, taking into account the global need  for a sustainability report, we combined our Hitachi  Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report and  the Hitachi Group Environmental Sustainability  Report into a single report. The Environmental  Activities page on the Hitachis Web site also  provides information on the environmentally  conscious features of the Hitachi Groups main  products, as well as customer feedback. In  scal  2010, for its clear themes and the high standard of  environmental activities, our Web site won the prize  in the corporate category of the Environmental goo  Awards. Our environmental campaign TV commercial on  high functional materials and components, which  began screening in August 2010, won the grand  prize in the environmental TV commercials category  of the 14th Environmental Communication  Awards. Judges lauded Hitachis skilful portrayal  of the environmental contribution of the materials  business, recognizing that while these materials  are critical to the environmental business, they are  diffi  cult to explain to viewers.  Also, we cooperate with socially responsible  investment1 ratings and other environmental  surveys (see pages 102–103). Participation at Exhibitions We value the opportunity for direct dialogue with  stakeholders, so we participate in environment- related exhibitions. In  scal 2010, we took part in  exhibitions around the world, setting towards a  sustainable society as our core concept.  In Japan, we participated in Messe Nagoya 2010,  held in October to coincide with COP 10, as well  as the Eco-Products Exhibition 2010 in December  1  An approach to investing where shares are selected partly on the basis of  criteria relating to CSR WEB  CSR/Environmental reports published by Hitachi Group companies http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/rpt_open.html WEB  External environmental awards http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/data/commendation.html Eco-products International Fair in India Environmental Activities page on Hitachis Web site  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  088 (an annual event for us). Outside Japan, we held  the Hitachi Eco Conference 2010 in September  in Singapore as a private Hitachi Group event.  Also, we exhibited at both the 2010 International  Greentech and Eco Products Exhibition in October  in Malaysia and the Eco-products International  Fair 2011 in February in India. At these events,  we demonstrated to visitors our environmentally  conscious products and services, deepening their  understanding of Hitachi.  At exhibitions, we also work to reduce the  environmental load of our booths. The Hitachi  booth at Eco-Products Exhibition 2010 was built  with environmental consciousness in mind, using  LED lamps for all lighting and a carpet made from  recycled plastic bottles. For these initiatives, Hitachi  booth won the Eco & Design Booth Prize granted to  environmentally conscious exhibition booths.  Partnerships with Stakeholders We promote environmental communication,  deepening the exchange on environmental themes  with local stakeholders, and we conduct social  contribution activities with them.  In  scal 2010, we carried out environmental  education and tree planting as well as restoration  projects in various regions worldwide. As far as  environmental education is concerned, to help  raise the eco-awareness of children who will lead  the next generation, we provided easy learning  opportunities through hands-on training and  experiments and explanations of Hitachi Group  activities.  To conserve the environment as a global  citizen, we promote environmental beauti cation  and natural conservation in cooperation with  employees, their families and local residents.  Through these activities, we also support local  environmental conservation, by holding meetings  with local authorities and working with NGOs  and NPOs that specialize in local environmental  situations and activities (see pages 108–110). WEB  List of environmental exhibitions http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ads_events/event/index.html As part of our support for university students research, we deepened  mutual understanding by explaining our waste management activities  and exchanged opinions. (Hitachi Chemical (Johor) Sdn. Bhd., Malaysia) We provide specialized environmental education courses using visual  aids to teach children about the ecosystems of forests and animals. (Hitachi Global Storage Technologies Philippines Corp.) To deepen exchanges with local residents, we opened our offi  ce to  the public and provided opportunities to learn about environmental  technologies by exhibiting models running on solar cells, etc. (Hitachi Works, Hitachi, Ltd.) We planted trees in Hill Park, Nanshan, China, with the participation of  55 employees and their families. (Shenzhen Hailiang Storage Products Co., Ltd.)  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  089 Designating an Environment Day, we promote environmental  conservation activities, such as clean ups in the area around our  offi  ce and publicize these activities in an environment column in the  company newsletter. (Hitachi Building Equipment Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.) WEB  Other environmental communication activities    Hitachi Eco-Activities http://www.hitachi.com/environment/showcase/employee/index.html  Management Report Environmental Report  Environmental Management Framework  and Communication Social Report Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/environment/  090 To enhance the reliability of the data disclosed in this report, we have received a review by Bureau  Veritas Japan Co., Ltd.* on our  scal 2010 performance. The standards, guidelines, and calculation methods used in collecting data appear on our Web site. WEB  Calculation methods for environmental load data http://www.hitachi.com/environment/activities/third/method.html Independent Review *A certi cation agency providing inspection, audit, and certi cation services in areas such as marine; building compliance; health safety and  the environment; systems; and consumer products. Bureau Veritas Japan review report  Social Report  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  092 M E S S A G E Social Report Changing Our Business through Sustainable Procurement Activities  Improving Transparency and Cultivating Human Capital for a Global  Supply Chain Becoming a Corporate Group that Champions Diversity  Seeking to Be a World-Class Enterprise Where All  Employees Can Work Safely and Happily Escalating costs and a tightening supply of raw materials  stemming from increases in worldwide demand, as well  as the globalization of our operations, have transformed  procurement for us in recent years. We must therefore  accelerate the globalization of our entire supply chain while  consistently procuring the materials we need. Our key challenges are to ensure the transparency of our  entire supply chain, to share information with suppliers, and to  cultivate human capital worldwide. In Japan, we have built close  relationships with, and have grown together with, our suppliers  in what is essentially a family relationship. But these ties have  eroded somewhat in a global procurement climate where equal  partnerships have become the prime focus. We intend to build  a global supply chain based on trust by localizing human capital  while cultivating professionals worldwide. Well change our business through sustainable  procurement activities. With such a high aspiration and  commitment, well create a sustainable procurement system  that manages risk and builds business partnerships that meet  mutual social responsibilities. We aim to be a global business solving global issues, and  expect our businesses to grow worldwide and dramatically  over the next decade, particularly in emerging countries. We  therefore need to develop locally oriented management and  employ, evaluate, and cultivate human capital worldwide,   nding leaders to play key roles within the Hitachi Group. That said, we have not yet fully identi ed the career and  educational experience, and the skills, of all of our employees  around the world. In keeping with our commitment to be a  global company, I am eager to create a worldwide human  capital database as well as a global grading system that  we can use for developing the careers of our employees,  worldwide. We must maintain high standards of worker safety to  develop globally, which is why we formulated the Hitachi  Group Safety and Health Policy in  scal 2010. We intend to become a world-class, sustainable corporate  group that motivates employees by helping them to achieve  work-life balance and by accelerating diversity management. Makoto Ebata Senior Vice President and Executive Offi  cer  in charge of Procurement and Consumer Business, Hitachi, Ltd. Naoki Mitarai Vice President and Executive Offi  cer General Manager of Human Capital Group,  Hitachi, Ltd.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Quality Assurance and Customer  Satisfaction Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  093 Quality and Reliability Education We develop training courses for all technical and  skill levels at divisions engaged in design and  quality assurance. The courses include Reliability  (Fundamentals and Applications) and Product  Safety. In  scal 2009, we augmented management  training with a course that reaffi  rms the mental  attitude of Hitachi engineers. In  scal 2010, we  reinforced our monozukuri capabilities by starting a  new course for section chiefs and above to reaffi  rm  their way of thinking on technology and design. A quality assurance training center at a  manufacturing site in Hitachi City, Ibaraki  Prefecture, Japan, helps to increase production,  inspection, and maintenance skills. Other locations  and manufacturing sites off er their own specialized  technical courses. To reinforce our management structure, we  improve the quality of products and services  globally through our tradition of monozukuri 1  craftsmanship. Quality Assurance Activities To preserve our tradition of monozukuri  craftsmanship from the customers perspective,  we are fully committed to Group-wide quality  assurance—covering everything from product  planning and development through to delivery and  after-sales service. We support quality assurance  in particular by activities that place the priority  on organizations and management, technology,  and human capital. In  scal 2010, we launched  the three-year Hitachi Group QF (Quality First)  Innovation Movement to ensure product safety,  compliance with laws and regulations, human  resource development, and improved quality. We  also concentrate on quality improvement outside  Japan, especially in China and the rest of Asia. Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction Activities Supporting Quality Assurance Human capital  Penetration of OCHIBO HIROI  spirit  Improvement of engineers  ethical awareness  Education on quality and  reliability  Quality awareness  improvement movement ... Technologies  Quality reliability  committee  Product safety  Technical law  compliance  Work process  improvements  ... Organization & management  Management of defective  product accidents  QF *1 emphasis  management system  OCHIBO HIROI (gleaning)  Management of  hazardous chemicals  ... Activities Supporting Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Activities Feedback to each activity Product Manufacturing Process Design review Prototype evaluation/ approval Management of purchased goods In-line quality control (QC) *1 Improving inspection  techniques Collecting  eld data and  after-sales services Quality Assurance Flow Chart *1 In-line QC: Review and veri cation for identifying potential defects at the  development and prototype stages of the product life cycle. *1 QF (Quality First) Shipment/Delivery Customers Product planning Design Purchased  goods Manufacturing Inspection Customers  needs Market trends 1  monozukuri: manufacturing that combines innovative technologies with  experience gained over many years.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Quality Assurance and Customer  Satisfaction Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  094 Strengthening Quality Assurance (QA)  Systems in China and throughout Asia China and other Asian nations account for much  of our off shore production. We are therefore  reinforcing systems and training to improve quality  there. For example, we host the annual Conference  for QA Managers in China to improve quality  awareness and to share information. In  scal 2010,  we held a Conference for QA Managers in Thailand,  our  rst such meeting in Southeast Asia. We provide the two following quality reliability  courses to develop QA skills in people worldwide by  improving their quality awareness and inspection  techniques:  Basic Reliability Course: Deepens understanding  of such basic issues as Hitachis monozukuri  craftsmanship, quality management, and labor  safety.   Intermediate Reliability Course: Boosts  understanding of more practical issues in such  areas as Hitachis monozukuri craftsmanship, ISO  9001, defect elimination, design for reliability, and  purchasing and vendor management. Handling Product Accidents If a product malfunctions, the division responsible  acts swiftly to resolve the problem from the  customers perspective, coordinating with other  business units as needed. For an especially serious  accident, we quickly submit a status report to top  management, and the responsible company and  Hitachi join hands to take fast remedial action.  At the same time, we promptly comply with legal  requirements to report to government agencies.  We then publish the incident information through  our Web site and other channels. When we decide that a product recall is  necessary, we notify the public through newspaper  advertisements or our Web site, then repair or  replace these products. Our Web site also provides  detailed product safety information. Customer Satisfaction Using the Customer Satisfaction (CS) Management  Guidelines, one of the pillars of Hitachis business  management, we continue to improve CS with the  goal of creating innovation through collaboration  with customers. We use CS surveys tailored to  each business operation. In addition, we analyze  customer opinions submitted to the Hitachi  Customer Answer Center. We host the annual Hitachi Group Service  Business Liaison Council, chaired by the president  of Hitachi, Ltd., whose members are presidents and  departmental offi  cers from Group and in-house  service companies. Participants at these gatherings share intra- Group information to reinforce after-sales service  Top management Obtaining information Decision concerning serious product accident Con rming accident status Fire department, police department Customer liaison Customers and mass retailer Accident  occurs Investigation of  damage scope Investigation of  cause Onsite  investigation Product  investigation Quality Assurance Division : Flow of information Serious product accident Disposition and reporting Investigative committee on  serious product accidents Product recall Newspapers,  Web site,  Noti cation Consumer  Aff airs Agency  and other  government  bodies : Report : Sharing of information Response Flow in the Event of Product Malfunction  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Quality Assurance and Customer  Satisfaction Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  095 for products and systems, including repairs and  maintenance, and use that information to improve  service quality and to ensure appropriate service  costs. Web Site Customer Support Our Web site provides comprehensive customer  support. It enables us to process customer inquiries,  opinions, requests, and complaints in collaboration  with the customer support units of Group  companies to improve our products and services.  We also use educational and other initiatives  to speed up and improve our response to these  inquiries. One of our initiatives is to hold the Web Inquiry  Responsiveness Improvement Course, something  we have done since  scal 2009. To date, 176  Hitachi Group employees have taken this course,  which features case studies based on responses to  inquiries. Going forward, we will collaborate with  Group companies to respond more quickly and  eff ectively to customer inquiries, using this Web site  as an important point of contact. Electronic & Electric Equipment To ensure customer satisfaction, the Hitachi  Customer Contact Center and a Web site handle  customer inquiries and complaints about LCD TVs,  washing machines, and other appliances. Formulated in 1994 Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines  Our customers determine the value of products and  services  Information from our customers is the source of  improvement  Off er prices and quality that are competitive  Respond rapidly to keep our promises to our  customers  Adopt systems that prevent accidents and minimize  their impact Information on repair service Feedback on improvements Filed in database of  customers comments  & questions Feedback Customers Service  Information  Center Customer  Support Center Each business groups Quality assurance department Design department Manufacturing department Repair request Response Inquiry Response Voice of the Customer Flow Chart : Response activities  : Flow of information : Sharing of information Customer Desk Response Figures and Connectivity 100 (%) 25 75 50 0 (Cases per  month) 0 60,000 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 47,850 16,450 16,850 17,300 31,400 34,450 31,700 51,300 49,000 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 78.5 84.0 84.0 White goods (appliances)  and other products Brown goods  (electronic equipment) 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 86.1 85.6 95.5 0 100 70 80 90 (%) Results of Customer Service Evaluation Survey (CS Rate)  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Quality Assurance and Customer  Satisfaction Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  096 The center receives about 600,000 phone  calls and emails a year. We have undertaken the  following initiatives to better respond to inquiries  and to re ect customer feedback in our monozukuri  craftsmanship:  Third-party assessments of individual call center  employees  Training via monitoring the voice of the  customer for design, quality assurance, and other  departments  Improved connectivity by outsourcing some  operations during busy seasons  Creating a database of direct customer feedback,  including consultations, questions and complaints We conduct semiannual customer service  evaluation surveys at 100 service centers around  Japan. Based on the survey  ndings, we improve  service by upgrading employee education,  especially through CS training courses and CS  improvement months. Elevators and Escalators, Building Facilities  Management When we design and develop elevators and  escalators, we use proprietary technologies to  ensure peoples safety and comfort. We make  technical improvements based on their feedback.  For elevators, for example, we adopt Universal  Design when we design buttons, sensors to detect  dog leads stuck in doors, as well as emergency  systems that safely stop at the nearest  oor and  evacuation instructions during power outages or  earthquakes.  For building facilities management, our products  improve our customers effi  ciency and we respond  to demands for more eff ective building facilities  management. For example, we developed BIVALE,  an integrated building facility management system  that coordinates energy and security at multiple  locations through the Internet. Our maintenance  services subsidiary, Hitachi Building Systems Co.,  Ltd., has 350 service sites around Japan to swiftly  respond to customers. State-of-the-art remote  building monitoring and diagnostic systems  observe and analyze elevators and escalators, and  building facilities, 24/7, to perform preventive  maintenance. Information and Telecommunication Systems  Products and Services  The IT Systems Division is contributing to customers  business innovation by collaborative creation with  its customers, drawing on Group-wide expertise  and information technology. Collaborative  creation is based on our customers point of  view, so we conduct an annual survey to gauge  customers satisfaction with our products and  services. Another goal of this survey is to improve our  business by re ecting customers opinions, not only  satisfaction with our products and service, but also  expectations of Hitachi. With customers consent,  we have donated the fee that customers received  for participating in our survey to Good Earth  Japan,1 a non-pro t organization, since  scal 2007. Maintaining an elevator control board Collaborating to create value Suggestions Satisfaction with Hitachi Requests and demands Expectations for Hitachi Re ecting on businesses Customer-oriented activities Customers Customer surveys Measuring customer satisfaction relative to their expectations Overview of the Information and Telecommunication  Divisions Activities Based on Customers Point of View  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Quality Assurance and Customer  Satisfaction Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  097 Universal Design Our operations touch on many aspects of society  and daily living, and we promote Universal Design  (UD) by improving the quality and ease of use,  accessibility, and life cycles of our products. Quality of use means focusing on the traits  that make people feel that the product is easy and  enjoyable to use. Accessibility refers to the range of  people who can use a product or service. Life cycle  covers all the stages of the value chain from before  the product is purchased through to disposal. Product Development Cycle and UD Guidelines In keeping with our UD philosophy, we maintain  an upward spiraling product development cycle  that completely involves customers and experts in  basic research, guideline formulation, and product  development. We draw on extensive research into  consumer behavior and their characteristics to  formulate UD guidelines for product development.  The information obtained during product  development goes into a database that our  businesses share, and we distribute some of this  information externally to promote open-source  standardization and education initiatives. Digital and Home Appliances We de ne people as customers as soon as a  product interests them, so it is essential to consider  quality in everything from pre-sales to disposal.  Key attributes are usability, features, harmony with  the environment, safety, and maintenance. Our  intention is to tailor products to peoples needs and  lifestyles so that they become attached to them. With washing and drying machines, for example,  we widened doors and put in shallower drums to  make it easier to remove clothes from the bottom  of the drum. At the same time, we added a large  white LCD display that is more visible and easier  to use, as well as a talking button that instructs,  indicates status, and helps resolve problems—at the  press of a button. Public Equipment and Systems Since these are to be used in public spaces, it is vital  to design public equipment and systems that even  children can use while optimizing security, privacy,  and safety. For example, we researched and commercialized  a tabletop electron microscope to encourage more  children to enjoy science. We made this microscope  easy to use for novice teachers and children. This  product received the Minister of Economy, Trade  and Industry (Japan) Award in the Future Products  Category of The 4th Kids Design Award 2010,  sponsored by Kids Design Association.1 The wide door Large white LCD display and talking button  Talking button Tabletop electron microscope 1  Good Earth Japan (GEJ) is a non-pro t organization which is mainly engaged  in helping people to rebuild their livelihoods in post-mine-clearance areas in  Cambodia. GEJ started its activities in March 2007.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Quality Assurance and Customer  Satisfaction Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  098 Web and Information Systems These systems are vital for gathering information  and communicating. For example, people with  disabilities rely heavily on these systems and so we  aim to make them more accessible, usable, and  secure. We developed a prototype gesture-based user  interface for public information boards for large  street maps, building  oor guides, and other  displays in public spaces. We lowered the screen  and made it horizontal so wheelchair users and  young children can operate it easily. This product  won a Universal Design Award from Universal  Design Germany1 in 2011 and also won an award  in the Consumer Favorite category. 1  Kids Design Association:  a nonpro t organization founded in 2007; started  by companies and other organizations in Japan dedicated to creating and  disseminating designs that promote the safe, secure and healthy development  and growth of children. 1  Universal Design Award from Universal Design Germany:  Sponsored  by universal design e.V. of Hannover, Germany, and universal design GmbH.  A panel of top international designers adjudicates on the Universal Design  Award, while 100 consumers vote in the Consumer Favorite category. Person using a hand gesture to operate a public display screen  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Public Policy Initiatives  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  099 business. In  scal 2009, however, the Government  & External Relations Division (initially known as  the Government & External Relations Offi  ce) was  established within our headquarters to integrate  and coordinate external relations. Outside Japan,  we set up offi  ces in Washington, D.C. and Brussels  to monitor policy trends in North America and  Europe. The key external relations initiatives include  lobbying and communicating with governments;  participating in government-led study groups  and councils; contributing to policymaking by  sending people to international institutions, public  offi  ces and external groups; and by participating  in international groups such as the World Business  Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD).  These activities are reported back to the Group as a  whole through the Hitachi Group External Relations  members meeting. Stakeholder Engagement To help resolve sustainability issues, we invite  local policymakers to stakeholder dialogues that  we hold regularly, worldwide. In this way, we  participate in wide-ranging exchanges of views  on issues such as public-private cooperation  and corporate involvement in policymaking. The  increasingly globalized and complex nature of  social and environmental issues requires  exible,  dynamic partnerships that transcend governments,  international institutions, NGOs and companies.  Through dialogues with stakeholders in many  Partnerships with governments and  policymakers around the world are vital for  creating a sustainable society and growing our  Social Innovation Business. Through external  relations like these, we are able to have  discussions with governments and groups from  Japan, as well as other countries and regions,  with the goal of providing optimal and relevant  solutions for society. External Relations Policy Our basic plan is to participate in decision making  in countries and regions around the world and  to contribute to developing a sustainable social  infrastructure. In particular, we respond to social  expectations by identifying risks within the Hitachi  Group at an early stage and by making policy  recommendations. For example, we may focus  on the environment and smart cities as our  particular area of expertise. With that plan in mind,  we hold dialogues with a range of stakeholders,  including government offi  cials, non-governmental  organizations (NGOs) and research institutes that  have in uence on social policies. External Relations Structure We previously allowed every division to manage  external relations for information and global  Public Policy Initiatives  Hitachi External Relations Promotion Structure Hitachi, Ltd. President Government  & External  Relations  Division  Hitachi, Ltd. Related  divisions In-house  companies External relations  divisions Main Group  companies External relations  divisions Hitachi  Corporate Offi  ce,  Washington, D.C. Hitachi Corporate  Offi  ce, Europe  (Brussels) Hitachi Group  External Relations  members meeting Stakeholder dialogues in Asia  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Public Policy Initiatives  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  100 regions, we will continue to identify problems that  we can help solve as a company and thought leader  in the area of Social Innovation Business. We take a  multi-sided approach to sustainability issues, while  ensuring full transparency in policy participation. Partnerships for Combating Global  Warming  To help combat global warming, the Ministry of  Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) of Japan has  been investigating a new credit scheme where  energy-saving products, high-effi  ciency coal-  red thermal power plants, and other products  and technologies where Japan leads the world,  are only partially being used under the existing  Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). We are  committed to working with Group companies to  contribute to this new scheme with our energy- saving products and solutions. One example: in  October 2010, Hitachi Plant Technologies was  selected by METI for an open call for feasibility  studies on a project to reduce carbon emissions  by air conditioning using deep sea water in the  Republic of Maldives. Global External Relations Initiatives Partnerships to Create Next-Generation Cities We are pushing forward with a range of initiatives  to create next-generation cities that have a low  environmental burden by exploiting advanced  technologies based on smart grids. In  scal 2010, we participated in the Japan  Smart Community Alliance, established by the New  Energy and Industrial Technology Development  Organization (NEDO), as a member of the board.  We are conducting studies and veri cations on  smart community projects not only in Japan but  also in China, Spain, Hawaii, etc. , with the support  of government organizations such as METI, Ministry  of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism  (MLIT) of Japan, and NEDO.  The 12th EU Hitachi Science and Technology Forum Hitachi Europe Ltd. and Hitachi, Ltd. have been  organizing the EU Hitachi Science and Technology  Forum since 1998 to provide a platform for  public policy debate, discussing how science and  technology can contribute to solving Europes social  issues. In May 2010, to celebrate Hitachis 100th  anniversary the Science and Technology Forum  was organized by addressing the theme of Smart  Energy Usage for a Sustainable Society. Over 140  people attended the forum, including business  and government representatives, researchers from  universities and research institutes, and other key   gures from industry, government and academia,  as well as representatives from NGOs. At the forum,  we introduced technologies for a low-carbon  society, such as hybrid trains and environmentally  conscious data centers. During panel discussion, the  topic of policies towards energy-effi  cient end-use  and energy-effi  cient technologies was vigorously  discussed.  Forum results were compiled into a report and  shared with the European Commission, offi  cials  in the various European governments, and our  business partners.  Panel discussion at the EU Hitachi Science and Technology Forum  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Communication with Shareholders and  Investors Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  101 Proactive IR Approach  Our diverse investor relations activities include  business strategy meetings for institutional  investors and analysts, tours of plants and R&D  facilities, participation in brokerage-sponsored  investor meetings, and one-on-one meetings with  investors and analysts. In  scal 2010, we held quarterly  nancial results  brie ngs and corporate strategy meetings on the  2012 Mid-Term Management Plan, which promotes  Growth Driven by Social Innovation Business and  Solid Financial Base. We hosted the  rst Hitachi  IR Day, where company presidents and CEOs  explained their businesses strategies under the  2012 Mid-Term Management Plan. Feedback from  institutional investors and analysts was positive.  One said, "We are better able to understand  Hitachis businesses , which I found useful for  analysis." We plan to hold this event regularly.  We also communicate extensively with individual  investors through brokerage-sponsored brie ngs.  We conduct one-on-one meetings with institutional  investors and analysts worldwide. We convened  more than 600 similar meetings in  scal 2010,  a  To ensure that shareholders and investors can  make sound investment decisions, we provide  the information they need in a fair, transparent  and appropriate way that strives to enhance  communication with them. Policy on Information Disclosure  We communicate with shareholders and investors  guided by our disclosure policy. We disclose not  only information required by laws or regulations,  but also information that promotes deeper  stakeholder understanding of our management  policies and business activities, including their  relation to creating sustainable long-term value. Communication with Shareholders and Investors Disclosure Policy 1. Basic Policy Hitachis corporate credo is to contribute to society through the  development of superior, original technology and products.  With this in mind, Hitachi seeks to maintain and develop trust  relationships with all stakeholders, including shareholders  and other investors, customers, business partners, employees  and regional communities. We will ful ll our responsibility  to stakeholders by disclosing information in a fair and highly  transparent manner, and by conducting various communication  activities. 2. Information Disclosure Standards Hitachi discloses information as appropriate in a fair and highly  transparent way, in compliance with the laws and regulations of  the stock exchanges on which the Company is listed.   Hitachi discloses not only information required by laws and  regulations, but also management and  nancial information that  is regarded as useful in deepening stakeholder understanding  of Hitachi management policy and business activities. Hitachi  also discloses non- nancial information on the social and  environmental impact of Hitachi Group activities. Hitachis  stance on disclosure recognizes that society regards the above  information as important. 3. Disclosure Methods Hitachi uses appropriate means to disclose the information  required by laws and regulations of the stock exchanges on  which the Company is listed. The Company also posts this  information on Web sites immediately after it is disclosed.   Hitachi also discloses information not required by laws  and regulations by distributing news releases, holding press  conferences and presentations, posting information on  Web sites, and conducting other disclosure activities in an  appropriate, precise and timely manner. 4. Quiet Period Hitachi stipulates a quiet period of a certain length prior to  earnings announcements to prevent information leaks and to  maintain disclosure fairness. During this period, Hitachi refrains  from answering inquiries about business performance and  related matters. 5. Forward-Looking Statements For disclosures, Hitachi may make statements that constitute  forward-looking statements that re ect managements views  with respect to certain future events and  nancial performance  at the time of disclosure and include any statement that does not  directly relate to any historical or current fact. Such statements  are based on information available at the time of disclosure and  are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Certain forward- looking statements are based upon assumptions of future events  which may not prove to be accurate. Hitachi discloses the factors  that could cause actual results to diff er materially from those  projected or implied in forward-looking statements.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Communication with Shareholders and  Investors Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  102 signi cant increase over last year. We are doing our  best to share IR feedback in-house and re ect this  in management and operations. We are committed to timely disclosure and we  post brie ngs and other materials on our investor  relations Web site. A part of the site, speci cally  designed for individual investors, provides  information that cultivates a deeper understanding  of the Hitachi Group. General Meeting of Shareholders At the ordinary general meeting of shareholders,  we off er audio-visual reports designed to give  shareholders a thorough understanding of our  situation. After the general meeting of shareholders,  our Web site discloses management policy  explanations from the president for shareholders  and investors. We post notices of general meetings  of shareholders earlier than legally required to give  stakeholders more time to consider our proposals.  Socially Responsible Investment (SRI1)  and Sustainable Investment Assessments in Fiscal 2010 The Hitachi Group performed well in external  assessments as a socially responsible and  sustainability investment. In  scal 2010, DJSI World, a leading global  sustainability investment index, chose Hitachi,  Ltd. as a component stock for the second year in a  row. This benchmark assesses the sustainability of  around 2,500 companies worldwide,  rst looking at  economic, environmental, and social development,  then selecting the top 10 percent of companies in  The corporate strategy meeting on 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan (Unit: %) March 2011 2.26 0.00 30.36 29.69 March 2010 3.41 0.00 29.49 31.61 March 2009 4.03 0.00 30.60 30.24 March 2008 3.68 0.00 27.16 27.06 Financial institutions & securities  rms Individuals Foreign investors March 2007 National & local governments 0.00 27.63 28.09 Other institutions 3.79 37.69 35.49 35.13 42.10 40.49 Trends in Shareholder Composition Disclosure Tools  Financial results  Annual and quarterly reports pursuant to the Financial Instruments  and Exchange Law of Japan  Form 20-F  lings with the United States Securities and Exchange  Commission (SEC)  Annual reports  Hitachi Group Corporate Sustainability reports* * From  scal 2011, Hitachi Group Sustainability Report  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Communication with Shareholders and  Investors Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  103 Institution Index  Companies selected  SAM DJSI* 1 World Hitachi, Ltd. DJSI Asia Paci c Index Hitachi, Ltd. / Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. EIRIS FTSE4Good Global Index* 2 Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. / Hitachi Capital Corp. / Hitachi High-Technologies Corp. / Hitachi Maxell, Ltd. / Hitachi Koki Co., Ltd. Morningstar SRI Index Hitachi, Ltd. / Hitachi Cable, Ltd. / Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. / Hitachi Construction  Machinery Co., Ltd. / Hitachi High-Technologies Corp. / Hitachi Transport System, Ltd. *1  DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index): A global sustainability investment index that was developed by Dow Jones & Company (U.S.A.) and Sustainable Asset Management  (SAM) Group (Switzerland). The Asia Paci c Index—covering Japan, Asia, and Australia—was launched in 2009. *2 FTSE4Good Global Index: An index developed in the UK by Ethical Investment Research Services (EIRS), which evaluates corporations, apart from speci c industries, based on  their environmental, social, and human rights performance. Results of External SRI Assessments in Fiscal 2010 each industry. We received the highest score in our  industry for our new economic criteria for brand  management and new environmental criteria for  water-related risks. Our environmental initiatives  scored the highest among all the companies. We  also made the Silver Class in the Sustainability  Yearbook 2011, published in February 2011, by  SAM2 and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Basic Policy for Prevention of Takeovers We invest considerable management resources  in basic research for the future and for the  development of pioneering products and  businesses. To ensure that these management  measures bear fruit, it is necessary to maintain  the continuity of management policies over  a certain period of time. To this end, we keep  shareholders and investors informed not only  about management results for each term but  also management measures looking ahead to the  future.  We do not deny the signi cance of stimulating  corporate activities or the economy through the  transfer of management control rights. However,  regarding large purchases of Hitachi and Hitachi  Group companies shares, it is necessary to  cautiously assess the impact that such a purchase  or purchase proposal would have on our corporate  value and shareholders joint pro ts, based on  considerations such as the purchasers business  pro le, future plans, and past investment behavior. At present there is no imminent concern that  any particular party will acquire a large amount of  Hitachis shares, and we have not established any  special measures (anti-takeover measures), should  such a purchaser appear. Nevertheless, as a natural duty to our  shareholders and investors, we constantly monitor  Hitachi share transactions and movements, and  if a party appears attempting to purchase large  amounts of shares, we will immediately take the  measures considered appropriate. Speci cally, this  will mean assessing the purchase proposal with the  assistance of external experts, as well as negotiating  with the purchaser. In addition, when such an  acquisition does not contribute to our corporate  value and the joint pro ts of shareholders, we will  promptly determine the need for and contents of  speci c countermeasures, and set up a framework  for their implementation. A similar response will  be made in the event of any attempt to purchase  large amounts of the shares of any Hitachi Group  company. 1  SRI:  Socially responsible investment, where investment funds evaluate com- panies and select stocks from a CSR perspective. 2  SAM:  Sustainable Asset Management. A Swiss sustainability investment  research and asset management company.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  104 communities as a good corporate citizen and to  inspire more  exible thinking, as well as a greater  commitment in those employees who are helping  to improve the social infrastructure in their  communities. Through our innovations and social  contributions, we foster the development of both  local communities and sustainable business. Hitachi, Ltd. and the  ve foundations in Japan  contributed around 1.35 billion yen as social  contributions in  scal 2009.  Education Monozukuri, the heart of our business  manufacturing approach, is founded on sound  human resources. We instill a keen sense of social  awareness in our engineers and we nurture their  ambition and technical capabilities to overcome  Our social contributions are tailored to local  needs, but help to resolve the challenges facing  a global society. In emerging economies, we  are tackling poverty, starvation, disparities in  education and medical care, and destruction of  the environment. Philosophy and Policy For social contributions, we are committed to  resolving the basic social issues in the communities  where we operate. We work in cooperation with  Group employees, Group companies and our six  foundations, based on our Social Contribution  Philosophy and Policy. We are always mindful of our  Group Vision of tackling the basic issues faced by  global society. These activities help us to build trust with  Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Philosophy and Policy Philosophy The Hitachi Group strives to demonstrate good corporate citizenship  in response to social needs and expectations, while endeavoring to  enrich the quality of life and realize a better society. Policy The Hitachi Group promotes various social contribution activities to  build a vibrant society based on fostering leadership to implement  reformation for the next era. This is achieved by making optimal  use of our knowledge and information technology in three speci c  areas: education, the environment, and social welfare. Adopted February 2002 Other  9% Culture and the arts 13% Scholarships and education 53% Total expenditure: 1.347 billion yen Social welfare 21% FY 2009 Breakdown of Funding for Social Contribution Activities  Hitachi Group  employees Social Contribution Activities of the Hitachi Group Hitachi Group  companies Foundations Volunteer activities, etc. Individual ful llment Local communities  Customers Shareholders Business partners Realization of a better society Enhanced brand value Vitalization of business activities  through more  exible thinking and a  greater desire to work Actively engaging in social contribution activities to enhance  brand value Supporting the volunteer activities of employees Social contribution activities that allow us to ful ll our duty to  society, such as disaster assistance  Active operations as Hitachi Group Foundations Dissemination of information Approach to Social Contribution Activities Note: Data on Hitachi, Ltd. and  ve foundations in Japan Environment  4% WEB  Hitachi: Global Community Relations and Activities http://www.hitachi.com/Int-e/skk/index.html  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  105 new challenges and achieve their dreams. We do  this to ensure that the technical and other expertise  that our people have accumulated is useful for the  development of the next generation of engineers. Providing Educational Support in Emerging Countries Emerging markets are vital to Hitachis business,  while these same markets urgently need to create  outstanding engineers and technicians to drive  national development. We provide support for the  development of young engineers and technicians in  these countries.  In India, Hitachi operates the Hindu-Hitachi  Scholarship Program in conjunction with a leading  Indian newspaper, The Hindu. Under this program,  three young engineers are invited to Japan every  year from India for six months of training in  technical skills, such as design and quality assurance  as well as in the Japanese language. Around 130  young trainees have completed this program since  it began in 1960.   To develop the next generation of leaders  in Indian manufacturing, Hitachi India is also  cooperating in the development of the Visionary  Leadership for Manufacturing Program conducted  by the Indian Institute of Management Calcutta,  the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur and  the Indian Institute of Technology Madras and  sponsored by the Confederation of Indian  Industries. This program develops leaders with  a clear vision and creates strong partnerships  between industry and academia through cutting- edge research and development based on the  needs of Indias manufacturing sector. So far,  Hitachi India has held two month-long internship  programs, where students have gained a deeper  understanding of the Hitachi Group. They also  participated in a real industry project.  Hitachi will continue with these activities to help  boost the level of manufacturing technologies in  India.  Elsewhere in Asia, we have conducted the  Hitachi Young Leaders Initiative since 1996 to  off er university students from Indonesia, Japan,  Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and  Vietnam, opportunities to raise their awareness of  common issues in Asia by taking part in forums,  panel discussions and  eldwork. In  scal 2010, to  celebrate the 10th anniversary of the program, and  our own centennial, a special Alumni Forum was  organized. We brought together alumni to discuss  the theme of Driving Asia to a new paradigm— what is Asias role in the global arenas? At the  opening of the forum the guest of honor, Mr. Teo  Chee Hean, Singapores Deputy Prime Minister and  Minister for Defense, spoke of his hope that the  program alumni and other promising young leaders  would make a sustained social contribution. Asias  now global importance is expected to grow still  further in the years ahead, so we will continue to  contribute to a bright future and further growth in  Asia through the development of next-generation  human resources.  Supporting Science Education We provide children with many opportunities to  learn about science and technology. Our goal is to  overcome an increasing disinterest in science, math  and technology among the young generation and  stimulate their interest and desire to learn.  Having concluded a basic agreement on  partnership and cooperation with Hitachi City,  Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan, in 2009 to back the citys  drive to enhance science education, Hitachi, Ltd.  provides support for the operation of the Hitachi  Science Club, a non-pro t organization founded  in May 2009. The club consists of around 100  Students taking part in the Hindu-Hitachi Scholarship Program  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  106 retired employees from our plants and research  institutes, including doctors, professional engineers,  manufacturing engineers, and senior engineers  with top-class specialist skills, who volunteer their  services. The Hitachi Science Club off ers six programs,  including dispatching volunteers to support science  classes at elementary and junior high schools,  operating a science and mathematics academy for  junior high school students with a strong interest in  these subjects, and organizing classes for hands-on  experiments in making magnetically powered cars  and water rockets. In  scal 2010, 280 classes were  held for 15,673 students. This year, volunteers are  visiting 19 of Hitachi Citys 25 elementary schools  twice a week as special science consultants. They  help to prepare science experiments and answer  students questions. This program will be extended  to all elementary schools in the area during  scal  2011. We are committed to supporting the Hitachi  Science Club, so that these senior engineers can  use the expertise and skills built up over the years  to educate children and provide them with the  opportunity to experience for themselves the joy of  science and the wonder of creation. Hitachi Plant Technologies, Ltd. has been  running the Community Partnership Academy of  Wisdom, an environmental and science program  for students that leverages the companys expertise  in air conditioning and water treatment. In  scal  2010, instructors visited the Cairo Japanese School  in the capital of the Arab Republic of Egypt to give  some 30 pupils the opportunity to learn about  buoyancy using model hot air balloons and about  water puri cation using magnets (ballast water1  treatment experiment). The children took part in  these experiments with enthusiasm, learning while  having fun. This program has also been held in  the United Arab Emirates and China. Hitachi Plant  Technologies will continue to hold these locally  geared programs worldwide to stimulate the  interest of the children who are our future. Conducting a scienti c experiment (Hitachi Science Club) Experiment using a hair dryer to suspend a model hot air balloon (Egypt) 1  Ballast water:  Seawater used for balancing a ship, which can harm marine  ecosystems because the water is taken aboard and then discharged in  diff erent parts of the sea  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  107 Company  Initiative  Overview Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd Chemical experiment classes Summer vacation observation classes for parents and children as well as chemical  experiment classes are held at the companys four plants. In  scal 2010, classes,  including those for chemical experiments, were held at  the Ibaraki University  College of Science, Kaisei Academy and Hitachi Citys Hitachi Eco-City Fiesta in  Japan. Hitachi Maxell, Ltd. Kyoto Edison Program Hitachi Maxells Kyoto Works has held an annual workshop for parents and children  on building dry cell batteries every year since  scal 2006. In  scal 2010, the  rst  classroom visits were held in elementary schools in Nagaokakyo City in Kyoto  Prefecture, Japan. So far, classes have been held at 11 schools for 880 people.  Hitachi Solutions, Ltd. Internship program for solution experts Internships are off ered to undergraduate or postgraduate students about to move  into the workplace so that they can experience  rsthand and understand systems  engineering and sales and marketing in an IT company. Since  scal 2007, the  company has hosted around 6,800 students, who have participated in business  simulations and systems development under the guidance of company staff .  Hitachi Construction Machinery  Indonesia, PT (HCMI) Educational support for elementary school students HCMI staff  volunteers teach mathematics and English to children from  disadvantaged homes at elementary schools in Bekasi and Cibitung in Indonesia.  Since  scal 2009, 12 HCMI employee volunteers have taught more than 100  students at three elementary schools. Some Other Hitachi Group Education Initiatives Chemical experiment classes (Hitachi Chemical) Education support by staff  volunteers (HCMI) Kyoto Edison Program (Hitachi Maxell)  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  108 TOPICS One Hitachi program organizes volunteer  visits by employees from the Hitachi Group  to elementary schools to give hands-on  workshops on Universal Design (UD). This  program shows children the importance of  UD from a product developers perspective.  In 2010, this program received the Minister  of State for Special Missions Outstanding  Performance Commendation in the Ninth  Barrier-Free, Universal Design Contributors  Awards sponsored by the Cabinet Offi  ce in  Japan. Since the program was launched in  2005, approximately 6,000 children from 98  schools have participated in 187 workshops.  Drawing on the experience of this  program in Japan, a similar program  has been launched, as of 2009, for  elementary school students in the United  States. Preparations are also underway  for programs in the United Kingdom  and Malaysia. This program will also be  gradually extended to other countries and  regions where the Hitachi Group operates,  helping more children understand the UD  philosophy. Outstanding Performance Commendation  in the Barrier-Free, Universal Design  Contributors Awards1 Childrens ideas for a remote control (U.S.) A hands-on UD workshop 1  Barrier-Free, Universal Design Contributors Awards:  Launched  by the Cabinet Offi  ce, Japan, in  scal 2002, these awards  honor individuals or organizations for service or performance in  facility development or product development, promotion and  dissemination of barrier-free UD. The Environment  Hitachis environmental management mitigates  increasingly serious global environmental  threats and helps to achieve a more sustainable  society. In our social contribution activities  too, Group employees and members of their  families are involved in planting trees and other  environmentally conscious projects in keeping  with the two main Environmental Vision priorities:  prevention of global warming and preservation of  the ecosystem. Desert Aff orestation Volunteer Program  Since  scal 2007, Hitachi, Ltd. has been organizing  annual volunteer experience tours in conjunction  with G-Net, a non-pro t aff orestation organization  working in the Horqin Desert in Inner Mongolia,  China. This program was designed to raise  awareness of the environment and ecosystems  among Hitachi Group employees in Japan and  China and their families through their participation  in aff orestation. As well, it encourages them to  consider what they can do personally and how they  can begin to take action.  In  scal 2010, 22 people—employees of the  Hitachi Group in Japan and China and their family  members—participated in the fourth tour, which  ran for six days from September 17. To celebrate  the International Year of Biodiversity, as well as  Hitachis 100th anniversary, one area of the desert  was designated the Hitachi Group Forest. For  the next decade, we will provide support for this  aff orestation project.  Volunteer Experience Tour to the Horqin Desert  Aff orestation Project in China   Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  109 We will continue to work to preserve  ecosystems, encouraging as many employees as  possible to experience  rsthand the importance  of ecosystem preservation and to instill a sense of  unity across the Group.  Woodland Preservation Hitachi Volunteer Seminars encourage employees  to volunteer for worthy causes. In  scal 2010, to  mark the International Year of Biodiversity, three  outdoor seminars were held in Okutama, Tokyo.  The theme was going out into local woodlands  on weekends. These woodlands are critical for  preserving local ecosystems, recharging water  resources and preventing natural disasters, but the  impact of urbanization, depopulation, and aging in  rural villages has caused woodlands to deteriorate.  To help stem this trend, Hitachi Group employees  and their families take on practical seasonal tasks,  such as cutting back summer undergrowth, autumn  thinning, and winter pruning. They learn  rsthand  the importance of preserving woodlands and the  bene ts of forests. About 100 people participated  in these three seminars.  Woodland preservation in Okutama, Tokyo  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  110 Company  Initiative  Overview Hitachi Solutions, Ltd. Terraced rice paddy restoration  The Hitachi Solutions Rice Paddy Project restores a part of rice terraces in  Yokosawairi in Akiruno City in Tokyo. From June to November 2010, 66 employees  took part. After the paddies were restored, though harvests have been small, some   re ies have returned. Hitachi Electronics Services  Co., Ltd. Kansai Regional Offi  ce Forest preservation In May 2010, company employees and their families, about 25 people in all,  thinned trees in a forest in Sendaiji in Ibaraki City, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. They  used the wood to try their hand at making charcoal. In November, 15 employees  cleared away and thinned trees on the hillsides behind the Ibaraki City Satoyama  Center.  Hitachi, Ltd. Information &  Telecommunication Systems  Company Hakone Forest Restoration Project In October 2010, around 150 Hitachi Group employees and family members  helped conserve trees in the 21st Century Forest (Minamiashigara City, Kanagawa  Prefecture, Japan) in conjunction with the Kanagawa Forest Instructors Association.  In addition to thinning trees and clearing underbrush, they observed nature and  learned woodcraft.  Hitachi Terminals Mechatronics  Philippines Corporation  (HTMP) Adopt-A-Forest Program Since  scal 2006, HTMP has been participating in the Adopt-A-Forest Program, a  project initiated by the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) Ecology Center,  Philippines. In June 2010, 18 HTMP employees planted around 400 fruit tree  seedlings. HTMP plans to continue with regular maintenance and planting.  Other Hitachi Group Environmental Protection Programs Terraced paddy  eld restoration (Hitachi Solutions) Making charcoal (Kansai Regional Offi  ce, Hitachi Electronics  Services) Adopt-A-Forest Program (HTMP)  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  111 Social Welfare  We also support social welfare projects to  ensure that everyone can enjoy the bene ts of  technological progress, placing special emphasis  on promoting the education of the young, the  independence of people with disabilities, and  helping the elderly.  Hitachi Group Activities in North America The Hitachi Community Action Partnership (HCAP)  is a program of The Hitachi Foundation (U.S.)  and  the Hitachi group in North America. Community  Action Committees (CACs) led by employees from  Hitachi Group companies throughout the region,  provide support for non-pro t organizations  with programs focused on local needs. Today, 40  CACs are active in North America, with employees  representing 47 business locations from 19 Group  companies. In April 2010, 16 Hitachi Consulting employees  from the southern California area volunteered  to build houses with Habitat for Humanity. This  NGO builds houses for people in need, including  victims of disasters, in 100 countries around the  world. In July, more than 7,350 employees from  28 Hitachi Group companies in North America  also took part in the 11th Annual Hitachi North  America Food Drive, a month-long food donation  campaign. They collected around 21 tons of food  and received about US$80,000 (around 6.8 million  yen) in donations. All the food and cash donations  were given to local food banks and NPOs (non- pro t organizations) in North America off ering food  programs. The total was about enough to feed  27,000 people for a week.  To improve their eff ectiveness, CACs use a self- assessment tool called the Mastering Community  Action Framework that measures their operations  and activities against clear, concrete benchmarks.  Making a Social Contribution through Sign Language For visitors with impaired hearing, Team Swan,  formed in February 2005 by Hitachi Group  employees with hearing disabilities, provides sign  language services at events around Japan. Team  Swan began with the goal of providing accurate  information through detailed explanations for the  hearing impaired, who are often left behind as  information becomes more diverse and complex.  Habitat for Humanity volunteers Employees on Team Swan talking to customers in sign language Participants in Food Drive  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  112 In March 2011, the team had eight signers, who  provide explanations at company and outside  events as well as at retail consumer electronics  stores. They also hold exchange meetings with  schools for the hearing impaired. These volunteers  normally work in their departments, but say that  being able to help other people in the same  position through Team Swan has boosted their  own motivation to work. In 2010, Team Swan was  featured on The Nikkei Web site and in Shougaisha  ga Kagayaku Soshiki (Organizations Where the  Hearing Impaired Shine), a book available from  Nikkei Publishing. TOPICS Hitachi Information Academy Co., Ltd. (Hitachi  IA) is an IT training organization that operates  Smile Delivery, a program that sends Hitachi  volunteers to child care centers to teach  children basic computing skills. In June 2009,  the company launched a wish system for all  employees to suggest ideas; the Smile Delivery  program grew out of a suggestion from one  employee. In February 2009, this Hitachi IA  employee—who was participating in social  contribution evening classes1 organized by  Hitachi, Ltd.—heard a lecture on support for  child care institutions. She realized that if  she didnt act, nothing would change. Once  her suggestion was adopted, an email was  sent to all employees looking for volunteers.  Thirty people responded, and thanks to their  cooperation and understanding, the program  was launched in March 2010. It operates under  the auspices of Kibo-no-Ie (Hope House), a social  welfare public corporation based in Katsushika  Ward, Tokyo. Three classes have been held so far.  The children have said that it was an interesting   rst-time experience, and that it was so much  IT Education at Child Care Centers fun that they would like the volunteers to visit  again. Ms. Asami Matsuno, the person who  suggested this idea, hopes that the project  will continue,  becoming a model not just for  her own company but also for other Group  companies.  1  Social contribution evening class:  Lectures given regularly to foster the  volunteer spirit in Hitachi Group employees Asami Matsuno (right) from the Training Service Division, original  proponent of Smile Delivery, and volunteer Aoi Kozuki from the  Marketing Division  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  113 Company  Initiative  Overview Hitachi Information Systems,  Ltd. Interview support for people with disabilities To help people with disabilities  nd work and to participate in social activities,  we work with Tsukuba University of Technology, Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan, to hold  mock job interviews for people with disabilities, who also receive guidance on job  seeking, including how to market themselves and how to write a rsum.  Hitachi Cable, Ltd. Volunteer activities of the Marathon Club (Support for visually impaired athletes) Employees in the Marathon Club volunteer in local communities. At the  Kasumigaura Marathon and International Blind Marathon held at Ibaraki  Prefecture, Japan, they assist visually impaired runners, including running  alongside as escorts. Hitachi Transport System, Ltd. Traffi  c safety education Hitachi Transport System provides traffi  c safety education for elementary  school students. In addition to learning basic traffi  c safety, students take part in  experiments. For example, they learn about blind spots and the diff erence between  where a trucks front and back wheels go when it turns a corner. In  scal 2010, 305  students took part in this program. Traffi  c safety education was also provided for  the elderly, with around 30 people participating. Hitachi Global Storage  Technologies China Operation Morning Sun Program In this voluntary program, Hitachi employees contribute 800 yuan per year— individually or as a group—towards a fund for children who are living in poverty  in Gongby Town in Guangdong Province, China. In  scal 2010, more than 50  employees helped support 16 children. The fund supports the children by providing  them with the daily necessities. Other Hitachi Group Social Welfare Initiatives Volunteers escort blind runners (Hitachi Cable) Traffi  c safety education for children (Hitachi Transport System) Hitachi employees visited the children supported  by the Morning Sun program with the school  bags donated by the company. (Hitachi Global  Storage Technologies China Operations)  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  114 Hitachis Foundations Hitachis six foundations worldwide, operate in a  wide range of areas, including supporting family  education, promoting science and technology  research, inviting Southeast Asian university faculty  members to Japan, helping with environmental  conservation, supporting the sound development  of young people, and developing good corporate  citizenship in the United States. Yoshiyama Young Entrepreneurs Program  In  scal 2010, The Hitachi Foundation (U.S.)  launched the Yoshiyama Young Entrepreneurs  Program, the successor to the Yoshiyama Award  for Exemplary Service to the Community, which  had run since 1988, more than two decades. The  original Yoshiyama Award honored high school  seniors in the U.S. for their community service and  social change eff orts. The award included a cash  prize and participation in a four-day program that  included a commendation ceremony and leadership  training.  The new program provides young entrepreneurs  who are operating a business aimed at helping to  improve the lives of underprivileged individuals in  the United States, and who began their businesses  before they reached the age of 30. In  scal 2010,  nine young people were named Yoshiyama Young  Entrepreneurs. They represent six enterprises that  help farm and forestry workers, female immigrants,  and support underprivileged entrepreneurs. Each  enterprise received a cash prize of US$50,000  (given out over two years) as well as mentoring and  technical assistance to help grow their business.  The Hitachi Foundation looks forward to  drawing on the experiences and lessons learned  by these young entrepreneurs to address the  sustainable business practices and the role of  business in improving lives and strengthening  communities.   Support for Volunteer Activities We support employees who volunteer in three  ways: with information, time off , and funding  support. For information, we publish information  about volunteer activities at seminars and on  our intranet. In  scal 2010, we sponsored four  seminars, including three outdoors. For time off ,  we provide employees with special annual paid  leave on top of their regular holidays which they  can use for volunteering or for other forms of self- ful llment. For funding support, we operate The  Growing Tree, a volunteer program that provides   nancial assistance to non-pro t organizations that  Hitachi employees are involved with or support as  volunteers. Assistance was given in 12 cases for  around 3.2 million yen in  scal 2010. Hitachis Foundations The Odaira Memorial Hitachi Education Foundation The Hitachi Environment Foundation The Kurata Memorial Hitachi Science and Technology Foundation The Hitachi Mirai Foundation The Hitachi Scholarship Foundation The Hitachi Foundation (U.S.) WEB  The Foundation in Hitachi Group http://www.hitachi-zaidan.org/global/index.html WEB  The Hitachi Foundation (U.S.) http://www.hitachifoundation.org/ Award winners growing gourmet mushrooms with waste Main Activities Supported by The Growing Tree (FY 2010) Training volunteers for environmental protection  Putting up side fences for sports  elds for blind soccer players Helping Japans farmers, who are struggling with a labor shortage because  of depopulation, aging, and the falling rate of food self-suffi  ciency   Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Social Contribution Activities Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  115 Disaster Relief and Recovery Recovery Support for Areas Aff ected by the  Great East Japan Earthquake As of June, 2011, the Hitachi Group decided to  provide support with a total value  of 940 million  yen, including the provision of   at-panel TVs, dry  cell batteries, and Disaster Victim Support Systems1  for local municipalities with no charge and to aid  victims of the disaster and to assist in recovery  eff orts (see pages 010–014).  Support for Disaster Recovery in Oceania  Torrential rains in northeastern Australia at the  end of 2010 caused catastrophic  ooding. In  Queensland, collapsed river banks and dykes,  among other problems, created terrible  ood  damage over a wide area. Hitachi Australia and  four Hitachi Group companies donated AU$50,000  (around 4.1 million yen) to the Premiers Disaster  Relief Appeal administered by the Queensland  government.  Following the 6.3-magnitude earthquake that  occurred in Christchurch, New Zealand, in February  2011, the Hitachi Group donated NZ$100,000  (approximately six million yen) for victim relief and  for rebuilding the city. 1  Disaster Victim Support Systems:  A system that provides support to  operations undertaken by municipal governments in the event of an  earthquake or other natural disaster. The systems  program is provided by the  Local Authorities Systems Development Center (LASDEC).  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Respect for Human Rights Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  116 Cherishing humanity is fundamental to  management at Hitachi. When operating  globally, we respect human rights based on  international codes for all of our stakeholders,  appreciating the cultures of every country and  region to enhance our understanding of their  values.  Human Rights Policies We established the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct  in 2010. Central to these rules are respect for  national and regional laws as well as universal  human rights based on international norms. Our  codes clearly require: respect for the individuality  and personalities of everyone related to our  business; the elimination of discrimination in  recruitment and employment; and respect for basic  human rights in all workplaces. We have translated  the codes into 17 languages to improve human  Respect for Human Rights Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct  Chapter 4 Respect of Human Rights 4.1 Promoting Respect of Human Rights (1) We will respect international standards of conduct  regarding human rights, and strive to ensure that we do  not engage in any conduct that obstructs or interferes with  human rights. 4.2 Eliminating Discrimination (1) We will respect every persons character and individuality  in the recruitment and treatment of employees, the  conduct of commercial transactions, and all other  company activities, and not engage in any acts that impair  individual dignity or discriminate on the basis of sex, age,  nationality, race, ethnicity, ideology, belief, religion, social  status, family origin, disease, disability, etc. 4.3 Respect of Human Rights in Information  Management (1) We will establish information ethics based on consideration  of human rights and the maintenance of security  in information handling, to prevent in advance the  emergence of problems from personal information leaks,  computer viruses, and unauthorized access. 4.4 Respect of Basic Rights at Work (1) We will advance employment with proper consideration  for corporate social responsibility. We will hire employees  in accordance with the governing domestic, foreign and  local laws in each country and region. We will not use child  labor that employs children below the minimum working  age or coerced labor that is against the will of the workers. (2) We will conduct procurement with proper consideration for  corporate social responsibility, and will not procure goods  or services from enterprises that utilize child labor or forced  labor. (3) Considering the laws and regulations and labor practices  in each nation and region, and respecting the basic rights  of employees presented as the principles of the United  Nations Global Compact, we will strive to have employees  and managers better understand each others problems  and resolve issues jointly through genuine and constructive  dialogue. Hitachi, Ltd. Framework for Promoting Respect for  Human Rights Central Human Rights Promotion Committee Chairperson: Executive Offi  cer  Members: Personnel in charge of corporate divisions  such as marketing, procurement, human  resources, and other divisions Company and Business Site Committee Chairperson: In-House Company Presidents  and Division Heads Members: Division managers  Company and Business Site Committee Chairperson: In-House Company Presidents  and Division Heads Members: Division managers  Company and Business Site Committee Chairperson: In-House Company Presidents  and Division Heads Members: Division managers  rights awareness among all Group employees  worldwide.  Framework for Promoting Respect for  Human Rights Hitachi, Ltd. established the Central Human Rights  Promotion Committee to deliberate on mechanisms  and policies to prevent human rights violations.  A Hitachi, Ltd. executive offi  cer chairs this body,  whose members include representatives from  sales, procurement, human resources, and other  corporate units. Information from deliberations is   Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Respect for Human Rights Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  117 shared with all employees through company and  business site committees, led by company and  division executives.  Raising Awareness of Human Rights Hitachi improves Group-wide human rights  awareness based on guidelines from the Central  Human Rights Promotion Committee. We augment  business units regular group training, seminars,  and video education sessions with the human rights  e-learning course that the 260,000 employees of  all 440 Group companies in Japan take once every  three years.  We collaborate with our European CSR team  to produce educational materials that include  concepts from regions where human rights  practices are advanced. We maintain a framework  to more swiftly detect and resolve internal and  external human rights violations. This framework  includes the Compliance Reporting System, a sexual  harassment consultation system, and employee  awareness surveys. We strive to identify human  rights risks globally through regular management  and business risk assessments.  Applying Human Rights Worldwide  We have developed educational programs and  management best practices in Europe, which we  believe is the most advanced in addressing human  rights and business. We intend to apply these  programs and practices worldwide as a global  enterprise to ensure that Hitachi Group employees  and businesses consistently respect human rights. Our European CSR team collaborated with  European Group companies to launch a human  rights project. We follow the work of Professor John  Ruggie, Special Representative of the Secretary- General of the United Nations on business and  human rights, and support his framework, Protect,  Respect and Remedy. The work during the early  stages of the project is setting up Hitachi in Europe  to implement the framework across its businesses.  We are educating employees on human rights,  ensuring that all relevant standards and policies are  up to date, and establishing business speci c action  plans.  Sixty percent of senior management-level  employees at European Group companies  completed Senior Manager training in  scal 2010.  In March 2011, Hitachi Europe, Ltd. conducted  a stakeholder dialogue on human rights with  representatives from the European Commission,  international bodies, national governments, and  nongovernment organizations. Executives from  Hitachi, Ltd. attended this gathering. We gained  valuable insights into the human rights activities  that the Hitachi Group must consider in global  business activities.  Stakeholder dialogue in Europe VOICES I welcome this Sustainability Report and  Hitachis journey to move beyond being a  Japanese headquartered company to being  a truly global company. With this global  status also comes a global responsibility. It is vital that as a leading player in  sustainability that Hitachi continues  to take a leadership role on Corporate  Social Responsibility (CSR). Your focus  on Social Innovation Business from clean  trains to smart grids marks a step forward  in promoting measurable advances on  Richard Howitt MEP European Parliament Rapporteur  on Corporate Social Responsibility Acting with a Sense of Global Responsibility  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Respect for Human Rights Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  118 sustainability, Hitachi has also been one of the few  companies who commit publicly to a human  rights approach. Your objective is clear, to  foster a culture where there is awareness,  understanding and appreciation of human  rights at all employee levels, and to ensure  that international human rights standards  are understood and met across your  business. I hope Hitachi will actively take  a leading role in promoting both the UN  Guidelines on Business and Human Rights  as well as increased transparency, bringing   nancial and environmental, social and  governance issues together, side by side in  one integrated report. During the year I had the pleasure  of visiting your plant in Narashino and  meeting both management and workers  which was truly enlightening for me in  my work on global CSR. I look forward to  working more closely with you as part of my  continuing work, and hope for your support  in developing collaborative ventures on CSR  between the Japanese Ministry for Economy  Trade and Industry (METI) and the European  Commission. In conclusion, although establishing itself  globally Hitachi will I am sure never forget  its roots in Japan and will be part of the  work to rebuild the Japanese economy and  Japanese communities following the horri c  earthquake and tsunami. The challenges are  huge but the determination is tangible.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Supply Chain Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  119 employment and occupations as well as all forms  of child and forced labor. We will share global  supply chain issues within the Group and reinforce  procurement in line with the Hitachi Guidelines for  Procurement Activities. One priority in the 2012 Mid-Term  Management Plan is to expand our global  procurement ratio, particularly by stepping  up purchasing in emerging nations. This  will reinforce our global competitiveness  and operational foundation. For global  procurement, we respect the human rights  and the basic work rights of everyone in the  supply chain. We collaborate with suppliers  in promoting CSR by sharing guidelines and  communicating proactively.  Promoting Globalization Using the 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan, we  intend to raise the Groups global procurement  ratio from 36 percent to 50 percent by  scal  2012. We therefore formulated the Hitachi Group  Medium-Term Procurement Strategic Plan. The  key aims are to establish global partnerships to  create Group procurement strategies, to stabilize  the supply of materials, and to reinforce CSR and  sustainability within the supply chain. In order to  accelerate these Group-wide activities, we set up  the Global Procurement Promotion Department  within the Corporate Procurement Division to boost  the global procurement ratio. We are continuing to  reinforce our responsiveness to CSR risk, a growing  concern as the global supply chain expands.  Sharing Procurement Policies We revised the Hitachi Guidelines for Procurement  Activities in June 2009 in line with the United  Nations Global Compact.1 These guidelines  are the basis of our procurement activities. The  revision added the elimination of discrimination in  Supply Chain Management Global procurement ratio of Hitachi Group  Main Barometers 36% 50% Fiscal 2010  Fiscal 2012 target  1  UN Global Compact:  An international accord that Ko  Annan, the former  Secretary-General of the United Nations, proposed and which was adopted in  2000. This compacts 10 principles on human rights, labor, the environment,  and anti-corruption encourage the building of a sustainable society. The  United Nations asks corporations, nongovernment organizations, citizens  groups, and other entities to base their actions on these principles. As of  March 2011, 8,711 organizations are supporting the UN Global Compact (of  these, 139 are Japanese). Guidelines for Procurement Activities These guidelines de ne business transaction standards  which shall be applied to all HITACHI executives and  employees in connection with their activities purchasing  necessary materials, products, services, and information  from outside sources. 1. Overall procurement activities of Hitachi shall adhere  to the HITACHI Company Conduct Standards. 2. HITACHI shall maintain proper partnerships, mutual  understanding, and reliable relationships with  suppliers with a view to the long term results. (1) HITACHI shall treat all suppliers impartially and be  prohibited from favoritism such as giving unfair  priority to any speci c suppliers. (2) HITACHI respects fair business dealings with  suppliers and will avoid any improper act which  might cause a loss to a supplier apart from normal  and customary business transactions. (3) HITACHI shall keep suppliers trade secrets strictly  con dential and prevent them from being  revealed or improperly used. 3. HITACHI develops suppliers to maintain  competitiveness from a worldwide point of view. (1) HITACHI responds to all suppliers off ers sincerely,  and is always willing to off er the information  necessary for suppliers to compete on an even  playing  eld. (2) HITACHI shall periodically check and review  suppliers performance and will consider off ering  more advantageous business opportunities when  comparison with other resources allows. 4. Through a designated selection process, suppliers  shall be evaluated by product quality, reliability,  delivery, price, suppliers business stability,  technical development ability, fair and transparent  information release, compliance with societies   Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Supply Chain Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  120 rules, regulation compliance, respect for human  rights, elimination of discrimination in respect of  employment and occupation, elimination of all forms  of forced and compulsory labor, environmental  preservation activities, social contributions, good  working environment, and recognition of social  responsibilities with business partners. (1) HITACHI shall not request quotations from  suppliers with whom there is no intention to  enter into a future business relationship. (2) In accordance with speci ed internal procedures,  the role and responsibility for speci cations,  terms and conditions, product acceptance  and inspection belongs to each Requester,  Procurement Department and Inspection  Department. (3) Procurement Departments shall be a  representative of HITACHI when contracting with  suppliers. 5. HITACHI members are prohibited from receiving any  personal gifts or off ers from suppliers. Revised in 2009 *All companies in the Hitachi Group act in accordance with these guidelines. Building Partnerships  The Hitachi Group values partnerships and an  open-door policy with suppliers. We strive to  maintain and reinforce mutual understanding  and trust over the long term. We also employ  worldwide perspectives, choosing suppliers in line  with the principles of free competition and equal  opportunity. One special priority is to cultivate  and expand the pool of suppliers in the emerging  nations that we have positioned as major markets. Following a 2009 initiative, we dispatched  another team in October 2010 to seek new  suppliers in Vietnam. We gathered information  from the Japan External Trade Organization and  other countries trade bodies on companies that  were the focus of our research. We are reinforcing  procurement in Southeast Asia, China, South  Korea, India, and Eastern Europe to build our Social  Innovation Business. We also set up a procurement  unit in Brazil in April 2010 to broaden our South  American supplier network. Helping Create International Guidelines  As a founding member of the advisory group for  the United Nations Global Compact on Sustainable  Supply Chains, we support initiatives to build and  foster sustainable supply chains that follow UN  principles on human rights, labor, the environment,  and anti-corruption. In  scal 2010, we helped  formulate guidelines on supply chain sustainability,  supply chain Web sites, and on-line assessment  and study tools for organizations participating  in the UN Global Compact. We will keep serving  as an opinion leader by supporting these UN  activities, drawing on our expertise from our global  operations in dealing with  sustainability issues, such  as human rights and the  environment. Sharing CSR Awareness  In  scal 2009, we produced the Hitachi Group  Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook,  which conforms to the guidelines of the Japan  Electronics and Information Technology Industries  Association. We distributed this publication both  throughout the Group and to our suppliers. We  plan to evaluate progress on CSR among suppliers  worldwide to reinforce mutual understanding and  communication about social issues. Green Procurement1 In keeping with our commitment to monozukuri  craftsmanship, we use green procurement in our  supply chain. Green Procurement Guidelines  We developed Green Procurement Guidelines  Guidelines on Supply Chain  Sustainability WEB  UN Global Compact  http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ WEB  Hitachi Group Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook http://www.hitachi.com/procurement/policy/__icsFiles/afieldfile/2010/08/30/ SC_CSR_E_2.pdf 1  Green procurement:  Procuring parts and materials that reduce the  environmental burden from suppliers that protect the environment.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Supply Chain Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  121 to secure the understanding and cooperation  of suppliers in conservation and in reducing  environmental burdens when developing and  making their products. There are six speci c supplier  requirements: (1) conserve resources, (2) conserve  energy, (3) pursue the 3Rs,1 (4) reduce packaging, (5) rigorously manage chemical substances, and (6) fully disclose information. For requirements (1) through (4), we present case studies of initiatives  that have bene ted both the environment and  suppliers because they have cut costs and improved  product functionality. For requirement (5), we specify  the chemicals used in products from suppliers and  have them register those substances in the Green  Procurement System.  Helping Build Environmental Management  Systems To promote green procurement, we ask suppliers  to develop environmental management systems  that third parties can certify. Suppliers with these  certi cations become Green Suppliers. With these  Green Suppliers, we launched the New MMM  Club,1 where members exchange information on  advanced environmental technologies, regulations,  and outstanding environmental initiatives by  suppliers. We will continue to encourage suppliers  to lower environmental risk and costs, while we  keep building win-win relationships with these  suppliers through green procurement. Orientation on REACH1 Compliance  Hitachi, Ltd. business sites and Group companies  held a supplier orientation on REACH compliance.  To ensure compliance with Europes REACH  regulations, they focused on surveys of chemical  substances in products. Suppliers found the event stimulating. We  explained our response and other REACH-related  initiatives to the over 900 participants at the  scal  2010 gathering. Promoting Green Purchasing We are improving our green purchasing  rate—the ratio of environmentally conscious  products purchased to total offi  ce supplies—by  using a Group-wide online purchasing system,  the e-sourcingMall. This system has a range of  environmentally conscious products. It promotes  purchasing by clearly labeling these products. For   scal 2010, our green purchasing rate reached 95  percent, clearing the years goal of 90 percent. Response to Con ict Minerals1 Issue The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer  Protection Act was signed into law in the United  States in July 2010. One provision under the Act  obliges companies with securities registered in the  U.S. that use in their products any con ict minerals  produced in the Democratic Republic of Congo  (the DRC) and adjoining countries (together the  DRC countries) to report this to the U.S. Securities  and Exchange Commission (SEC). The aim of the  provision is to cut off  revenues from armed groups  that are engaged in violence and other serious  breaches of human rights in the con ict-ridden  DRC countries. Pursuant to the Act, the SEC plans to  promulgate regulations requiring that companies  using any con ict minerals in their products disclose  in their annual reports whether these con ict  minerals originated in the DRC countries.  Hitachi is committed to the pursuit of  responsible procurement practices and has no  intention, directly or indirectly, of abetting the  human rights violations identi ed in the DRC  1  REACH regulation: Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of  Chemicals (EU) 1  The MMM Club is an organization run primarily by suppliers who have  acquired environmental certi cation through Hitachis activities to support  their environmental programs. Mottainai, which means regrettable waste in  Japanese, is now an international environmental term. The three Ms come  from the  rst letter of mottainai. 1  3Rs:  Reduce, reuse, and recycle WEB  Green Procurement Guidelines  http://www.hitachi.com/environment/library/pdf/green_en.pdf New MMM Club General Meeting  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Supply Chain Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  122 countries. Accordingly, we are working with Group  companies and suppliers to boost supply chain  transparency and to ensure that the minerals we  procure do not  nance or bene t armed groups  committing human rights violations.  1  Con ict minerals:  Con ict minerals are de ned under the Dodd-Frank Act  as the following minerals or their derivatives:  Columbite-tantalite, also known as coltan (the metal ore from which tantalum is  extracted);   Cassiterite (the metal ore from which tin is extracted);   Gold;   Wolframite (the metal ore from which tungsten is extracted); and   Any other mineral or its derivatives determined by the U.S. Secretary of State to  be  nancing con icts in the DRC countries.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Diversity Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  123 Work-Life Balance-up! Month As part of the Diversity Development Project, we  are improving  employees work-life balance. In  November 2010, we held the Work-Life Balance-up!  Month (WLB-up! Month) throughout the company  to increase awareness and understanding of how  we support work-life balance. At the start of the  month, a message from the president was sent  out, and a pamphlet was distributed outlining  child care and nursing care support programs  and how to use them. Other steps included  delivering a mail magazine, calls for senryu (satirical  poetry) submissions, and release of the WLB-up!  Declaration.1 Individual companies and offi  ces  also had their own campaigns geared to their  particular circumstances. Employees reported back  that the campaign was easy to understand, and  that they would like it to keep going. To meet these  expectations, we will continue, as well as improve,  these programs. We have a range of initiatives that help us  become a company that develops employees  abilities or ideas and empowers them to  realize their potential. We are committed to  creating an attractive work environment by, for  example, appointing more female managers,  and improving child and nursing care support.  Diversity Development Project We launched the Diversity & Inclusion Development  Project in  scal 2006 to encourage a good work- life balance. Initiatives within the program include  developing and enhancing support for employees  in balancing work with child care or nursing care  for family members. We also advance women in the  workplace through the strategic development of  female managers and a proactive hiring policy, in  line with our goal of ultimately achieving an equal  ratio of males and females in key management  positions.  In addition, we continue to educate and raise  the awareness of employees. We are expanding our  training options to include courses on deepening  understanding of diversity management as well as  courses that employ corporate lectures and World  Caf-style dialogues.  In May 2010, we received the Corporate Prize  in the Best Mother Awards held by the NPO Japan  Mothers Society in recognition of our programs.   Diversity Management Award ceremony for the Best Mother Awards President (overall executive in charge) In promoting diversity, we hold regular meetings to exchange  opinions with labor unions. Diversity Development Group Council Advisors: External directors Secretariat: Diversity Development Center Advisory Committee: Executive Vice Presidents, Vice President in  charge of personnel, managers in charge of labor  administration in Group companies Members: People in charge of diversity development  within Group or internal companies and offi  ces  Diversity Development Project Structure  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Diversity Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  124 Acquiring Kurumin Certi cation In February 2011, Hitachi, Ltd. acquired certi cation  under the Act on Advancement of Measures to  Support Raising Next-Generation Children, also  known as Kurumin certi cation. This is granted  to companies that create action plans for child  care support in line with the act and meet the  performance requirements.  1  WLB-up! Declaration:  An initiative where all employees outline their own  work and life goals, which are shared in the workplace Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group* Male 84% Male 90% Female 16% Female 10% *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan Ratio of Male and Female Employees in FY 2010 Trend in the Number and Ratio of Female Managers 520 595 320 386 4 0 (%) 2 3 1 (People) 0 1,200 900 600 300 73 276 303 840 981 2000 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) 2.9 2.5 3 1.2 3.3 1.3 *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan  Hitachi, Ltd.  Hitachi Group* Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group* 546 538 510 542 (People) 0 1,200 1,000 600 800 400 200 189 438 459 1,056 1,080 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) Breakdown of Male and Female 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Female 183 436 451 504 (533*) 525 (522*) Male 6 2 8 6 (13*) 17 (16*) Total 189 438 459 510 (546*) 542 (538*) (People) Trend in the Number of Employees Taking Child Care Leave Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group* *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan 307 311 143 156 (People) 0 500 400 200 100 300 121 139 450 467 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group* Number of Employees Taking Paternity Leave Kurumin Mark  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Diversity Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  125 Breakdown of Male and Female 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Female 5 10 8 6 (10*) 7 (9*) Male 2 10 10 5 (15*) 3 (14*) Total 7 20 18 11 (25*) 10 (23*) (People) 25 23 11 10 (People) 0 40 30 10 20 7 20 18 36 33 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) Trend in the Number of Employees  Taking Nursing Care Leave *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan  Hitachi, Ltd.  Hitachi Group* Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group* Breakdown of Male and Female 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Female 94 349 381 287 (543*) 330 (688*) Male 2 1 2 1 (8*) 7 (7*) Total 96 350 383 288 (551*) 337 (695*) (People) 551 695 288 337 (People) 0 1,200 900 300 600 96 350 383 839 1,032 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) Trend in the Number of Employees  Working Shorter Hours *26 Hitachi Group companies in Japan Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group* TOPICS One workplace-speci c event during WLB  Month was a family day; it was also held  at Hitachi, Ltd. headquarters in December  2010. Employees families were invited to the  headquarters offi  ce on a holiday to see the  place where their family members work,  to learn about Hitachis history and to eat  in the cafeteria. The goal was to deepen  the families understanding and empathy  toward employees jobs and encourage a  sense of pride and satisfaction for working  at Hitachi.  On that day in December, 180 people  from 56 families came to the offi  ce, getting  an up-close look at workplaces and learning  about our company. Family Day Employee family members looking around the workplace Main Assessments & Awards Hitachi, Ltd. has received the following assessments  and awards from the media and related  organizations to recognize diversity and other  initiatives that create more employee friendly  workplaces:   Nihon Keizai Shimbun, 2010 Ranking of  Companies with the Best Working Conditions: 4th   place   Nikkei Business Publications, Inc., 2011 Ranking  of Companies that Encourage Working Women:  12th place  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Diversity Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  126 European Diversity Project We believe that workplaces that value diversity  attract the best human resources and that they  excel at innovation and business. Hitachi Group  companies in Europe have undertaken the  European Human Rights and Diversity Project  as one way of addressing the priority issue of  human rights, promoting equal opportunity and  eliminating all forms of discrimination.  According to a survey conducted by Hitachi  Group companies in Europe in  scal 2010, the ratio  of Group female employees, including managers,  was below the average of other European  companies.  To boost diversity awareness among all  employees at Hitachi Group companies in Europe,  the European Human Rights and Diversity Project  team developed an e-learning program available  in English, French, German and Italian that was  distributed to all Group companies in Europe. The  aim is to educate 80 percent of employees by the  end of  scal 2011.  In the coming years, Group companies will track  the goals and ratios for gender in employment and  management positions, and Hitachi Europe Ltd. too  is looking at appointing female executives by the  end of  scal 2013. These activities have been welcomed in Europe  and have been presented at the Enterprise 2020  MarketPlace of CSR Europe and other international  conferences. VOICES Internship Program for Female Athletes  Lisa Dearborn Senior Director, Diversity, College  Programs, and Communications Hitachi Data Systems Hitachi Data Systems is launching a program  in the United States that focuses on recruiting  college women who are athletes: the Womens  Athletic Intern Program (WAIP). The motivation  for WAIP is simple: to be successful in their  chosen sport while attending top colleges,  athletes must possess a winning combination  of teamwork skills, competitiveness, time  management, and determination. These are  attributes that the company seeks in recruiting  new employees. For the pilot program,  10 women athletes are being selected for  internships from top colleges in the area,  including Stanford and Santa Clara University,  and will receive development and mentoring  speci cally tailored for the program. Hitachi Data Systems is focusing not only on  recruitment of women with winning attributes  but on leadership development. Its Womens  Leadership Network (WLN) begins its fourth  year in 2011 and has continued to expand its  activities and membership. In addition, the  company hand selects women managers with  high potential for participation in the year-long  Women Unlimited leadership programs.   Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Diversity Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  127 VOICES Great Chances for Women Karin Weintoegl Lawyer Head of Commercial Proposals Vice President Hitachi Power Europe GmbH The main challenge for women at Hitachi  Power is driven by the fact that the plant  engineering and construction business is  traditionally a male-dominated business.  When I started my career in 2004 at Hitachi  Power Europe GmbH in Germany, we were  only 4 female professionals out of some 300  employees–until today this did not change  fundamentally.  I am grateful that I not only had the  chance to start my career in this male-driven  surrounding but was also promoted to lead a  core department in our company—as a woman.  The necessary improvement from a quantitative  view is with the company until today. From  the quality side it is with our society, which is  often not used to women in technology-driven  companies and/or executive positions. Therefore I would advise all women, who  currently have to decide where to apply for a  job, not to leave out companies such as Hitachi,  which might not be known as typical female,  but which grants great chances–as I might be  the perfect proof for.  Balancing a Ful lling Job and Family Ms. Hua Ping Chief Representative/ Shared  Services / Human Resources Hitachi GST China Operations As a woman leader, especially an Asian woman,  I think family is in equal importance with career.  How to balance our work and life is usually one  of the biggest challenges women leaders have. I would say Hitachi GST does a good job  at diversity. There are a number of excellent  women leaders in our company who are  making important business decisions and  who are involved in the companys strategic  planning and development. At our China sites,  nearly half of our management teams are  women. We do not feel any gender barriers  in promotions nor other career advancement  opportunities. Flexible working schedules  and locations in some positions which do not  impact business delivery will further support  womens career development by providing  them more  exibility in arranging job and  family issues.  Bearing a positive mindset, maintaining our  professionalism and try as much as we can to  manage self-emotions at all times, especially  when handling tough situations, can always  help us mitigate the stress from work and  achieve success. Enjoy your work and enjoy  your life as well.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Diversity Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  128 VOICES Diverse Human Resources  Are the Wellspring of Innovation  Shen Liping Shanghai Region General Manager  and Director of Advanced  Technology Innovation Research  Laboratory Hitachi (China) Research &  Development Corporation In 2004 I returned to China from Japan and  joined Hitachi (China) Research & Development  Corporation as a senior researcher. After  working for two years on launching research  projects and building research teams, I was  promoted to the position of research laboratory  director. Looking back a few years, I think I  was able to advance this far thanks to Hitachis  corporate culture of giving opportunities to  employees regardless of gender. As research laboratory director, I was in a  position to foster young researchers. Based  on my own experience, when I was hiring  researchers or instructing them, I placed priority  on their abilities. I realize that men and women  of course diff er in certain respects, but I think  it is more important to understand the unique  characteristics of each individual and provide  opportunities for them to realize their full  potential. In addition, rather than attempting  to foster the same kind of human resources in  the organization, I try to bring together people  with diff erent abilities and diverse personalities  in order to bring innovation into our research.  I will continue to strive to foster the human  resources who will be the future of Hitachi.  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Diversity Management Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  129 Employing People with Disabilities We employ around 3,000 disabled people in a  broad range of areas. To help them adapt to work  environments, we have taken actions geared to  their particular needs. These include installing  magnifying reading devices, computers with speech  recognition, and warning lights for those with  hearing impairments.  There are also four special subsidiaries within  the Hitachi Group where 200 or so disabled or  challenged employees perform tasks such as  collecting and distributing internal mail, offi  ce  cleaning, and clerical work. In  scal 2010, those  in charge of employing disabled people came  together for information exchange meetings,  workshops, visits to special support schools,  and other events. The goal was to deepen their  understanding of disabilities. We have also  collaborated on the employment of disabled  workers with Public Employment Security Offi  ces  by holding a Hitachi Group job fair for disabled  jobseekers.  In June 2010, the employment ratio of people  with disabilities was 2.05 percent at Hitachi, Ltd.  and 1.88 percent as a consolidated domestic Group  company. This reached the legally mandated ratio  of 1.8 percent. We are committed to creating even  more employment opportunities. Model Project for Promoting the Employment of People with Mental Disabilities  We have a number of programs that create  attractive environments for people with mental  disabilities. These are part of our two year  commitment, from May 2009, to the Ministry of  Health, Labour and Welfare to undertake a model  project entitled Promoting the Employment of  People with Mental Disabilities. Key measures  include creating work geared to the particular  kind of disability, promoting understanding in the  workplace, and training natural supporters with  whom employees can feel comfortable consulting  on workplace issues. Within the workplace, we  have assigned psychiatric social workers to manage  the health of mentally disabled employees and  provide them with advice. We are also using special  training and group work to ensure healthy work  for people with mental disabilities and how to  develop smooth personal relationships. This project  has led to the employment of new employees with  mental disabilities since  scal 2009 and six have  joined the company as of March 2011. Hitachi  has also adopted a  exible work system that has  the new employees gradually building up from  three four-hour days per week. One employee  commented that Hitachi was the  rst place where  he had been able to continue working for more  than a year, while another was grateful that there  was someone close at hand to provide advice. We  will report on these results to Group companies and  other companies to help promote understanding  and recognition of the employment of people with  mental disabilities. Source: Hitachi, Ltd. (collected in June every year) *Legally mandated employment ratio 2.5 0 (%) 1.5 2.0 1.8* 1.0 0.5 (People) 0 1,300 1,150 1,000 850 700 981 1,001 1,106 1,091 933 2000 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) 2.06 2.11 2.05 2.01 2.05 Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities Supporter training  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Global Human Capital Development Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  130 hiring engineers. By matching the positions that  applicants want with where we need staff , we are  increasing both the satisfaction of new hires and  the quality of our human resources.  For hiring outside Japan, we are prioritizing  regions and jobs with an eye on establishing  common Hitachi Group hiring practices, in  cooperation with head offi  ces in each region. Global Education for Young Employees We are considering several ways of strategically  securing and training people who will thrive in  the global business arena. For young employees  in particular, we have created programs that  include practical training outside Japan,  eldwork,  and overseas language study. By giving these  employees the opportunity to experience life in  other countries, we will equip them to handle  the challenges of globalization. We are currently  developing programs to send young employees  outside Japan from  scal 2011 so that they can  acquire not just language skills but experience  working with a variety of people. Along with the  business experience they will receive, they will  grow to understand local cultures and lifestyles   rsthand. We plan to send 2,000 employees outside  Japan through these programs by the end of  scal  2012. We consider speaking English an essential  skill for global business, so we will strengthen  English language training for future leaders, with a  particular emphasis on global business. To deepen overseas employees understanding  of Hitachi and of Japan, we are also systematically  increasing opportunities for high-potential  employees to work in Japan.  Global Manager Training With our operations taking on an increasingly  global focus, it is necessary that all managers  working on the global frontlines to understand  our history, founding spirit, company operations,  Because we believe that maximizing employee  potential is vital for creating new value, we  work hard to improve employees abilities and  to develop their careers. Given the accelerating  pace of globalization, we urgently need to  develop leaders capable of competing in the  global arena. We are pushing ahead with a  range of initiatives to enhance and expand our  global business.  Aligning Hiring with Global Business To globalize more eff ectively, we have identi ed  eight key qualities for global human resources.  These include the ability to see from the other  partys perspective and the ability to communicate  clearly. These key qualities are being used in  the selection of new employees from the 2012  graduate pool. We approach hiring with the goal  of having all new graduates move into global  business at sometime in the future. This includes  new graduates hired in Japan for offi  ce jobs and  50 percent of those hired for engineering jobs. We  also intend to have foreign students make up 10  percent of our new graduate intake. In addition,  we led the way for other companies with the  2001 introduction of a job-matching scheme for  Global Human Capital Development (People) 0 300 200 100 151 179 200 218 230 2006 Note: Number of non-Japanese staff  within Hitachi, Ltd. 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) Trend in the Number of Non-Japanese Employees  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Global Human Capital Development Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  131 common values, corporate philosophy, and basic  management skills. To instill this understanding,  we provide a four-day course called Global  Fundamental Course—Ready to Inspire, which  off ers the same training to all Hitachi managers  around the world.  Since  scal 2006, when it was launched, this  course has been taken by approximately 1,369  managers. We plan to continue to off er this course  from  scal 2011 on, while broadening the regions  and personnel covered, as well as improving the  training methods.   Training Future Managers To compete with the worlds top companies in the  years ahead, Hitachi Group managers will have to  create their own business models as well as develop  and manage the methods to achieve them. We  intend to off er intensive business training courses  to help them reach their goals. Business training  for managers within Japan has been completely  revamped, and we plan to have around 4,000  staff  take the new training courses. In addition to  training managers for a global leadership style—  identifying a vision, motivating, and providing  clear feedback—senior management candidates  in particular will learn strategic business planning  and leadership over a six-month period through  weeklong sessions taught in English with  eldwork  outside Japan. We also provide opportunities  for discussions between talented non-Japanese  employees and executives at Hitachi headquarters,  and they are given training in Japan to help  them build networks and groom them for senior  management positions.  HITACHI BASIS We have speci ed the HITACHI BASIS as a common  basic education platform for sharing our Corporate  Credo, work approach, and way of thinking with  all Hitachi Group companies worldwide. On that  foundation, we operate a two-tiered employee  education system that uses human resource  development tailored to the needs of individual  business  elds and regions. As of  scal 2010, we have begun evaluating  the eff ectiveness of education in the main Group  companies. As part of the HITACHI BASIS initiative,  we also took the opportunity of Hitachis centennial  to develop Discover Hitachi, a program targeting  Group employees worldwide that reaffi  rms our  history, Hitachi Founding Spirit, management  policies and business operations. Training System We have supplemented in-house education—based  on on-the-job training—with an extensive training  system consisting of a number of educational  programs: Management Development, Education  for Engineers, Production Worker Training,  Education for Globalization, Sales Education, and  Training by Job Function. These programs are  off ered across the Hitachi Group by the Hitachi  Institute of Technology, the Hitachi Institute of  MONOZUKURI Skills and Engineering, and the  Hitachi Institute of Management Development as  common Group educational courses. During  scal  2010, 22,666 Hitachi Group employees took these  training courses. Other kinds of training are provided by diff erent  companies and offi  ces. Participants in the Global Fundamental Course HITACHI BASIS portal Web site  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Employee Health and Safety Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  132 The health and safety of employees is our  highest priority. Based on the Hitachi Group  Health and Safety Policy, we work hard to  ensure that employees are healthy and safe  by constantly improving conditions for them.  The English version of the Hitachi Group Health  and Safety Policy is scheduled to be published  within  scal 2011. Health and Safety Programs Based on the policies developed by top  management, we ensure that basic activities such  as regular workplace inspections and 5S1 activities  are conducted in line with our labor, health  and safety management system. We also work  continually to prevent accidents and to reduce the  risk of accidents through risk assessments and other  hazard prediction and preventive systems.  The Hitachi Group Health and Safety Research  Presentation Meeting is held every December  to  nd ways to improve the level of health and  safety throughout the Group. In  scal 2010, the  54th meeting attracted 250 participants from  70 companies, and featured  ve case study  presentations as well as special lectures by outside  experts. Reports on best practices and new  measures learned from serious mishaps in the  past were followed by vigorous discussions that  stimulated health and safety activities across the  Group as a whole.  At the same time, health and safety levels  within the Group are far from perfect, with serious  accidents continuing to occur. We are committed  to working, Group-wide, to improve the level of  health and safety still further and to achieve zero  workplace accidents. Employee Health and Safety 1  5S activities:  The  ve principles for maintaining and improving workplace  environments are seiri (sorting), seiton (setting in order), seiso (systematic  cleaning), seiketsu (standardizing) and shitsuke (self-discipline). Hitachi Group Health and Safety Research Presentation Meeting 0 2.00 1.75 1.50 1.25 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 2006 2008 2009 2007 2010 (FY) 1.75 0.48 1.12 0.12 0.22 1.83 0.39 1.09 0.05 0.26 1.90 0.37 1.02 0.12 0.25 1.62 0.46 0.99 0.06 0.25 0.07 0.23  All industries  Manufacturing industries  Electrical machinery sector  Hitachi Group  Hitachi, Ltd. Notes:  1. 2010  gures are not available, except for Hitachi, Ltd. and the  Hitachi Group 2. 90 Hitachi Group companies in Japan Trends in Occupational Accident Rates  Management Report Environmental Report Social Report  Employee Health and Safety Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  133 communication skills. Second-line programs  include early identi cation and treatment through  EAP,1 as well as counseling from industrial health  professionals. For the third line, we created a  program for employees returning to work based  on our workplace return support guidelines, and  we have adopted a system that allows employees  to gradually come back to work. We are also  considering Life Microscopes, wristband devices  that monitor daily activities.  Basic Attitudes to HIV/AIDS Since 1995, Hitachi, Ltd. has promoted an  understanding within the Hitachi Group of HIV/ AIDS based on the following three points: Mental Health Care Ensuring physical and mental health is another  key priority. To enable every employee to work in  a healthy environment, we consult with health  insurance associations and other groups to  maintain high levels of employee health.  In recent years, the number of employees taking  leave from work because of mental health issues  has increased. For our  rst line of prevention, we  have been cutting back on long working hours  and providing education programs designed to  strengthen resistance to stress and to improve  1  EAP (Employee Assistance Program):  provides employees with  psychological, physical, and social support TOPICS Hitachi has developed a wristband activity  monitoring device called Life Microscope.  This small, light, battery-operated device  is attached to the wrist and records the  wearers movements as well as pulse, body  temperature, and other information. As this  device can capture detailed, objective data,  such as levels of activity and sleep periods,  we may use it to support the return to work  of people who took leave for mental health  issues. Worn when someone is preparing  to return to the workplace, and then for a  period after their return, the information  obtained can be used as reference data  for consultations with industrial doctors,  for example. This device is proving to be  eff ective as a tool to support the return to  work. We will increase the number of trial  subjects before full-scale practical use. Application of Wristband Activity Monitor- ing Devices Life Microscope Basic Attitudes Concerning HIV/AIDS 1. We will actively build AIDS awareness in keeping with the under- standing that the most important thing is to cultivate accurate  knowledge and understanding of HIV/AIDS on the part of every  employee. 2. We will respond to known cases of infection by giving the highest  consideration to respecting the human rights of those infected,  and consider how to delay the onset of illness. 3. With a view to protecting the privacy of individuals, no testing  for HIV/AIDS will be conducted as a part of any routine physical  examinations for employees done within the company, whether  the physical examination is legally sanctioned or not (i.e., volun- tary).  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  134 Item Index Items Disclosed Related Pages in This Report  and Other References 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g.,  CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability  to the organization and its strategy Top Commitment pp. 007–008 Message from the Chief Environmental Strategy  Offi  cer p. 050 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Hitachi Management Strategies and CSR pp. 015–018 FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans pp. 032–033 Corporate Environmental Management Strategies  and Initiatives pp. 051–062 Hitachi Group Second Environmental Action Plan:  Targets and Results Third Environmental Action Plan pp. 057–058 2. Organizational Pro le 2.1 Name of the organization Hitachi Group Pro le pp. 005–006 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Hitachi Group Pro le pp. 005–006 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating  companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures Form 20-F  led with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site 2.4 Location of organizations headquarters Hitachi Group Pro le pp. 005–006 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of  countries with either major operations or that are speci cally relevant to the  sustainability issues covered in the report Hitachi Group Pro le pp. 005–006 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Form 20-F  led with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types  of customers/bene ciaries) Form 20-F  led with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines In formulating the Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011, we  used the GRI Application Levels indicating compliance with GRI  Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This provides an objective measure  of the extent to which version 3.1 of the guidelines (G3.1) and other  GRI Reporting Framework elements have been applied. We evaluated  this years report as achieving Application Level B+ by self-assessment.  A comparative table with GRI Guideline indexes is included below.  *1 Performance Indicators may be selected from any  nalized Sector Supplement, but 7 of the 10 must be from the original GRI Guidelines *2 Performance Indicators may be selected from any  nalized Sector Supplement, but 14 of the 20 must be from the original GRI Guidelines *3 Sector supplement in  nal version Same as requirement for Level B Report on all criteria listed for Level C plus: 1.2 3.9, 3.13 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Report on: 1.1 2.1–2.10 3.1–3.8, 3.10 –3.12 4.1– 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 Management Approach disclosed  for each Indicator Category Management Approach  Disclosures  for each Indicator Category Not Required Respond on each core G3 and  Sector Supplement* 3 indicator  with due regard to the materiality  Principle  by either: a) reporting on the  indicator or b) explaining the  reason for its omission. Report on a minimum of 20  Performance Indicators, at least  one from each of: economic,  environment, human rights, labor,  society, product responsibility.* 2 Report fully on a minimum of 10  Performance Indicators, including  at least one from each of: social,  economic, and environment.* 1 C B A C + B + A + Pro le Disclosures OUTPUT Report Application Level Management Approach Disclosures Performance Indicators & Sector Supplement Performance Indicators Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured OUTPUT OUTPUT  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  135 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including:  Number of employees Hitachi Group Pro le pp. 005–006  Number of operations Hitachi Group Pro le pp. 005–006  Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector  organizations) Form 20-F  led with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site  Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private  sector organizations) Form 20-F  led with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site  Quantity of products or services provided Form 20-F  led with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site 2.9 Signi cant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including:  The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings,  closings, and expansions Form 20-F  led with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site  Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation,  maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Form 20-F  led with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Results of External SRI Assessments in Fiscal 2010 p. 103 External Environment Awards  Hitachi, Ltd. Web site  Hitachi Group Environment  Activity 3. Report Parameters Report Pro le 3.1 Reporting period (e.g.,  scal/calendar year) for information provided Sustainability Report Editorial Policy p. 003 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Sustainability Report Editorial Policy p. 003 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc) Sustainability Report Editorial Policy p. 003 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Contact information p. 149 Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for de ning report content, including:  Determining materiality  Prioritizing topics within the report  Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Material Issues for Hitachi p. 019 Results of External SRI Assessments in Fiscal 2010 p. 103 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased  facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further  guidance Sustainability Report Editorial Policy pp. 003–004 3.7 State any speci c limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Sustainability Report Editorial Policy pp. 003–004 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced  operations, and other entities that can signi cantly aff ect comparability from  period to period and/or between organizations  Hitachi Group Pro le pp. 005–006 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including  assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the  compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report Bases of calculations are described if necessary — Environmental Load Information Collection  Methods Hitachi, Ltd. Web site:  Environmental Activities 3.10 Explanation of the eff ect of any re-statements of information provided  in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement  methods) Explanation is given if necessary to complement  data descriptions 3.11 Signi cant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary,  or measurement methods applied in the report None — 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report  Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines  pp. 134–143 Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance  for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the  sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance  provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization  and the assurance provider(s) Independent Review p. 090 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the  highest governance body responsible for speci c tasks, such as setting  strategy or organizational oversight Strengthening Governance p. 028 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an  executive offi  cer (and, if so, their function within the organizations  management and the reasons for this arrangement) Strengthening Governance p. 028 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and  gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent  and/or non-executive members Strengthening Governance p. 028  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  136 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or  direction to the highest governance body  Compliance Reporting System p. 037 Communication with Shareholders and Investors pp. 101–103 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance  body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements),  and the organizations performance (including social and environmental  performance) Strengthening Governance p. 028 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure con icts of  interest are avoided.  Strengthening Governance p. 028 Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 036 4.7 Process for determining the composition, quali cations, and expertise of the  members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any  consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Strengthening Governance p. 028 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and  principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and  the status of their implementation  Hitachi Management Strategies and CSR pp. 015–018 FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans pp. 032–033 Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 036 Corporate Environmental Management Strategies  and Initiatives pp. 051–062 Hitachi Group Second Environmental Action Plan:  Targets and Results p. 057 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organizations  identi cation and management of economic, environmental, and social  performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or  compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and  principles Initiatives That We Participate in p. 004 Hitachi Management Strategies and CSR pp. 015–018 Strengthening Governance; Internal Control pp. 028–029 Supply Chain Management pp. 119–122 Respect for Human Rights pp. 116–118 Corporate Environmental Management Strategies  and Initiatives pp. 051–062 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance bodys own performance,  particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance  Strengthening Governance p. 028 Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is  addressed by the organization Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) pp. 034–035 Managing Environmental Risk  p. 079 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters,  principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or  endorses Initiatives That We Participate in p. 004 Participating in the Development of International  Standards p. 070 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization:  Has positions in governance bodies None —  Participates in projects or committees Strengthening International Standardization p. 045 Participating in the Development of International  Standards p. 070  Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues None —  Views membership as strategic None — Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization None — 4.15 Basis for identi cation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage None — 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement  by type and by stakeholder group Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading  Representations p. 038 Environmental Communication  pp. 087–089 Public Policy Initiatives pp. 099–100 Voices: Acting with a Sense of Global  Responsibility pp. 117–118 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder  engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics  and concerns, including through its reporting Material Issues for Hitachi p. 018  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  137 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Item Performance Index: Core (C) / Add (A) Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Economic Performance Financial Results for the First Quarter of the Year  Ended March 31, 2011 Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Market Presence Form 20-F  led with the U.S. SEC Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Indirect Economic Impacts FY 2009 Breakdown of Funding for Social  Contribution Activities  p. 104 Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Goals and Performance Financial Results for the First Quarter of the Year  Ended March 31, 2011 Hitachi, Ltd. Web site Policy 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan pp. 015–016 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Economic Performance Indicators C EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues,  operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community  investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and  governments Hitachi Group Pro le pp. 005–006 FY 2009 Breakdown of Funding for Social  Contribution Activities  p. 104 Environmental Accounting pp. 086–087 C EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organizations  activities due to climate change Corporate Environmental Management strategies  and Initiatives pp. 051–062 C EC3 Coverage of the organizations de ned bene t plan obligations None — C EC4 Signi cant  nancial assistance received from government None — Market Presence A EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local  minimum wage at signi cant locations of operation None — C EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at  signi cant locations of operation Sharing Procurement Policies pp. 119–120 Building Partnerships p. 120 Sharing CSR Awareness p. 120 Green Procurement pp. 120–121 Response to Con ict Minerals Issue pp. 121–122 C EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from  the local community at locations of signi cant operation  None — Indirect Economic Impacts C EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided  primarily for public bene t through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono  engagement Social Contribution Activities pp. 104–115 A EC9 Understanding and describing signi cant indirect economic impacts,  including the extent of impacts Environmental Accounting pp. 086–087  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  138 Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach  Materials Environmentally Conscious Products and Services pp. 063–070 Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Energy Environmentally Conscious Products and Services pp. 063–070 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075 Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Water Water Conservation p. 077–078 Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Biodiversity Activities to Preserve Ecosystems pp. 060–062 Emissions, Effl  uents, and Waste Reducing Waste pp. 075–077 Water Conservation pp. 077–078 Chemical Substance Management pp. 078–079 Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Products and Services Environmentally Conscious Products and Services pp. 063–070 Compliance Managing Environmental Risk p. 079 Transport Reducing Transportation Energy p. 074 Overall Environmental Management Framework pp. 081–084 Goal and Performance Hitachi Group Second Environmental Action Plan:  Targets and Results Third Environmental Action Plan pp. 057–058 Policy Hitachi Action Guidelines for Environmental  Conservation p. 059 Organizational Responsibility Environmental Management Framework pp. 081–084 Training and Awareness Environmental Education p. 085 Monitoring and Follow-up Building Environmental Management Systems p. 082 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Materials C EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 C EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials  None — Energy C EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source  Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 C EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source  Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 A EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and effi  ciency improvements Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075 A EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-effi  cient or renewable energy based products  and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these  initiatives Environmental Accounting pp. 086–087 Environmentally Conscious Products and Services pp. 063–070 A EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved The Hitachi Environmental Vision; Long-Term Plan  Environmental Vision 2025 pp. 051–053 Water C EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Water Conservation pp. 077–078 A EN9 Water sources signi cantly aff ected by withdrawal of water None — A EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Water Conservation pp. 077–078  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  139 Biodiversity C EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to,  protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas None — C EN12 Description of signi cant impacts of activities, products, and services on  biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside  protected areas  Activities to Preserve Ecosystems pp. 060–062 Social Contribution Activities: The Environment pp. 108–109 A EN13 Habitats protected or restored  None — A EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on  biodiversity  Activities to Preserve Ecosystems pp. 060–062 A EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with  habitats in areas aff ected by operations, by level of extinction risk  None – Emissions, Effl  uents, and Waste C EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075  C EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075  C EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved  Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions pp. 072–075  C EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight  Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 C EN20 NO, SO, and other signi cant air emissions by type and weight  Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Chemical Substance Management pp. 078–079 C EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Water Conservation pp. 077–078 C EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental Load Data Generated through  Business Operations (FY 2010) p. 080 Reducing Waste pp. 075–077 C EN23 Total number and volume of signi cant spills Managing Environmental Risk p. 079 A EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed  hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII,  and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally  None — A EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies  and related habitats signi cantly aff ected by the reporting organizations  discharges of water and runoff   None — Products and Services C EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and  extent of impact mitigation  Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products  pp. 063–067 C EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed  by category  Product and Package Recycling Hitachi, Ltd. Web site  Compliance C EN28 Monetary value of signi cant  nes and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations  Managing Environmental Risk p. 079 Transport A EN29 Signi cant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods  and materials used for the organizations operations, and transporting  members of the workforce  Reducing Transportation Energy p. 074 Overall A EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type  Environmental Accounting pp. 086–087  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  140 Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach Employment Aligning Hiring with Global Business p. 130 Labor/Management Relations  Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 036 Occupational Health and Safety  Employee Health and Safety pp. 132–133 Training and Education  Diversity Development Project p. 123 Diversity and Equal Opportunities  Diversity Management pp. 123–129 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men None — Goals and Performance Major Results Data pp. 147–148 Policy CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group p. 017 Organizational Responsibility Diversity Development Project p. 123 Training and Awareness Diversity Development Project p. 123 Monitoring and Follow-up Diversity Development Project p. 123 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Employment C LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region,  broken down by gender Hitachi Group Pro le pp. 005–006 C LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age  group, gender, and region  None — A LA3 Bene ts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary  or part-time employees, by signi cant locations of operations  None — C LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Labor/Management Relations C LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements None — C LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether  it is speci ed in collective agreements  None — Occupational Health and Safety A LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on  occupational health and safety programs  None C LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total  number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender  Trends in the Occupational Accident Rates p. 132 C LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in  place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members  regarding serious diseases Model Project for Promoting the Employment of  People with  Mental Disabilities p. 129 Business Continuity Plans (BCPs)  pp. 034-035 Mental Health Care p. 133 A LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions None Training and Education C LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by  employee category None — A LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the  continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career  endings  Global Human Capital Development pp. 130-131 A LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career  development reviews, by gender  None — Diversity and Equal Opportunity C LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per  employee category according to gender, age group, minority group  membership, and other indicators of diversity Diversity Management pp.123–129 Aligning Hiring with Global Business p. 130  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  141 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men C LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee  category, by signi cant locations of operation None — Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Investment and Procurement Practices Guidelines for Procurement Activities pp. 119–120 Hitachi Group Supply-Chain CSR Deployment  Guidebook p. 120 Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 1.3  Procurement Activities p. 036 Non-Discrimination Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.2  Eliminating Discrimination p. 036 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4  Respect of Basic Rights at Work p. 036 Child Labor Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4  Respect of Basic Rights at Work p. 036 Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labor Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4  Respect of Basic Rights at Work p. 036 Security Practices Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4  Respect of Basic Rights at Work p. 036 Indigenous Rights Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4.4  Respect of Basic Rights at Work p. 036 Assessment Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 Remediation Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 Goals and Performance FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans: 4. Corporate  Ethics and Human Rights  p. 032 Policy Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 4  Respect of Human Rights p. 036 Organizational Risk Assessment Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 Impact Assessment Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 Organizational Responsibility Framework for Promoting Respect for Human  Rights p. 116 Training and Awareness Raising Awareness of Human Rights; Applying  Human Rights Worldwide p. 117 Monitoring, Follow-up and Remediation Applying Human Rights Worldwide p. 117 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Investment and Procurement Practices C HR1 Percentage and total number of signi cant investment agreements and  contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that  have undergone human rights screening  None — C HR2 Percentage of signi cant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners  that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken  Sharing Procurement Policies; Sharing CSR  Awareness pp. 119–120 C HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning  aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the  percentage of employees trained Raising Awareness of Human Rights; Applying  Human Rights Worldwide p. 117 Non-Discrimination C HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  None — Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining C HR5 Operations and signi cant suppliers identi ed in which the right to exercise  freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at  signi cant risk, and actions taken to support these rights None — Child Labor C HR6 Operations and signi cant suppliers identi ed as having signi cant risk for  incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the eff ective  abolition of child labor  Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 036  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  142 Forced and Compulsory Labor C HR7 Operations and signi cant suppliers identi ed as having signi cant risk for  incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the  elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor  Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 036 Security Practices A HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organizations policies  or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to  operations  Raising Awareness of Human Rights p. 117 Indigenous Rights A HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people  and actions taken  None — Assessment C HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human  rights reviews and/or impact assessments None — Remediation C HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights  led, addressed and resolved  through formal grievance mechanisms None — Society Disclosure on Management Approach Local Communities Philosophy and Policy  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter  3.2 Contribution to Local Communities; 3.6  Observance of Laws and Regulations and Respect  of the Culture and Customs of Each Nation and  Region p. 104 p. 036 Corruption Preventing Corruption p. 037 Public Policy Public Policy Initiatives pp. 099–100 Anti-Competitive Behavior Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct, Chapter 1.2  Sales Activities p. 036 Compliance Formulating and Ensuring Awareness of the  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 036 Goals and Performance FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans: 4. Corporate  Ethics and Human Rights  p. 032 Policy CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group p. 017 Organizational Responsibility CSR Management Structure p. 030 Training and Awareness Implementing Corporate Ethics Month pp. 036–037 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Local Communities  C SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Philosophy and Policy  p. 104 C SO9 Operations with signi cant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Managing Environmental Risk p. 079 C SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with signi cant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Environmentally Conscious Production pp. 071–080 Corruption C SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to  corruption Reinforcing the Risk Management System p. 034 C SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organizations anti-corruption policies  and procedures Preventing Corruption p. 037 C  SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption  Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading  Representations p. 038 Public Policy C SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and  lobbying Public Policy Initiatives pp. 099–100  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  143 A SO6 Total value of  nancial and in-kind contributions to political parties,  politicians, and related institutions by country  — — Anti-Competitive Behavior C SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and  monopoly practices and their outcomes  None — Compliance C SO8 Monetary value of signi cant  nes and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations  Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading  Representations p. 038 Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Customer Health and Safety Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction pp. 093–098 Product and Service Labeling Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products  pp. 063–067 Marketing Communications Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 Customer Privacy Protecting Personal Information and Information  Security Initiative pp. 038–039 Compliance Compliance pp. 036–040 Goals and Performance FY 2010 Results and FY 2011 Plans: 2.  Contribution to Society through Our Business  p. 032 Policy Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines p. 095 Organizational Responsibility Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 Training and Awareness Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 Monitoring and Follow-up Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 Additional Contextual Information Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 Customer Health and Safety C PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services  are assessed for improvement, and percentage of signi cant products and  services categories subject to such procedures  Quality Assurance Activities p. 093 A PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary  codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during  their life cycle, by type of outcomes Handling Product Accidents p. 094 Product and Service Labeling C PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and  percentage of signi cant products and services subject to such information  requirements  Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products  pp. 063–067 A PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary  codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of  outcomes  Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading  Representations p. 038 A PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys  measuring customer satisfaction Customer Satisfaction pp. 094–096 Marketing Communications C PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related  to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and  sponsorship  Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Chapter 1.2  Sales Activities p. 036 A PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary  codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising,  promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes  Preventing the Recurrence of Misleading  Representations p. 038 Customer Privacy A PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer  privacy and losses of customer data  None — Compliance C PR9 Monetary value of signi cant  nes for non-compliance with laws and  regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services  None —  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  144 Core Subjects Issues Hitachis Engagements Related Pages in  This Report Organizational Governance Organizational Governance  Corporate Governance  CSR Management  Brand Management  Public Policy Initiatives pp. 028–029 pp. 030–033 pp. 046–048 pp. 099–100 Human Rights 1. Due diligence 2. Human rights risk situations 3. Avoidance of complicity 4. Resolving grievances 5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6. Civil and political rights 7. Economic, social and cultural rights 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work  Respect for Human Rights pp.116–118   Labour Practices 1. Employment and employment relationships 2. Conditions of work and social protection 3. Social dialogue 4. Health and safety at work 5. Human development and training in the workplace  Diversity Management  Global Human Resource Development  Employee Health and Safety pp. 123–129 pp. 130–131 pp. 132–133 The Environment 1. Prevention of pollution 2. Sustainable resource use 3. Climate change mitigation and adaptation 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of  natural habitats  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives  Environmentally Conscious Products and  Services  Environmentally Conscious Production  Environmental Management Framework and  Communication pp. 051–062 pp. 063–070 pp. 071–080 pp. 081–089 Fair Operating Practices 1. Anti-corruption 2. Responsible political involvement 3. Fair competition 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 5. Respect for property rights  Risk Management  Compliance  Intellectual Property  Supply Chain Management  Activities to Preserve Ecosystems pp. 034–035 pp. 036–040 pp. 044–045 pp. 119–122 pp. 060–062 Consumer Issues 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair  contractual practices 2. Protecting consumers health and safety 3. Sustainable consumption 4. Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 5. Consumer data protection and privacy 6. Access to essential services 7. Education and awareness  Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction pp. 093–098 Community Involvement and  Development 1. Community involvement 2. Education and culture 3. Employment creation and skills development 4. Technology development and access 5. Wealth and income creation 6. Health 7. Social investment  Impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake and  Hitachis Response  Social Contribution Activities pp. 010–014 pp. 104–115 *1 Examination of the potential negative eff ects that an organizations decisions and activities may have on society, the environment, and the economy Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects Hitachis engagements are shown together with the corresponding seven core  subjects of ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility).   Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  145 Area Principles Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Hitachis Engagements Related Pages in  This Report Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support  and respect the protection  of internationally  proclaimed human rights 1.3 Procurement Activities 3.6 Observance of Laws and Regulations and Respect of  the Culture and Customs of Each Nation and Region 4.1 Promoting Respect of Human Rights 4.2 Eliminating Discrimination 4.3 Respect of Human Rights in Information  Management 4.4 Respect of Basic Rights at Work  Respect for Human Rights  Supply Chain Management pp. 116–118 pp. 119–122 Principle 2 Businesses should make  sure that they are not  complicit in human rights  abuses Labor Principle 3 Businesses should  uphold the freedom  of association and the  eff ective recognition of  the right to collective  bargaining 1.3 Procurement Activities 4.1 Promoting Respect of Human Rights 4.2 Eliminating Discrimination 4.3 Respect of Human Rights in Information  Management 4.4 Respect of Basic Rights at Work 5.4 Arranging a Work Environment That Draws Out  Employee Strengths  Diversity Management  Global Human Capital Development  Employee Health and Safety  Supply Chain Management pp. 123–129 pp. 130–131 pp. 132–133 pp. 119–122 Principle 4 Businesses should  uphold the elimination  of all forms of forced and  compulsory labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold  the eff ective abolition of  child labour Principle 6 Businesses should  uphold the elimination of  discrimination in respect  of employment and  occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support  a precautionary approach  to environmental  challenges 2.1 Promoting Environmental Management 2.2 Environmentally Conscious Business Activities and  Environmental Management 2.3 Communication with Stakeholders  Corporate Environmental Management  Strategies and Initiatives  Environmentally Conscious Products  and Services  Environmentally Conscious Production  Environmental Management  Framework and Communication pp. 051–062 pp. 063–070   pp. 071–080 pp. 081–089 Principle 8 Businesses should  undertake initiatives  to promote greater  environmental  responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should  encourage the  development  and diff usion of  environmentally friendly  technologies Anti- Corruption Principle  10 Businesses should  work  against corruption in  all its forms, including  extortion and bribery 3.3 Relations with Politics and Government  Administration 3.5 Regarding Gifts, Business Entertainment, Etc.  Compliance pp. 036–040 Comparative Table with the UN Global Compact Items in Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct and Hitachis engagements are shown  together with the corresponding 10 principles of the UN Global Compact.  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  146 Category Policy, Vision, and Guidelines Related Pages in This  Report Hitachis Management Strategies and CSR Corporate Credo p. 015 Hitachi Group Vision p. 015 Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 015 2012 Mid-Term Management Plan pp. 015–016 CSR Policy of the Hitachi Group p. 017 Management Report Risk Management Guidelines for Pandemic In uenza Preparedness p. 035 Compliance Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct p. 036 Basic Approach to Information Security Governance p. 039 Personal Information Protection Policy p. 038 Three Principles for Preventing Leakage of Con dential  Information p. 039 Brand Management Hitachi Brand Platform pp. 047–048 Environmental Report Environmental Management Strategies and  Initiatives The Hitachi Environmental Vision p. 051 Long-Term Plan Environmental Vision 2025 pp. 051–052 Hitachi Action Guidelines for Environmental Conservation p. 059 Social Report Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines p. 095 Communication with Shareholders and Investors Disclosure Policy p. 101 Basic Policy for Prevention of Takeovers p. 103 Supply Chain Management Social Contribution Philosophy and Policy p. 104 Guidelines for Procurement Activities pp. 119–120 Hitachi Group Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook p. 120 Green Procurement Guidelines pp. 120–121 Policy, Vision, and Guidelines Policy, vision, and guidelines reported in Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011  are listed below.  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  147 FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Related Pages in  This Report Innovation Management R&D Effi  ciency (ROI) (%) 0.45 0.82 0.31 0.37 1.1 p. 041 R&D Expenditures to Revenues (%) 4.0 3.8 4.2 4.2 4.3 p. 041 Intellectual Property Patent Application Ratios outside Japan (%) 37 45 47 47 51 p. 044 FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Related Pages in  This Report Environmental Management Strategies and Initiatives Contributions to CO2 Emission Reduction (millions of  tonnes) — — — 11.77 15.51 p. 052 Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Eco-Product Sales Ratio (%) 31 38 47 53 60 p. 063 No. of Eco-Product Models (models) 4,900 5,741 6,954 8,387 9,456 p. 063 Environmentally Conscious Production CO2 Emissions in Japan (kt-CO2) 2,805 3,104 2,893 2,482 2,630 p. 072 CO2 Emissions outside Japan (kt-CO2) 1,483 1,407 1,419 1,397 1,694 p. 073 CO2 Emissions from Transportation in Japan (kt-CO2) 188 174 155 128 125 p. 074 Waste Generation (kt) 784 760 737 608 738 p. 075 Water Use outside Japan (millions of m3) 14.68 14.26 13.61 12.90 16.40 p. 077 VOC atmospheric Emissions in Japan (kt) 6 5 4 3 3 p. 078 VOC atmospheric Emissions outside Japan (t) 752 774 523 577 439 p. 079 Management Environment Scope of data Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries (including modi ed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting applies) No. of companies: FY 2006: 934; FY 2007: 911; FY 2008: 944; FY 2009: 901; FY 2010: 914 Scope of data For environmental load data generated from products Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries (including modi ed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting applies) No. of companies: FY 2006: 934; FY 2007: 911; FY 2008: 944; FY 2009: 901; FY 2010: 914 For environmental load data generated through business operations Companies that cover 90% of the load (based on Hitachi calculations) Major Results Data Major results data reported in Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 are listed  below.  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  148 FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Related Pages in  This Report Social Contribution Activities Breakdown of Funding for Social Contribution Activities1  (millions of yen) 1,412 1,472 1,439 1,347 — p. 104 Supply Chain Management Global Procurement Ratio (%) — — — — 36 p. 119 Diversity Management Ratio of Male and Female Employees (Hitachi, Ltd.) (%) 86:14 86:14 86:14 85:15 84:16 p. 124 Ratio of Male and Female Employees (Hitachi Group2)  (%) — — — 89:11 90:10 p. 124 Ratio of Female Managers (Hitachi, Ltd.) (%) — 2.5 2.9 3 3.3 p. 124 Ratio of Female Managers (Hitachi Group2) (%) — — — 1.2 1.3 p. 124 No. of Employees Taking Child Care Leave (Hitachi, Ltd.)  (people) 189 438 459 510 542 p. 124 No. of Employees Taking Child Care Leave (Hitachi  Group2) (people) — — — 546 538 p. 124 No. of Employees Taking Nursing Care Leave (Hitachi,  Ltd.) (people) 7 20 18 11 10 p. 125 No. of Employees Taking Nursing Care Leave (Hitachi  Group2) (people) — — — 25 23 p. 125 No. of Employees Working Shorter Hours (Hitachi, Ltd.)  (people) 96 350 383 288 337 p. 125 No. of Employees Working Shorter Hours (Hitachi  Group2) (people) — — — 551 695 p. 125 Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities2 (%) 2.05 2.11 2.06 2.01 2.05 p. 129 Global Human Capital Development No. of Non-Japanese Employees (Hitachi, Ltd.) (people) 151 179 200 218 230 p. 130 No. of Employees Taking Group-Wide Training (Hitachi  Group3) (people) — — — — 22,666 p. 131 Employee Health and Safety Occupational Accident Rates (Hitachi, Ltd.) (%) 0.12 0.05 0.12 0.06 0.07 p. 132 Occupational Accident Rates (Hitachi Group2) (%) 0.25 0.26 0.22 0.25 0.23 p. 132 Scope of data 1 Hitachi, Ltd. and  ve foundations in Japan 2 Twenty-seven Hitachi Group companies in Japan  3 Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries (including modi ed entities to which the equity method of consolidated reporting applies)   No. of companies:   FY 2006: 934; FY 2007: 911; FY 2008: 944; FY 2009: 901; FY 2010: 914 Social  Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2011 http://www.hitachi.com/csr/  149  Hitachi, Ltd. CSR Promotion Department, CSR Division  (For inquiries on this report or CSR activities overall) 1-6-6 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8280, Japan Tel: +81-3-3258-1111  Fax: +81-3-4564-1454  http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ Environmental Strategy Offi  ce (For inquiries on environmental activities) 1-6-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8220, Japan Tel: +81-3-3258-1111  Fax: +81-3-4235-5835  http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ Inquiries