Community Products and services People Economic performance Environmental performance Goals and performance Refer to Investing in Communities  (pages 38–41). Refer to Supporting our people  (pages 34–37). Refer to Connecting with our  customers (pages 42–45). Refer to Managing our environmental  impacts (pages 46–49). Refer to Financial report (pages 8–9),  Core businesses (pages 18–31) and  Financial and statutory reports   (pages 50–131). Policy Our Sponsorship and Community  Engagement strategy guides our  community investment and  sponsorship activities. Australia Post has a national  Sponsorship Policy (available   at www.auspost.com.au). Australia Posts Human Resources  policy framework comprises:   Equal Employment Opportunity Policy;  Diversity Policy; Occupational Health  and Safety Policy; The Workforce  Diversity Business Strategy;   Safety Strategy; Our Ethics;   and Whistleblower Policy.  Our HR Manual outlines the terms   and conditions of employment.   These are also contained in our  collective certified agreements. In October 2010 Australia Post  implemented its Fair Work Agreement  which provides job security and  stability for award-level employees. Our community service obligations,  prescribed performance standards   and complaint resolution procedures  are outlined in our Customer Service  Charter (available at www.auspost. com.au). The Post Guide booklets describe  policies and procedures relating   to our products and services. Our competition and consumer  compliance program comprises  guidelines, online resources, regular  staff training, a clearance process   for advertising and promotional  activities and a compliance register. Our privacy compliance program   helps to ensure that we protect the  personal information of our customers,  employees and business partners. Commercial Trading Agreements   with suppliers require full compliance  with relevant laws. Our Supplier Code of Conduct  encourages our contracted   suppliers to meet ethical, social and  environmental standards of conduct. Australia Post has an Environment   Policy (which is endorsed by the  board) and an Energy Policy (which is  endorsed by the EC). Our environmental monitoring and  programs are managed through   an ISO14001 aligned environmental  management system.  We actively monitor our carbon  footprint by measuring our  consumption of materials, energy   and water, as well as the waste   we dispose.  We have a board-endorsed carbon  reduction target of 25 per by 2020,  using our year 2000 emission levels   as the baseline. Australia Post is a government  business enterprise established under  the Australian Postal Corporation   Act 1989 (Cwlth). The Commonwealth  Authorities and Companies Act 1997  also governs our relationship with our  shareholder, the federal government. We provide an annual rolling three-year  corporate plan to our shareholder. Our financial accounts are audited   by the ANAO. Our management approach This table summarises how financial and corporate responsibility policies and procedures are integrated into our business plans and everyday operations for the purpose of meeting the  requirements of the GRIs Disclosure on Management Approach. Further information on our goals and performance for each area can be found in the relevant sections of our integrated  annual report (visit www.auspost.com.au/2011annualreport).  Community Products and services People Economic performance Environmental performance Organisational   responsibility The General Manager Community   and Sponsorships oversees our  sponsorship and community  engagement strategy and program. The Human Resources committee   of the Australia Post board addresses  major policy, structural and  remuneration issues. The General Manager HR is  responsible for the people program  across the organisation. HR also has dedicated HR business  partners for the strategic business  units (SBUs) and functional business  units (FBUs) with dual reporting to   the General Manager HR and relevant  SBU/FBU heads. The Corporate Affairs leadership   team meets regularly to ensure that  there is co-ordination of people and  community strategies and programs. The Executive General Manager   Mail Services has operational  responsibility for meeting the  prescribed performance standards  relating to frequency, speed and  accuracy of mail delivery. The Executive General Manager  Parcels Services has operational  responsibility for meeting the  prescribed performance standards  relating to frequency, speed and  accuracy of parcel delivery. The Executive General Manager   Retail Services has operational  responsibility for meeting the  prescribed performance standards  relating to the availability and  accessibility of Australia Post retail  outlets and mail lodgement points. Our legal team has responsibility   for ensuring that we meet our  competition and consumer compliance  obligations. Our competition and  consumer clearance process involves  the corporate secretary and the  General Manager, Marketing and  Customer Experience (or a nominated  executive) and our legal services team  checking and clearing on advertising,  promotional and marketing material. Our Legal Services group has  responsibility for our privacy  compliance program. Our strategic procurement team   has responsibility for managing   the Supplier Code of Conduct. The General Manager External Affairs  and Reputation has operational  responsibility for ensuring that we  comply with all laws and guidelines,  and for co-ordinating programs that  are designed to reduce our  environmental footprint.  Managers and employees have a  shared responsibility to ensure that  their activities are legally compliant  and are in line with our environmental  policy and commitments. The Managing Director and Chief  Executive Officer and the executive  committee share responsibility   for the economic performance   of the business.  Community Products and services People Economic performance Environmental performance Training and awareness Our community engagement team   is responsible for managing our  community engagement activities   and partnerships.  Our sponsorship team is   responsible for managing our  commercial sponsorship activities   and partnerships. Employees are informed of   national sponsorship and community  engagement programs and activities  through Australia Posts internal  communication channels. In 2010–11, we focused on:  	safety through our I Am for   Zero campaign 	diversity and inclusion through   the launch of our Reconciliation  Action Plan and other programs   and activities 	accountability through Performance  Ready, a program that provides  clarity for individual employees   on their objectives and how   they contribute to the priorities   of the business 	health and wellbeing through   a range of programs under our  Health and Wellbeing strategy  	skills and capability development   through three key initiatives:   Future Skills, Future Leaders   and Sales Capability. Copies of the Customer Service  Charter are made available   to managers. We have ongoing programs to train  employees in competition and  consumer and privacy compliance. Employees are trained in the  operational control procedures   which are applicable to their job.   This includes recognising  environmental impacts and   how they can be minimised.  We regularly send environmental  awareness information to our  employees, licensees and contractors. Our employee communications  strategy includes initiatives to  communicate with staff on our   annual results as well as important  strategic business issues. Monitoring and follow-up The Australia Post executive  committee monitors our   community engagement and  sponsorship programs. Australia Post has been a member   of the London Benchmarking   Group since 2009. We use their  internationally recognised  methodology to measure and   report our community investment. Our HR issues are monitored   through the following forums:   the HR Committee of the board;  progress against our People and  Engagement plan; and regular HR   and Corporate Affairs leadership   team meetings. Research International monitors   our performance against the regulated  standard. Ernst & Young has been  engaged by the Australian National  Audit Office (ANAO) to conduct   an annual audit to ensure that   Australia Post has met all of its  regulated performance standards.   A summary of the audit results is  included in our integrated annual  report (see pages 116–117). The Board Audit and Risk Committee  monitors our emissions levels and  compliance with legal requirements. We are actively monitoring   our activities to ensure that our  environmental performance complies  with our Environment and Energy  Policy and all legal requirements. The board and executive committee  are regularly updated on performance  and strategic business issues through  monthly performance reviews. Since 2007–08, part of the at-risk  component of remuneration for   the Managing Director and CEO,   executive committee and other   senior executives has included  corporate responsibility-related  performance indicators.  Community Products and services People Economic performance Environmental performance Additional information This year we revised our strategic  framework for community  engagement and sponsorship to align  with the corporations Future Ready  strategic direction. The relevant Australian  Commonwealth laws that direct   our HR policies include: Fair Work   Act (2009); Human Rights and Equal  Opportunity Commission Act 1986;   Age Discrimination Act 2004;   Fair Work Act 2009; Sex Discrimination  Act 1984; Disability Discrimination Act  1992; Racial Discrimination Act 1975;  Maternity Leave (Commonwealth  Employees Act) 1973; Long Services  Leave (Commonwealth Employees   Act) 1976; Safety Rehabilitation   and Compensation Act 1988;  Commonwealth Occupational Health  and Safety Act 1991; Human Rights  and Equal Opportunity Commission   Act 1986; Equal Employment  Opportunity (Commonwealth  Authorities) Act 1987; and   Privacy Act 1988. Our performance standards are  outlined in the Australian Postal  Corporation (Performance Standards)  Regulations 1998.  The Postal Industry Ombudsman  investigates complaints about  Australia Post under the Ombudsman  Act 1976. Visit www.pio.gov.au. Our Supplier Code of Conduct clearly  outlines our expectations of suppliers. Australia Post made an undertaking   to the ACCC in 1998 regarding its  compliance program to which   it adheres. Some of the Australian laws   that influence our environmental  management approach are the   Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act  2006, National Greenhouse and Energy  Reporting Act 2007 and Environment  Protection and Biodiversity  Conservation Act 1999. We report to two federal government  shareholder ministers: the Minister for  Broadband, Communications and the  Digital Economy and the Minister for  Finance and Deregulation.