Building values   worldwide Salini Costruttori  Sustainability Report 2010  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Letter to the stakeholders Since Salinis first sustainability  report, published last year, the  Group has continued to make  excellent progress on the  measurement and implementation  of initiatives in a period of extensive  organisational change. 2010 has  been a significant year for our  Group and employees, as we  haveintegrated colleagues and  expertise from Todini into our  business to create the thirdlargest  Italian construction company. of energy security and climate change facing  developed and developing economies alike.  However, we also have an opportunity to raise  standards for the communities that live around  our major projects. Our commitment to sourcing  both employees and materials from local  communities can fundamentally affect the  regional economies in which we operate,  especially in developing countries, often resulting  in higher levels of skill, better infrastructure, healthy  ecosystems and a sustainable legacy around  our projects – which themselves are built to  deliver economic, social and environmental  benefits long into the future.  Earning stakeholder trust  through improved performance To capitalise on this opportunity, we must  continue to earn the trust of stakeholders  through a continued commitment to  understanding what they want from our  projects. Our everadvancing social and  environmental management systems, including  our Code of Ethics, helpus to identify, manage  and mitigate in an adequate way key impacts.  We want to be a Group respected for its  ongoing commitment to sustainability and  transparency in conducting business and  reporting performance. Theeffectiveness and  reliability of this years report are shown through  its certification as a level A+ GRI G3 report by  our auditors, KMPG. On behalf of the Board of Salini, I would like to  thank allour employees for their contribution to  our progress in2010. Great progress made in  this area and our positioning make me very  confident about exciting futuregoals. Pietro Salini CEO Salini Costruttori S.p.A.  Our achievements Beyond the integration of Todini, I am very  proud of the Groups many achievements over  the last 12 months. These include: –  Increasing our work in hand to a value of  14.7billion (+8.7 billion in comparison  with2009);  –  Becoming a signatory of the UN Global  Compact, committing the Group to aligning  its business operations and strategies with its  universally acceptedprinciples; –  Sourcing 78% of the services and materials  needed forprojects from local suppliers; –  Maintaining a high percentage of employees  hired from local community (90%); –  Decreasing considerably the severity index  ofemployee injuries (–38%); –  Investing over 2.8 million into community  projects, and leaving a legacy worth much  more through roads, schools, housing and  power grids –created for operational needs  and then left to the localcommunity; –  Increasing number of training hours to personnel  by +17% and launching a new elearning  platform to employees in all operating sites. But perhaps the most powerful examples of  our recent successes are those that have clear  business benefits, and that also deliver have  apositive environmental and social impact.  Thisis where I believe we have real potential  tomake a difference to the sustainable  development of communities around the world.  Our opportunities As explained later in this report, Salinis leading  position inhydropower makes the Group well positioned to exploit the growth in renewable  energy over the world. The contracts won bythe  Group during 2010 and those in the pipeline will  not only generate profitable growth for Salini and  for neighbouring communities, but will also help  tackle the complex, interconnected challenges  Profile and  strategy Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report   Profile and strategy 1.1 Group profile  03 1.2 Strategy and approach  04–05 1.3 Group structure and organisation   05 Chapter 1 Salini Costruttori  Sustainability Report 2010  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and strategy 02  03 Albania Algeria Argentina Azerbaijan  Belarus Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Czech Republic Denmark Ethiopia Gabon Georgia Ghana Greece Guinea Hungary Ireland Italy Jordan Kazakhstan Liberia Libya Malawi Malaysia Morocco Nigeria Poland  Portugal Romania Saudi Arabia Sierra Leone Somalia Sudan Tanzania Tunisia Turkey Ukraine Uganda United Arab Emirates Zimbabwe We have a presence in the following  countries around the world: 1.1 Group profile We operate in over 40 countries across four continents, employing 12,873  peopleofabout 60 different nationalities. We have over 40 ongoing projects. Portfolio of  work in hand by  area of  expertise Portfolio of  work in hand by  geographical  area 2010 work in hand 11.2% Civil building construction  52.4% Dams and hydroelectric plants 59.7% Africa  13.3% Asia 27% Europe 23.3% Railways 13.1% Roads and  motorways Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Profile and  strategy  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and strategy continued Salini Costruttori (hereafter also Salini or the  Group) is a private industrial group specialising  in the construction of major works. It is the  thirdItalian General Contractor and is  considered to be one of the four most  important worldwide players in the  hydroelectric sector.  Inspired by the principles of sustainable  development, the Group employs innovative  technologies and organisational capacities,  making use of highlyqualified employees to  develop construction methods and solutions  capable of contributing to economic and  socialdevelopment. Salinis particular focus on the local  contextallows us to apply the core values  ofbusiness with ethical principles, social  andenvironmental sustainability. 1.2 Strategy and approach Salini Costruttori today is present inover  40countries across four different continents.  Operating in such a wide variety ofcontexts  and geographies means the Group is required  to meet the expectations of foreign countries,  clients, local communities, and consumers as  well as technicaloperational counterparts who  all have different histories, cultures and  backgrounds. The Group has addressed this  challenge by working towards aunited vision  and subsequent business model focused on  the value of people.  Salini is committed to the overall concept  ofsustainable development, which is an  inherent feature of the Companys business. In fact, the economic crisis of 2008 and  therecovery trends in place today have  resulted ina number of openings and  opportunities inavariety of business sectors,  countries and regional areas.  In view of the above, in 20082009,  theGroupformulated a plan based  ontwocomplementary goals: –  to play a key role in the consolidation  processof the Italian construction industry; –  to expand the markets and sectors in which  the Group operates, in order to maximise  theopportunities resulting from the  diversification process. Dams and hydroelectric plants Railways Roads and motorways Civil building construction Salini is a global leader in the construction of  dams and hydroelectric power plants, with  projects of significant scale and complexity  completed across three continents.  Newworks, with an installed capacity  ofalmost 8,000MW of clean, affordable  energy – anessential prerequisite for  economic growth– are currently underway. Whilst it is inconceivable to imagine a future  in which motor vehicles play no part in the  global transport mix, it is also undeniable  that as road usage increases dramatically,  rail transport offers a more sustainable  alternative or addition. Salini is an active  participant in thecurrent urban transport  renaissance underway across Europe  through projects such as the new B1 Metro  line in Rome and the Cityringen Metro for  Copenhagen. The expansion of road networks is essential  for economic growth and the social  development such growth enables. A range  of studies provide empirical evidence of the  positive relationship between investment  ininfrastructure and good economic  outcomes. However, in many parts of the  world, environmental conditions make  construction of roads and motorways,  extremely challenging. Salini has proven  itscapacity to complete projects of varying  scale and complexity in locations as  diverseas SierraLeone, Kazakhstan  andcentral Dubai. Working in partnership with many renowned  architecture and design practices, Salini  continues to play a significant role in the  creation of innovative, iconic civil buildings  around the world; significant undertakings,  including hospital complexes, university  campuses, government buildings and other  structures, which meet both a practical  social need and frequently also providing  akey cultural focus within a community. Areas of expertise 2010 Key Performance Indicators Africa Europe Asia Total* Revenues /000 445,143 438,680 238,544 1,222,823 Workforce Units 9,794 1,041 2,036 12,873 Local workforce % 95.0 95.0 63.0 90.0 Injury freq. rate IR 18.27 40.66 2.23 17.18 Local purchases % 53.0 98.6 83.6 78.4 Energy consumption GJ/000 1,329 390 553 2,272 Water withdrawals m3/000 13,060 1,176 446 14,682 CO2 emissions t/000 97 31 41 169 Community invest.  /000  2,105 729 51 2,885 * Data on Revenues and Workforce include South America too.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 04 05 1.3 Group structure and  organisation The Groups international vocation is reflected  in its presence in over 40 countries. Business  development activities focus on various target  markets as well as strategic potential and  business opportunities.  Furthermore, the Group has established in  some cases ad hoc legal entities to carry  outitsprojects, often in partnership with  othercompanies.  Salini Costruttori S.p.A. (hereafter also  theCompany) is the holding Company  andperforms the activities of direction,  coordination, management and control  forallcompanies belonging to the Group. These companies mainly operate in the  construction sector and ensure, in Italy and  abroad, development and management of  contracts. Many projects are directly carried  out by Salini Costruttori S.p.A., through its  subsidiaries and permanent structures present  in the countries of operation. In order to ensure an effective and efficient  management of the procurement process  ofmaterials, plants and machineries needed  toexecute the projects, Salini has set up  anadhoc company, Co.Ge.Ma. S.p.A.,  thatguarantees centralised management  ofpurchasing and logistics for the entire Group. The Group also operates in real estate industry.  Zeis S.r.l. is the main company in this sector  and provides management and development  of the Groups real estate activities, either  directly or through its subsidiaries. In fact, shortly after an increase of share capital  in 2009, the acquisition of Todini Costruzioni  Generali S.p.A., a sizeable Italian company with  a strong presence in Italy, Eastern Europe and  Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS),  was finalised in early 2010.  As a consequence, during FY 2010, the Group  was able to achieve significant growth (up by  71.7% of revenues compared to 2009) by  bringing together, without overlapping, the  technical skills of two big Italian companies  witha shared heritage of culture and values,  with individuals from dozens of different  nationalities. Synergy has been achieved with  no overlaps or structural redundancies, with  regard to geography and sources of revenue.  The new Group has a great development  potential for both sectors of intervention and  penetration capacity into international markets. The governance model adopted in the Groups  new structure encourages relationships with  the various stakeholders, the respect for rights  and the cultural identities of all employees in  theorganisation, frequent and systematic  investments in health, safety and the  environment, and a commitment to the local  communities in areas where the projects  takeplace.  When implemented the main features of the  sustainability strategy adopted by the Group   consist of maximising benefits generated in  theareas of intervention, all to the good of the  local communities. These benefits include job  creation, sharing knowhow and improving  theprofessional skills of the local workforce,  thegrowth of regional economies by  employment of local suppliers, contractors  andsubcontractors, and investing in public  utilities infrastructure and partnerships with  local institutions and communities. Revenue (/000) 2008 2009 736,930 653,954 2010 1,122,823 Uganda: Bujagali  Hydropower Project Bujagali is a publicprivate  partnership project between  the Aga Khan Fund for  Economic Development,  Sithe Global and the  government of Uganda.  The project, now under  completion, will have an  installed capacity of 255MW  and aims to produce over  40% of the total current  electric power demand  inUganda. The project represents a  concrete possibility of  growth and development  for the country.  Profile and  strategy Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report   Governance 2.1 Corporate Governance  06–07 2.2 Integrating Sustainability into business  08–09   2.2.1 Code of Ethics  09   2.2.2 UN Global Compact  10   2.2.3 Corporate policies  11   2.2.4 Internal Control System  11–12   2.2.5 Management systems and certifications  13–14 2.3 Stakeholder dialogue and engagement  14–15 Chapter 2 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Governance 06 07 2.1 Corporate Governance Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and the Groups  companies voluntarily adopt a corporate  governance model which is consistent with  thefollowing Italian and international principles: –  Code of Conduct for Listed Companies  stated by the Italian Stock Exchange  (BorsaItaliana S.p.A., July 2002); –  Recommendations issued by the Italian  Commission for Stock Market and  Companies (CONSOB); –  Other recognised best practice, such as the  SarbanesOxley Act (US, July 2002) and the  Combined Code on Corporate Governance  (UK, July 2003). The effort to run the Group in line with  international best practices upholds the strong  commitment to continuous improvement,  embraced throughout Salini from the top  management. The Companys governance  structure is shown below. The Board of Directors plays a central  rolewithin the organisation. It bears the  responsibility for the strategic and  organisational policies of the Company,  including verification ofnecessary controls in  order to monitor the performance of the Group  Companies. TheBoard of Directors is invested  with all powers for the Companys ordinary and  extraordinary management. More specifically,  itis granted all instruments to implement and  achieve the corporate objectives that are not  strictly reserved for the shareholders meeting  by law or bylaws. The Board of Directors  alsohas oversight of overall management  performance, with a particular attention  topreventing potential conflicts of interest,  bytaking into particular consideration the  information received by the Executive  Committee, the CEO and the Internal Control  and Corporate Governance Committee, and  comparing periodically the results achieved  against those planned. The Chairman is the legal representative of the  Company and acts on behalf of the Company  in engaging with Public Authorities and other  external organisations. The CEO is responsible for the Companys  operational management and is vested with  the powers of ordinary and extraordinary  administration, except those that cannot be  delegated (in accordance with art. 2381 Italian  civil code), and those reserved to the Executive  Committee. The current Board of Directors of  the Company consists of seven (7) members,  three (3) in charge of particular roles and four (4)  being nonexecutive members. The Board will  be in office until the approval of the financial  statements for the year ending on the  31December 2011. The remuneration policies of the top  management have been determined by a  thorough benchmarking survey of fees paid by  leading national and international companies  operating in the building industry, in compliance  with Salinis Corporate Governance rules.  Currently, there is no mechanism to connect  the remuneration system to environmental and  social indicators. Shareholders meeting Composition: all shareholders with voting rights or their representatives  Approves the financial statements Elects the Board of Directors and the  Statutory Auditors Appoints the External Auditors Approves amendments tothebylaws Integrity Board Composition: one nonexecutive  Director andtwo external  independentmembers Verifies the adequacy of the231  Model and supervises, develops and  promotes its continuous update;  supervises the functioning and  observance of the Code of Ethics Board of Directors Composition: Chairman, CEO,  oneexecutive Director and four  nonexecutive Directors Defines the Companys strategic and  organisationalpolicies Ensures the implementation and  achievement of the Company purposes Supervises the Companysoverall  management performances Statutory Auditors Composition: Chairman,  twopermanent Auditors,  twoalternateAuditors Monitor the compliance with the law  and the bylaws and supervise the  Companys operating performance External Auditors Provider: Reconta Ernst&Young  S.p.A.   On the base of the Audit assignment  they perform the audit of the  Companys financial statements  andperform quarterly reviews  ofitsaccounting records Executive Committee  Composition: Chairman, CEO  andone executive Director Decides about the participation  totenders andthe outofCourt  settlements Remuneration Committee  Composition: threeindependent  nonexecutive Directors Proposes to the BoD schemes for  management incentive pay systems  and the annual remuneration ofthe  Chairman and the CEO, as well as  reviews the remuneration criteria of  thetop management Internal Control and Corporate  Governance Committee Composition: threeindependent  nonexecutive Directors Evaluates the adequacy ofthe internal  control system and supervises the  observance and the periodic update  of the corporate governance rules Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Profile and  strategy  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Governance continued The Companys communication policy aims  toestablish an ongoing dialogue both with its  shareholders and with the market to ensure  thetimely distribution of comprehensive  information on its activities. In accordance  withthe provisions of the Companys Self Regulatory Code, the Chairman and the  CEOcommunicate with shareholders in full  compliance with the procedures for disclosure  of documents and information concerning the  Company, limited only by confidentiality  requirements where applicable. 2.2 Integrating Sustainability  into the business Salini is firmly committed to combining  business values with the principles of ethics  and longterm success when it comes to the  management of ESG (environmental, social  and governance) issues. For this reason, the  Group has established an integrated system of  policies, procedures, in accordance with major  recognised international standards of reference. The following diagram shows the overall  framework adopted by the Group to manage  sustainability in our daytoday operations,  allowing Salini to be aligned with the best  practices of the constructions sector. In general, the Group adopts the precautionary  principle in the management of issues related  to economic, social and environmental  sustainability. In fact, thanks to the policies  andmanagement systems and controls  implemented, Salini is able to identify aspects  that could expose the organisation to potential  risks, classifying them according to their  significance and treating them appropriately  inaccordance with existing procedures. Recently, a Sustainability Team has been  established to coordinate and assist corporate  divisions and operating sites in: –  organising a professional internal  sustainability network; –  assessing compliance against our  definedprinciples; –  implementing the procedures and guidelines  necessary in sustainabilityrelated activities. The Sustainability Team operates within the  Internal Audit Division (see 2.2.4). Corporate Governance (data at 31.12) Unit 2008 2009 2010 Overall BoD no. 5 7 7 Executive Directors in the BoD1 no. 3 3 3 Independent Directors in the BoD no. 3 3 3 Women present in the BoD no. 0 0 1 Average age of the BoD members years 59 57 54 BoD meetings no. 7 9 8 Average participation of Directors at the BoD meetings % 85.6 97.6 95.0 Meetings of the Executive Committee no. 8 16 14 Average participation of Directors atthe meetings of the ExecutiveCommittee % 100.0 100.0 100.0 Meetings of the Internal ControlCommittee  no. 3 5 4 Average participation of Directors atthe meetings of the Internal Control Committee  % 89.0 100.0 100.0 1 The President and another Director are considered executive due to their participation in the Executive Committee.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Governance 08 09 Mission External Principles  embraced Management and   Control Systems Developing construction methods and solutions capable of enhancing the territories resources thereby contributing   to the economic and social growth of nations Corporate Code Code of Ethics UN Global Compact Human Rights Labour Environment Anticorruption Corporate Policies Sustainable Development and Social Responsibility Policy Human Resources  Management Policy Occupational Health and  Safety Policy Quality Assurance Policy Environmental Protection  Policy Internal Control System Health and Safety Management  System (OHSAS 18001) Environmental Management  System (ISO 14001) Quality Management System  (ISO 9001) Organisational Management and  Control Model 2.2.1 Code of Ethics Supported by the corporate Code of  Ethics,Salini Costruttori S.p.A. has formally  adopted the principles of legitimacy, fairness,  transparency and verifiability as baseline  standards of the entire Groups conduct.  TheCode of Ethics applies to all worldwide  operations and was drawn up to account for  the cultural, social and economic diversity of  the different countries in which Salini operates.  All Group companies require that anyone that  enters into a direct or indirect relationship  withthem act in line with these principles.  Inaccordance with the Italian Legislative  Decree no 231/2001, in 2003 an Integrity  Board was established to ensure the  circulationof the Code within the Group,  aswellas to control its implementation  byallofthe Group companies. The Code of Ethics is binding, without exception,  for corporate bodies, top management,  employees, consultants andassociates. Compliance with the provisions contained in  the Code of Ethics is considered an essential  component of Salini employees contractual  obligations. Breaches of the Code are addressed  through legal procedures, as described in the  contracts in force, with penalties proportionate  to the gravity of the violation and to the extent  of the breach. With regard to trading partners and external  consultants who are bound to the Group by  anonsubordinated employment relationship,  breaches of the Code of Ethics may cause  termination of, or withdrawal from, the  agreedcontract, according to any specific  contractual clauses. The Integrity Boards duties The Salini Integrity Board checks compliance  with the Code ofEthics and, to this end,  itensures: –  the widest possible dissemination of and  compliance with the Code of Ethics  torecipients; –  regular extension and upgrading of the Code  of Ethics inorder to reflect evolving social  norms and relevant regulations; –  the provision of appropriate learning and  explanatory tools for the interpretation and  implementation of the Code of Ethics; –  that mechanisms are in place to carry out  inspections promptly, in case of news or  suspicion of breach of theCodeof Ethics,  andthe according application of appropriate  sanctions; –  the protection of anonymity of persons who  provide information regarding possible  breaches of the Code ofEthics. UAE – Dubai:   Ras Al Khor Crossing Recently opened to the  public, the Ras Al Khor  Crossing is one of the  solutions to the citys traffic  congestion, one of Dubais  biggest challenges,  allowingfree traffic access  inall directions. Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Profile and  strategy  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Governance continued Todini has joined the UN Global Compact  since2004 and it confirms its commitment to  implementing the principles in its operations. Every year we will communicate the progresses  reached by the two companies against the  Global Compact Principles in our Sustainability  Report. The following table shows the actions  and systems already implemented by Salini  and Todini to monitor and manage processes  related to Global Compact Principles. A comparison table – available at the end  ofthis Report – links the Global Compact  principles with the Groups performance  ineach category1. UN Global Compact Category Principle Corporate systems and activities Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the  protection of internationally proclaimed  humanrights –  Code of Ethics, Sustainable Development and Social Responsibility  Policy, Human Resources Management Policy, Occupational Health  andSafety Policy –  Training on Ethics for all new hired, continuous training on Health  andSafety for all employees, Health and Safety Management System  inplace at every operating site and at headquarters 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not  complicit in human rights abuses –  Fair HR procedures –  Steady monitoring and engagement of workforce and subcontractors –  Interaction with local communities, mainly carried out in collaboration  with clients Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of  association and the effective recognition of the right  to collective bargaining –  Communication, negotiation and consultation policies in place –  Collective bargaining ensured to all Groups personnel, at national  oratsite level –  Prompt notification in advance of significant changes  4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all  forms of forced and compulsory labour –  Compliance with the ILO Labour Standards, the Countries  LabourLaws, the collective agreements 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of  child labour –  Compliance with the ILO Labour Standards, the Countries  LabourLaws, the collective agreements 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of  discrimination in respect of employment and  occupation –  Full respect of local cultures and traditions –  Extensive employment of local workers –  Creation of an equitable working environment, open to all cultures  Environment 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary  approach to environmental challenges –  Environmental Protection Policy –  Environmental Management Systems in place at every operating  siteand at headquarters – Environmental Impact Assessments 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote  greater environmental responsibility –  Minimising of resources use, recycling of waste –  Great attention to protect water resources and biodiversity –  Periodic training and information for workforce and subcontractors 9 Businesses should encourage the development  and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies –  Core business of the Group is the construction of hydroelectric  plants,sources of clean and renewable energy –  Periodic replacement of fleets and plants in order to maintain  highlevelenvironmental standards in terms of energy consumption  and related emissions Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its  forms, including extortion and bribery –  Organisational Management and Control Model  (ItalianDecree231/2001) –  Internal Auditing system –  Training for all new hired, periodic training for all workforce  withsensitive tasks 2.2.2 UN Global Compact In December 2010, Salini Costruttori S.p.A.  became a signatory of the UN Global  Compact, which represents another important  milestone in its firm commitment to sustainable  development. The Compact is the worlds  largest initiative for sustainable development  and, by joining, Salini has committed itself to  aligning its business operations and strategies  with ten universally accepted principles relating  to human rights, labour, the environment and  anticorruption. Salini recognises the need to  collaborate with governments, civil society,  employees, suppliers and the United Nations  tohelp advance UN Global Compact priorities. 1  In accordance with Making The Connection – Using GRIs G3 Guidelines for the COP, United Nations Global Compact Office, May 2007.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Governance 10 11 2.2.3 Corporate policies In order to align and improve individual and  collective behaviours, the Company has  adopted corporate policies that define  principles and priorities to be followed by all,  starting with the Companys top management.  Corporate policies relate to key areas, including  Occupational Health and Safety, Quality, the  Environment, Human Resources management  and Sustainable Development. Specifically, a Sustainable Development and  Social Responsibility Policy (in place since  2007) commits the Group to contribute  towards sustainable development by means of  environmental protection, economic growth,  social progress, employee engagement and  training, and supplier engagement. Salini is committed to implement the following  sustainability programmes across the value chain: –  at an organisational level, the Group is  engaged in the development of human  capital to build the skills required to manage  sustainability, and in the implementation  ofaninternal and external sustainability  communication network to maintain open  and transparent dialogue with stakeholders; –  at an operating site level, Salini is committed  in the evaluation of the potential impacts of  corporate activities in the project design and  construction phases, looking specifically at  health, safety and environmental challenges,  monitoring the Groups performances in  these areas; –  at supply chain level, Salini is committed to  setting up a reliable control system of its  suppliers and subcontractors sustainability  performances; and –  in its relations with local communities, the  Group aims to act with integrity and honesty,  valuing the richness of local cultures and  respecting human rights. 2.2.4 Internal Control System The Internal Control System is the central  element of the Corporate Governance System  and it plays a key role in identifying, minimising  and managing business risks to which the  Group companies are exposed. The Internal  Control and Corporate Governance  Committee, consisting of three nonexecutive  and independent Directors, evaluates the  adequacy of the Internal Control System  through the activities carried out by the Internal  Audit Division (in charge of internal control). Every year, the Internal Audit Division draws  upan audit and monitoring plan based on  potential risks and gaps detected through  riskassessment and compliance analysis  concerning the Italian Legislative Decree  no.231/2001 (see box below). The results  ofthe audit activities are communicated to  theCEO, to the Groups top management  andmonitored by the Internal Control and  Corporate Governance Committee and by  theIntegrity Board (for activities related to  Decree no. 231/2001). Inthelast three years,  the Internal Audit Division has carried out  43audits on all business processes, both  atcorporate and at operating site levels.  Theaudits purpose is to monitor the adequacy  of the applicable procedures that define roles  and responsibilities, and the compliance of  theprocesses with the localandinternational  regulatory systems. Duringthis threeyear  period, 12 inspections were undertaken at  therequest of the IntegrityBoardto assess  theeffectiveness ofthe Organisational  Management and ControlModel. Organisational Management andControl Model On 25 June 2010, the Board of Directors of Salini Costruttori S.p.A. adopted a new release of the  Code of Ethics and of the Organisational Management and Control Model. The Model provides  compliance with the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001, which introduces into the Italian legal  system a corporate administrative liability deriving from crimes committed by employees.  A company may be held liable for offences listed in the Decree no. 231/2001, committed in its own  interest or advantage, including categories as: crimes against the Public Administration, corporate  offenses, crimes against individuals, offences related to protection of health and safety in the work  place, offences of receiving stolen goods, money laundering and use of money, goods or benefits  from unlawful sources – committed by a person who holds a representative, administrative or  managerial position in the Company or in one of its organisational units (apical subjects), or by a  person subordinated to the management or supervision of one of the apical subjects (persons  subject to supervision). The Salini Model is compliant to the Confindustria (Italian employers federation) and ANCEs (Italian  Contractors association) guidelines. It consists of a general section – describing the contents of the  decree, the objectives and functioning of the Model, the Integrity Board and the disciplinary system  – and a special section, that identifies sensitive activities and the resulting control standards for each  crime category provided by decree. Salini has also voluntarilyagreed to adhere to the principles laid  down by the Italian Stock Exchange for companies listed in the Segment Star. Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Profile and  strategy  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Governance continued Following an inspection, the Internal Audit  Division defines gaps between the existing  controls and the best practice control  standardand identifies related action plans.  The execution of suggested action plans is  periodically monitored through followup audits. The Group pays close attention to the business  processes exposed to corruption risks and  theInternal Audit Division focuses its activities  on these areas. In the period 20082010,  36audits were performed on business  processes exposed to corruption risks,  covering 60% of them in 2009 and 80% in  2008 and 2010. Tenof the 36 audits related  tothe Groups Rome headquarters while  theother 26 concerned operating sites  inItaly,Ethiopia, Nigeria, Uganda, the United  ArabEmirates, Kazakhstan and Ukraine.  Furthermore, in the last two years over  200employees from the central corporate  offices, new hires and expatriate employees  (EU employees working outside Italy) have  been trained on anticorruption policies and  procedures. In addition, a new worldwide  elearning tool will be available for all Group  employees by the end of 2011, designed  tokeep employees knowledge uptodate on  the Code of Ethics and the Groups policies  and procedures.  We believe that the effective implementation of  the Code ofEthics is shown by the absence of  cases of corruption identified through internal  audit and through checks by judicial authorities. Following the acquisition of Todini, in 2010 the  Internal Audit Division focused its action on  activities aimed to integrate the Internal  ControlSystem of Todini with that of the  Group.To do this, we focused on specific  activities in business areas and divisions of  Todini exposed to higher potential risks.  Toachieve full integration and consistency  ofGroupwide systems, new procedures  arebeing implemented in Todini. Although not yet required by Decree no.  231/2001, Salini has started a special project  toidentify and assess sensitive activities  exposed to risks of environmental crime,  inorder to update the Organisational  Management and Control Model with  specificcontrol standards. The project will  becompleted by the end of 2011. Since the beginning of 2011, the Internal Audit  Division – with the support of the Sustainability  Team – has started to carry out specific audits  about sustainability issues, assessing the  effective application of the Sustainable  Development and Social Responsibility Policy,  and encouraging the corporate divisions to  integrate the principles of sustainability into their  daybyday operations. The main frameworks  used in these activities are: OECD Guidelines  for Multinational Enterprises, UN Global  Compact, ISO 26000 (Guidance on social  responsibility) and GRIG3 (Global Reporting  Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Ethiopia: Gibe III  HydroelectricProject Energy scarcity is perhaps the greatest  single issue facing Ethiopia today – with  profound consequences for social and  economic growth in the country. Utilising innovative Fast Track  techniques developed within our Group,  we are currently constructing Africas  highest rollercompacted concrete  dam– Gibe III, for EEPCO. On  completion, the 240metre high dam  willprovide water to power 10Francis  turbines, generating a total of close  to6,500 GWh/year. The project will  increase the generation capacity of  Ethiopia by 234% and makes the power  export programme of the country  viable. Thus, the project is expected  tohave a great socioeconomic  contribution by feeding the Ethiopian  grid, and creating regional integrations  among the neighbouring countries  through the interconnected system.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Governance 12 13 2.2.5 Management systems and certifications In recent years Salini has developed specific  systems in order to manage Health, Safety  andEnvironmental (HSE) issues, at corporate  and at operating site levels. These systems  followthe Quality Management System,  implemented over ten years ago in order to  achieve effective management and control of  the elements affecting the quality of services  provided. These management systems are  composed of operational procedures and  instructions, monitoring programmes and  periodic audits, training plans and staff training  activities. Annually,areview system is carried  out by top management in order to assess  systems strengths and weaknesses and  consequently undertake all needed corrective  actions andplansfor continuous improvement  of performances. Certificated Management Systems Standard Company Scope Status of certificates ISO 9001  Quality Management System Salini Costruttori S.p.A. A First release: 1997  Last threeyearly update: 2009 Todini Costruzioni GeneraliS.p.A. B First release: 1999  Last threeyearly update: 2008 ISO 14001  Environmental ManagementSystem Salini Costruttori S.p.A. A First release: 2010 Todini Costruzioni GeneraliS.p.A. B First release: 2008 OHSAS 18001   OccupationalHealth andSafety  Management System Salini Costruttori S.p.A. A First release: 2009 A:  Designing, management and construction of civil buildings, major transport and hydraulic infrastructures, technological plants. B:  Designing, construction, maintenance and management at worldwide level of major works of civil engineering, infrastructures for mobility, hydraulic and technological  infrastructures.  Quality and HSE activities at operating site level 2008 2009 2010 Quality audits performed by Quality and HSEDivision  3   16   8  HSE audits performed by Quality and HSE Division  9   8   6  HSE audits performed by operating siteorganisations  32   76   27  HSE meetings within the Company wherein the Management took part in  322   121   70  HSE meetings with subcontractors wherein the Management took part in  14   5   15  Other meetings related to HSE issues  75   153   146  HSE training hours delivered to employees  16,261   24,931   29,770  Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Profile and  strategy  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Governance continued 2.3 Stakeholder dialogue and  engagement Salini is aware that dialogue and transparency  are key elements of its work. For this reason  itis committed to building opportunities for  involvement and collaboration with all its  stakeholders. The purpose of this effort is to  understand their views, and to integrate these  views into the Groups activities. Considering the business sector and the wide  range of Salinis stakeholders, engagement  practices are flexible and diversified, and vary  according to differing needs and specific  interests. In general, at a corporate level,  engagement activities involve stakeholders  withGroupwide interests, such as investors,  clients, governments and media. At an  operating site level, engagement relates  toaprojects features and considers local  communities, suppliers, contractors and  subcontractors, clients, local authorities,  andother organisations, such asNGOs. According to Global Compact guidelines2,  Salini has defined its sphere of influence  relative to its various stakeholders groups.  Thisactivity has led the Group to revise the  stakeholder map provided in the Sustainability  Report 2009. The new map, as shown below,  describes in more detail the level of influence  inthe relationship between Salini and its  various stakeholders. The following table summarises, for each  stakeholder category, the communication  channels established by Salini and related  issues of interest. The following chapters of this report  providemore extensive descriptions of  engagement activities carried out during  thereporting period. Although the certificates have been granted  only to Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and Todini  Costruzioni Generali S.p.A., the procedures  ofmanagement systems apply to all  GroupCompanies. The Quality and HSE Division (DQS) is  incharge of defining and delivering the  management systems, in accordance with  theinternational standards adopted by the  Group. Furthermore, the Division supports  theCEO in defining Quality and HSE policies  and targets. At operating site level, a Quality  and HSE organisation is set up in order to  implement and manage these systems.  TheQuality and HSE Division performs  regularaudits on operating sites, aimed  toassess the compliance of their systems  tothe corporateprocedures. In 2010 the Quality and HSE Division focused  its activities on Todinis operating sites, in order  to ensure integration of the Todinis systems  with Group ones. This activity resulted in a  reduction of audit numbers during the year,  asin the previous page. Participation of Management in HSE meetings  was higher in 2008/2009 than in 2010. This  isbecause in 2008/2009 the Management  Systems were in the process of being  implemented within the Group, while in 2010  data the fullyfunctioning of HSE systems  resulted in a lower rate of participation.  Auditactivities performed in 2010 show that  adequate implementation practices for HSE  and Quality systems have been undertaken.  Where areas of improvement were identified,  specific action plans and future targets have  been defined. 2  After the Signature – A Guide to Engagement in the  United Nations Global Compact, United Nations Global  Compact Office. Nigeria: Millennium Park, Abuja The Millennium Park in Abuja has become a family  gathering place, a place to spend leisure time, a  place to meet friends.  Salini Nigeria ensures the maintenance of this  beautiful parkdonated to the capital city of Abuja  in2003 by Salini Nigeria Ltd. The parks natural beauty is enhanced by water  fountains. In addition the park is equipped with an  automated and sophisticated irrigation system,  sports facilities and a special play area for children. Prossy Mirembesponsorship, Uganda In Uganda, where we are the key player in the  construction of major hydroelectric projects,  including one at Bujagali, we sponsored Prossy  Mirembe, a young kayaker with great natural  ability who required funds to fulfil her ambition  ofparticipating in the 2010 Olympics.  Wecontributed sufficient funds to buy Prossy  akayak and enable her to train properly. We  are proud to say that she went on to compete  in South Africa, winning a gold medal. To share  her success she later opened a school for  kayakers. We are continuing our support for  heras she prepares for the London 2012  Olympic games.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Governance 14 15 Stakeholders dialogue and engagement Employees and  Staff Clients Shareholders and  Investors Suppliers,  Contractors,  Subcontractors and  Business partners Local communities  and NGOs Public  Administrations Governments,  Institutions, Trade  associations and  Media Communication channels Regular meetings,  internal training  activities, trade union  meetings, intranet Stable and continuing  relationships with  clients, in all projects  phases Shareholders  meetings, reports and  accounts, investor  relations, stable  relations with financial  institutions and  insurance companies Selection processes,  regular meetings,  training activities,  feedback systems,  stable relationships  with partner firms,  inallprojects phases  Meetings with  community  representatives and  NGOs, sponsorships,  social contributions  activities,  communications  activities Stable relations with   host countries  authorities and   local institutions   (often clients) Participation intrade  associations activities,  systematic press  review activities,  pressreleases,  website, organisation  of events carried out  by the External  Relations Office Issues of interest Working environment,  health and safety,  security, skills  development, fair  evaluations and  compensations Quality performances,  technical support in  planning and  implementation of  projects, capacity  buildings activities Corporate Governance  system, financial  performances,  competitiveness,  shareholders value Quality performances,  technical  enhancement, shared  management ofHSE Projectrelated  concerns, transfer of  knowhow, social  services and facilities,  local development  supports Projects management,  anticorruption,  auxiliary services Project awareness,  infrastructures  development,  renewable energy,  jobcreation, safe  workplaces Employees and staff Shareholders Clients Business  partners Suppliers and  subcontractors Investors Local  communities Public  administrations NGOs Trade  associations Governments Media  Salinis inuence on stakeholders – + Core business activities Supply chain Community interactions Public policy and advocacy Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Profile and  strategy   Creating profitability  through responsibility 3.1 Opportunities and challenges  18 3.2 Generating and distributing value  18–19 3.3 Customer satisfaction  20 3.4  Innovation and research  for continual improvement  20 3.5 Contributing to local growth  20–21 3.6 Economic data sheet  22–23 Chapter 3 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Profile and  strategy 16 17  130 million When complete the advanced driverless  Cityringen will operate 24 hours a day, carrying  anestimated 130 million passengers a year. CITYRINGEN COPENHAGEN, DENMARK The challenge: Copenhagen, which already has one of the most  advanced and cohesive public transport systems  in Europe, plans to create a new circular metro line  – Cityringen – to maximise the potential of existing  transport infrastructure. The solution: As leader of the Copenhagen Metro Team we  willmanage a four year project worth 1.7 billion.  This will involve the construction of 17.54km of  tunnels and 17 new stations at a depth of 30  metres below the ground in a city that effectively  stands level with the sea. Our client is Metroselskabet a company founded  in2007 and based in Copenhagen, Denmark, with  the overall objective to design and build a cityring  and to operate and maintain new and existing  metro lines.  Salini Costruttori  Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Creating  profitability through  responsibility  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Creating profitability through responsibility 3.1 Opportunities  andchallenges The construction sector is essential to the  functioning of society, because it provides the  physical infrastructures in which we live, work  and socialise – our homes, our schools, our  workplaces, our hospitals, our roads, and  ourbroader service infrastructure3. Today, construction represents a 5.4 trillion  marketaccounting for 13.4% of world output.  The recent global financial crisis has been  exceptionally severe and it has affected the  construction sector. However, according to  Global Construction 20204 forecasts, in the  next decade construction will experience a  newexpansion, led by fast growth of the  emerging markets. Population change is one of main factors that  drives mediumterm economic forecasts for  the construction sector. While major developed  countries are likely to see little or no population  growth, emerging countries are predicted to  have more significant population growth which  will require more energy, better infrastructure  and higher living standards. Another key factor that influences the sector  forecasts is government budgetary policies,  which are very different between developed  and emerging countries. Public debt in  developed countries will constrain government  spending on infrastructure for many years.  Incontrast, many emerging markets are able  toinvest, and equally likely to face strains on  existing infrastructure as a result of rapid  economic and demographic growth. Finally, energy and environmental policies  willhave an increased influence on global  economic growth and construction activities.  According to the IEA (International Energy  Agency)5, climate change and energy security  are two of the major challenges which  governments have to tackle. For this purpose,  renewable energy sources will play a central  role in moving the world onto a more secure,  reliable and sustainable energy path.  Renewablebased generation is forecast to  triple between 2008 and 2035; this increase  will come primarily from hydropower and wind,  with hydropower expected to be dominant  by2035.  3.2 Generating and  distributingvalue In the economic context outlined above,  Salinihas substantially improved its economic  performance, reaching a consolidated revenue  equal to 1.123 billion in 2010 (an increase of over  70% compared with 2009 ) – though it should  be noted that this result is closely linked to the  acquisition of Todini fully consolidated in2010. In 2010, the most substantial revenues came  from transport infrastructure projects, followed  by hydropower projects and civil building  construction, although hydropower remains  thepredominant sector in terms of the work  portfolio (52.4%) and work to be carried out.  Shown in the next page are the main economic  ratios reached by the Group. Moreover, in 2010, the Group confirms some  ofthe most solid capital ratios for the sector.  Inparticular, the ratio Net Debt/Equity6 is +0.99  better than the industry average equal to +1.25. Revenue by geographic area   (/000) 2008 2009 595,550 141,380 103,013 550,941 2010 725,601 397,222 Revenue abroad Revenue in Italy Revenue 2010 by sector %  6.4% Civil building construction 54.8% Roads and  motorways 30% Dams and  hydroelectric  plants 8.8% Railways 3  Building prosperity for the future of Europe,  EuropeanConstruction Forum, 2010 4  Global Construction 2020 – A global forecast for the  construction industry over the next decade to 2020,  Global Construction Perspectives and Oxford  Economics, 2009 5  World Energy Outlook 2010 Factsheet, International  Energy Agency, 2010 6  For more detail please refer to the Consolidated  Financial Statements closed on 31.12.2010 and  published on the website www.salini.it. Ethiopia : Beles  Hydroelectric Project Beles is the largest  underground hydroelectric  plant completed to date   in Ethiopia which started   to generate electricity in   May 2010. Approximately 4,000 workers  from over 34 different  countries helped to achieve  the completion of the project. Power generation from   Beles together with Gibe II,  another hydroelectric plant  completed in 2010, now  represent almost 50% of the  countrys current power  generation capacity.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and  strategy 18 19 7  For the allocation of current taxes on the basis of the countries where the Group operates, please refer to the note 22) Income tax of the explanatory notes tothe Consolidated  Financial Statements as of and for the year ending 31.12.2010 and published on the website www.salini.it. In addition, we report that the taxes paid by the Branches in their  respective countries in which they operate are considered, coherently with current Italian tax legislation, tax credits for business incomes generated abroad, through a  permanent organisation. EBITDA   Economic generated value /000 2008 116,978 15.9% 15.6% 15.0% 6.5% 6.0% 6.5% 2.8% 4.2% 2.8% 2009 101,728 2010 168,054 2008 660,397 2009 582,875 79,904 79,528 2010 123,060 1,011,252 /000 Margin EBIT   2008 47,936 2009 39,403 2010 72,405 Economic distributed value in 2010 %  /000 Margin Net result  2008 20,484 2009 27,757 2010 31,052 /000 Margin Distributed value Withheld value 0.3% Community investments 1.3% Return to  shareholders 78.4% Operating costs 15.7% Personnel wages  and benets 2.5% Payments  to lenders 1.8% Payment to  government A widely applied measure of the wealth  generated by organisations is the direct  economic value generated and distributed,  which offers an overview of the Groups  addedvalue generated and distributed  tovarious stakeholders. Most of the economic value distributed to  stakeholders is represented by operating  costs793.1 million, composed mainly by the  payment of suppliers (for materials), contractors  and subcontractors (for services) and other  providers of goods/services (e.g. leasing of  equipment). After this, employee costs  represented an expenditure of 158.8 million  and included wages, social security taxes,  leaving indemnity during the period and other  costs related to the personnel (e.g. training).  Moreover, payments to lenders were equal to  25.6 million in the period, and were related to  bank interest paid. Payments to governments  as taxes7 were 17.9 million. The return to  shareholders is made up by the part of profits  distributed like dividends and was equal to  12.9 million in 2010. Finally, community  investments in 2010 amounted to 2.9 million;  this includes the direct donations for 778,000  and voluntary services made available to  localcommunities in the period, such as the  direct construction of social infrastructures  (e.g.schools, hospitals) and the direct support  of social initiatives; this amounted to 2.1 million  in 2010. Beyond that, there are many other  social activities that did not entail direct  expenses for Salini but that positively affect  local communities (e.g. free use of the Groups  clinics, wells, access roads and facilities at the  end of projects, etc.). These initiatives clearly  describe the Group philosophy to share its  assets with the host communities. Further  details are provided in section 4.3. Governance Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Creating  profitability through  responsibility  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Creating profitability through responsibility continued 3.3 Customer satisfaction Salini is committed to enhancing its reputation  as a clientcentric business, and to putting  clients needs first. To do this, the Group  adopts an approach based on the application  of advanced technologies and construction  methods that ensure high quality, and safe and  sustainable performance. Moreover, to meet  clients varying requirements efficiently, Salini  has developed a business model based on: –  maintaining a high degree of flexibility in order  to enter or enhance the Groups presence in  emerging markets; –  operating within different contractual  models,from performing a single service  (e.g.construction) to providing a full service  forthe execution of complex projects  (e.g.EPC – engineering, procurement and  construction); and –  maintaining strategic relationships with  someclients, which go beyond the execution  of single project to share experience and  knowledge, as well as identifying business  opportunities of common interest. Thanks to its business approach and its  internationally recognised reliability, Salini has  achieved significant results in terms of its order  book. In the short period between the last  quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011,  the Group has been awarded the construction  of three important projects worldwide: –  the Grand Renaissance Dam (Ethiopia), the  largest hydropower plant in Africa, which will  be built on the Blue Nile with an installed  capacity of 5,250MW and with a generating  capacity equal to six mediumsized nuclear  reactors; –  the Cityringen Project (Denmark), a new  circular line in Copenhagen city centre, which  will guarantee efficient transport for 130  million metro passengers a year, thanks to a  fully automated driverless metro system that  will operate 24 hours a day, with a minimum  frequency of 100 seconds between services; –  the Ulu Jelai Project (Malaysia), a new  hydroelectric project on the Bertam River in  the Pahang State, which will include an over  80 metres high dam to be built with the  technique such as RCC (RollerCompacted  Concrete), 26 kilometres of tunnels to be  excavated mainly by TBM (Tunnel Boring  Machine) and an underground powerhouse. Client satisfaction is a key element of the  Groups business strategy. Salini constantly  interacts with clients to ensure that its services  meet the highest quality standards and  measure up to clients expectations.  Groupcompanies adopt a client satisfaction  management system, in place at every  operating site, which ensures that regular  feedback is gathered, in line with the  requirements of the quality standard ISO 9001. Salini guarantees the confidentiality of the  information in its possession and refrains from  seeking out, using or disseminating confidential  information, unless expressly authorised by the  owner of such information, and in compliance  with current standards. In Italy, when  processing clients data, the Group complies  with the Code on Personal Data Protection8  bydrafting an annual Programmatic Document  on Security (PDS) which describes the  organisational and technical criteria adopted for  the protection of sensitive and nonsensitive  personal data processed with IT tools, as well  as the training plan for the technical personnel  in charge. It should be noted that there were no  claims relating to breaches of privacy or loss of  customers data during the last three years. In the field of marketing communications, the  Group ensures accuracy, clarity and integrity  ofthe communications released to the  stakeholders. The Group has never received  complaints for violation of laws or regulations  related to marketing or communications. 3.4 Innovation and research  forcontinual improvement Research is a strategic activity for the  construction industry and in recent years has  been enriched with new insight that goes  beyond the issues related to the technologies  of materials, components and their physical  behaviour involving also the optimisation of  theactivities related to the production process.  Inthe area of major works, several factors  exponentially multiply the level of innovation  required to achieve the final result. The most  important ones are: the mass of resources  needed, the uniqueness of each project, the  different environmental contexts, the time  frame required to ensure the profitability of  theprojects, the parameters of safety for  personnel, local communities and final users. Salini develops innovative technologies  andconstruction methods based on close  partnerships with the worlds most renowned  professionals and engineering companies,  analysing clients needs, and producing  highquality and bespoke project proposals.  Thisstrength makes the Group competitive  across the world, even in the most  challengingcontexts. Salinis most recent achievement in the field of  innovation is represented by the Fast Track  Implementation, a construction method based  on starting all the most important operating  phases of the project at the same time,  allowing a drastic reduction in completion  times. This technique, developed and refined  by Salini for the construction of largescale,  turnkey hydroelectric plants, can be adopted  for many types of projects that require rapid  completion times anywhere in the world. Salini supports research also financing  academic initiatives. In 2010 the Group has  sponsored the second International Conference  on Sustainability Science held in Rome.  Theevent involved several academic  institutions, including the United Nations  University, the Arizona State University, the  University of Tokyo and the University of Rome  La Sapienza. 3.5 Contributing to local growth Building infrastructure and major works means  deploying ideas, people, knowledge, and  investments that aim to enhance a given  territorys capabilities. The delivery of a Salini  project benefits several stakeholder groups, in  terms of job creation, local skills enhancement,  local supplier growth, increase of revenues for  governments and voluntary contributions for  local communities. For these reasons, Salini plays a key role in the  development of countries where the Group  companies operate, in line with the Groups  Mission. The first measure of the Salini contribution to  local growth is job creation in host countries. The Group adopts a strategy oriented towards  the use of local workforce in areas where  projects are located. In 2010, 90% of Group  staff consisted of local employees – the  equivalent of 11,558 fulltime employees.  Grouppolicies require that management roles  in operational sites are primarily undertaken by  expatriate Italian employees. In addition to salaries paid, job creation plays  an important role in enhancing the capabilities  of developing countries, thanks to the provision  of skills and competencies, training, health  surveillance and high quality standards of the  work carried out. 8  Italian Legislative Decree 196/2003, Attachment 8,  point 19 – Technical Guidelines.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and  strategy 20 21 Furthermore, studies have shown that for every  worker employed in the construction sector  two further jobs are created in other industries9. Finally, when Salini concludes its projects  manyemployees are able to start their own  enterprise in the building sector, helping create  new jobs and new business opportunities for  local people. Salini also provides opportunities for economic  development to the providers of goods and  services based in countries where the Group  operates. The Groups supply strategy aims to  satisfy the projects requirements as much as  possible within the territories in which projects  are located, according to local availability of  needed goods and services. In 2010, Salinis links with local providers of  goods and services – considered as suppliers,  contractors and subcontractors in the country  where the project is implemented – have been  strong. In fact, in 2010 the percentage of  spending on localbased providers of goods  and services was equal to an average of 78%. The potential to satisfy at local business needs  depends primarily on the capacity for local  providers of goods and services to ensure  supply in the quantities and qualities necessary  for the implementation of each project, as  shown by the data on local purchases by  continent. In monetary terms, the total amount  of Salinis spend on locallybased providers  ofgoods and services was 591 million10 in  2010, of which 272 million was in Europe,  179 million was in Asia and 139 million was  inAfrica. Salinis commitment   well-recognisedbyclients The extraordinary volume and range of contracts  awarded toSalini confirm the Groups technical  ability and expertise, which enable it to compete  in global markets. In recent times, socio environmental factors have become increasingly  important for clients choices.  For the assignment of the Cityringen project,  theclient (Metroselskabet) has recognised  Salinis strong commitment tousing a local  workforce and local suppliers, upholding the  highest standards of health and safety, and  minimising the impact on the daily lives of  communities.  Salini has always privileged quality and focused  on the needs ofthe citys people.  9  The competitiveness of the construction industry,  European Commission, 1997. 10  Data include only the supplies for operational sites,  excluding headquarters and other offices. Proportion of hiring of local personnel  % 2008 2009 76 90 2010 90 Hiring of local personnel in 2010 by continent  % Africa Europe 95 95 Asia 63 Proportion of hiring of local personnel  % 2008 2009 76 90 2010 90 Hiring of local personnel in 2010 by continent  % Africa Europe 95 95 Asia 63 Proportion of spending on locally-based providers  of goods and services  % 2008 2009 59 58 2010 78 Spending on locally-based providers of goods  and services in 2010 by continent  % Africa Europe 53 99 Asia 84 Governance Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Creating  profitability through  responsibility  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Creating profitability through responsibility continued 3.6 Economic data sheet Performance Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Economic generated and distributed value EC1 Revenues /000 680,579 630,388 1,061,911 – Other incomes /000 53,531 25,055 57,363 – Financial income /000 6,192 6,960 15,038 – Total economic generated value /000 740,301 662,403 1,134,312 – Operating costs /000 523,898 459,338 793,100 – Personnel wages and benefits /000 93,313 90,890 158,783 – Payments to shareholders /000 10,829 10,829 12,995 – Payments to lenders /000 9,503 10,177 25,639 – Payments to Government /000 20,113 9,644 17,850 – Community investments /000 2,741 1,997 2,885 – Total economic distributed value /000 660,397 582,875 1,011,252 – Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments /000 66,815 60,343 89,655 – Auto financing /000 9,616 16,841 20,100 – Provisions and reserves /000 3,473 2,344 13,306 – Total economic withheld value /000 79,904 79,528 123,060 – Significant financial assistance received from governments EC4 Investment grants1 /000 484 387 4,649 4,202 Tax relief2 /000 1,350 – – – Total financial assistance received   from governments /000 1,834 387 4,649 4,202 Proportion of spending on   locally-based suppliers by category3 EC6 Europe Materials % 100% 100% 100% 100% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments % 100% 100% 99% 98% Leasing and rentals % 100% 100% 83% 78% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 100% 100% 100% 99% Total local supplies in Europe % 100% 100% 99% 98% Africa Materials % 44% 51% 56% 98% Subcontracts, consulting and shipments % 59% 38% 58% 80% Leasing and rentals % 40% 16% 23% 47% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 44% 31% 37% 23% Total local supplies in Africa % 49% 41% 53% 83%  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Profile and  strategy 22 23   Performance Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Asia Materials % 98% 98% 84% 79% Subcontracts, consulting and shipments % 85% 87% 87% 86% Leasing and rentals % 66% 58% 36% 34% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 93% 84% 92% 97% Total local supplies in Asia % 88% 87% 84% 82% Total Materials % 53% 65% 76% 94% Subcontracts, consulting and shipments % 68% 58% 85% 91% Leasing and rentals % 46% 32% 45% 59% Capital assets (amortisation on charges) % 58% 47% 76% 95% Total local supplies % 59% 58% 78% 90% Employees hired from local community EC7 Europe no. 313 347 1,242 897 % 100% 100% 95% 96% Africa no. 9,657 8,870 9,031 644 % 95% 95% 95% 99% Asia4 no. – – 1,285 955 % 0% 0% 63% 96% Total employees hired from local community no. 9,970 9,217 11,558 2,496 % 76% 90% 90% 97% 1  The important increase of the financial assistance in 2010 is related to tax deductions received by Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. These deductions are granted to a part of  the investments made in the fiscal period (01/01/2010 – 06/30/2010), according with the provision of the Italian fiscal law (Tremonti Ter). 2  2008 data is referred to exemptions from customs duties on imported machineries and spare parts in Ethiopia. 3  Data include only the supplies for operational sites, excluding headquarters and other offices. 4  In 2008 and 2009 the Groups activities in Asia were carried out only in UAE (Dubai), where there is an insufficient availability of local workers. For this reason, the Group has  hired nonlocal workers. Governance Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report Creating  profitability through  responsibility   Social dimension 4.1 Our people  26   4.1.1 People development  26–28   4.1.2 Securing health and safety at the workplace  28–29   4.1.3 Respect of human rights  29–30 4.2 Our supply chain  30 4.3 Local communities  30–31 4.4 Social data sheet  32–35 Chapter 4 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Social  dimension Profile and  strategy 24 25 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  26 hectares of green space available for all the Abujas  inhabitants. The maintenance and the waste  collection is guaranteed by Salini Nigeria,  whichemploys local technical staff.  MILLENNIUM PARK  ABUJA, NIGERIA The challenge: To regenerate a rundown area used as anopen  landfill site in the central area of Abuja,integrating  itwith the other urban developments projects and  preserving the biodiversity of the area.  The solution: Besides the realisation of the Cultural Centre  andthe Millennium Tower, two structures that  willhost museums, hotels, auditoriums and  recreational areas, Salini Nigeria contributed to the  development of the Abuja city centre designing,  constructing and donating the park in 2003. The park was created exploiting the terrain of  theexisting sites and remodelling by undertaking  some limited earthworks. Existing trees were  preserved, including an old and very tall cotton  tree,and local flower species were used. Measures  to protect the Wupa River banks have been put  inplace to control water floods and prevent  destructive erosion, thus preserving the trees along  the existing river. The parks natural beauty is  enhanced by water fountains. In addition the park is  equipped with an automated and sophisticated  irrigation system, sports facilities and a special play  area for children.  Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension Salini is committed to building strong relations  with its stakeholders, both internal and external,  and to communicating to them transparently  on its social performance. With regard to developing people, Salini invests  in youth, focuses on enhancing skills and  knowhow, avoiding any kind of discrimination.  Moreover, wherever Salini operates, it has a  particular responsibility to contribute to the  socioeconomic development of communities  living near operating sites. Thanks to this  approach, Salinis commitment has always  ledto the Group having excellent reputation  among local authorities and communities. Social responsibilities are primarily managed  bythe procedures governing the Human  Resources and Organisational Development  Division, which are linked to the Corporate  Management System and other people  management processes. The Internal Control  Committee and Top Management are involved  in reviewing management systems. 4.1 Our people At the end of 2010, the Group employed  12,873 people worldwide, of which about 90%  were hired from the local communities around  business operations. The Group saw employee  numbers increase by 2,680 people (+26%) in  2010, mainly due to the integration of Todini into  the Group. In 2010, the vast majority of Salini employees  had permanent contracts. Salini considers the  number of employees on fixedterm contracts  and parttime contracts to be immaterial to its  overall operations11. 4.1.1 People development Salini recognises the importance of a focused  Human Resources Management System –  aclear process for administrative and legal  human resource management across the  entire working cycle at the Group. This looks  specifically at planning, recruiting, selection,  hiring, training, performance and potential  evaluation, administration and remuneration. Salini believes its human resources are a  fundamentally important strategic asset  foritsdevelopment, since they make a  significant contribution to achieving the Groups  objectives. To manage the complex processes  of personnel recruitment, management and  development in an organised and structured  manner, the Group has implemented a specific  Human Resource Management policy since  2007. Equal opportunity, nondiscrimination,  physical and moral integrity, fairness, honesty  and professional enhancement guide the Group  with regard to human resources management. Personnel management is undertaken by the  Rome headquarters for all Group employees.  With regard to personnel administration, the  headquarters manages all the employees  operating in Europe, as well as European  management and technicaladministrative  staffor TCN12 operating outside of Europe.  InnonEU sites, administrative management  oflocal personnel is undertaken directly by site  management and it is mainly focused on  recruitment, administration, theoretical and  fieldtraining, evaluation, and compensation.  Group personnel   (no.) 2008 2009 13,035 10,193 2010 2,580 10,293 Groups personnel without Todini Todinis personnel Group personnel by workplace in 2010 %  8.1% Europe 76.1% Africa  15.8% Asia Group personnel by category in 2010 %  0.7% Middle  managers 0.7% Executives 13.8% Employees  84.8% Workers 11  Supervised workers are not present. 12  For the Group is considered TCN (ThirdCountry  National) the employee of nonEU nationality working  in a nonEU country that is not his country of origin  (e.g. A worker of Indian nationality working in the UAE).  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social  dimension Profile and  strategy 26 27 Tosafeguard its competitive market  positioning, Salini aims to attract and hire  thebest candidates and individuals with the  highest professional standards during the  recruitment and selection process. The Group  identifies candidates in a number of ways, for  instance through annual career days at several  key Italian and foreign universities to source  graduates to join the Group. The central role of the individual is  demonstrated by the commitment towards  employees professional growth, which gives  them the scope to enhance their knowledge  and awareness, particularly regarding health,  safety, human rights and anticorruption  policies and procedures (in line with the Italian  Legislative Decree 231/2001). The Group staff management policy, both  inItaly and abroad, makes provision for  employees to receive adequate training for  assigned duties in order to strengthen core  competencies and develop individual skills.  Indoing this, Salini creates a working  environment that facilitates the exchange  ofknowledge and interaction between all  cultures. The Group is committed to the  development of local resources through  specific training courses that provide both  theoretical and practical training, which helps  tocreate a sense of identity and of belonging  tothe Group. An office dedicated to Organisational  Development issues management was  established in 2009 to define a structured  system for tailoring training and development  activity. Training needs are specifically identified  following a gap analysis between employees  current competencies and those required for  each organisational position. However, to  support development on specific issues of  general importance, training through elearning  was launched in 2010; reaching out to  employees around the world in an easier and  more efficient way. Hours spent on training activities were  considerably increased during the reporting  period. Data on training hours is based on  activities carried out at the operating site level  on the HSE issues. Data does not include   onthejob training. Besides HSE, training was also delivered on  rolespecific issues, languages, administration,  the Code of Ethics and organisational model  (Legislative Decree 231/2001), and privacy. Salini is committed to evaluating performance  and potential of personnel based on a  Performance Management system.  ThePerformance Management system  measures and evaluates competencies,  performance objectives, behaviours and  potential of the Groups employees according  to their role inadefined period with the aim of: –  Linking an individuals achievements and  performance to an appropriate role profile  and benefits; –  Monitoring and updating records on an  individual employees professional  development; –  Differentiating performance levels and having  a basis for the salary; –  Providing information that feeds into action  plans for individuals training and  development; and –  Planning room for improvement, job rotation  and career growth paths. The evaluation process is closely linked to the  remuneration system. For each organisational  division, the Division Manager is in charge of  monitoring performance and competencies  ofemployees. The evaluation process is  formalised by an evaluation form, filled out  bythe Division Manager for each individual. As mentioned, fairness is the principle  thatguides the Groups human resources  management. Compensation policy  ensures,inrespect of an individuals merits,  that high and robust competitive standards  aremaintained externally, in order to avoid  conflictsamong employees. Salinis policies  comply with statutory and regulatory  requirements forthe payment of wages  andbenefits. TheGroup is 100% compliant  inthe payment of minimum wages required  byrelevant authorities. The remuneration  system is primarily composed of a fixed  salary,supported by a variable bonus  (unatantum) related to the individual and/or  corporate performance. In addition, Salini  provides various benefits to all employees,  depending on their role and level. These  benefits include additional insurance and  healthcare, a complementary pension  system,accommodation, a company car,  economic support for their childrens  education, a contribution to relocation  expenditure and company loans. Training hours by workplace   (no.) 2008 2009 596 17,419 2,086 26,244 1,512 2010 1,750 30,792 Operating sites Headquarters Training in 2010 by topic %  0,000 96.2% Health, Safety  and Environment 3.8% Others Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension continued Salini is committed to avoid any gender  discrimination, ensuring to women the same  opportunities provided to men concerning  employment, compensation and careers.  Theissue of equal opportunities has been  mainly tackled at the headquarters in Rome,  where women represent 35% of total  workforce. It should be noted that, in the  construction industry, the issue of equal  opportunities tends to be less significant  inregard to purely operational activities, as  thevast majority of workers in this category  aremen. Considering the issue of equal  compensation – the understanding that men  and women of an equal level receive the same  salary – in 2010 the overall ratio between  womens salaries and mens is equal on  average at 83%13. The gaps are generally  accounted for by the higher seniority of men  compared to women. Moreover, it should be  underlined that management posts,which  account for the highest level ofGroup  management tasks, are made up  predominantly of men. At the end of the  chapter, data shows the male/female salary  ratio detailed by employee category. Currently, there are no mechanisms to connect  the remuneration system to environmental and  social indicators. Salini has set itself the goal to  develop a Management by Objective (MbO)  system reflecting the increased prominence  ofenvironmental, economic and social  performance, in order to support the  achievement of sustainable efficiency  objectives. An incentive system is currently  active in the operating sites and it is  connectedto the site and individual employee  performance (defined by the efficiency of work  undertaken, and workplace behaviour). 4.1.2 Securing health and safety at  theworkplace Salini recognises the importance of  occupational health and safety, and the  protection of employees and third parties  during all activities undertaken on its premises.  The Groups commitment to this issue is  shown through the adoption of a dedicated  corporate policy in July 2009 and updated  inApril 2011. The policy, which clearly  emphasises that the health and safety of  personnel and third parties always comes first  when delivering projects, also states the  commitment to actively promote initiatives for  employees, clients, suppliers, authorities and  interested parties to help us attain the highest  health and safety standards. The Groups commitment in this area was  recognised in 2009 by OHSAS 18001  certification. To gain accreditation, the  Groupimplemented a Health and Safety  Management System designed to minimise the  risk of accidents in all workplaces (offices and  operating sites). Appropriate management  procedures ensure the effective management  of safety; these include risk assessment,  planning and implementation of training,  anemployee engagement activity and  performance monitoring. The Groups main health and safety  objectivesare: –  eliminating or reducing to a minimum the risk  of accident by adopting a prevention and  protection system applicable to all operating  activities, following to the principle that all  accidents can be prevented; and –  complying with relevant regulatory or other  requirements subscribed to and/or adopted  by Salini, applying the strictest standards  wherever possible. In 2010, injury performance for Group  employees shown a reduction in the severity  index (LDR) of 38%, while the number of  accidents14 increased, causing a 9% increase  inthe Injury Frequency Rate. The nature of Salinis industry means  carefulmeasures are required to safeguard  employees health and welfare in the  workplace. There are currently no formal  agreements in place with trade unions or other  workers representative organisations on the  issue of health and safety, but only general  agreements regarding some issues among  which HSE ones. Nevertheless, Salini stresses  the need to integrate these concerns in its  active model of tradeunion relations. Salini applies current Italian legislation in all its  worldwide operations, establishing workers  safety representatives (RWS) at every operating  site; these representatives also take an  advisory role on the Groups activities on  managing workers health and safety risks.  TheRWS often are union representatives. The Group also monitors the safety conditions  and performance of subcontractors present  atits operating sites, in order to ensure  compliance with Salinis procedures. In the  reporting period no subcontractor accidents  were attributable to Salini. In Italy, a Company health service is in charge  of performing all monitoring activities required  by the current legislation on employee health  and safety, both for headquarters and for  operating sites. In particular, the service  organises and carries out regular health  surveillance campaigns, based on the specific  labourrelated risks affecting its people.  Furthermore, the Group provides an additional  level of medical care by offering employees  andtheir families access to public and private  health facilities. 13  Calculation is made on the base of the gross wages  paid, instead of minimum wages required by law for  eachcategory.  14  It should be noted that 2010 has also reduced the  number of fatalities, down from 8 in 2009 to 5. Security at operating sites Salini is committed to ensuring the security  ofits working places, in order to protect  theintegrity of the Groups tangible and  intangible resources.  To this end, Salini always assesses the  potential risks faced in countries with security  problems and, if needed, implements specific  plans to properly protect its sites. Moreover,  many projects are considered sensitive  assets by governments and local authorities  and are therefore protected by them.  In both circumstances, Salini sets up specific  mitigation actions, based on prevention,  protection and information. Security managers  at operating sites are committed to training  security personnel in respect of both  employees and local communities  humanrights. Salinis commitment to the health of  employees families and communities  Salini is aware that health is a fundamental  right of all people, not just its employees.  For this reason, Salini made its health  facilitiesavailable to employees family  members at operating sites outside Europe,  aswell as to local people for any acute and  serious casualties. Beyond this, doctors responsible for the  operating sites regularly offer local personnel  training courses and provide information to  local communities on improving environmental  sanitation, preventing the spread of endemic  diseases (like malaria) and sexually transmitted  diseases (HIV and hepatitis). Image below: Uganda: Laboratory clinic at  Bujagali Hydropower Project construction site  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social  dimension Profile and  strategy 28 29 In each operating site outside of Italy, medical  facilities are in place in order to provide 24hour  medical advice and ambulance service and  guarantee that each work shift has access  tomedical staff. The teams working in these  facilities consist of expatriate and local doctors,  nurses, laboratory technicians, ambulance  drivers, environmental sanitation staff and  cleaning staff. Moreover, all operating sites have a pharmacy  that provides access to urgently required  medicines and those needed for the treatment  of chronic diseases that may affect workers. Additionally, in each operating site outside Italy,  theCompany health service holds a list of  reference hospitals to be contacted in cases  ofgreater seriousness or urgency, according  tothe specialist services available in every  hospital and the needs of the individual  casualty. In the case of acute casualties, the  role of the existing onsite health facilities is  tostabilise patients and ensure their safe  transport to appropriate facilities where they  can receive first and second level examinations  and specialised therapies. The Company health service runs inspections  on operating sites at least once a year, to  ensure that all health surveillance protocols  arerespected. In addition to this, the service  regularly visits local hospitals to assess their  quality and accessibility. At the nonEU operating sites all personnel  receive prophylaxis information, which also  informs about disease prevention and control  procedures. Employees are also given a  booster vaccination prior to their departure for  the site. If not possible before departure, the  vaccination cycle is made up at the arrival in the  operating site. In countries where malaria is endemic, special  attention is paid to the prevention protocols  suggested by the World Health Organisation.  Furthermore, a thorough programme of  drinking water purification is guaranteed at  thesites. It is regularly monitored by the sites  medical staff through periodic chemical physical checks on the quality of drinking  water, using the external official laboratories  inthe host country. Each year, all expatriate employees (Italian,  EUand nonEU) working at the operating sites  outside Italy are subject to checks on their  ability tocarry out specific tasks. Activities carried out by Salini do not expose  personnel to high risk of specific diseases. In consideration of the particularly serious  environmental pollution present in Kazakhstan  the existing legislation provides for an increase  in pay to local employees working in the  concerned areas. The Groups activity fully  respects said legislation. 4.1.3 Respect of human rights Salini is firmly committed to preserving  fundamental human rights while conducting  business. The Group is aware that in some  geographical areas in which it operates –  especially outside of Europe – the risk  ofhuman rights violation cannot be  totallyexcluded. For this reason, Salini  hasimplemented specific policies and  procedures aiming at promotion of the  respectand protection of employees human  rights, ensuring no discrimination of any sort  (including that based on political or religious  belief, race, gender, language reasons or for  trade union affiliations), in accordance with  theprovisions of the Code of Ethics. Local personnel management Local personnel at the operating site level can be employed as a  permanent worker or temporary worker. The latter status is only permitted  for a limited period, according to the local legislation, and only for  particular needs and circumstances, such as loading and unloading  trucks, bush clearing or other sitespecific jobs. Salini ensures information  and training about Health and Safety sitespecific risks to these workers.  For permanent workers, employment relationships are linked to the  skillsrequired to deliver the contract. Recruitment is carried out with  thesupport of local agencies (for mediumlow profiles), advertisements  on local newspapers and in local universities (for highmedium profiles),  aswell as through Company records on people who have already  worked for Salini in a particular region.  To avoid any irregularities or violations of laws, local Human Resources  offices check applicants documents with the help oflocal lawyers,  inorder to detect possible falsifications, mainly related to the age  ofapplicants. Salini does not hire underage employees, even in  countrieswhere it is allowed by local legislation. To reduce the potential of being implicated in human rights abuses, the  Group avoids using labour from agencies and pays all wages directly  tothe employees, and does not pay them by means of third parties.  Localworkers representatives are in place atevery site in order to  ensureadequate information sharing and good relations with the  management team. Injury frequency rate (IR)   2008 2009 2010 14.82 15.73 17.18 Severity Index (LDR)   2008 2009 2010 2,275.59 1,975.02 1,220.05 Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension continued The Group rigorously applies legislation  concerning employment contracts, thus  guaranteeing the respect of human rights set  out by the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights wherever we operate, and in particular  in relation to the exercise of freedom of  association and collective bargaining,  andtheelimination of forced, compulsory  andchild labour. In this context, Salini formally joined the Global  Compact in December 2010, an initiative  launched by the United Nations through which  companies undertake to observe and promote  ten universal principles in the fields of human  rights, labour rights, respect for the  environment and anticorruption measures. In order to identify potential risk situations  relating to human rights at all the Group  operating sites, Salini analyses local  employment regulation, working hours,  contractual conditions and facilities  (accommodation, health structure, canteens,  etc.) during the tender process. Salinis legal and economic relationship with its  employees aims to guarantee the respect for  individuals and their rights under the provisions  of national and international law, in all the sites.  During the reporting period 20082010, all  Group employees have contractual recourse to  a form of collective agreement15, which ensures  equal rights and treatment on equal conditions.  Contractual relations are managed as follows: –  Italian personnel working at headquarters  and operating sites in Italy are covered by the  National Collective Labour Agreement for  Building Companies and Related (employees,  middle managers and workers), and by the  National Collective Labour Agreement of  Managers in Industrial Companies; –  labour relations for Italian and EU personnel  working abroad are governed by individual  labour contracts specific for overseas  employment that guarantee the employee  comprehensive rights not less than those  established by the national collective  negotiation contract for each specific region; –  regulatory conditions for nonEU personnel  are based on, and therefore, similar to those  for EU personnel, with the key differences  being that leaving indemnity is not provided in  all countries, and taxes and contributions are  linked to the region in which employment is  carried out. Communication, negotiation and consultation  policies cover all employees. The minimum  notice period for communicating significant  changes in Salinis assets is a legally fixed  period, recognised in the collective and local  negotiation contracts of reference. Special  communication relating to organisational  change is primarily required in the building  industry with regard to the completion of  contracts for which personnel have been  specifically recruited. In such cases, the period  of notice is based on resources employment  category and length of service16. Information is provided through the publication  of special documents on corporate intranets,  as well as on public notice boards, both at  headquarters and at the operating sites. During  the reporting period, no cases of discrimination  or violation of workers and local communities  human rights within the Groups activities  wererecorded. 4.2 Our supply chain Salini is aware that building strong relations  withits business partners is a key element  tosustain its growth in the global market.  Inselecting its suppliers, contractors and  subcontractors, the Group is committed to  transparency and fairness, firmly prohibiting  any form of inequitable business transaction  and bribery. Tomake this happen, Group  companies require that their partners comply  with specific rules and standards, including  Salinis ethics, HSE and human rightsrelated  principles. With regard to procurement  processes, the Group has the duty to assure  the reliability, integrity and professionalism  ofthe third parties (suppliers, contractors  andsubcontractors) before establishing  relationships with or contracting them. There  are specific clauses in the contracts for the  supply of goods and services which specify  that third parties are committed to adhere to  Salinis Code of Ethics principles and to refrain  from behaviours that may lead to the risk of  committing crimes defined by the Italian  Legislative Decree no. 231/2001. The violation  of this obligation, including the undertaking  ofor attempting to undertake acts that  contravene the Italian Legislative Decree no.  231/2001, is in effect a serious breach of  contract and may be penalized with  cancellation of the contract. For major procurement of bulk materials  (e.g.cement, steel, etc.), preference is given  tolarger, more reputable companies, both at  international and at local level. For other types  ofprocurement, preference is accorded  wherever possible to local vendors that meet  the Groups technical requirements, material  availability and budget. The purchasing process is governed by  corporate procedures, including qualification  (before a contract is signed) and performance  evaluations (during and after the execution  ofcontract). Salini supports and monitors its  suppliers in order to improve their performance  regarding quality, health, safety and the  environment. Specific training activities for  subcontractors are regularly delivered on  HSEand quality issues. Salini is committed to sharing its  knowledgeand skills with local suppliers  andsubcontractors in order to develop  strongpartnerships based on fairness  andhonesty, promoting their growth and  technical improvement. 4.3 Local communities The Group aims to create opportunities for  thecountries in which it operates, respecting  local cultures, needs and expectations and,  moreover, creating and strengthening  development drivers of the socioeconomic  system of each host country. Salinis approach towards local communities  varies depending on the type of contract and  the clients requirements. Specifically, Salini  directly interacts with communities when it  operates as a general contractor in EPC  (Engineering, Procurement and Construction)  contracts, while it interacts through the client  when it performs only some phases of the  project, under the client or works supervision. The main characteristics of the Groups local  approach are as follows: –  dialogue and engagement with local  communities and authorities before,  duringand after the execution of projects; –  adaptation of the work to diverse local  contexts, in consideration of local or  clientrequirements; –  initiatives for socioeconomic development,  carried out directly or by means of clients. Salini pays great attention to the needs of the  socioenvironmental context of the territories  inwhich it works, preparing detailed plans for  managing and monitoring its most significant  impacts. These activities are carried out in the  design phase of projects, in accordance with  the legislative and contractual requirements.  During the project execution phase, the Group  is contractually responsible for all relevant  environmental impacts of building site activities,  such as management of rocks and soil from  excavation, air emissions, etc. 15  If the local legislation do not provide for national  collective agreements, bargaining is undertaken at the  operating site between the Company and the unions.  16  In Italy, the minimum notice period ranges from one  week (for workers with seniority of less than 3 years)  to16weeks (for executives with families), as required  by the National Collective Labour Agreement of  reference. In some cases of staff reduction for  completion of works, both in Italy and abroad, the  notice period is directly paid to the workers. 17  The total annual cost of the maintenance, carried  outdirectly by Salini Nigeria Ltd., is equal to about  600.000. However in this calculation it has been  worked out on only half of total expense, because the  remainder part is considered as a commercial cost.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social  dimension Profile and  strategy 30 31 Every operating site establishes a public  relations manager in charge of maintaining  relations with local communities and  authorities, giving them information about  theprogress of the project and managing  complaints. The requests received by the  public relations manager are reported to the  site management, who seek to identify better  solutions to local needs. Salinis attention to the needs of local  communities becomes apparent through a  wide range of programmes and activities.  Theycan be classified depending on: –  type of intervention – either longterm  (e.g.construction of a school) or oneoff  (e.g.organisation of a cultural event); and –  nature of the intervention – voluntary or  resulting from contractual agreements. In last years, the Group has assigned  significant resources to establishing buildings,  schools, hospitals and roads, and has also  secured the distribution of energy, water and  healthcare to host communities. Besides  donations and contractual requirements, these  structures may also result from the reuse or  reallocation of Group facilities, such as access  roads to sites, offices and workers houses,  used by Salini in the implementation phase  ofprojects and which are made available for  the community once the project has been  completed. During the delivery of projects, local  communities can also access some of these  facilities, such as onsite clinics, training rooms,  wells, roads and bridges. In short, Salini evaluates local communities  needs and provides them with the means to  address sanitation, housing and recreational  requirements. Because of the high rate of  poverty and corruption in many countries in  which Salini operates, the Group prefers to  intervene directly on local communities behalf  instead of giving money to people. The only  financial donations made are granted to well recognised associations, foundations and  religious bodies primarily involved in social  welfare, followed by sponsorships to support  cultural and sport initiatives. The community investments made by Salini in  the reporting period (20082010) were equal to  7.6 million. The most part of these funds went  to Africa, followed by Europe and Asia. In the  reporting period, data on these community  interventions shows that most investments  related to the Groups work are in the dams  and hydroelectric plants sector. In relation  tohydropower projects, the majority of  investments were made on infrastructure for  local communities. Figures on community investment reported  inthis paragraph and in the third chapter  (economic distributed value), do not include  theinfrastructure developments carried out  bySalini for projectrelated needs that remain  available for communities after a project  completes. These facilities granted to  communities are considered as inkind  engagement that positively contribute to the  development of areas where this type of  investment is almost entirely absent. The  estimated value of this infrastructure is equal to  over 2 million in the reporting period alone, and  it is calculated using only the construction costs  incurred by Salini (materials, use of machinery  and work performed by Salini employees). Main local communities initiatives  In 2010 data was influenced by two main  initiatives, undertaken by the Group in Ethiopia  and in Nigeria. In Ethiopia, Salini completed the construction of a  mental health centre, in Gerfesa. It was donated  to the community in May 2010. The centre  provides physical and psychological help to over  200 people with mental illness, and was built on  an area ofabout 5,000 square metres, for a total  cost of approximately 1.1 million. In Nigeria, Salini promoted and organised  celebrations for the 50th anniversary of the  countrys independence. An event took place  on30 September 2010 at the Cultural Centre  and Millennium Tower work site, involving about  300 Salini workers and about 10,000 people.  Moreover, in Nigeria, Salini ensures the  maintenance of the Millennium Park in Abuja,  a26hectare green space designed, constructed  and donated to the Nigerian capital by Salini  Nigeria Ltd. in 200317.  In 2010, the other main interventions carried  outrelated to rehabilitation of roads, construction  or maintenance of hospitals and schools,  andconstruction of wells, water pipes and  electrical grids. Community investments by continent in 2010 %  1.8% Asia 73.0% Africa  25.3% Europe Community investments by sector in the  reporting period 2008–2010 %  6.6% Corporate 60.5% Dams and  hydroelectric plants 7.6% Transport infrastructures  25.2% Civil building  construction Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension continued 4.4 Social data sheet Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Total personnel by category LA1 Executives no. 57 62 85 24  Middle managers no. 68 66 88 25  Employees no. 1,415 1,145 1,778 554  Workers no. 11,495 8,920 10,922 1,977  Total no. 13,035 10,193 12,873 2,580  Total personnel by workplace LA1 Europe no. 321 364 1,041 675  Africa no. 10,158 9,340 9,794 908  Asia no. 2,556 487 2,036 997  America no. –  2 2 –  Total no. 13,035 10,193 12,873 2,580  Total personnel by workplace LA1 Europe % 2% 4% 8% 26% Africa % 78% 92% 76% 35% Asia % 20% 5% 16% 39% Total % 100% 100% 100% 100% Total personnel by workbase LA1 Italian Headquarters no. 153 162 218 61  Italian Operating sites no. 160 185 684 486  Foreign Operating sites (personnel managed centrally) no. 534 495 665 93  Foreign Operating sites (personnel managed locally) no. 12,188 9,351 11,306 1,940  Total no. 13,035 10,193 12,873 2,580  Total personnel by gender1 LA13 Men % 93% 93% 92% 89% Women % 7% 7% 8% 11% Total % 100% 100% 100% 100% Total personnel by age group1, 4 LA13 <30 years % 8% 7% 9% –  3050 years % 52% 53% 52% –  >50 years % 40% 40% 39% –  Total % 100% 100% 100% –  Members of the BoD by age group LA13 <30 years % –  –  –  3050 years % 40% 29% 43% >50 years % 60% 71% 57% Total % 100% 100% 100% Total personnel by minority group membership2 LA13 Invalid no. 1 2 4 2  Orphan no. 2 2 5 2  Total no. 3 4 9 4   Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social  dimension Profile and  strategy 32 33 Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Employees hired by category2 LA2 Executives no. 5 8 4 3  Middle managers no. 7 3 4 3  Employees no. 21 14 52 36  Workers no. –  –  73 73  Total no. 33 25 133 115  Employees left by reason2 LA2 Resignations no. 15 10 118 110  Retirements no. 3 4 4 –  Contract expiries no. 2 6 5 –  Dismissals due to project phases3 no. –  1 117 117  Dismissals due to disciplinary causes no. 3 –  –  –  Resolutions by mutual consent no. 2 –  5 –  Total no. 25 21 249 227  Rate of employee turnover by gender2 LA2 Men % 7.2% 4.3% 8.0% 8.2% Women % 2.6% 1.9% 8.0% 0.6% Total % 9.8% 6.2% 8.6% 8.8% Rate of employee turnover by age group2 LA2 <30 years % 2.6% 1.2% 0.4% 0.4% 3050 years % 5.9% 4.3% 3.4% 3.5% >50 years % 1.3% 0.6% 0.4% 0.3% Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social dimension continued   Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Personnel injuries rates LA7 Hours worked (WMH) hours  32,245,768   34,006,772   40,155,891   6,805,921  Fatalities (FTL) no.  7   8   5   1  Injuries with permanent disability = 100% no.  1  – – – Injuries with temporary disability (LTI) no.  471   527   685   127  Lost working days (LWD) dd  13,378   7,164   11,492   2,852  Injury frequency rate (IR)  14.82   15.73   17.18   18.81  Severity Index (LDR)  2,275.59   1,975.02   1,220.05   1,521.03  Personnel injury rates by sector LA7 Dams and hydroelectric plants IR  16.98   18.74   19.60   54.95  LDR  2,766.32   1,932.24   1,153.99   565.20  Transport infrastructures IR  8.92   5.43   12.90   16.66  LDR  1,028.89   2,149.91   1,434.44   1,578.17  Civil building construction IR  21.34  –  10.19  – LDR  85.37  –  112.05  – Personnel injury rates by continent LA7 Europe IR  107.11   66.66   40.66   39.51  LDR  4,996.79   2,648.68   1,589.47   1,319.66  Africa IR  16.84   17.91   18.27   28.79  LDR  2,751.82   2,045.51   1,386.78   3,857.22  Asia IR  2.75   1.18   2.23   1.29  LDR  39.37   1,546.88   68.88   88.39  Hours of absence by motivation1, 4 LA7 Sickness pro–capite hours  56   60   52  – Accident pro–capite hours  11   6   8  – Individual Permits pro–capite hours  18   14   15  – Unexcused absence pro–capite hours – – – – Total hours of absense procapite pro–capite hours  85   80   75  – Absentee rate (AR) by workbase1, 4 LA7 Italian Headquarters % 7% 6% 8% Italian Operating sites  % 11% 9% 9% Foreign Operating sites  % 3% 3% 2%  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Social  dimension Profile and  strategy 34 35 Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Total number of training hours  byemployeecategory4 LA10 Executives hours  364   280   276  – Middle managers hours  143   228   297  – Employees hours  2,061   1,633   1,464  – Workers hours  16,937   25,615   30,505  – Total number of training hours hours  19,505   27,756   32,542  – Average number of hours of training per  employee by employee category4 LA10 Executives procapite hours  6.4   4.5   4.5  – Middle managers procapite hours  2.1   3.5   4.7  – Employees procapite hours  1.5   1.4   1.2  – Workers procapite hours  1.5   2.9   3.4  – Average number of hours of training  peremployee procapite hours 1.5 2.7 3.2 – Training hours by topic4 LA10 Corporate Management and Quality hours  70   329   196  – Health, Safety and Environment hours  18,615   26,195   31,310  – Code of Ethics, Italian Legislative  Decree231,Privacy hours –  223   110  – Languages hours  598   860   250  – Administration hours  150   36   212  – Specialised hours  72   113   464  – Total hours  19,505   27,756   32,542  – Male/Female salary ratio by employee  category5, 6 LA14 Executives % 65% 64% 73% n/a Middle managers % 85% 90% 92% n/a Employees (Level 7) % 75% 82% 85% n/a Employees (Level 6) % 85% 78% 79% 76% Employees (Level 5) % 78% 73% 80% 87% Employees (Level 4)7 % – – 70% 102% Employees (Level 3) % 88% 73% 60% 78% Workers %  n/a  n/a n/a n/a Average % 71% 69% 83% 88% 1  Salini data does not include personnel managed locally. 2  Salini data concerns headquarters personnel. 3  These dismissals are related to the completion of the project or of its phases. Data concerning 2010 is influenced from the completion of two Todini projects in Italy. 4  Todini data is not included. 5  Data does not include personnel managed locally. Nevertheless, ratio can be considered as representative of the Group reality because these workers are almost entirely men. 6  In absence of women the ratio is reported as not applicable (na). 7  In category Employees (Level 4) of Salini there are not men. Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Environmental  performance Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report   Environmental  performance 5.1 Renewable energy for a more sustainable world  37 5.2 The key role of hydropower  37 5.3 Reducing environmental impacts  38–39   5.3.1 Careful use of resources  40   5.3.2 Ecosystem protection at operating sites  40–42   5.3.3 Waste and GHG emissions management  43–45 5.4 Environmental data sheet  46–49 Chapter 5 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Environmental  performance Profile and  strategy Salini Costruttori  Sustainability Report 2010 36 37 5.1 Renewable energy for  amore sustainable world Energy security, climate change, pollution and  energy poverty are the four major challenges  which the global community will have to face in  coming years. Considering firstly the reliability of energy  sources, supply capability is decreasing  inmany regions due to increasing energy  demand and the rising energy prices of  fossilfuels, putting particular pressure on  developing countries balance of payments.  Inaddition, thedamage caused by massive  use of fossil fuels on the global climate is  accelerating rapidly, as are related costs.  TheIntergovernmental Panel on Climate  Change (IPCC) and International Energy  Agency (IEA) estimate that in order to limit  therise of global temperature to 2C it will be  necessary to cut atleast 50% of global GHG  emissions by 2050, compared with 2005.  Furthermore, burning fossil and other traditional  fuels has many adverse effects on human  health. In Africa, SouthEast Asia and Western  Pacific – wherealarge majority of households  prepare their meals by using traditional fuel  appliances – indoor air pollution is ranked as  the largest environmental contributor to health  problems, after unsafe drinking water and  lackof sanitation. Recent studies show that  about 1.4billion people currently are lacking  accessto electricity. In developing countries,  expanding access to energy is a central  challenge. Reliable and modern energy  services help to reduce poverty, and to  encourage economic and social initiatives,  education and health improvements18. According to IEA forecasts19, renewable  energies will have to play a central role  intackling the challenges outlined above.  Thesesources are becoming more  competitive, due to the increased maturity  oftechnologies and the rising prices of fossil  fuels. The most mature and used renewable  technology is hydropower, which supplies  16%of the worlds electricity demand. 5.2 The key role of hydropower Hydropower is currently being used in over  160countries. According to data from the  IHA(International Hydropower Association),  installed hydropower capacity is about  874GWglobally, derived from some 11,000  stations. Worldwide hydropower actually  produces about 3,200 TWh/yr, while the  overalltechnicalpotential is estimated to  bemore than 16,000 TWh/yr20. All major studies forecast that hydropower  willmaintain its primary role in the future  ofrenewable energy. Hydropower is also   wellpositioned to meet twin challenges  ofincreasing electricity production while  reducingcarbon emissions and dependency  on fossil fuels. Added to this, hydropowers  potential to satisfy both base load and peaking  requirements makes it uniquely positioned  tobalance the supply variability of the other  renewable energies. This flexibility will assume  greater importance as the use of renewable  energy expands more generally. Furthermore, among all types of energy  infrastructure, hydropower plants have the  longest lifetime. Many hydropower plants  builtover 50 years ago have fully recouped the  initial infrastructure investment and still operate  efficiently today. Today, equipment manufacturers  are striving for higher efficiency, reliability and  longevity through design based on computational  fluid dynamics, advanced manufacturing  processes and new materials. R&D is also  driven by IT innovations, such as automation,  remote control and diagnostic systems. Hydroelectric projects must be investigated  ona casebycase basis, due to the unique  nature of each potential site. The main technical  parameters to take into account are: the project  scale (i.e. small, medium, large), the project  location, the presence and size of reservoirs,  the use of the electricity for base load, peak  load or both, and other possible benefits  besides power production, such as flood  control, irrigation, fresh water supply, etc.  Beyond this, the interests of local communities  have to be considered in carrying out feasibility  studies. The main issues which could positively  and negatively affect the communities include  increasing access to electricity, the protection  of local people and properties from floods and  droughts, the rights of citizens with respect to  lands expropriation and the management of  waters for multiple uses (e.g. irrigation, drinking  water, ecosystem conservation, etc.). With 70 years experience in this sector, Salini  iswellaware that communities needs should  be factored into a projects feasibility study, in  order to maximise benefits and to manage  andmitigate any negative impacts. For each  project, necessary impact assessment  studiesprovided for applicable laws are  carriedout by proponents in order to obtain  allneeded approvals. Production Potential Hydropower development potential    (TWh/yr) Africa North America Latin America Asia and  Pacic Europe Middle East 96 1,834 694 2,416 644 2,843 1,023 5,823 715 2,762 22 277 3 18  Towards a Green Economy – Pathways to  Sustainable Development and Poverty Eradication,  United Nations Environment Programme, 2011. 19  World Energy Outlook 2010 Factsheet,  InternationalEnergy Agency, 2010. 20  Data at end2008 – 2010 Survey on Energy  Resources, World Energy Council, 2010. Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance The typical ESIA process is shown below. ESIA procedures ESIA stage  Action  Stakeholders involved Screening 1 Preparation of project profile  2 Decision on whether or not the project requires an ESIA Environmental Protection Agencies Scoping of the ESIA 3 Developing Term of References  4 Initiating initial public consultation Environmental Protection Agencies  Fundingagencies (if there are any)  EnvironmentalConsultants   Local communities Environmental  Impactstudy 5 Impact assessment  6 Design of mitigation and benefit enhancement measures  7 Design monitoring and audit plan  8 Public Consultation Environmental Protection Agencies Funding agencies (if there are any) Environmental Consultants Proponent Local communities Reviewing the adequacy  ofthe ESIA 9 Review contents and provide comments for necessary revisions Environmental Protection Agencies Funding  agencies (if there are any) Decision-making 10 Summary evaluation made available to public  11 Decisions and conditions for approval made public Environmental Protection Agencies  Localcommunities Systematic ESIA  Followsups 12 Ensuring implementation of agreed mitigation measures  13 Periodic review and alteration of management plan if required Private Contractors Environmental Protection Agencies Funding agencies (if there are any) 5.3 Reducing environmental  impacts The construction sector is very different from  other industries in geographical, temporal  andoperational terms. Geographically, its  workis closely connected to the environment  in which projects are developed; each project  has a finite and fixed duration (compared to  other industries, such as manufacturing);  andoperationally, each project is unique  andtheoutput is a oneoff piece. In other  words, the construction sector creates unique  works that in other industries might be  calledprototypes. For these reasons, each project requires  bespoke planning activities, development  solutions and delivery techniques. Salini is committed to the highest standards  ofenvironmental protection when designing,  constructing and commissioning its projects.  By adopting the most advanced tools available,  the Group assesses all the potentially harmful  impacts related to its activities, with the aim of  eliminating or minimising them. The Group actively assist its clients to  development Environmental and Social Impact  Assessments (ESIAs), providing engineering  knowledge and expertise. ESIAs take into  account the relevant local and international  regulations, as well as the environmental and  social requirements of international financial  institutions (such as the World Bank –  International Finance Corporation). These  assessments, which are an integral part of the  planning design phases of the projects, are  usually made available for public consultation  by proponents, to provide the necessary  information to interested parties. Uganda : Bujagali  Hydropower  ProjectClinic The clinic at the Bujagali  construction site is one of  the many onsite clinics  which extend health care  facilities also to the local  communities.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental  performance Profile and  strategy 38 39 As shown before, the ESIAs are subject to  evaluations and reviews by stakeholders that  include government authorities, funding  agencies, clients and communities. On the basis of the impacts identified in the  approved ESIA, an Environmental and Social  Management Plan (ESMP) is prepared and  submitted to the client for its review and  approval. The ESMP describes the proposed  measures that the contractor, the client and  other institutions will have to implement during  construction and operational phases of the  project, to ensure compliance with all the   socioenvironmental requirements identified  inthe ESIA. In the execution of projects, as explained  previously, Salini implements specific  Environmental Management Systems  consistent with the requirements of ISO 14001.  At operating site level adequate procedures  onmonitoring and reporting activities are  established for internaland external  communications. Topmanagement  periodically reviews the performance of the  systems and assigns thetargets to ensure  ongoing performance improvements. The activities of Salini can be classified into  twomajor groups: dams and hydroelectric  plants works, which include hydropower plants  and multipurpose projects; and transport  infrastructural works, that include roads,  motorways, railways and subways. Thechart  below shows the links between resources,  impacts, and mitigating actions forthe  Groupsactivities. Environmental data reported in the next  paragraphs relates to the major operating  sitesof the Group that were active at the end  of201021. Specifically, the data relates to  22operating sites, of which ten are Salini  projects and 12 are Todini projects.  Saliniprojects concern mainly dams and  hydroelectric plants, while Todiniprojects  concern mainly transportinfrastructure.  Forthisreason, the environmental indicators  canvarysignificantly between Salini and Todini. It should be noted that at the beginning of 2010  there was an unexpected geological accident  at the plant Gigel Gibe II, in Ethiopia, caused by  the fall of material inside the headrace tunnel  that channels water to the plant. The problem  has been resolved during the year and currently  the plant is regularly producing electricity. During 2010 Salini was involved in some  criticisms concerning the Gibe III project,  ahydroelectric plant currently being built  ontheOmo River in Ethiopia. In particular,  some NGOs have raised concerns about the  potential environmental and social impacts of  the project. As extensively described in the  2009 Sustainability Report, the Group promptly  provided support to the client in providing  answers and explanations to the NGOs by  issuing several press releases and responding  on its website, as well as through a blog,  providing open ground for discussion and  criticism. Salinis approach in these cases is  aimed to provide clear and timely information  tothe interested parties in order to create  apositive climate for dialogue and to build  mutual trust. Resources used Significant environmental   impacts Mitigation actions undertaken   — Raw materials   — Consumables (chemicals, explosives, spare parts)   — Energy consumption   — Water consumption   — Lands and soils   — Waste    — Greenhouse gas emissions   — Effluents   — Lands changes (quarries, deforestation, reservoirs)   — Noise and vibrations (related to blasting activities)   — Integrated environmental and safety management system   — Water efficiency and wastewater treatment   — Recycling of waste   — Reuse of excavation materials   — Restoration of areas affected by the project Purpose and content of ESIAs The Environmental and Social Impact  Assessment (ESIA) is an in depth evaluation  ofthe context in which a proposed project  willbe realised. It is aimed at assessing the  relationship between the proposed project  and the environment, which helps decision makers to determine whether and under what  conditions the project will proceed.  The ESIA, drawn up by the projects  proponent, contains a clear description on the  nature of the proposed project, including the  impact of technology and processes; the  content and amount of pollutants that will be  released during implementation and operation,  and their effects on local communities; the  nature and duration of all the estimated  impacts, whether direct or indirect, positive or  negative; the measures proposed to eliminate,  minimise, or mitigate negative impacts; a  contingency plan in case ofaccidents; and,  finally, specific procedures ofinternal  monitoring and auditing during implementation  and operation. 21  The boundary of the environmental data include all the  major operating sites of the Group chosen by 2010  revenues. The operating sites excluded by the  boundary represents the 10% of total 2010 direct  revenues from construction projects. Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 5.3.1 Careful use of resources Use of materials The use of materials is an essential component  of the construction industry. Salini is committed  to reducing the material intensity of projects  and to increase the efficiency of the resources  used. To achieve this goal, a Cost Control  office is in place at every operating site. These  offices constantly perform analysis of resource  consumption as the work advances, in order  toprevent the unnecessary use of materials,  and maximise the efficiency of materials  warehousing and operational functions. The consumption of raw materials and  semimanufactured goods in the reporting  period is shown below.  The data does not include materials derived  from the quarrying processes, which in 2010  was equal to over 5 million of tonnes and  wasprimarily used by Todini in its road  projects(e.g.to produce asphalt and build  embankments). In addition to this quarried  material, excavated for in the delivery of  theproject, rocks and soil were the most  frequentlyhandled materials during the  construction phase. If these materials were  notreused in the project process, they  weremanaged and disposed with as waste. Salini has developed a specific system to  classify and store the rocks and soil excavated  during its activities, in order to reuse them in the  construction processes. In 2010, this method  enabled the reuse of the 43.6% of the volume  of the whole rocks and soil handled (equal to  about 3 million m3). Energy use The Groups energy use consists primarily of  the direct consumption of diesel and gasoline  fuels used to power machinery, and diesel fuel  to generate electricity at operating site level.  Others residual fuels are: aviation gasoline,  natural gas and coal oil. Indirect energy consumption (electricity  purchased) is particularly relevant for Todinis  European operating sites, which mainly have  access to a power grid, while Salinis primary  electricity consumption is linked to the Metro  B1 project, in Rome (Italy). Water use Salini uses a significant amount of water for its  activities, which is withdrawn from a variety of  sources according to local availability. Water is  withdrawn from rivers, basins and wells built at  the operating sites, or purchased by means of  tankers or aqueducts if available. Water is used  mainly in the production processes (crushing  plants, concrete batching plants, washing of  plants and machinery, wetting of tracks and  site areas to reduce dust), followed by non production uses (offices, canteens, houses  andirrigation). When setting up an operating site, the Group  analyses local water availability in order to  achieve a wellbalanced mix of sources and to  avoid significant stress on a single source.  Thanks to this approach, no single water  source has been significantly affected by  Salinis activity in this reporting period22. 5.3.2 Ecosystem protection at operating sites Biodiversity According to ESIA procedures (see paragraph  5.3), a projects potential impacts on  ecosystems are analysed during the planning  phase, with the results taken into account  intheconstruction process. The Group is  committed to preserving and protecting  biodiversity in the areas surrounding its  operating sites, continually monitoring  itspotential impacts. Salini works closely  withlocalauthorities to achieve legal or  regulatory compliance. Local flora and fauna  isprotected by a careful management of water,  construction areas, quarries and landfills. 22  According to EN9 Indicator Protocol of GRIG3,  isconsidered as significant the withdrawal that  account for an average of 5% or more of the annual  average volume of a given water body.  Environmental performance continued Total water withdrawal (m3)    (000) 2008 2009 13,747 16,241 2010 13,530 1,152 Groups consumption without Todini Todinis consumption Total water withdrawal by source in 2010 %  3.2% Groundwater well 75.1% River  16.8% Lake 4.9% Aqueduct Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods used*   (000 tonnes) 2008 2009 1,466 1,251 2010 1,345 1,445 Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods used (tonnes)  0,000 1% Others 43% Ready-made  concrete Groups consumption without Todini Todinis consumption *Data does not include quarrys materials.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental  performance Profile and  strategy 40 41 In the reporting period, Salini has not carried out projects in protected areas, and only three infrastructure projects (motorways) were located  adjacent to protected areas. These projects are situated in Tunisia, Albania and Italy, which represents a total area of around 2km2. Albania Italy  Tunisia Project name  LevanDames  CagliariCapo Boi  La Marsa Sector  Transport infrastructures  Transport infrastructures  Transport infrastructures Location  SouthWest Albania,  Fierprefecture South Sardinia, in Quartu  SantElena area  (adjacenttoCagliari) NorthEast Tunisia, between  Tunisand the coastal town  ofLaMarsa Environmental context  Agricultural area  Coastal area  Urban area Main activities carried  outinthe area Construction of a motorway,  withinsitu excavation of  quarriesmaterials Construction of a motorway  andgalleries, with use of  existingquarries as landfills  ofrockand soils Construction of a motorway,  without in situ excavation  ofquarries materials Size of operating site  1.2km2  0.7km2  0.04km2 Position in relation  toprotectedareas Adjacent to protected areas  Adjacent to protected areas  Adjacent to protected areas Name and typology  ofprotected areas Frakulla, Madhe, Ada, Varibopi,  Cakrani, Gjonca and Hekali –  archeological areas SettefratelliMonte Gesis – regional  park (under establishment) Sebkhet Ariana – wetland zone  ofnational importance Direct Energy consumption (GJ)   (000) 2008 2009 1,679 1,315 2010 762 1,409 Groups consumption without Todini Todinis consumption Direct Energy consumption by category in 2010 %  4.6% Gasoline  for traction 65.2% Diesel for  traction  29.9% Diesel for electricity generation Direct Energy consumption by continent in 2010 %  24.9% Asia 60.8% Africa  14.3% Europe 2008 2009 2010 Groups consumption without Todini Todinis consumption Direct Energy consumption by category in 2010 %  4.6% Gasoline  for traction 65.2% Diesel for  traction  29.9% Diesel for electricity generation Direct Energy consumption by continent in 2010 %  24.9% Asia 60.8% Africa  14.3% Europe 65.2% Diesel for  traction  29.9% Diesel for electricity generation Direct Energy consumption by continent in 2010 %  24.9% Asia 60.8% Africa  14.3% Europe Indirect Energy consumption (GJ)   (000) 2008 2009 8 13 2010 87 14 Groups consumption without Todini Todinis consumption Indirect Energy consumption by workplace in 2010 %  2.4% Headquarters 97.6% Operating sites Indirect Energy consumption by continent in 2010 %  8.8% Africa Indirect Energy consumption (GJ)   (000) 2008 2009 8 13 2010 87 14 Groups consumption without Todini Todinis consumption Indirect Energy consumption by workplace in 2010 %  2.4% Headquarters 97.6% Operating sites Indirect Energy consumption by continent in 2010 %  8.8% Africa 78.0% Europe  13.2% Asia 2008 2009 8 13 2010 14 Groups consumption without Todini Todinis consumption Indirect Energy consumption by workplace in 2010 %  2.4% Headquarters 97.6% Operating sites Indirect Energy consumption by continent in 2010 %  8.8% Africa 78.0% Europe  13.2% Asia Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Noise and vibration management Noise and vibration issues are important both  in terms of workers health, and in terms of  impact on the environment and on local  communities. As part of its management  systems, Salini constantly monitors and  evaluates these issues by adopting appropriate  measures to safeguard workers and the  surrounding environment. To minimise the potential impacts of noise,  Salini usually measures the noise caused by  itsactivities and, where necessary, installs  specific soundproofing devices to protect  workers, communities and local fauna. For  instance, inthe Beles Multipurpose Project  (Ethiopia), excavation activities performed to  build the intake manifold23 were carried out  inan area (Tana lake) where a family of nine  hippos had made their home. The work was  performed using special devices in order to  minimise the noise of the machinery, and  toavoid the migration of the animals. With regards to vibration, the Group performs  preliminary analyses of any areas and buildings  that may be affected by blasting activities or  bythe passage of tunnel boring machines  (TBMs), monitoring the potential impact on  anygeological phenomena at throughout,  andperforming any necessary restoration  workonce the tunnel has been created.  Inthereporting period, these activities were  performed mainly for the Metro B1 project  (Italy), where Salini promptly restored some  damage made to buildings and pavements  near the excavation area. Environmental impact assessments carried  outon these three projects have not identified  significant impacts on the biodiversity of the  protected areas adjacent to the operating sites. Besides the projects mentioned above, it  should be noted that Salini has provided  significant levels of care to protect the  environment surrounding the operating  siteofGibe III, in Ethiopia. Although the  operating site is neither part of, nor in close  proximity to, with any protected areas,  carefulanalysis has been carried out in  ordertoadopt a specific Environmental  andSocial Management Plan (ESMP),  whichidentifies thebest mitigation actions  toimplement duringthe construction phase.  ThisESMP isavailable at www.gibe3.com/et. Water management Salini carefully controls and treats its  wastewater in order to minimise negative  impacts on the environment and local  communities. Water used in the construction  process is collected in settling tanks and  treatment facilities, where sediments and  oilsare filtered out. Where applicable, water  isanalysed before its release to check that  levels of BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand),  COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) and SS  (Suspended Solids) do not exceed statutory  limits. The same kind of treatments are  carriedout for drainage water collected  duringexcavation activities. Water that is intended for domestic use is  filtered and purified in special treatment  facilitiesavailable at all operating sites. After  use, this domestic wastewater is collected  inseptic tanks, and then discharged as waste  by authorised agencies. When the site is  located in an urban context, the domestic  wastewater is discharged to public sewers,  complying with the qualitative and quantitative  limits provided by the sewers companies. Environmental restoration Salini is committed to restoring all areas  affected by its plants, facilities, quarries and  landfills during or after a project, in order to  leave these areas in a condition to facilitate  natural revegetation, prevent pounding and  erosion, improve slope stability and return  affected areas to their original landscapes. Restoration activities are mandatory or  agreedwith clients, and planned by Salini  inpartnership with local authorities and  communities, with the aim of understanding  their needs for the areas future use (e.g.  farming, grazing, etc.). Where possible, Salini  arranges the donation of these areas to local  farmers after restoration, again in partnership  with local administrations. This good practice,  adopted mainly in Ethiopia, is wellappreciated  by local communities and authorities, given  thatthey can obtain a direct advantage from  Salinis presence beyond a projects delivery. In 2010 alone, the Group has restored  200,000m2 of former quarries and landfill  areas, and has carried out over 315,000m2  ofreforestation activities. Reforestation  activitieswere undertaken using native  plantsgrown in the nurseries at expatriate  accommodation. Any restoration activity has  concerned protected areas or areas of high  biodiversity value. 23  Part of the plant that channels water from the  Tanalake to the power house.  Environmental performance continued Nigeria, Gurara Dam The Gurara dam  multipurpose project  ispart of Nigerias plan  tomove towards self  sufficiency in power. Gurara will provide the  capital city of Abuja with  water supply for the next  fifty years. Apart from using Gurara  for power generation  (30MW) and agriculture  thewater body of the  damcan further serve  asatourist attraction.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental  performance Profile and  strategy 42 43 HSE expenses and investments In line with the HSE management systems, the  Group annually invests sufficient resources at  operating site level to protect the health of  workers and the surrounding environment. In 2010, Salini invested about 11.8 million  intoHSE initiatives, of which 7.7 million was  spent on environmental management (waste  treatment and disposal, emission treatment,  land restoration), 1.5 million was spent on  Health & Safety protection and the remaining  2.6 million was spent on HSE prevention and  management activities (management systems,  training, etc.). 5.3.3 Waste and GHG emissions management Disposal and recycling of wastes Largescale construction works produce  hugeamounts of waste, primarily composed  ofrocks and soil, containers for construction  materials, waste oil, filters, used tyres,  lubricants and hydraulic fluids. Waste  management plans represent one of the  mostimportant elements of the Salinis  environmental management systems and  theyare developed as of the design phase  ofaconstruction project. These plans are set up to manage waste in a  proper manner, complying with all applicable  regulations. According to these plans,  construction waste must be collected in  specific areas and recycled wherever possible,  while the remainder is sent to agencies with  appropriate waste disposal facilities. Mainly in  Africa, some scrap materials (steel, wood) are  also donated to local communities. Since  2008, the Group has annually calculated the  total amount of waste produced by category  and bydestination. Rocks and soil represent the primary type of  waste (over 900,000 tons in 2010), but disposal  regulation and clients requirements relating to  these materials vary from countrytocountry,  and sometimes vary within the same country  as well. For example, rocks and soil excavated  at the Italian Metro B1 project (Rome) are  treated as waste, while the same materials  excavated at the Variante di Valico project  (Tuscany) are not. In order to avoid misleading  reporting, data reported in the charts above  does not include rocks and soil, while data  reported in the tables at the end of this chapter  does include them, in accordance with the  specific requirements of each project. The high  quantity of waste produced in 2008 came  mainly from materials excavated from galleries  at the Beles Multipurpose Project in Ethiopia;  this work was undertaken to channel water  from the Lake Tana to the powerhouse. It should be noted that in 2010 Todini  formalised an agreement with the Tuscany  Region (Italy) to close a legal disagreement  around payment of a special tax for the  disposal of solid waste on the Variante di Valico  project. The disagreement arose in 2009, when  Todini did not belong to the Group, and it has  been closed with a fine of around 347,000.  The Groups approach towards authorities  control activities is always of absolute  collaboration, aimed at determining actual  course of events. Salini has implemented effective spill control  measures to eliminate or contain any spill of  chemicals, oils, fuels and hazardous waste,  aimed at preventing any adverse impact on the  environment and the subsoil. Waste oil and  used batteries are sent to external agencies  which carry out the recycling and disposal  ofthese materials. Total HSE expenses  (/000) 2008 2009 10,086 6,160 2010 2,866 8,969 Groups expenses without Todini Todinis HSE expenses Total weight of waste* (tonnes)  (000) 2008 2009 643 399 2010 58 397 Groups waste without Todini Todinis waste Total weight of waste by type* (tonnes) (000) 2008 2009 643 1 397 2 2010 8 446 Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste * Data does not include rocks and soils. Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Greenhouse gases emissions Salini is firmly committed to fighting climate change and to this end the Group has recently started to measure and monitor its global emissions. Main climate changerelated risks and opportunities at Salini Opportunities Financial implications Risks Financial implications Greater demand of  renewableenergy Higher business opportunities in the  field of hydropower constructions  Greater revenues from Dams and  hydroelectric plant activities Increase of extreme  weatherphenomena Material damages to structures  andasset Increase of facilities maintenance  activities  Higher insurance expenses Increase  ofclaims during the guarantee period  ofprojects Need of buildings and  infrastructures capable to  resistto a harsher climate Higher R&D investments to  developnew solutions for adapting  theconditions of constructions to the  new climate context  Higher economic value of the  projectscarried out adopting the  newtechnologies and solutions  Higherbusiness opportunities from  refurbishment and improvement of  existing infrastructures New regulations on  energyefficiency Higher costs to comply with new  regulations related to energy efficiency  of buildings  Need of modifying the construction  models in order to deal with building  energyrelated aspects (e.g. more  climatising, more renewable energy,  more insulation) Improvement of processes  atthe operating site level Lower supply costs, due to efficiency  improvements in the use of materials  (decrease of scraps/increase of  recycling) Lower energy costs, due  toreplacement of overage equipment  and machinery New regulations in  therawmaterials   supply-chain Higher prices of raw materials and  fossilfuels, due to effects of emission  trading systems Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2 000) 2008 2009 126 100 2010 65 108 Groups gas emissions without Todini Todinis gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions by source in 2010 %  0,000 6.8% Indirect CO2  emissions – Electricity 90.8% Direct CO2  emissions 2.4% Indirect CO2  emissions – Business ights Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2 000) 2008 2009 126 100 2010 65 108 Groups gas emissions without Todini Todinis gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions by source in 2010 %  0,000 6.8% Indirect CO2  emissions – Electricity 90.8% Direct CO2  emissions 2.4% Indirect CO2  emissions – Business ights Environmental performance continued  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental  performance Profile and  strategy Total weight of goods transported (tonnes)  (000) 2008 2009 46,128 28,189 2010 2,631 27,413 Total weight of goods transported by destination country in the period 2008-2010 %  0,000 Groups shipments without Todini Todinis shipments  1% Tunisia  9% Nigeria 5% Arab Emirates  2% Sierra Leone 1% Kazakhstan 1% Others 48% Ethiopia 33% Uganda Total weight of goods transported by  modality in 2010 %  0,000 1% Air  shipment 94% Sea shipment  1% Road transport Total weight of goods transported by modality in 2010 %  0.9% Air shipment 94.4% Sea shipment  4.7% Road transport Total weight of goods transported by destination country in the period 2008–2010 %  0,000  1.3% Tunisia  8.9% Nigeria 4.6% Arab Emirates  1.9% Sierra Leone 0.8% Kazakhstan 0.6% Others 48.3% Ethiopia 33.7% Uganda 44 45 In the construction industry, emissions are  directly linked to working phases, which vary  enormously from yeartoyear; this being  thecase, trend analysis does not always  accurately show progress in reducing  greenhouse gas emissions. The Groups main emissions derive from use  ofdirect fuels at operating sites level (91%),  while the remainder are represented by  indirectemissions (electricity purchased  andbusiness travel). In order to reduce its direct emissions,  Saliniperiodically replace its plants,  machineryandfleet with more efficient and  ecologically friendly models. However the  main opportunity to reduce emissions comes  fromlinking the Groups plants and facilities  topower grids, reducing the use of diesel  generators. For this reason, Salini actively  seeks ways to connect its sites to power grids.  In addition to this, it should be noted that the  Group has recently switched its Ukrainian  asphalt plants from diesel to gas, deriving  significant cost and emissions reductions. As reported above, Salini usually carries out  reforestation of any areas affected by its work.  Planted trees are able to partially offset the  total emissions generated during a projects  construction phase. In future years, specific  analysis will be undertaken to estimate  emissions absorbed by plants. Transportation and shipment management As reported in the economic chapter, Salini  aims to purchase the materials needed for  projects locally in order to contribute to a  regions economic development. Despite this  goal, materials, equipments and services are  not always available in proper quality and  quantity in some regions, especially in Africa.  Infact, African procurement figures show that  only 53% of the total materials spend is made  with locallybased suppliers. Theremainder is  spent in other continents and then shipped  tothe operating sites.  As anticipated in the section 1.3, planning  andcarrying out ofthe shipping process is  managed by Co.Ge.Ma., that is in charge of  sourcing, purchasing and shipping materials  forall worldwide project requirements. Salini is aware that the major environmental  impact of its shipping activities is related  togreenhouse gas emissions.  TheGroupiscommitted to reducing the  impact on climatechange derived from  itsshipping activities, using sea shipments  fortransportation wherever possible, since  thisisthe method with the lowest associated  carbonemissions. Data below shows how  thispolicy is put into practice.  Destination figures show that the majority of  shipments are addressed to African countries,  mostly by sea. Road transportation is more  frequent in those countries that have no  access to the sea, such as Kazakhstan.  Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 5.4 Environmental data sheet Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Materials used by category EN1 Non-renewable raw materials  Cement  t  236,458   148,398   183,078   23,037  Bentonite t  593   583   433   262  Bitumen t  1,321   921   232,310   215,867  Aggregates t  945,832   741,992   915,391   115,183  Quarrys material (except aggregates) t  7,631   262,100   5,129,379   4,626,181  Metallic material t  42,760   39,843   62,320   9,116  Woody material t  6,530   4,803   10,575   6,556  Total nonrenewable raw materials t  1,241,125   1,198,641   6,533,485   4,996,201  Renewable raw materials  Total renewable raw materials t – –  –  – Semi-manufactured goods or parts from  externalsuppliers Prefabricated elements of reinforced concrete1 t  20,740   31,435   70,865   24,188  Readymade concrete  t  206,691   279,555   1,196,313   928,186  Readymade asphalt t  3,557   2,332   106,126   11,191  Metallic structures t  1,342   918   6,886   6,125  Others t – –  5,094   5,094  Total semimanufactured goods or parts from  externalsuppliers t  232,330   314,239   1,385,285   974,784  Associated process materials Lubrificant – Motor oil l  509,293   436,165   569,476   90,516  Lubrificant – Hydraulic oil l  378,165   357,775   492,159   155,132  Lubrificant – Grease Kg  104,534   94,531   62,774   21,316  Tyres  no.  15,155   16,212   17,217   2,272  Explosives t  778   359   1,277   900  Direct energy consumption by primary energysource EN3 Non-renewable energy sources Gasoline for traction  GJ  24,108   22,541   99,784   49,418  Diesel for traction GJ  1,058,138   742,833   1,415,804   525,763  Diesel for electricity generation GJ  592,135   543,022   649,123   186,753  Kerosene GJ  579   31   731  – Natural gas GJ  0   0   77   77  Aviation gasoline GJ  3,900   6,092   5,172  – Total nonrenewable energy sources GJ  1,678,861   1,314,520   2,170,692   762,010  Renewable energy sources Total renewable energy sources GJ – –  –  – Total direct energy consumption GJ  1,678,861   1,314,520   2,170,692   762,010  Environmental performance continued  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental  performance Profile and  strategy 46 47 Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Indirect energy consumption from external suppliers EN4 Electricity purchased from nonrenewables sources GJ  6,314   10,586   83,470   72,377  Electricity purchased from renewables sources GJ  1,504   2,005   17,491   15,003  Total purchased electricity GJ  7,817   12,591   100,961   87,380  Water withdrawal by source EN8 Groundwater well m3  301,860   236,450   476,719   147,041  River m3  7,476,999   10,136,290   11,030,636   803,100  Lake m3  5,594,148   5,549,796   2,462,424   2,400  Sea m3 – –  –  – Aqueduct m3  373,721   317,991   712,447   199,679  Total m3  13,746,728   16,240,527   14,682,227   1,152,220  Water withdrawal by use EN8 Production use m3  11,184,621   14,045,468   13,058,776   980,509  Civil use m3  2,562,107   2,195,059   1,623,451   171,711  Total m3  13,746,728   16,240,527   14,682,227   1,152,220  Position of operating sites in relation  toprotectedareas EN11 In the area % 0% 0% 0% 0% Adjacent to the area % 0% 0% 14% 25% Containing portions of the area % 0% 0% 0% 0% Not involved in the area (neither adjacent to) % 100% 100% 86% 75% Total % 100% 100% 100% 100% Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions  byprimaryenergy source   EN16 Gasoline for traction  t CO2  1,673   1,565   6,926   3,430  Diesel for traction t CO2  76,711   53,853   102,641   38,116  Diesel for electricity generation t CO2  42,928   39,367   47,059   13,539  Kerosene t CO2  42   2   53  – Natural gas t CO2  0   0   4   4  Aviation gasoline t CO2  282   441   375  – Purchased electricity  t CO2  967   1,781   11,830   10,146  Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions t CO2  122,604   97,009   168,887   65,234  Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions by source EN17 Business travels t CO2  3,139   2,955   4,177   185  Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010   Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Wastewater by use EN21 Production use m3  10,829,934   13,822,870   12,784,158   945,954  Civil use m3  2,562,107   2,195,059   1,623,451   171,711  Total m3  13,392,041   16,017,929   14,407,610   1,117,665  Wastewater by destination EN21 Sewers m3  235,609   210,150   331,532   171,000  Lands/surface waters m3  13,156,432   15,807,779   14,076,077   946,665  Total m3  13,392,041   16,017,929   14,407,610   1,117,665  Waste by type  EN22 Non-hazardous waste Rocks and soils t  752,303   752,445   915,625   175,180  Cement1  t  1,351   426   9,613   591  Cutting materials t  523,981   336,674   317,884   35,904  Construction mixed waste1 t  113,855   55,786   105,627   11,911  Metallic materials t  618   923   4,057   1,557  Wood t  432   551   1,728   19  Used tyres t  1,009   1,145   1,205   164  Absorbent materials t  6   6   15   2  Plastic and rubber t  110   165   148   39  Paper and carton t  146   319   368   2  Compost heap t  77   121   177   13  Urban mixed waste t  228   229   368   8  Others nonhazardous waste t  735   227   4,866   959  Subtotal – Nonhazardous waste t  1,394,852   1,149,017   1,361,681   226,348  Hazardous waste Asphalt, tar and bituminous products t –   12   4,045   3,844  Waste resulting from the treatment of wastewater t –   616   2,252   1,999  Oily water t –   8   12  –  Contaminated soil t –   116   45   11  Others contaminated waste t –   43   6  – Oils scraps and grease  t  800   714   875   141  Oil filters t  3   10   13   5  Paint  t  1   12   9   1  Additives and solvents t  11   35   484   473  Batteries and accumulators t  127   161   322   20  Others hazardous waste t –  251   284   13  Subtotal – Hazardous waste t  941   1,979   8,348   6,506  Total waste t  1,395,793   1,150,995   1,370,028   232,855  Environmental performance continued  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental  performance Profile and  strategy 48 49 Performance indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Todini GRI   reference Waste by disposal method  EN22 Incineration t –   98   67   8  Recycling/Reuse t  6,739   13,007   79,118   3,410  Landfill t  821,454   676,819   817,862   57,117  Temporary onsite storage2 t  567,600   461,072   472,982   172,320  Total t  1,395,793   1,150,995   1,370,028   232,855  Significant spills of chemicals and oils EN23 Spills < 5 litres  no.  6   21   21  –  Spills between 5 and 100 litres  no. –   7   21  –  Spills > 100 litres  no. –   1   35   34  Performed samples no. –  –   45  –  Contaminated material removed m3  1   15   41  –  Significant spills of chemicals and oils by continent EN23 Africa no.  6   29   77   34  Asia no. –  –  –  –  Europe no. –  –  –  –  Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions  fornon-compliance with environmental laws  andregulations EN28 Significant fines3 no. –  –   3   3  /000 –  –   387   387  Nonmonetary sanctions no. –  –  –  –  Total HSE protection expenditures  andinvestmentsbytype EN30 Health and Safety protection costs /000  624   570   1,546   777  Waste management, emission treatment and  remediationcosts /000  8,771   4,825   7,708   775  Prevention and HSE management costs /000  692   766   2,581   1,314  Total HSE expenditures and investments /000  10,086   6,160   11,835   2,866  1  The important increase of data in 2010 is related to the works at the MetroB1 project (Rome), where they have been carried out excavation of galleries and laying of  prefabricated elements of reinforced concrete, with production of construction mixed waste. 2  The main material temporarly stocked onsite is represented by rocks and soils. Part of these materials will be reutilised next year. For this reason, this data will be updated in  the next Sustainability Report and the reutilisation rate will be reported. 3  The fines have been imposed to the Todini projects of Valico, in Italy (2 fines) and SouthWest Roads, in Kazakhstan (1 fine). The main fine (347,000) is described in the  paragraph 5.3.3 Disposal and recycling of wastes. Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Future  commitments Appendix GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Future commitments Chapter 6 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Future  commitments Profile and  strategy 50 51 Sustainability area Commitments Next steps Corporate Governance  andSustainability Maintaining the highest standards  in term of ethical responsibility and  moral integrity –  Establish a process for reporting sustainability performance to the  BoDby means of one of its committees –  Update the parent company Organisational Management and Control  Model to include the risks associated with environmental crime –  Adopt Organisational Models and establish Integrity Boards for the  most relevant Group companies –  Launch of the new elearning tool aimed at training employees about  the Code of Ethics and the Organisational Model worldwide –  Carry out specific audits about sustainability issues  Health and Safety Improving safety conditions  intheworkplace, including  subcontractors and local  communities –  Strengthen the H&S organisational structure, increasing the number  ofdedicated staff at headquarters and at operating sites –  Improve safety performance in the workplace, in particular reducing  theaccident frequency index to 2009 levels –  Arrange specific training courses at every operating site on primary  H&Srisks –  Implement an audit plan at every operating site in order to carry out  H&S audits on subcontractors Environment Ensuring protection of natural  resources and biodiversity,  enhancing employees awareness  about environmental issues –  Progressively extend the environmental management system  toallGroup companies –  Strengthen the environmental organisational structure, increasing  thenumber of dedicated staff at headquarters and at operating sites –  Enhance the management of specific environmental issues, such  asrocks and soil, hazardous materials and waste –  Arrange specific training courses at every operating site on key  environmental issues –  Implement an audit plan at every operating site in order to carry  outenvironmental audits on subcontractors Human Resources  management Creating a working environment  capable of attracting the best  talent, in which knowledge,  motivation and teamwork  spiritarerecognised –  Complete the mapping of employee competencies and implement  anannual training plan –  Extend the use of elearning tools to more training issues beyond the  Code of Ethics and the Organisational Model –  Complete the implementation of the Human Resources management  system, with the release of a process for careers management and  theadoption of a MbO system –  Improve internal communication processes and tools, especially  between headquarters and operating sites –  Establish a centralised security management system for operating  sites,in order to guarantee sites and personnels safety and protection,  ensuring respect for human rights Local communities  and human rights Maintaining constructive  relationships with local  communities, ensuring direct  support and protection of  humanrights –  Maintain excellent relations with the local communities, ensuring  theyreceive support to meet their own health and social needs –  Continue implementation and development of the model to calculate  the social benefits ofSalini projects in local communities –  Work with other Italian multinational companies within the Global  Compact Network Italy in order to develop a common Human Rights  assessment tool to be used in every operating site Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Appendix GRI data and  verification   report   Appendix 7.1 Membership and awards  53 7.2 Methodological note  53–55 7.3 Glossary  56–57 Chapter 7 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix Profile and  strategy 52 53 7.1 Membership and awards Membership –  Associazione Grandi Imprese (AGI) –  Italian Committee on Large Dams (ITCOLD) –  National Association of Italian Contractors  (ANCE) –  Comitato Leonardo – Italian Quality Committee –  Chamber of Commerce TunisiaItaly –  National Industrial Safety Council of Nigeria –  Global Compact Network Italy Awards and acknowledgements –  Premi ad personam per i comportamenti  virtuosi – awarded to 65 Todini workers  fortheir great attention to the issues of  workplace health and safety (award promoter  – Autostrade per lItalia S.p.A., project –  Variante di Valico) –  Acknowledgement of Salini Nigeria Ltd.  bythe Police Community Relations  Committee (PCRC) for its contributions  tosecurity matters –  Acknowledgement of Salini in Ethiopia by 23  institutions for the social support provided to  them (project – Beles Multipurpose Project). 7.2 Methodological note The Sustainability Report as of 31 December  2010 (hereinafter also Sustainability Report  2010 or Report) aims to provide reliable,  complete, wellbalanced, accurate and  comparable information regarding Salinis  values, strategies and performances during  thereporting period. The Sustainability Report 2010 of the  GroupSalini Costruttori has been drafted in  accordance with the Sustainability Reporting  Guidelines provided by the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) in 2006. On the basis of the  information reported in the GRI Content Index,  we are compliant with the A+ requirements of  these guidelines. In addition to this, the Report  contains references to the 10 principles of the  Global Compact, showing the actions and the  systems implemented by the Group in order  tointegrate those principles in the corporate  strategies and daytoday activities. The Sustainability Report is published annually  and it is presented at the Board of Directors of  the Company. To assure the reliability of the information  provided in the Report and to improve the  reporting process, KPMG S.p.A. has been  commissioned to review this document.  Anassurance statement is available at the  endof the Report. Materiality In order to define the contents of the Report,  amateriality analysis has been carried out  inaccordance with the Part 1 of the GRI  guidelines. Materiality has been analysed  according to two main factors: the relevance  ofissues in the construction industry and their  importance for Salini and for its stakeholders.  Inorder to define the relevance of issues, an  analysis of the internal and external context  hasbeen carried out. The internal context  analysis has taken into account the values,  thestrategies and the management systems  adopted by the Group (Code of Ethics,  Policies,Organisational Management and  Control Model, HSE and Quality management  systems); the external context analysis has  taken into account the main sustainability  frameworks of reference (GRIG3, Global  Compact, ISO 26000, DJSI) and the  requirements of the major international  institutions for the construction industry  (UN,World Bank, NGOs, etc.). The relevance of issues and their importance  for Salini and for its stakeholders has been  defined by the management through an  analysis based on a threelevel scale of  assessment: low, medium and high. The highmedium issues derived from the  analysis are showed in the materiality matrix  below. This analysis will be updated every year,  in order to take into account the outputs of the  stakeholder engagement activities. Boundary of the Report The Sustainability Report 2010 contains the  description of the initiatives and the activities  carried out by the Group in the 2010, as well  asthe performance data from the period   20082010. The information provided in the  Report refers to Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and  the consolidated companies. In 2010, following the acquisition of Todini  Costruzioni Generali S.p.A., the dimensions of  the Group have significantly increased both in  quantitative terms and of geographic presence.  The data reported in the Report includes Todini  for 2010 only. Unless otherwise specified in the Report   and/or in the GRI Content Index, the boundary  of the report has been established as  described below: –  financial and social data refers to the  boundary of the 2010 Consolidated  FinancialStatements; –  environmental data refers to a boundary  established based on the materiality of the  operating sites during the 2010; specifically,  the Report environmental data refers to all  major operating sites on the basis of 2010  revenues, achieving a total coverage of 90%  of 2010 revenues fromconstruction projects.  This covers 22operating sites. The operating  sites excluded from the boundary are  considered as not material. Aco Anticorruption Ama Assurance of management systems Bio Biodiversity Csa Clients satisfaction Cch Climate change Cec Contribution to economic growth Cgo Corporate Governance Dhu Development of human resources Eus Efficient use of resources Epr Environmental protection Fpe Financial performances Hsa Health and safety Inn Innovation Ibu Integrity in business management Iau Internal audit Pri Privacy Qco Quality control Rhu Respect of human rights Sop Security at operating sites Spo Sponsorship Sen Stakeholder engagement Sch Supply chain monitoring Materiality matrix Potential or actual impacts on Salinis activities Importance for Salinis stakeholders Medium Medium High High Hse Eus Epr Rhu Fpe Cec Aco Cch Ama Cgo Iau Csa Qco Sch Pri Inn Bio Sop Ibu Sen Dhu Spo Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix continued Comparative data (2008 and 2009) corresponds to the data reported in the 2009 Sustainability Report, with the exception of environmental data.  For setting the boundary of this data, starting from the 11 operating sites reported in the 2009 Sustainability Report, two sites were excluded  (GibeIIand Parallel Roads) because their 2010 revenues were not material and 13 sites were included. Shown below is the list of operating sites  included in the boundary oftheenvironmental data for the Report 2010. Number Country Company Sector Project name 1 Albania Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures LevanDames 2 Algeria Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Collettore di Algeri 3 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures BakuSamachi 4 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures BakuSamur 5 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures  KurdamirUjar 6 UAE Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Svincolo autostradale Dubai  RasalKhor* 7 Ethiopia Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Beles Multipurpose Project* 8 Ethiopia Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Gibe III* 9 Italy Metro B1 S.c.a.r.l./RI.MA.TI. S.c.a.r.l. Transport infrastructures Metro B1* 10 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures CagliariCapo Boi 11 Italy  Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures MetrocampaniaSecondigliano  Alifana 12 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Terni/Corso del Popolo 13 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures Autostrade/Valico 14 Kazakhstan Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Transport infrastructures SouthWest Roads projects  (Lots1–5) 15 Kazakhstan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures SouthWest Roads projects  (Lots9–14) 16 Nigeria  Salini Nigeria Ltd. Dams and hydroelectric plants Gurara Dam* 17 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Transport infrastructures Idu Industrial Area* 18 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Civil and industrial building Millennium Tower –  CulturalCentre* 19 Sierra Leone Bumbuna Power Gen. Co. Ltd. Dams and hydroelectric plants Bumbuna (O&M)* 20 Tunisia Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures La Marsa 21 Ukraine Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Transport infrastructures KievChop 22 Uganda Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Bujagali Hydro Power* * Projects already reported in the Sustainability Report 2009. Other exceptions to the boundary are specified directly in the Report and/or in the GRI Content Index.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix Profile and  strategy 54 55 Calculation methods Data and information included in the Report  istaken from the information systems used  forthe general management and accounting  ofthe Groups operations, as well as from  aspecific sustainability reporting system  established in accordance with the GRI  requirements. Some data and information  comes from public sources made available  byrecognised institutions. Data reported is calculated in a accurate  manner and, where specified, by means  ofestimations. The methodologies applied  todetermine the main indicators are  indicatedbelow. Safety indicators Safety indicators are calculated in accordance  with an internal procedures used for recording,  investigating and reporting accidents.  Specifically, safety indicators take into account  all the workrelated injuries (and fatalities)  thatmade affected employees temporarily  (orpermanently) unfit to carry out their regular  job for any day/shift following the injurys  occurrence. Lost days are calculated as  fromthe day after the accidents occurrence  and includes the number of calendar days  untilthe injured person can return to work. For  specific calculation formulas, see the glossary.  Commuting injuries and subcontractors injuries  are not included in the calculation of the  safetyindicators. Any accidents occurring  toindependent contractors (e.g. consultants)  areincluded in employee injury rates. Injuries  occurring at the headquarters and at other  offices are considered as not material because  they do not relate to construction activities; for  this reason these injuries are not included in the  safety indicators. Ratio of salary of men to women Data on the relationship between womens  andmens salaries is calculated as the ratio  between the average annual gross salary of  women and the men, by each employment  category. In turn, the average annual gross  salary of each employment category is  calculated as the ratio between the total  annualgross salaries paid and the number  ofemployees placed in that category.  Datadoes not include local workers. Materials used Where warehouse data systems cannot  measure materials consumption by weight,  estimates based on available data (eg volume)  andspecific weight have been performed. Direct energy used Calculations on consumption of direct energy  are based on: –  factors provided by GRIG3 to convert  weightof gasoline, diesel and natural gas  togigajoules; –  factors provided by the Italian Ministry of  Environment (DEC/RAS/854/20052009  update) to convert weight of kerosene  togigajoules. Direct energy used comes totally from non renewable sources. Indirect energy used Calculations on consumption of indirect energy  are based on the factors provided by GRIG3  toconvert kWh of electricity to gigajoules.  Thebreakdown of electricity purchased by  renewable and nonrenewable sources is  calculated on the basis of specific production  mix of each country, as recorded by the  International Energy Agency (2008 statistics). Water withdrawal and discharge Water that is not withdrawn from aqueducts  norbought via tanks is estimated based on the  working hours of the draining pumps used and  the capacity of these pumps. Wastewater is  estimated as a percentage of the total water  withdrawn, depending on the specific use of  the water (production or domestic). Rainwater,  although collected and stored, is not reported  because it is considered as not material.  TheGroup does not use wastewater from  other organisations. Greenhouse gas emissions Calculations of the Groups greenhouse gas  emissions are based on: –  the emission factors provided by the Italian  Ministry of Environment (DEC/RAS/854/2005  – 2009 update) for the consumption of  directenergy; –  the emission factors provided by the  International Energy Agency (2010) for the  consumption of indirect energy; –  the emission factors provided by the UK  Department for Environment, Food and Rural  Affairs (2010 Guidelines to Defra/DECCs  GHG Conversion Factors for Company  Reporting) for business travel. Waste Where local legislation does not provide  guidance on measuring waste production and  reliable data is not available, data is estimated  based on the annual consumption of the  original source of the waste. With regards to  operating sites outside Italy, data regarding  used tyres and oil scraps was estimated.  Forthe first category, calculations were made  by multiplying the number of tyres replaced  during the year by the average weight of a used  tyre. A specific average weight was assigned  toeach tyre category (for passengers,  transport and work vehicles). The calculation  for oil scraps was made by multiplying the tons  of oil used in each year by a standard factor,  precautionary identified as 0.9 (i.e. for 1 ton of  oil used, 900 Kg became waste). For more information:   sostenibilita@salini.it Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix continued 7.3 Glossary Accidents Frequency Index (IR) Index to assess the frequency of occurrence  ofaccidents that result in casualties with  lossofworkdays or death of an employee.  Itiscalculated using the formula: (no. LTI + no. FTL) x 1,000,000 IR = Total worked man hours where:  LTI = total number of accidents with temporary  incapacity; FTL = total number of fatalities. Aggregate Category of raw granular mineral particles used  in construction; they may be natural, artificial  orrecycled materials previously used in  construction. Construction aggregates are  used primarily as components of composite  materials such as cement, bituminous mix,  coating, etc. Governance Set of rules, at any level (laws, regulations, etc.)  that govern the management of the Company.  Corporate governance also includes the  relationships among the various actors involved  (the stakeholders, who hold interests in the  Company) and the objectives for which the  Company is managed. The main actors are  shareholders, the Board of Directors and the  management. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) International initiative established in 1997 under  a UNEP (United Nations Programme for the  Environment) project with the common goal  ofachieving greater transparency, corporate  responsibility and sustainable development. HSE Management System Component of the management system of  anorganisation, including the organisational  structure, planning of activities, responsibilities,  practices, procedures, processes and  resources used to develop and implement its  environmental, health and safety policy and  manage its related aspects. ISO 14001 Standard Voluntary international standard that allows  organisations to implement an effective  Environmental Management System, providing  a framework for the analysis of significant  environmental dimensions, and for managing  and mitigating its impacts. The system ensures  compliance with applicable environmental  legislation and continuous improvement  ofperformance. ISO 9001 Standard Voluntary international standard that sets  outthe principles and criteria for deployment  and implementation of effective Quality  Management Systems, which demonstrate the  organisations ability to provide products and  services that meet the requirements of the law,  of clients and of the organisation itself. Local The term is used in the Report with the  following meanings: –  communities living near the projects  locations and the surrounding environment; –  employees and suppliers, contractors and  subcontractors based in the same Country  ofthe project; –  legislation applicable to the specific context  ofthe project (e.g. national, regional). OHSAS 18001 Standard International voluntary standard, which sets  outthe principles and criteria for implementing  a system for managing health and safety at  work, to demonstrate the organisations  commitment to the analysis, evaluation,  management and control of risks faced by  workers, in order to improve the safety  oftheirworkplaces.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix Profile and  strategy 56 57 Quality management system Component of the management system of an  organisation that aims, in relation to quality  objectives, to achieve those results that can  properly meet the needs, expectations and  requirements of all stakeholders. Risk assessment Overall documented assessment of all the risks  to which the Group is exposed in conducting  its business. This assessment aims to identify  the most appropriate measures of prevention  and protection and to develop/update the  Group organisation, management and  controlsystems. RollerCompacted Concrete (RCC) Technology adopted for the construction  ofdams, combining high rate of concreting  production with significant economical  benefits. This technology makes advantage  ofthe low cement content typical of the  RCCmethod, which provides an effective  optimisation in terms of transportation, placing  and compaction. Severity index (LDR) Index to assess the severity of accidents in  terms of days lost, which results in the injury or  death of a worker. It is calculated as follows: (gT + gP + gM) x 1,000,000 LDR = Total worked man hours where:  gT = total days of temporary incapacity; gP = total conventional days of permanent  invalidity (invalidity of 100% = 7,500 days); gM = total conventional days in the event of a  fatality (1 fatality = 7,500 days). Stakeholder The term of stakeholder identifies those  actorshaving an interest in relation to an  economic initiative, be it a company or project.  For instance, are included in this group:  customers, suppliers, lenders (banks and  shareholders), employees, but also external  interest groups such as residents of  neighbouring areas or local interest groups. Sustainable development Development that meets present needs without  compromising the needs of future generations.  The term sustainable development appears  for the first time in 1987 in a UN document,  known as the Brundtland Report, named  bythe then Norwegian Prime Minister Gro  Harlem Brundtland and President of the UN  Commission on Environment and Development. Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) Technology used for the excavation of tunnels,  that enables the complete mechanisation of  the excavation process, including finishing of  tunnels and installation of safety structures. The use of TBMs allows an enormous increase  in the excavation speed, compared with the  speed achieved by using the traditional Drilling  and Blasting (D&B) method (excavation with the  use of explosives). Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments GRI data and  verification   report  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI Application Level  Check Statement Chapter 8 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI data and  verification  report Appendix Profile and  strategy 58 59 Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact  comparison table Chapter 9 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI data and  verification  report Appendix Profile and  strategy 60 61 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table Application Level A+ GRI-checked Assured   by KPMG  S.p.A. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile  Disclosure Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Part not  reported (if  applicable) Reason for  omission Explanation 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker  oftheorganisation.  Fully p. 1 (strategic priorities), pp. 45 (general trend),  p.18(perspectives and main challenges), pp. 39, 43  (main negative events), p. 51 (future commitments). 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.  Fully pp. 2930 (workforce), pp. 3031 (communities)  pp.3839 (environment), p. 37 (trends about  sustainability subject). 2. Organisational Profile Profile  Disclosure Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Part not  reported (if  applicable) Reason for  omission Explanation 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully p. 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services.  Fully pp. 34 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including  maindivisions, operating companies, subsidiaries,  andjoint ventures. Fully For the Groups organisation chart see http://www.salini. it/index.php/english/content/company/3. For the  Groups structure see p. 24 of the Corporate  Governance Report 2010 http://www.salini.it/index.php/ english/content/governance/21. 2.4 Location of organisations headquarters. Fully Rome, Italy 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates,  and names of countries with either major operations  orthat are specifically relevant to the sustainability  issuescovered in the report. Fully p. 3 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully pp. 78 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown,  sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Fully p. 3. Groups clients are Public Administrations,  Companies controlled or participated by the State and  private companies. The beneficiaries of the Groups  works are mainly the residents living in the areas  affectedby projects and in neighbouring ones. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully pp. 34 (employees, turnover, markets), p. 19  (maineconomic ratios). See also p. 29 of the  Consolidated Financial Statement 2010 (main capital  ratios) http://www.salini.it/index.php/english/content/ investor/22, p.25 of the Corporate Governance  Report2010 (capitalisation)  http://www.salini.it/index.php/english/content/ governance/21. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period  regarding size, structure, or ownership. Fully pp. 45. For more information see also pp. 1315  oftheConsolidated Financial Statement 2010   http://www.salini.it/index.php/english/content/investor/22. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully p. 53 Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures continued 3. Report Parameters Profile  Disclosure Description Global  Compact Reported Cross–reference/Direct answer Part not  reported (if  applicable) Reason for  omission Explanation 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year)  forinformation provided. Fully p. 53 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully The Sustainability Report 2009 was published  inSeptember 2009. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully p. 53 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report  oritscontents. Fully p. 55 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully p. 53 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions,  subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).  See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Fully pp. 5354 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or  boundaryof the report (see completeness principle  forexplanation of scope).  Fully pp. 5354 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries,  leasedfacilities, outsourced operations, and other  entities that can significantly affect comparability  fromperiod to period and/or between organisations. Fully pp. 5354 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of  calculations, including assumptions and techniques  underlying estimations applied to the compilation  oftheIndicators and other information in the report.  Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially  diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Fully pp. 55 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of  information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons  for such restatement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions,  change of base years/periods, nature of business,  measurement methods). Fully p. 54 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods  inthe scope, boundary, or measurement methods  applied in the report. Fully pp. 5354 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures  in the report.  Fully p. 61 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking  external assurance for the report.  Fully p. 53  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI data and  verification  report Appendix Profile and  strategy 62 63 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile  Disclosure Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Part not  reported (if  applicable) Reason for  omission   Explanation 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including  committees under the highest governance body  responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy  or organisational oversight.  Fully p. 7 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance  body is also an executive officer. Fully p. 8 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure,  state the number of members of the highest  governance body that are independent and/or  nonexecutive members. Fully p. 8 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to  providerecommendations or direction to the highest  governance body.  Fully pp. 7–8 (Mechanisms for shareholders).  Directcommunication system between  employeesandBoD are not in place. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of  thehighest governance body, senior managers,  andexecutives (including departure arrangements),  andthe organisations performance (including social  andenvironmental performance). Fully p. 7 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body  toensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Fully p. 7. For more information see also p. 22 of  theCorporate Governance Report 2010   http://www.salini.it/index.php/english/content/ governance/21. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and  expertiseof the members of the highest governance  body for guiding the organisations strategy on  economic, environmental, and social topics. Fully Processes in place for determining the qualifications  andexpertise of the members of the BoD do not take  into consideration environmental and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or  values,codes of conduct, and principles relevant to  economic, environmental, and social performance  andthe status of their implementation. GC1– GC10 Fully p. 7 (codes related to the corporate governance),  p.9–10 (Code of Ethics and Global Compact). 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for  overseeing the organisations identification and  management of economic, environmental, and social  performance, including relevant risks and opportunities,  and adherence or compliance with internationally  agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.  Fully p. 7 (powers of the BoD), pp. 11–14 (management of  economic, environmental, andsocialperformance). 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance  bodysown performance, particularly with respect to  economic, environmental, and social performance. Fully Currently systems for evaluating economic,  environmental, and social performance of  theBoDsmembers do not exist. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary  approach or principle is addressed by the organisation.  GC7 Fully p. 8 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental,  andsocial charters, principles, or other initiatives  towhich theorganisation subscribes or endorses.  Fully p. 10 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry  associations) and/or national/international  advocacyorganisations in which the organisation:  *Haspositions in governance bodies;  *Participatesinprojects or committees;  * Providessubstantive funding beyond routine  membership dues; or  * Views membership as strategic.  Fully p. 53 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation.  Fully p. 15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders  withwhom to engage.  Fully pp. 14–15 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement,  includingfrequency of engagement by type  andbystakeholder group.  Fully pp. 14–15 (general approach),   pp. 28–29 (workforcesengagement),   pp. 30–31 (communities engagement). 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised  throughstakeholder engagement, and how the  organisation has responded to those key topics  andconcerns, including through its reporting. Fully p. 15 (summary of general topics),  p.39(criticalitiesabout environment),  p.42(criticalitiesabout urban contexts). Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G3 DMA Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Fully Aspects Economic performance GC1,  GC4,  GC6,  GC7 Fully pp. 45 (strategy and approach),  pp. 1819 (opportunities  andperformance) Market presence Fully p. 3 Indirect economic impacts Fully pp. 2021 (job creation and other  economic impacts), pp. 3031  (investments for communities) DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Fully Aspects Materials  GC7– GC9 Fully p. 40 Energy    Fully pp. 4041 Water    Fully p. 40 Biodiversity Fully pp. 4042 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully pp. 4245 Products and services Fully pp. 4042 Compliance Fully p. 43 Transport Fully p. 45 Overall Fully pp. 3839 (environmental  impacts management), p. 43  (HSE expenses and investments) DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Fully Aspects Employment GC1,  GC3,  GC6 Fully pp. 2021 (job creation),  pp.2628 (people development) Labour/management relations Fully pp. 2930 Occupational health and safety Fully pp. 2829 Training and education Fully p. 27 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully p. 28 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Fully Aspects Investment and procurement practices GC1– GC6 Fully pp. 2930 Nondiscrimination Fully pp. 2930 Freedom of association and  collectivebargaining Fully pp. 2930 Child labour Fully pp. 2930 Forced and compulsory labour Fully pp. 2930 Security practices Fully p. 28 Indigenous rights Fully pp. 3839 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Fully Aspects Community GC10 Fully pp. 3031 Corruption Fully p. 12 Public policy   Fully See pp. 1718 of the Code of  Ethics, http://www.salini.it/index. php/english/content/ governance/19. Anticompetitive behaviour Fully See pp. 1617 of the Code of  Ethics, http://www.salini.it/index. php/english/content/ governance/19. Compliance Fully See pp. 89 of the Code of  Ethics, http://www.salini.it/index. php/english/content/ governance/19. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Fully Aspects Customer health and safety GC1,  GC8 Fully pp. 3839 Product and service labelling Not Not  applicable Salini does not  produce goods  andservices that  require labelling. Marketing communications Fully p. 20 Customer privacy Fully p. 20 Compliance Fully p. 20  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI data and  verification  report Appendix Profile and  strategy 64 65 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Performance  Indicator Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and  distributed, including revenues, operating  costs, employee compensation, donations  and other community investments, retained  earnings, and payments to capital providers  and governments. Fully pp. 1819 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and  opportunities for the organisations activities  due to climate change.  GC7 Fully p. 44 (risks and opportunities for  the business) / Because of this  theme is unpredictable for the  sector, quantitative estimates of  the financial implications for the  Groups activities due to climate  change are not provided.  EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined  benefit plan obligations.  Fully Group has not identified  specificresources covering  obligations deriving from  leavingindemnitys award. EC4 Significant financial assistance received  fromgovernment.  Fully p. 22 Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level  wagecompared to local minimum wage  atsignificant locations of operation. Not EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending  on locallybased suppliers at significant  locations of operation.  Partially p. 21 (total data),   pp.2223(detaileddata) Data exclude  purchases of  goodsand services  not related to  operating sites. Not  material This data are not  reported because  thebusiness is  focused on projects;  therefore purchases  not related to the  projects made by the  Group are considered  as not material. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion  ofsenior management hired from the  localcommunity at significant locations  ofoperation.  GC6 Fully p. 21 (total data),  p.23(detaileddata) Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure  investments and services provided primarily  for public benefit through commercial,  inkind, or pro bono engagement.  Fully pp. 3031 EC9 Understanding and describing significant  indirect economic impacts, including the  extent of impacts.  Not Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators continued Environmental Performance  Indicator Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/  Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume.  GC8 Fully p. 40 (total data),  p.46 (detailed data) EN2 Percentage of materials used that  arerecycled input materials.  GC8– GC9 Not Not  material This data are not reported  because the nature of Salinis  rawmaterials supplied (e.g.  cement, steel, aggregate, etc.),  does not allow a material use  ofrecycled materials. However,  the Company monitors and  reports (p. 40) the percentage  ofrecycled excavation materials,  because they are considered  asmaterial.  Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary  energy source.  GC8 Fully p. 41 (total data),  p.46 (detailed data) EN4 Indirect energy consumption by  primarysource. GC8 Fully p. 41 (total data),  p.47 (detailed data) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation  andefficiency improvements. Not EN6 Initiatives to provide energyefficient  orrenewable energy based products  andservices, and reductions in energy  requirements as a result of these initiatives.  Not EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy  consumption and reductions achieved.  Not Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source.  GC8 Fully p. 40 (total data),  p.47 (detailed data) EN9 Water sources significantly affected  bywithdrawal of water.  GC8 Fully p. 40 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water  recycled and reused.  Not Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased,  managed in, or adjacent to, protected  areasand areas of high biodiversity value  outside protected areas. GC8 Fully pp. 4142 (description  and specific data),  p.47 (general data) EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities,  products, and services on biodiversity  inprotected areas and areas of high  biodiversity value outside protected areas.  GC8 Fully p. 42 EN13 Habitats protected or restored.  GC8 Fully p. 42 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans  for managing impacts on biodiversity. GC8 Fully pp. 3839  (management  approach), p. 42  (actions put in place) EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and  national conservation list species with  habitats in areas affected by operations,  bylevel of extinction risk.  Not  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI data and  verification  report Appendix Profile and  strategy 66 67 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued Environmental continued Performance  Indicator Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/  Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse  gasemissions by weight.  GC8 Fully p. 44 (total data),  p.47 (detailed data) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse  gasemissions by weight.  GC8 Fully p. 44 (total data),  p.47 (detailed data) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas  emissions and reductions achieved. GC7– GC9 Partially p. 45 The indicator does  notinclude the  quantification of  achieved reductions. Not  available This data are not reported  because the implemented  reporting system did not consider  a quantitative data collection.  Thissystem will be improved in  order to allow the collection of  data not available at the moment.  2013 EN19 Emissions of ozonedepleting  substancesbyweight.  Not Not  material This data are not reported  because, on the basis of the  monitoring activities carried out  in2010 about the cooling gases  use, ozonedepleting gases  havebeen considered as not  material for Salini. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant  airemissions by type and weight.  Not Not  available This data are not reported  because NOx, SOx, and other  airemissions generated by the  Group are mainly widespread  emissions, not monitored at the  moment. During 2011 the Group  will assess an analysis about main  emission sources at its operating  sites (e.g. diesel generators), in  order to evaluate the significance  of these emissions and the  necessity of monitoring and  reporting them. In the  Sustainability Report 2011 results  of such analysis will be reported.  2012 EN21 Total water discharge by quality  anddestination.  GC8 Fully p. 48 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and  disposalmethod.  GC8 Fully p. 43 (total data),  pp.4849  (detaileddata) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. GC8 Fully p. 49 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported,  or treated waste deemed hazardous under  the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I,  II,III, and VIII, and percentage of transported  waste shipped internationally.  Not EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and  biodiversity value of water bodies and related  habitats significantly affected by the reporting  organisations discharges of water and runoff.  Not Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental  impactsof products and services,  andextent of impact mitigation. GC7– GC9 Partially p. 42 (mitigations  ofnoise and  vibrationsimpacts,  environmental  restoration) The indicator does  not include the  quantification of  achieved mitigations. Not  applicable This data are not reported  because the nature of products  carried out by the Group (e.g.  dams, roads, etc.) does not allow  to estimate quantitatively the  mitigation of impacts achieved. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their  packaging materials that are reclaimed  bycategory.  Not Not  applicable Salini does not sell goods  thatrequire packaging. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total  number of nonmonetary sanctions for  noncompliance with environmental laws  and regulations.  GC8 Fully p. 49 Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of  transporting products and other goods  andmaterials used for the organisations  operations, and transporting members  oftheworkforce.  GC8 Partially p. 45 The indicator does  not include the  quantification of the  environmental  impacts related to the  shipping of goods. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures  and investments by type. GC7– GC9 Fully p. 43 (total data),  p.49 (detailed data) Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators continued Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance  Indicator Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/  Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type,  employment contract, and region.  Fully p. 26 (total data),  p.32 (detailed data) LA2 Total number and rate of employee  turnoverby age group, gender, and region.  GC6 Partially p. 33 Regarding Salini,  data does not  includepersonnel  working at the  operating sites.  Moreover, rate of  employee turnover by  region is not indicated. Not  available This data are not reported  because the data is managed  atthe operating site level and  was not possible to extract  themdirectly from the central  information system. This system  will be improved in order to  collect this data, not available  atthe moment. 2013 LA3 Benefits provided to fulltime employees  thatare not provided to temporary or  parttime employees, by major operations.  Not Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by  collective bargaining agreements. GC1,  GC3 Fully p. 30 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant  operational changes, including whether  itisspecified in collective agreements.  GC3 Fully p. 30 Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented  informal joint managementworker health  and safety committees that help monitor  andadvise on occupational health and  safetyprogrammes.  GC1 Partially p. 28 It is not reported  thepercentage of  workers represented. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases,  lostdays, and absenteeism, and number  ofworkrelated fatalities by region. GC1 Partially p. 29 (general  injuriesrates),  p.34(detailed data),  p. 55 (calculation  methods) Data on absenteeism  does not include  Todini personnel  andthe personnel  managed locally.  Moreover, data on  industrial disease  arenot reported.  Not  available This data are not reported  because the data is managed  atthe operating site level and  was not possible to extract  themdirectly from the central  information system. This system  will be improved in order to  collect this data, not available  atthe moment. 2013 LA8 Education, training, counselling,  prevention,and riskcontrol programmes  inplace to assistworkforce members,  theirfamilies, orcommunity members  regarding seriousdiseases. GC1 Fully pp. 2628 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in  formalagreements with trade unions.  GC1 Fully p. 28 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per  employee by employee category.  Partially p. 27 (total data),  p.35 (detailed data) Data does not  include Todini  personnel. Not  available This data are not reported  because in 2010 it was not  possible to collect data on  training provided to Todini  personnel for the integration  process of the main functions  ofTodini within the Group.  2012 LA11 Programmes for skills management and  lifelonglearning that support the continued  employability of employees and assist  themin managing career endings.  Fully pp. 2728 (skills  management).  Concerning the  management of career  endings and the  support of continued  employability, the  Group – besides the  instruments provided  by law – develops  individual exit plans  with the employees  which are leaving  theCompany.  Theseplans take  intoaccount the  personal needs and  the Company ones. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving  regularperformance and career  development reviews. Not  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI data and  verification  report Appendix Profile and  strategy 68 69 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work continued Performance  Indicator Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/  Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies  andbreakdown of employees per  categoryaccording to gender, age  group,minority group membership,  andother indicators of diversity. GC1,  GC6 Partially p. 8 (composition  ofBoD), p. 32  (detailed data).  Inthecomposition  ofBoD members  belonging to minority  group membership  are not present.  Data on workforce  bygender does not  include personnel  managed locally.  Data on workforce  byage group does  not include Todini  personnel and  personnel managed  locally. Data on  personnel belonging  to minority group  membership refer  only to the head   quarters in Rome. Not  available This data are not reported  because the data is managed  atthe operating site level and  wasnot possible to extract  themdirectly from the central  information system. This system  will be improved in order to  collect this data, not available  atthe moment. 2013 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by  employee category.  GC1,  GC6 Partially p. 28 (total data),  p.35 (detailed data) Data does not  include personnel  managed locally. Not  material This data are not reported  because personnel managed  locally are almost entirely men.  For these reason these data are  considered as not material.  Social: Human Rights Performance  Indicator Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/  Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in Diversity and equal opportunity HR1 Percentage and total number of significant  investment agreements that include  humanrights clauses or that have  undergone human rights screening.  GC1– GC6 Fully p. 30/For 100% of  construction projects  launched by the  Group, evaluations  including human  rights aspects of  personnel and local  communities have  been carried out.  HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and  contractors that have undergone screening  on human rights and actions taken.  GC1– GC6 Partially p. 30/The contractual  relationships with  suppliers, contractors  and subcontractors  are based on the  acceptance of the  Code of Ethics and,  consequently, also  ofhuman rights  clauses. Although  performed, data on  audits are not available  at the moment.  Data does not  include percentage  ofsubcontractors  that have undergone  screening on  humanrights.  Not  available This data are not reported  because the data is managed  atthe operating site level and  was not possible to extract  themdirectly from the central  information system. This system  will be improved in order to  collect this data, not available  atthe moment. 2013 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies  and procedures concerning aspects of human  rights that are relevant to operations, including  the percentage of employees trained.  Not Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination  and actions taken. GC1,  GC2,  GC6 Fully p. 30 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right  toexercise freedom of association and  collective bargaining may be at significant  risk, and actions taken to support  theserights.  GC1– GC3 Fully p. 30 Child labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant  risk for incidents of child labour, and  measurestaken to contribute to  theelimination of child labour.  GC1,  GC2,  GC5 Fully p. 30 Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant  risk for incidents of forced or compulsory  labour, and measures to contribute to the  elimination of forced or compulsory labour.  GC1,  GC2,  GC4 Fully p. 30 Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators continued Social: Human Rights continued Performance  Indicator Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in  the organisations policies or procedures  concerning aspects of human rights that  arerelevant to operations.  GC1,  GC2 Partially p. 28 Data does not  include percentage  ofpersonnel  trainedon human  rights subject.  Not  available This data are not  reported because the  data is managed at  the operating site level  and was not possible  to extract them  directly from the  central information  system. This system  will be improved in  order to collect this  data, not available at  the moment. 2013 Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations  involving rights of indigenous people  andactions taken. GC1,  GC2 Fully p. 30 Social: Society Performance  Indicator Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any  programmes and practices that assess  andmanage the impacts of operations  oncommunities, including entering,  operating, and exiting.  Fully pp. 3031 (approachtowards  communities), pp.3839  (evaluations of socialand  environmental impact). Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business  units analysed for risks related to corruption.  GC10 Fully p. 12 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in  organisations anticorruption policies  andprocedures.  GC10 Fully p. 12. Percentage ofworkforce  who received anticorruption  training in 2008 was equal  to0%(management) and  0%(nonmanagement);  in200941%(management)  and1%(nonmanagement);  in2010 13%(management)  and0% (nonmanagement).  Management includesexecutives  and middle managers,  nonmanagement includes  employees and workers. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents  ofcorruption. GC10 Fully In reporting period none case of  corruption has beenidentified.  Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in  public policy development and lobbying.  GC1– GC10 Fully In the reporting period the Group  has not directly participated  topublic policy development and  lobbying activities. These activities  are governed by the Code of  Ethics. (p. 18), http://www.salini.it/ index.php/english/content/ governance/19. SO6 Total value of financial and inkind  contributions to political parties, politicians,  and related institutions by country. Not Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for  anticompetitive behaviour, antitrust, and  monopoly practices and their outcomes.  Not Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total  number of nonmonetary sanctions for  noncompliance with laws and regulations.  Fully In the reporting period, the Group  has received a fine derived from  atax assessment. For more  information see the Consolidated  financial statements 2010,  pp.120, http://www.salini.it/index. php/english/content/investor/22.  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI data and  verification  report Appendix Profile and  strategy 70 71 GRI – UN Global Compact comparison table continued Social: Product Responsibility  Performance  Indicator Description Global  Compact Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Part not reported  (ifapplicable) Reason for  omission Explanation To be  reported in Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety  impacts of products and services are  assessed for improvement, and percentage  of significant products and services  categories subject to such procedures.  GC1 Fully pp. 3839 PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance  with regulations and voluntary codes  concerning health and safety impacts of  products and services during their life cycle,  by type of outcomes.  GC1 Not Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information  required by procedures, and percentage  ofsignificant products and services subject  to such information requirements.  Not Not  applicable The products and  services sold by the  Group (major works)  do not require the  release of information. PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance  with regulations and voluntary codes  concerning product and service information  and labelling, by type of outcomes.  Not PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction,  including results of surveys measuring  customer satisfaction.  Partially p. 20 Results are  notreported.  Not  available This data are not  reported because  synthetic indicators  tobe monitored have  not been identified at  the moment. In next  years the Group  willcarry out an  analysisto identify  theappropriate  performance  indicators able  tomeasure the  clientsatisfaction. 2013 Marketing communications PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws,  standards, and voluntary codes related  tomarketing communications, including  advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.  Fully The Group does not adopt  codeand/or standard related  tomarketing activities. PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance  with regulations and voluntary codes  concerning marketing communications,  including advertising, promotion, and  sponsorship by type of outcomes.  Fully p. 20 Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints  regarding breaches of customer privacy and  losses of customer data.  GC1 Fully p. 20 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for  noncompliance with laws and regulations  concerning the provision and use of  products and services.  Not Besides the information  reportedin the EN28 indicator  (environmental fines), the  Grouphas not received any  administrative or judicial fines  fornoncompliance with laws  and regulations concerning  theseissues. As provided by the Application Levels FAQs published on the website www.globalreporting.org, the columns Crossreference/Direct answer,   If applicable, indicate the part not reported, Reason for omission, Explanation and To be reported in have been not compiled for the Additional indicators. Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Third party  VerificationReport Chapter 10 Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI data and  verification  report Appendix Profile and  strategy 72 73 Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 GRI data and  verification  report Appendix Profile and  strategy 74 75 *Sector supplement in final version. The Sustainability Report 2010 of the Salini Costruttori Group comply with the A+ requirements of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provided  by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in 2006. This Application Level has been checked by KPMG S.p.A. and byGRI. Report Application  Level G3 Profile  Disclosures G3  Management  Approach  Disclosures   C Report on: 1.1 2.1–2.10 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 Not required   C+   Report Externally Assured   B Report on all criteria listed for  Level C plus: 1.2 3.9, 3.13 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Management Approach  Disclosures for each Indicators  Category   B+   Report Externally Assured   A Same as requirements for  Level B Management Approach  disclosed for each Indicators  Category   A+   Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures Output Output G3 Performance  Indicators and   Sector   Supplement  Performance   Indicators Report on a minimum of  10Performance Indicators,  including at least one from  each of: social, economic  and environment Report on a minimum of  20Performance Indicators,  atleast one from each of:  economic, environment,  human rights, labour, society,  product responsibility Respond on eachof core G3  and Sector Supplement*  indicator with dueregard to  theMateriality Principle by  either: a) reporting on the  indicator or b) explaining the  reason for its omission Output  Governance Creating  profitability through  responsibility Social   dimension Environmental  performance Future  commitments  Salini Costruttori   Sustainability Report 2010 Information and contacts Italy Salini Costruttori S.p.A.  22, Via della Dataria, Rome  Tel +39.06.67761  Fax +39.06.6776288  info@salini.it Africa Algeria algeria.info@salini.it Ethiopia ethiopia.info@salini.it Gabon gabon.info@salini.it Ghana ghana.info@salini.it Guinea guinea.info@salini.it Liberia liberia.info@salini.it Libya libya.info@salini.it Malawi malawi.info@salini.it Morocco morocco.info@salini.it Nigeria nigeria.info@salini.it Sierra Leone sierraleone.info@salini.it Somalia somalia.info@salini.it Sudan sudan.info@salini.it Tanzania tanzania.info@salini.it Tunisia tunisia.info@salini.it Uganda uganda.info@salini.it Zimbabwe zimbabwe.info@salini.it         South America Argentina argentina.info@salini.it Brazil brazil.info@salini.it Chile chile.info@salini.it Asia China china.info@salini.it Jordan jordan.info@salini.it Kazakhstan kazakhstan.info@salini.it Malaysia malaysia.info@salini.it Saudi Arabia saudiarabia.info@salini.it Turkey turkey.info@salini.it United Arab Emirates abudhabi.info@salini.it  dubai.info@salini.it         Europe Albania albania.info@salini.it Azerbaijan azerbaijan.info@salini.it Belarus belarus.info@salini.it Bulgaria bulgaria.info@salini.it Czech Republic czechrep.info@salini.it Denmark denmark.info@salini.it Georgia georgia.info@salini.it Greece greece.info@salini.it Hungary hungary.info@salini.it Ireland ireland.info@salini.it Poland poland.info@salini.it Romania romania.info@salini.it Ukraine ukraine.info@salini.it  Edited by: Salini Costruttori Design and production: Radley Yeldar  www.ry.com