SHARING INFORMATION ON PROGRESS REPORT  DECEMBER 2010 STANBUL BLG UNIVERSITY  I. Letter of Renewed Commitment stanbul Bilgi University has been a dedicated  institution in educating responsible leaders  of the future since its foundation in 1996.  Deciding to take a more active part in the  global initiative of responsible management  education in June 2009, stanbul Bilgi  University integrated the UN Principles for  Responsible Management Education into  its curriculum and research activities. Both  the Department of Business Administration  and the Master of Business Administration  Program expressed their commitment to  the Principles for Responsible Management  Education. Aside from particular community projects  carried out in collaboration with the local  municipalities for the past fifteen years,  stanbul Bilgi University is renowned with  providing trainings and workshops on topics  ranging from sports and arts to science and  language for children, teenagers and adults  as well as conducting public lectures on  several subjects throughout each academic  year. In line with our efforts on social  responsibility as well as our environmental,  energy and sustainability policies, we place  great emphasis on leadership development.  I strongly believe that our initiatives for the  15th academic year of stanbul Bilgi University  provide the proof of our determination in  these fields. The Principles for Responsible Management  Education framework proves to be a valuable  guide in raising awareness as well as in  sharing our practices with stakeholders and  other academic institutions. As the Rector  of stanbul Bilgi University, I am pleased to  express our continued commitment to the  UN Principles for Responsible Management  Education by introducing our first progress  report. Sincerely, Prof. Dr. Halil Gven Rector 2  Message from the Head of the Department of Business Administration As the Department of Business Administration  of stanbul Bilgi University, we are pleased  to renew our commitment to the Principles  for Responsible Management Education  (PRME). This progress report is an outcome  of 18 months of deliberate planning, research  and implementation, which we believe have  moved us closer to our goal of developing  responsible leaders of tomorrow.   Our  department  provides  a  rewarding  environment for those who are open to  diversity, think globally and act locally, enjoy  being critical, think and act in a socially  responsible way and enjoy being part of an  international learning environment.   Our goal is to equip students with capabilities  in understanding themselves and others  including deaf and silenced identities. We  also aim to have graduates who are reflexive,  able to listen and articulate alternative ideas  and responsive to the problems of the society  they are part of. It has always been a priority for the  Department of Business Administration to  focus its educational activities on issues such  as sustainability, environment, human rights,  labor  standards,  corporate  citizenship,  and anti-corruption. The PRME framework  inspired us in our efforts to further strengthen  our role as a leader in dissemination of these  values within the educational sphere, the  business world and the entire society. In this report, you will see evidence of our  collective effort in integrating PRME values  into the curriculum of the Department.  From first year till graduation, almost all  courses attempt to incorporate alternative  approaches  to  hard-pressing  business  problems and make our students ready for the  opportunities and challenges brought by an  uncertain future. Moreover, our Department  aims to contribute to knowledge production  by conducting various research projects  in areas of corporate social responsibility,  ethics, corporate governance, sustainability,  organic farming, gender, and labor rights  issues. We are proud to be part of this initiative  and aware of our responsibilities towards  ourselves and others in the betterment of our  social and natural environment. In the light  of the PRME principles, we will strive to build  a more responsive and caring future, through  the works of our faculty, students and alumni. Prof. Dr. Beyza Oba Head of the Department of Business  Administration  3  II. Major Achievements Regarding the Principles During the Last 18 Months Principle 1 – Purpose:  We will develop  the capabilities of students to be future  generators  of  sustainable  value  for  business and society at large and to work  for an inclusive and sustainable global  economy. stanbul Bilgi University, a Turkish academic  institution dedicated to the education of  responsible business leaders, differentiates  itself by offering high quality education and  engaging in socially responsible endeavors  for the benefit of all its stakeholders. The  University, a member of the United Nations  Global Compact Academic Network since  2009, participates actively in the global  initiative  of  responsible  management  education by integrating PRME into the  curriculum, teaching, research activities and  partnerships of the Department of Business  Administration. Through this incorporation of  universal values and topics such as business  ethics, social responsibility and sustainability  more fully into the curricula and research,  the Department advances its corporate social  responsibility with the aim of becoming a role  model to the business environment. Furthermore, BilgiMBA, a participant of the  discussions at the PRME and UNGC (United  Nations Global Compact) Summits in New  York in 2010, initiated collaborations with  multiple universities, to revise its curriculum  and to form joint summer schools programs. 4  Principle 2 – Values:  We will incorporate  into our academic activities and curricula  the values of global social responsibility as  portrayed in international initiatives such as  the United Nations Global Compact. The integration of the topics of social  responsibility, business ethics, environment  and sustainability into the curriculum of the  undergraduate courses of the Department  and the graduate courses had been achieved.  The Department has actually started this  integration in 2007; the number of the courses  integrated increased substantially since June  2009, the date of our participation in the PRME  initiative. Undergraduate Course Offerings The Department of Business Administration  offers four degree programs:  Business Administration  Business Informatics  International Finance  International Trade and Business In all its programs, the Department either offers  courses on business ethics and corporate  governance or incorporates into existing  courses topics of corporate social responsibility,  sustainability, environment and ecology. In the  following pages, the manner in which these  courses incorporate and implement UNGC and  PRME principles are presented. BUS 169-170 – Experiencing Business in  Society I-II This course uses experiential learning practices  relating to the themes of business and society,  and creates a positive experience enhancing  learning potential. Topics covered during the  lectures are drawn from a pool of issues faced  by firms and their managers in their daily  practices. In addition to introductory business  administration topics, subjects of the course  cover corporate social responsibility, ethics,  environment, justice, employee rights and  responsibilities, and globalization. Movies and  presentations by experts from corporations,  research companies and non-governmental  organizations are part of the course, along with  weekly assignments, in-class work, discussions  and teamwork. At the end of the first semester,  students form groups and design a corporate  social responsibility project to be presented as  part of a class competition. BUS 211 – Introduction to Accounting Ethical issues and problems are included  and discussed in the accounting exercises  presented in this course. INT 264 – International Business Environment This course includes a module on ecological  environment.  The  issues  discussed  in  this module are various responsibilities  of businesses, stakeholders (as opposed  to shareholders) of companies, reasons  of  environmental  problems,  externalities  and social cost, environmental options of  companies, green customers and whether  concern for the environment can act as a  source of competitive advantage for companies.  Moreover, students read and participate in  in-class discussions on case studies on what  companies can do to minimize their impact on  ecological environment. BUS 301 – Human Resources Management In this course, topics such as employees  working and organizational rights, work- life  balance,  unemployment,  impact  of  globalization on labor market, immigrants and  illegal workers are discussed. Movies screened  during the lectures address globalization and  work life, immigration and human trafficking.  In the simulation game played during the  course, success is defined so as to incorporate  concepts related to workers rights such as  employee satisfaction and work accident  prevention. BUS 311 – Introduction to Marketing In this course, the societal marketing  approach emphasizing the responsibilities of  the companies towards their customers, the  environment and larger society is discussed.  Sustainable marketing and examples of ethical  versus deceptive marketing practices of the  companies are also presented to the students. 5  BUS 321 – Production and Operations  Management Green engineering principles, closed-loop  production, zero waste approaches and climate  change issues are discussed using various  films such as Story of Stuff, Manufactured  Landscapes,  Erin  Brokovich;  reading  materials from Small is Beautiful and The  One-Straw Revolution; and cartoons such as  Funny Weather. INT 326 – Managing Multinational  Companies Presented with a case study on a well-known  multinational footwear company, students  discuss various questionable labor practices  such as child labor, forced overtime, dangerous  working conditions, and low pay in emerging  markets. The possible solutions the company  can find to these practices are also discussed. BUS 391 – Research Methods Socioeconomic development data from World  Bank and other sources are analyzed to show  the global differences in socioeconomic levels  and inequalities. BUS 401 – Strategic Management In this course, parallel to each weeks topic, a  related ethical dilemma or issue is discussed.  Strategic management is questioned through  ethical lenses, and ways to produce solutions  to satisfy every stakeholder are sought. MIS 401 – Enterprise Resource Management  for Environmental Sustainability A group of students conduct research about  how sustainability issues such as toxic waste  and carbon emissions are handled in the ERP  software. The students, then, present their  findings during class discussions. BUS 417 – Supply Chain Management Special emphasis is put on green and food  supply chain management through articles  and in-class discussions. BUS 421 – Marketing Communications Along with the basic concepts, approaches and  theories related to marketing communications,  and the contemporary trends, the students  learn about non-deceptive and sustainable  practices in communicating with customers  and other stakeholders. As the end of term  group project requirement of the course, the  students devise a marketing communications  strategy of a companys offer related to  sustainability and the protection of the  environment. BUS 422 – International Marketing During the course, the students understand  the effect of economic, social and cultural,  political, legal and regulatory environments  posing opportunities and threats for companies  willing to operate in international markets. This  includes fair trade practices, corruption, fair  labor practices, caring about the environment  and sustainability issues in countries other  than the students home countries. INT 427 – Strategic Management in Global  Industries The course includes a module on global  production and purchasing management.  The students are required to read articles and  case studies presenting examples of corporate  social responsibility in various sectors and  participate in in-class discussions. BUS 434 – Corporate Governance Corporate Social Responsibility is discussed as  a special topic. Course content is enriched with  movies like The Corporation and Enron. INT 437 – International Trade In this course, the impact of international  trade and agreements on working conditions  and labor market, the fair trade concept and  the impact of globalization on environment are  discussed. BUS 462 – E-Commerce Topics covered in this course include Web  privacy and consumer concerns, security,  Internet fraud, intellectual property, ethics  of testimonials, and the contribution of Web- based firms on climate change. 6  BUS 472 – Retail Management In this course, while discussing marketing  and retailing concepts, the sustainable  retailing is also emphasized. The students  are asked to prepare and present a group  project on sustainable retailing practices of  Turkish food retailers. BUS 481 – Business Ethics The course provides an understanding of  ethical issues in contemporary business life.  The aim is to develop in students a critical  approach in implementing ethical behavior  in organizations in relation to various  stakeholders as well as the institutionalization  of business ethics in the corporations. The  students are presented real-life examples to  identify the ethical issues confronted by the  managers of Turkish and global companies,  and learn the importance and role of social  responsibility activities of companies. BUS 494 – Services Marketing In this course issues such as ethical  challenges for service industries, working  conditions of service jobs, dead-end jobs,  unethical service pricing, service employees  trade unions, selective marketing, and  invasion of privacy are addressed. BUS 495 – Live Projects in Management In this course, students work in groups on a  real-life issue that addresses a societal need.  During 2009-2010 academic year, students  collected data to measure the carbon footprint  of stanbul Bilgi Universitys one of the three  campuses, the Santral Campus. This project  helped students as a group to get involved in  the problems of their immediate community,  namely their University. In this course real  and theoretical practice and education are  not separated and students have to find  creative solutions to the issue tackled.  Graduate Courses and Programs Accounting and Auditing MSc Program In the Strategic Business Planning and  Development course, alternative business  models especially in organic food market and  solar energy sectors are introduced through  presentations of experts from the sector. Human Resources MA Program Topics like diversity and cultural differences  are covered through the courses and  seminars of the Human Resources Master  Program. In the Business Law and Social  Security Systems courses, labor market  dynamics and workers rights issues are  discussed. Bilgi MBA Program BilgiMBA offers core courses such as  Business Management, Economics, and  Corporate Finance and several elective  courses each dedicating at least one week  to PRME-related subjects such as ethics  and sustainable development. In some of  these courses, The Sustainable MBA: The  Managers Guide to Green Business by G.  Weybrecht and Giving Voice to Values: How  to Speak Your Mind When You Know Whats  Right by M. Gentile are used. Both in MBA  and in Distance Learning E-MBA programs,  an elective course on entrepreneurship  is offered, in which discussions on social  entrepreneurship had already been included  by the time our University decided to commit  to PRME in 2009. Principle 3 - Method: We will create  educational  frameworks,  materials,  processes and environments that enable  effective  learning  experiences  for  responsible leadership. The faculty uses various methods such as  lectures, projects, case studies, film series,  and guest speakers to teach their students  social responsibility, corporate governance,  business ethics, organic farming, gender and  sustainability issues. Some sections of the movies Enron, the  Corporation, Home, Story of Stuff were  screened in various lectures to complement  the traditional lecturing method. 7  In November and December of 2009, the  Department of Business Administration  organized  screenings  of  films  that  reveal the state of global production,  increasing materialism, and the epidemic  of overconsumption. Two of the movies  screened were Manufactured Landscapes  and Affluenza. Afterwards, a discussion  led by a faculty member of the Department  helped increase our students awareness of  these topics. In many of our courses, case studies based  on responsible, ethical, environmental and  sustainable practices of the local and global  companies are used. Students present their  own best action to the solution of the problems  presented in the cases, they also take the  role of the decision maker to come up with a  right, proper, just, socially responsible and  sustainable solution. The invitation of valued guest speakers  from leading corporations to present their  companies implementation of sustainability  initiatives is another method used by the faculty.  In December 2010, we hosted a guest speaker  from Nestl Pakistan Limited. Fatih Ermi, the  Business Development Manager of the Milk  Collection and Agri-Services, presented the  role of his company in rural poverty reduction  through  capacity  enhancement  in  dairy  farming. Under the Creating Shared Values  slogan, the company created an initiative for the  development of the milk district in rural areas,  increasing productivity and improving market  access of the smallholders. Nestl Pakistans  approach of sharing modern and scientific  farming practices, giving veterinary advice,  initiating a vaccination program, providing  training in silage making and safe driving are  some examples presented in the talk. The use  of such sustainable business practices by a  multinational company helped our students  visualize  the  application  of  responsible  management concepts in a global setting. 8  Another example came from the Turkish  business  environment.  In  December  2009, Banu Kalay Erton, the Corporate  Communications Director of Tofa Trk,  which is a leading Turkish car manufacturer  company, presented The Fiat Technical  Education Program for training technical  manpower required in the automotive sector  in the context of vocational high schools.  Also presented in this speech was The  Tofa Museum of Anatolian Cars, which was  founded with the objective to safeguard the  legacy of the Turkish Automotive Industry.  These guest speaker series reveal that  learning about the economic, social, ethical  and environmental responsibilities of the  companies are very valuable to the students  because they get the chance to see the real  life application of the theoretical subjects  they study in the courses. In todays business environment, non- governmental  organizations  play  an  important role by conducting research,  preparing key reports, drafting legislations  and organizing demonstrations on all aspects  of sustainability. In compliance with our goal  of raising managers who will aid in creating  a more sustainable and just world, we invited  opinion leaders and activists to our lectures.  In November 2009, Defne Koryrek from the  Slow Food movement talked on genetically  modified  organisms,  food  traceability,  overconsumption, the you are what you eat  principle and tried to instill the idea of good  food and self sufficiency in the students. In  December 2010, Uygar zesmi, the Director  of Greenpeace Mediterranean, discussed the  impact of individual and corporate actions on  nature, society and the future generations.  With increased globalization of the competitive  business environment, companies must adjust  their operating practices to accommodate  the unique circumstances of the regions of  the world in which they operate. Having this  in mind, we invited an academician studying  global diversity management focusing on  equality, diversity and inclusion at work from  comparative and relational perspectives. In  a seminar Prof. Mustafa zbilgin, the chair  of Human Resource Management at the  Norwich Business School, University of East  Anglia, presented a framework for studying  the meaning and management of diversity  across national borders.  A study has been initiated to list the books and  movies in the library related to sustainability;  the items were classified into various  subjects including environment, climate  change, social responsibility and ethics. In  addition, new books and movies were ordered  to enrich the Universitys library collection in  these areas. In March 2010, four students from the  Department of Business Administration  attended Rubicon International Contest for  Business Students held in BiTS – Business and  Information Technology School in Iserlohn,  Germany. The Rubicon Contest is an event  organized by students from BiTS with the  support of local and international companies.  During the three-day event, contestants  competed in a computer simulation using  their ideas of a sustainable business. Two  academicians from the Department, Yelda  Ycel and Serdar Karabat, helped students  prepare for the contest through simulation  games and discussions of case studies on  sustainability. It was a valuable experience  for our students in terms of meeting with  different cultures and students, as well as  knowledge sharing with their peers. 9  Our students have also actively participated  in the university-wide distribution of the  environmentally  friendly  stickers  stating  that Paper is from a Tree. These stickers  were placed to the printers and paper towel  dispensers to increase the awareness of  faculty members and students with the goal  of reducing the excessive use of paper in the  Dolapdere and Santral campuses. Finally, we report the encouraging results of  an ongoing research by two faculty members,  Harald Schmidbauer and Bar Ylmazsoy.  The preliminary findings of their research  into the university students awareness of  environmental issues reveal that the level of  green attitudes and behavior exhibited by  our students increases gradually with year of  education; from being a freshmen to seniors.  This suggests that our efforts to instill the  values of environmental stewardship into our  students are paying off. Principle 4 – Research: We will engage in  conceptual and empirical research that  advances our understanding about the role,  dynamics, and impact of corporations in the  creation of sustainable social, environmental  and economic value. The Department of Business Administration  supports academic research and knowledge  development in areas of corporate social  responsibility, ethics, corporate governance,  sustainability,  organic  farming  and  its  marketing, gender, and labor rights issues.  Articles authored or co-authored by our  faculty in these areas are published in journals  including Journal of Business Ethics, Journal  of Academic Ethics, and Corporate Governance.  Beside these published articles, there are also  several conference papers presented at various  local or international conferences. Finally, there  are studies that are still in progress. Publications Oba, B., Z. zsoy and S. Atakan (2010) Power  in the Boardroom: A Study on Turkish Family  Owned and Listed Companies, Corporate  Governance, 10(5), 603-616. Burnaz, ., M.G.S. Atakan and Y.. Topu  (2010) Have Ethical Perceptions Changed? A  Comparative Study on the Ethical Perceptions of  Turkish Faculty Members, Journal of Academic  Ethics, 8(2), 137-151. Burnaz, ., M.G.S. Atakan, Y.. Topu and A.  Singhapakdi (2009) An Exploratory Cross-Cultural  Analysis of Marketing Ethics: The Case of Turkish,  Thai and American Businesspeople, Journal of  Business Ethics, 90(Supplement 3), 371-382. Atakan, M.G.S. and T. Eker ciolu (2009)  Kurumsal Sosyal Sorumluluk Faaliyetlerine  Ynelik  Trk  Tketicilerinin  Tutum  ve  Davranlar (The Perceptions and Attitudes  of Turkish Consumers Towards the Social  Responsibility  Activities  of  Companies),  Pazarlama ve letiim Kltr (P) Dergisi, 28,  Spring, 40-45. Atakan, M.G.S. and T. Eker ciolu (2009) Trk  Tketicilerinin Bak Asyla letmelerin  Kurumsal Sosyal Sorumluluk Faaliyetleri  (Turkish Consumers Perceptions of the  Corporate Social Responsibility Activities of  the Companies), neri – T.C. Marmara niversitesi  Sosyal Bilimler Enstits Hakemli Dergisi, 32(8),  July, 125-133. Conference papers Ycel, Y., A. Gezici and F.G. nal (2010) Gender  (Un) Aware Policy Responses: Comparison  of Case Studies, Turkey and Romania,  paper presented at the Annual Conference  of International Association of Feminist  Economics (IAFFE) July 22-24, Buenos Aires,  Argentina. Demir, Y. and B. ehirliolu (2010) stanbuls  100% Organic Market as a Food Logistics  Network,  paper  presented  at  the  9th  Wageningen International Conference on Chain  and Network Management, Wageningen, The  Netherlands. zsoy, Z. (2010) Social Entrepreneurship and  Business Ethics: A Case from Turkey, paper  presented at the 17th Vincentian Business  Ethics Conference, Chicago, USA. 10  zsoy, Z and B. Oba (2010) The Role  of Turkish Board in Strategic Decision- Making and Control, paper presented at  the 7th Workshop on Corporate Governance,  Brussels, Belgium. Ycel, Y. (2009) Crisis in Turkey: What  is Different Now than 2001 and What is  Different for Women?, paper presented  at International Multidisciplinary Womens  Congress held by Dokuz Eyll niversitesi,  October 13-16, zmir, Turkey. olu, D. and F.Z. Frat (2009) Students  Perceptions  of  Ethics  in  Accounting  Education paper presented at the 1st  International Conference on Governance,  Fraud, Ethics & Social Responsibility, Edirne,  Turkey. Work in progress Atakan, M.G.S., . Burnaz and G. Aygen  Sustainable retailing – the case of  the  Turkish food retailing sector Ylmazsoy, B., H. Schmidbauer and A. Rsch  The impact of perceived eco-friendliness of  a sales channel on sales channel choice Demir, Y. A Linear Programming Model of  Organic Agriculture in Turkey 11  BilgiMBA Research and Projects Snmez, O. (2010) A Proposition to Value Chain  Creation from Organic Waste: Improvement  of  Cityfarming  via  Vermicomposting  paper presented at the 2nd International  Waste  Technologies  Symposium  (IWES)  November 4-5, stanbul, Turkey. At the BilgiMBA program, the students who  are interested in topics that align with PRME  initiatives are directed to graduation projects.  There are numerous projects carried out  by MBA students with close supervision of  BilgiMBA faculty. These projects include  the  investigation  of  corporate  social  responsibility motives in Turkey; corporate  social responsibility and marketing; the  development of a model for corporate social  responsibility in business strategy of a Turkish  bank; corporate social responsibility policies  applied in Turkish business environment and  the effects on consumer; the diversification of  energy sources in Turkey;  energy production  in Turkey; renewable energy innovations  market analysis and marketing strategies  in the world; and whether a renewable  technology led industrialization is a possible  cure for Turkey. Principle 5 – Partnership:  We will interact  with managers of business corporations to  extend our knowledge of their challenges  in meeting social and environmental  responsibilities and to explore jointly  effective approaches to meeting these  challenges. The Department engages in partnerships with  various companies such as Nestle, Turkcell,  and Tofa, and is aiming to increase these  interactions with further collaboration in  terms of their social responsibility practices.  In  terms  of  BilgiMBA  partnership  activities; having practitioners and sector  representatives from various national and  multinational companies as instructors,  BilgiMBA has strong ties with the business  world. In the near future a Business Case  Study group will be established to start a  dynamic and collaborative discussion forum  on topics related to the PRME Initiative. Principle 6 – Dialogue:  We will facilitate and  support dialog and debate among educators,  business, government, consumers, media,  civil  society  organizations  and  other  interested groups and stakeholders on  critical issues related to global social  responsibility and sustainability. As will be mentioned in more detail  under  the  University-wide  sustainability  and social responsibility practices, the  University engages in dialogue with the local  municipalities and the local community in  terms of environmental issues such as paper  waste collection and recycling campaigns.  The University is also well known in terms of  its educational involvements such as providing  training and courses in arts, music and sports  to the children, teenagers and adults of the  local community residents. We understand  that our own organizational practices should  serve as an example of the values and  attitudes we convey to our students. The Department of Business Administration  also  engages  in  dialogue  with  non- governmental  organizations  such  as  Greenpeace, Slow Food Turkey, HAYTAP (the  Animal Rights Federation), toprakana.org  (Mother Earth) and Buday Association for  Supporting Ecological Livelihood. We have  invited activists from these NGOs and debated  on hard-pressing issues like genetically  modified  organisms,  renewable  energy,  organic farming, the state of and ways to  increase organic consumption. Another faculty member, Yonca Demir,  conducts research on modeling stanbuls  organic market as a supply chain in  collaboration with Buday Association for  Supporting Ecological Livelihood. The results  of her research as well as an interview on the  development of the organic market since 2006  and the state of small farmers was aired on a  private radio channel (FM 94.9). 12  Our faculty members and students also  do voluntary work for the welfare of stray  animals. One faculty member, Roy Manukyan,  acts as an intermediary between the Animal  Rights Federation (HAYTAP) and business  corporations to seek ways of securing funds  to improve the living conditions of animals in  shelters. Business Administration students  also actively worked on projects to home  animals from the shelters.  stanbul Bilgi University together with  International Youth Foundation and Local  NGOs started the Social Entrepreneurship  Contest in Turkey. BilgiMBA assisted in the  training sessions given to pre-elected social  entrepreneurs. The elected projects will be  funded and BilgiMBA will also be part of the  training curriculum design in 2011. III. Key Objectives for the Next 18 Months   In the next period, Department of Business  Administration will continue to integrate  the principles of the PRME initiative into its  curriculum, teaching and research practices  with the aim of moving the Department  closer to the goal of wholly implementing  and embracing the principles for responsible  management education. In this respect, the  Department plans to organize informative  seminars and trainings for the faculty and  students to increase awareness and help  them learn more about these principles. We  are also seeking innovative ways to transfer  the knowledge created by the Department to  organizations, other educational institutions  and to our local community. The Department of Business Administration  also plans to have closer ties to the international  body of academicians by joining PRME working  groups, attending PRME conferences, and  presenting the Turkish cases. Our intention is to further enrich some of our  courses by integrating PRME-related issues  as follows:  A new module about socially responsible  investing will be incorporated to the Current  Issues in Finance course.  Cases about PRME-related issues will be  discussed in the Auditing course.  Datasets on critical natural and social  issues will be used in courses such as  Statistical Analysis for Business, Marketing  Research and Business Research Methods.  Best performing third year students will  be invited to take a fourth year elective Live  Projects in Management course to develop  advanced projects regarding the topics  mentioned above. Furthermore, there are intentions to design  and open new courses such as Green  Marketing and Sustainable Supply Chain  Management. In the doctorate level more  students will be encouraged to research  critical issues relating to social, ethical,  environmental and governance issues. There are also several university-wide  initiatives that can potentially be undertaken.  One of them is to contact English Preparatory  Program to discuss ways of embedding texts  and cases on PRME-related issues into their  curriculum. Secondly, double-sided printing  will be set as the default option for all the  printers on our campuses. Moreover, there  is a planned Environmental Film Festival  to raise student awareness on environmental  issues. In terms of BilgiMBAs future activities; a  course taking into consideration the local  management practices and the business  environment is planned to be offered in the  next Fall Semester. In preparation of this  course, BilgiMBA has many opportunities of  cooperation with other PRME participants.  BilgiMBA  signed  a  Memorandum  of  Understanding with United Nations Inclusive  Markets Initative (MoU) which will be effective  from the 1st of January 2011 and will include  a multi layered perspective to Poverty and  Inclusive Market Studies. In this respect,  write-shops, seminar series are planned in  2011.   13  IV. Desired support from the PRME  community We would like to continue to share information  and experience with the PRME community.  We would like to act with solidarity and  contribute to other PRME initiatives through  working groups. V. University-wide Activities  Since its foundation in 1996, stanbul Bilgi  University has been a point of attraction for  individuals who wish to discuss controversial  issues. Every year, on topics such as diversity,  women rights, labor conditions, sustainability,  corporate social responsibility, renewable  energy, living conditions of immigrants  and social local governance, Bilgi, either  organized conferences or hosted events. The  last 18 months were no exception. There are several research and application  centers in stanbul Bilgi University, some of  which are the Center for Migration Research,  Childrens Studies Unit, NGO Training  and Research Center, and the Center for  Environment,  Energy  and  Sustainability  Studies. Faculty, staff and students interested  in these topics come together in these  research centers and work towards a more  socially and economically just world. stanbul Bilgi University has intensified its  endeavors on the topics of environment  and sustainability by creating a network of  academicians and students interested in  these subjects. Eventually, this group of  dedicated individuals founded the Center  for Environment, Energy and Sustainability  Studies in August 2010. The main aim of  this Center is to encourage and contribute  to interdisciplinary studies carried out in the  field of the environment, taking into account  all aspects of environmental problems,  including energy and sustainability as well  as acting as a bridge between stakeholders  (other universities, NGOs, public institutions,  private sector, etc.). The Regional Environmental Center (REC)s  Partnership for Sustainable Development  Summer Seminars for public and private  sector executives from the Black Sea region  countries was held at stanbul Bilgi University  in June 2010 for the third consecutive year. Another  example  of  CSR  involvement  is the Corporate Social Responsibility  (CSR) Observatory of the Public Relations  Department of the Faculty of Communications,  where students are encouraged to develop  their ability to conduct research, identify  industry  trends  and  critically  analyze  projects in terms of their social responsibility  concerns. While working towards creating  a CSR Almanac, the CSR observers share  their findings with various social segments  using different communication platforms.  Faculty members from the Department  of Television Reporting and Programming  of the Faculty of Communications shoot  documentaries and videos on pollution, the  life of sea animals and labor conditions in  Turkey to attract the attention of the public to  these issues.  Their latest movie Silicosis  was about the dangerous work life of the  stonewashed jeans workers in Turkey and  the life threatening lung diseases they have  developed. In 2006 Istanbul Bilgi University, Center  for Migration Research established the  Tarlaba  Community  Center  in  the  Tarlaba neighborhood of Beyolu, stanbul.  This Center provides social and educational  supportive activities for women, children  and youth, who live under severe social  discrimination and poverty in the city to  which they have migrated. These people  are the most vulnerable groups struggling  with problems resulting from migration and  poverty. The Center helps these people to  acquire some skills to be able to survive in  stanbul by offering reading-writing courses,  mathematics classes, various ateliers of art,  music, dance, theatre as well as psychological  counseling. These services are provided by  the contributions of specialists, professional  14  trainers,  and  local  and  international  volunteers.  The Center conducted two art  projects with women and children orchestra  in the context of 2010 stanbul European  Capital of Culture. A board game has been developed by  Childrens Studies Unit for elementary school  children in order to raise their knowledge and  awareness of human and childrens rights. In  connection with Eyp municipality, the board  game has been used in elementary schools  in the Universitys neighborhood. As its very first event, the Faculty of  Engineering hosted the Renewable Energy  Conference in April 2010. NGO activists,  academicians and representatives from the  private and the public sectors (including the  municipalities) discussed alternative energy  sources and their usage in Turkey. A  general  elective course open to students  from all faculties, which also attracts  considerable  attention  from  business  students,  is  the  Social Responsibility  Project Course (GE 201 and GE 202). During  the course, students develop and implement  sustainable social responsibility projects,  experience diverse social circles, meet  young people from other socio-economic  status groups and work with students  from different faculties and departments.  Through discussions of current issues  and development of projects, our students  promote human rights, social inclusion and  nature conservation values. 15 * stanbul Bilgi University is once again the leader among universities in Turkey by using renewable  energy on its campuses. *  Active are several student clubs. These are  classified into general discussion; academic  content; arts, sports and social content; and  hobby clubs. Seminars, screenings, festivals  and concerts are organized regularly and the  active campus life adds to the education of our  students. From a PRME perspective, the talks  on bringing economy and ecology together;  the campaigns for collecting garments,  books and toys for needy people; the blood  donation days; the earthquake awareness  and precautions events; and the efforts for the  construction of an on-campus animal shelter  were valuable experiences. A recent socially  responsible project initiated by the Student  Union is an engagement with the Ataehir  local municipalitys social project on attaining  a wheel chair from plastic bottle caps collected  in the campuses of the University. Since February 2010, the  University pays an extra  premium  for  electricity  used on all campuses;  this initiative is called  Green  Energy  /  Green Electricity. The  electricity is bought from  a renewable source –  electricity produced from  wind in a region around  zmir that is transferred to the  national grid. This action of the  University shows its consideration for  the environment. With this project, stanbul  Bilgi University became the first 100% green  electricity using university. Moreover, only  electric cars are used for performing on- campus jobs in Santral Campus, which is the  largest campus of the University. University-wide projects of paper recycling  activities are conducted in cooperation with  local municipalities. The placing of recycling  bins within the campuses, named as the  Green Bin project and the Recycled Paper  project have been undertaken since the 2009- 2010 academic year. At the beginning of the  2010-2011 academic year, the Rectors Office  donated to TEMA (The Turkish Foundation for  Combating Soil Erosion, for Deforestation and  the Protection of the Natural Habitats) a pine  seed for each faculty member of the University.  Such actions of the University management  are frequently announced to students to raise  their environmental and social responsibility  awareness. stanbul Bilgi University has always engaged  in various academic and social events in  order to contribute to local and global peace  through organizing conferences, seminars  and workshops over the course of its 15  years of existence. The University has invited  many  diplomats,  politicians,  sociologists,  philosophers and opinion leaders to nurture  the peace culture. With its accumulated  experience in the field of peace building, the  University inaugurated the Bilgi  Peace Studies Initiative, housed  within the Faculty of Law. This  Initiative aims to pioneer  an academic and social  discussion  platform  within the framework of  peace studies. The Peace  Studies  Initiative  will  investigate and research  violence against women  and sexual discrimination;  conducting social research  about migration and refugees  and many other similar activities  held under the umbrella of the Bilgi  Human Rights Center. Through this Initiative,  the University aims to protect and strengthen its  tradition and courage in confronting problems  that create obstacles to peace and will work  towards developing a common language for  peace. Finally, a modern arts and a technology  museum, santralistanbul, onsite add to the  social, environmental and cultural awareness  of students. Silahtaraa Power Plant preserved  and converted into santralistanbul, was the  first urban scale power plant of the Ottoman  Empire, providing electricity to the city. Today  it hosts artistic and cultural activities, open air  recreation areas and educational units. 16  Contact:  For questions or additional information on stanbul Bilgi University UN  PRME initiative or Sharing Information on Progress Report please contact: Assoc. Prof. Dr. Serap Atakan Department of Business Administration Kazim Karabekir Cad. No: 2/13 34060 Eyp stanbul - Turkey email: atakans@bilgi.edu.tr  Tel: +90 212 311 77 92