Colaboracin   con  CICbioGUNE.   14 de mayo. CIC bioGUNE. Rajat Singh, MBBS, MD,Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, Ttulo: Autophagy regulates lipid metabolism.   21 de mayo. Dr. Luis lvarez. Unidad de Investigacin, Hospital Universitario La Paz (MADRID). Genetic disorders of biliary transport systems.   28 de mayo. Dr. Jess Salgado. ICMol, Univertitat de Valncia. Ttulo: Impact of Dynamics for the NMR analysis of Peptides in Membranes.   11 de junio. Erich Nigg, Phd. Biozentrum, University of Basel, Switzerland. Ttulo: Cell Cycle Control of Genome Integrity: Focus on Mitosis and the Centrosome Cycle.   14 de junio. Prof. Lee Bok Luel. National Research Laboratory of Defense Proteins, College of Pharmacy, Pusan National University, Korea. Ttulo: How beetles activate their innate immunity via their defense proteins?.   25 de junio. Victor Korolchuck, PhD. Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, University of Cambridge, UK. Ttulo: Autophagy and its role in neurodegeneration.   2 de julio. Dr.Mikael Oliveberg How does misfolding of superoxid dismutase trigger neural damage in ALS? Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics. Stockholm University.   16 de julio. Dr. Xavier Mir, From mouse brain development to human congenital malformations. Institute of Molecular Psychiatry. Universitaetsklinikum Bonn, Germany.    7 de septiembre. Dr. Prof. Dennis Vance, Inhibition of phospholipid methylation protects against atherosclerosis and diet-induced obesity. University of Alberta, Canada.   9 de septiembre. Irene Daz Moreno, PhD The role of K-homology Splicing Recognition Protein in the mRNA Decay. Instituto de Bioqumica Vegetal y Fotosntesis, Universidad de Sevilla-CSIC.   10 de septiembre. Dr. Montse Snchez-Cspedes, lkb1 and brg1, tales of two tumor suppressor genes on chromosome 19p and human lung cancer.  Institut Investigacions Biomediques Bellvitge-IDIBELL-PEBC. Barcelona PhD.   17 de septiembre. Christian Smerdou. Use of alphavirus vectors for cancer treatment CIMA. Universidad de Navarra.   24 de septiembre. Maria Lois, PhD, Diversity of the SUMOylation system in Arabidopis. Center for Research in Agricultural Genomics. CRAG CSIC-IRTA-UAB.   26-29 de septiembre. Derio, Bilbao,V Reunin Bienal del Grupo Especializado de Resonancia Magntica Nuclear (GERMN)- II Reunin Ibrica de RMN de la Real Sociedad Espaola de Qumica (RSEQ).   1 de octubre. Prof. Paul Fraser, Neuronal Sumoylation and Its Contributions to Form, Function and Neurodegenerative Diseases University of Toronto, Canada.   8 de octubre. Dr. Fernando Rodrguez, Lessons learned from using DNA vaccines. Centre de Recerca en Sanitat Animal (CReSA). Barcelona.   20 de octubre. Prof. Susumu Tonegawa from MIT Center for Cancer Research. How does the hippocampus handle episodic memories? Tonegawa won the Nobel Prize for Physiology  or Medicine in 1987 for his discovery of the genetic principle for generation of antibody diversity.   22 de octubre. Ponente: Ivan Dikic, Ubiquitin networks in regulation of inflammation and autophagy PhD. Goethe University School of Medicine, Frankfurt.   25 de octubre. Joint Workshop Hospital de Galdakao - CIC bioGUNE. Sede CIC bioGUNE Parque Tecnolgico de Bizkaia. Edif. 800 48160 Derio.   29 de octubre. Daniel Nietlispach, PhD The solution-NMR structure determination of the 7TM receptor sensory rhodopsin University of Cambridge.   12 de noviembre. Javier Oliver Pozo, PhD. Regulation of SNAIL - 1 by PARP - 1 in metastatic melanoma Instituto Lpez Neyra, Granada.   15 de noviembre. Frans Mulder, PhD. Intrinsically Disordered Proteins and their study by NMR spectroscopy. University of Groningen.   19 de noviembre. Andreas Prokop, PhD. Spectraplakins - cytoskeletal integrators with key roles in brain development. The University of Manchester.   3 de diciembre. Prof. Edward N. Trifonov.  Latest on the chromatin code - high resolution sequence positioning of the nucleosomes. University of Haifa, Israel.   10 de diciembre. Corinne Smith, PhD. Unravelling the clathrin cage - structural and dynamic measurements of clathrin cage disassembly. University of Warwick.   16 de diciembre. Ponente: Ralf Richter, PhD. Biomolecular hydrogels - from supramolecular organization to biological function or How to nail jelly to a wall?.   17 de diciembre. Seminario: From the lab to the market: Patents as vehicles of knowledges transfer. ACUERDO ACTIVIDADES DE DESARROLLO COMUNIDAD  190