The Casio Sustainability Report is published to inform  stakeholders about Casios corporate social responsibil- ity (CSR) initiatives aimed at building a more sustainable  world. The report is intended to enhance communica- tion with stakeholders in order to help Casio further  improve its CSR performance.   An independent opinion from an outside expert has  been obtained and included as an objective assessment  of the report overall. Third-party veri cation of environ- mental performance data has also been obtained to  ensure reliability.  The Casio website includes a section on sustainability  with the latest topics and discloses detailed information  and data. Stakeholders are invited to review that infor- mation together with this report. Casio sustainability on the web http://world.casio.com/csr/ Casio Sustainability Report 2011 (PDF) Importance for Casio [Importance for Casio] [Importance for society] Matters Casio regards as important based on its  corporate creed, the Charter of Creativity for Casio,  the Casio Common Commitment, and the Casio  Group Code of Conduct Third party opinions concerning the 2010 report Reader opinions and requests concerning the 2010 report Items from questionnaires such as socially    responsible investment (SRI) surveys Items listed in the guidelines below Importance for society High High This report is focused on items of especially high importance and has been edited for readability.  The latest topics as well as more detailed information and data are comprehensively disclosed on the website.  Boundary Some information in this report applies only to the par- ent company, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., while other ma- terial refers to the entire Casio Group. Further clari ca- tion is provided in each case, as needed.  The name Casio in this report indicates the Casio  Group, while Casio Computer Co., Ltd., refers speci - cally to the parent company.  The scope of the environmental accounting and im- pact data in this report includes 10 sites of Casio Com- puter, Co., Ltd., in Japan, 14 group companies in Japan,  and 23 group companies outside Japan.  Important changes during the period covered    With the business integration of the cellular phone  business with NEC Corporation and Hitachi, Ltd., Ca- sio Hitachi Mobile Communications Co., Ltd. (a con-  Scope of the report solidated subsidiary) was merged with NEC Casio  Mobile Communications, Ltd., in June 2010, with the  new company becoming an affiliated company ac- counted for using the equity method.   With the business integration of the TFT liquid crystal  display (LCD) business with Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.,  Ortus Technology Co., Ltd. (a consolidated subsidiary),  which took over Casios TFT LCD business, became an  affiliated company accounted for using the equity  method and Kochi Casio Co., Ltd. (a consolidated sub- sidiary) ceased to be an a  liated company.  Issued December 2011 (Previous publication: October 2010,  next publication planned: October 2012) Editorial Policy  Positioning of this report and the website 1   GRI Global Reporting Initiative   Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 of the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI)   Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Edition) is- sued by Japans Ministry of the Environment   Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by  Japans Ministry of the Environment  ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility   (GRI Guidelines and ISO 26000 content indices are  posted on the website.)  Guidelines used as a reference Casio Computer Co., Ltd. http://world.casio.com/ For inquiries on CSR in general: CSR Promotion Of ce  Address:   1-6-2 Honmachi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 151-8543 Tel.: +81-3-5334-4901 Fax: +81-3-5334-4547 E-mail: csr-report@casio.co.jp For inquiries on environmental issues: Environment Center  Address:  3-2-1 Sakae-cho, Hamura-shi, Tokyo 205-8555 Tel.: +81-42-579-7256 Fax: +81-42-579-7718 E-mail: eco-report@casio.co.jp  Inquiries  Editorial Policy/Scope of the report ..............................................1  CONTENTS ..........................................................................................................................2  Message from the President ......................................................................3  Casios Corporate Creed and Approach to CSR .........5  Special Feature ...............................................................................................................7    Casio Thailands Global Management Rooted in Local Community  Casios Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake ......9  Responsibilities to Stakeholders ......................................................10    Customers    Suppliers    Shareholders and Investors    Employees    Local Communities  Environmental Initiatives ..............................................................................30    Environmental Vision    Environmental Action Plan    Environmental Communication    External Evaluation    Environment Data  Philosophy and Management ...............................................................48    CSR Implementation System    Corporate Governance    Compliance and Risk Management    Social Initiatives: Action Plans and Performance  Independent Veri cation .............................................................................55  Independent Opinion ........................................................................................56  About Casio Computer Co., Ltd./History of Casio .......59    CONTENTS The future forecasts and forward-looking statements  published in this report for Casio Computer Co., Ltd.,  and the Casio Group are based on information avail- able at the time of publication. These forecasts and  statements include potential risk and uncertainty, and  the reader should be aware that the actual results of  business activities may di er from these predictions. Forecasts and forward-looking statements 2  The recent Great East Japan Earthquake has in icted  unimaginable damage. Many people su ered enormous  destruction, including Casio customers and suppliers.  Along with our heartfelt condolences to these victims, I  would like to express our hopes for a speedy recovery. I  would also like to take this opportunity to express  gratitude for all the heartfelt support that the people of  Japan have received from around the world.  Some Casio sites were also a ected by the disaster,  but through the cooperation of all employees, we were  able to rapidly restore business operations. Although  there has been some impact on the business, we are  taking various measures to minimize it.  Casio will continue to help with reconstruction by pro- viding various forms of support, always based on the  needs of people in the disaster-struck region and cre- ative ideas about how to provide assistance. Great East Japan Earthquake Casio was founded with the invention of the worlds  rst  compact, fully electric calculator in 1957.  At that time, Japanese businesses mainly used for- eign-made, electric-powered mechanical calculators.  Casios breakthrough calculator however, was smaller  and quieter while o ering more rapid calculation. Since  it provided much better performance in many areas, it  immediately penetrated the calculator market. Developing a completely novel product that has never  existed beforelike that calculatoris exactly how we  provide new value to the world. Over the more than 50  years that followed, Casio has developed more world-  rsts and a whole range of other original products,  including personal calculators, digital watches, electron- ic musical instruments, electronic dictionaries, and digi- tal cameras. We have consistently kept providing new  value to the world.  As we help to make peoples lives more convenient  and comfortable, and the world recognizes the value of  what we do, whole new markets and cultural develop- ments emerge. This is how we are realizing our corpo- rate creed, Creativity and Contribution. It is simply in  Casios DNA to make something from nothingto go  from 0 to 1. Casio began focusing on environmental issues early on,  and we have been working to reduce the environmental  impact of our products. We strive to o er products with  high performance that are consistently compact, light- weight, slim, and energy e  cient.  Going beyond product development, our environmen- tal initiatives include action plans for the management of  business sites with, for instance, medium and long-term  greenhouse gas emission reduction targets and activi- ties for the protection of biodiversity.  Providing new value to the world Building a more sustainable world Message from the President We are always aiming to provide new value and be a company essential to society. 3  By exchanging opinions with stakeholders, Casio is also  working to help solve social problems in various  elds  relating to our business management.   In the area of school education in particular, we con- tinue to hold meetings with teachers in Japan and  around the world. We strive to research their teaching  methods, and use their feedback for product  development.  In our product development, Casio continues to work  on making daily life more convenient for people world- wide. This includes market-specific development of  products such as a calculator with Indian digit  grouping.  Meanwhile, in order to ensure that future generations  will inherit an even better world, Casio is continuing to  fund pioneering and creative research by young re- searchers through the Casio Science Promotion Foun- dation. In addition to the target areas of electronics and  mechanical engineering, the funded  elds include natu- ral sciences relating to health and energy conservation,  as well as the cultural sciences. In this way, Casio is con- tributing broadly to the future of science and  technology.  Casio is also continuing to educate the next genera- tion based on unique programs o ered for children who  will be the opinion leaders and citizens of tomorrow.  To build a more sustainable world, Casio is striving to  realize its corporate creed, Creativity and Contribution.  While continuing to provide the world with new value, we  are helping to solve relevant environmental and social  issues using an approach that is integrated with our  business activities. Our balanced initiatives are based on  the triple bottom line of economic, environmental, and  social performance. Casio products are produced with the cooperation of  not just our group companies, but many component  makers and consignment manufacturers around the  world. As a company with global operations, Casio re- spects international standards relating to human rights,  labor, environment and anti-corruption. By ful lling our  corporate social responsibilities, Casio is promoting the  ongoing development of the international community.   As part of these e orts, Casio joined the UN Global  Compact in December 2010.  In the near future, the principles of the Global Compact  will be incorporated explicitly into various aspects of our  corporate management, and we will disclose progress  updates at the appropriate times.  This report highlights the main initiatives taken by  Casio in  scal 2011. I encourage all of our stakeholders  to review the information provided here. I look forward  to your feedback, which will be used to improve our fu- ture initiatives. Your continuing support is greatly  appreciated. Kazuo Kashio President & CEO Participating in the Global Compact 4  Making innovative products and contributing to social progressthese were the aspirations of Casios  founders, and they are summed up in the corporate creed, Creativity and Contribution. Casio has carefully  passed down this corporate creed to all of its employees today. By following the creed and practicing the  Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment, Casio is ful lling its social responsibilities in  all of its corporate activities. The world today is faced with complex economic, envi- ronmental and social problems of a very serious nature.  Humanity as a whole needs to consider what a desirable  society is, and then  nd ways to resolve these problems.  If economic activities are to be maintained on this planet  with limited resources, every member of society must  try to help achieve sustainability. Accordingly, Casios   Working to build a more sustainable world aim is to contribute to society through the resolution of  social and environmental issues related directly and indi- rectly to business management, while continuing to  provide new value to society, based on its corporate  creed of Creativity and Contribution. Casio will steadily  pursue speci c initiatives while always thinking originally  about the best ways to solve each issue.   Resource recyclability (social and economic activities on a planet with limited resources)     Reducing daytime power consumption through the use of geothermal electricity and the installation of power  storage equipment, etc.   Biodiversity (respecting the diversity of species including organisms other than humans)     Establishing an Environmental Action Plan, and evaluating the entire impact of the business, etc.   Fairness across generations (the current generation properly appreciating the legacy of previous  generations and passing it on to future generations)     Setting medium and long-term CO2 reduction targets, and promoting next-generation development and  education, etc.   Fairness across regions (fairly distributing wealth and assets across regions)     Being a member of the UN Global Compact, and conducting CSR activities globally, etc. Keywords for a sustainable world and Casios main initiatives Casios Corporate Creed and Approach to CSR Sustainable world Local communities Customers Shareholders and investors Suppliers Global environment Employees Providing new value through products Social and environmental initiatives Casio Group Code of Conduct Casios Business Activities Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment Corporate Creed Creativity and Contribution  Casios CSR Platform 5  In 2003, Casio adopted the Charter of Creativity for Casio  and Casio Common Commitment, a promise from every- one working at Casio. They are designed to ensure that  Casio employees will be aware of the corporate creed at   Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment Casio products are made through cooperation not just  within the Casio Group, but with many other parts and  consignment manufacturers. Through global distribu- tion, over 100 million Casio products are being sold  each year in 140 countries around the word.  In order for consumers worldwide to purchase Casio  products with con dence, the company believes that it  must support and adhere to common global principles  for sustainable growth for the international community,   Membership in the UN Global Compact Through ongoing dialogue with various stakeholder  groups, Casio is helping to resolve social issues in vari-  Main stakeholders of the Casio Group all times, and act upon it. These promises cover the three  key aspects of CSReconomy, environment, and soci- etyas well as the companys approach to compliance. First Chapter  We will value creativity, and ensure that our products meet universal needs*. Second Chapter We will strive to be of service to society, providing customers with delight, happiness, and pleasure. Third Chapter  We will back up our words and actions with trustworthiness and integrity, and work as professionals. *  To create innovative products that everyone needs but no other company has ever produced. At Casio, this is the mission not only of product  development, but of every other part of the business. Charter of Creativity for Casio beginning with Casios global supply chain.  This is why, in December 2010, Casio joined the Unit- ed Nations Global Compact, and made  Casio Group employees thoroughly  aware of this. While pursuing speci c  initiatives for the realization of the  Global Compact principles, Casio is also  appropriately disclosing progress. Main Stakeholder  Group Main Casio Group Responsibilities Main Dialogue Opportunities /  Information Disclosure Customers Providing appealing, safe, and reliable products Ensuring stable product supply Providing the proper information regarding products Improving customer satisfaction Providing fast and accurate support to customers Properly managing customer information Daily sales activities Customer Support Center  Customer satisfaction surveys Casios o  cial website Suppliers Fair and equitable transactions Requesting CSR implementation and providing support Daily procurement activities Holding vendor conferences CSR questionnaires Shareholders  and investors Timely and appropriate information disclosure Appropriate pro t returns General Meeting of Shareholders  Brie ngs for investors Investor Relations website Issuing  nancial reports (shareholder newslet- ter) Responding to CSR questionnaires from socially  responsible investors Employees Respecting human rights Promoting diversity and inclusion Promoting balance of work and family life Human resource recruitment and utilization Fair evaluation and treatment Industrial health and safety and employee health promotion Casio intranet Group Workers Labor-Management Conference Occupational Safety and Health Committees Career challenge system Internal newsletter Local  communities Respecting and preserving regional cultures Activities that contribute to local communities Preventing accidents and disasters at sites Providing support to disaster-stricken regions where sites  are located Factory and workplace tours School visit program Internships Employee participation in local community  events Global  environment Environmental consideration in product development Environmentally responsible production activities Complying with environmental laws Protecting biodiversity ous  elds relating to its business activities. 6  Casios global management adapts to the culture and environment in each region. At Casio Thailand, where 90% of em- ployees are locally hired, the company has a human resources policy that emphasizes the needs of Thai employees. The  company is engaged in a wide range of activities that contribute to and deepen relationships with the local community. Creation of a facility to support breastfeeding mothers About 90% of Casio Thailand employees are women, and  each month three to  ve of them have babies. According  to Thai law, female employees are allowed three months  maternity leave after giving birth. When they returned to  work, however, they were not able to pump and store  breast milk during the work day, in order to provide the  infant at home with an adequate milk supply.  Therefore, Casio Thailand created an onsite room where  mothers can pump and  store breast milk. In addi- tion to providing refriger- ator space for hygienic  milk storage and special  storage packages, there  is air conditioning and air  purification equipment.  Consequently, the room  has clean air, preventing  Employee welfare program any viruses and bacteria from getting  into the milk during storage.  A special instructor is also available  to provide guidance to women during  and after pregnancy on how to pump  the breast milk and store it safely. A  course is also provided to teach preg- nant employees about health and nutri- tion management. In this way, the com- pany is enabling more employees to  balance their work and family lives. Casio Thailands Global Management Root- ed in Local Community I use the facility in order to have a break  and pump a supply of milk to take home.  Since the room is very hygienic, I feel con-  dent about taking the milk home to my  child. It really helps to relieve breast pain.  I feel the company is truly caring for the  health of employees and our families. Employee feedback Natthida Longkrue Human resources development and employee welfare programs Breast milk support room Womens social advancement in Thailand is progressing. Because of this, Casio Thailand is putting particular ef- fort into childcare support. The company has various programs such as training and seminars to help employees  develop together with the company and build their careers. Aiming for management rooted in local communities,  Casio Thailand emphasizes human resources develop- ment, employee welfare programs and support for the  local community. In order to realize these goals, the  company has established human resources deployment  guidelines and CSR activity policies, and is undertaking  various activities accordingly.   Human resources development and employee  welfare programs Based on its human resources deployment guidelines,  Casio Thailand is improving employee welfare programs  and providing career development training. Since 90%  of its employees are women, the company is creating  workplaces that enable sta  to balance work and family  responsibilities, including setting up a special facility to  support breastfeeding mothers.  The company also supports human resources devel- opment by o ering training programs based on various  roles and pro ciency levels.   Supporting the local community Casio Thailand places importance on  improving quality of life in the local  community, while contributing to eco- nomic and social development that  makes local residents self reliant.  Using this CSR activity policy, the  company has established guidelines  and is carrying out various initiatives.  Based on a positive evaluation of  the activities and results under this  policy, Casio Thailand has received an award from the  Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare as an out- standing company in the area of labor relations and  employee welfare. The company has received this  award for  ve consecutive years.  The company received high marks in all  ve evalua- tion areas for the award: (1) codi cation of human re- sources and labor union policies; (2) wage and salary  systems; (3) hotline establishment; (4) employee welfare  programs; and (5) CSR activities. Wanna Pakaew CSR implementation team Duangdaw Prathumchai Human Resources Department Human resources policy of Casio Thailand and community support Corporate data for Casio Thailand Japanese, other Locally hired As of March 31,  2009 As of March 31,  2009 As of March 31, 2010 As of March 31, 2010 As of March 31, 2011 As of March 31, 2011 As of March 31,  2009 As of March 31, 2010 As of March 31, 2011 Number of employees by nationality Number of male and female employees Number of managers by nationality Male Female Number of  Japanese managers Number of  Thai managers 5 4 10 80 89 100 4 4 10 902 970 1,132 827 885 1,034 16 16 17 1 Special  Feature 7  In December 2010, monks from a nearby temple were in- vited to the company to receive a donation of money, rice,  other food, medicines, and daily necessities. The temple  looks after over 200 poor children and orphans, so they  received food and supplies as well.  In the Buddhist country of Thailand, it is considered very  commendable to make an o ering to the monks, who are  a symbol of goodness. Since the monks pray for the hap- piness and prosperity of those that make o erings, the  donors are also grateful for this kind of chance.  Consequently, Casio Thailand employees are pleased by  such company donation opportunities. While engaging in  charitable activities, the company is also supporting local  culture, and giving employees a lot of peace of mind. Casio Thailand is supporting the job search e orts of stu- dents by inviting them to company presentations and fac- tory tours, thereby providing them with opportunities to  learn about the companys activities. Due to the impact of  a long-running internal dispute in Thailand, there have been  very few opportunities for students to receive training at  private companies. By providing them with these opportu- nities, Casio is helping to develop the next generation of  citizens in Thailand. These e orts have been recognized by  From mid-October to mid-November 2010, there was  widespread  ooding in Thailand, resulting in major dam- age. Fortunately, Casio Thailand did not su er any dam- age, but some homes of employees were  ooded, and  there was damage in the surrounding communities.  Along with donating corporate relief funds, the company  also encouraged employees to donate cash or supplies for   ood victims. The total funds along with relief supplies,  such as food and candles, were sent to the governor of the  Career development and training programs Casio Thailand has training programs to support the ca- reer development of employees. The programs are open  to all employees from general sta  to managers, and in- clude on-the-job  training, lectures and  seminars. The pro- grams are divided  into pro ciency lev- els for each business  area, so that employ- ees can easily im- prove their skills,  step by step. Human resources development the Thai Education Ministry,  and in 2009 the company  received an award for pro- viding good support and  learning opportunities to  vocational students in out- lying areas of Bangkok and  southern Thailand. a ected region for distri- bution to victims. Casio  Thailand employees also  participated in the distribu- tion of relief aid, and they  delivered relief supplies di- rectly to disaster victims.  Employees can gain spe- cialized knowledge for  their jobs or learn about  legal compliance at semi- nars and lectures given by  outside experts or employ- ees with the necessary  quali cations and experi- ence. In  scal 2011, an of-  cial from the Ministry of  Labor was invited to come  and give a seminar entitled  The Latest Safety Laws and Taking Action for Legal  Compliance. It was attended by safety committee manag- ers and in-house safety instructors. Lecture Training for factory employees With the aim of supporting local communities, Casio is promoting various activities for social contribution and  community outreach. The company also provides job hunting support to students and hosts factory tours, in or- der to contribute towards the revitalization of society through employment.  Support for flood victims  Helping students with job search  Donating money and food to monks Support for disaster victims Students receiving training Donating money and food to monks Supporting local communities 2 8  Casio o ers its heartfelt sympathies to everyone a ected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11,  2011. Casio would also like to take this opportunity to express gratitude for all the heartfelt support that the  people of Japan have received from around the world.   Below is a report on the e ects sustained by Casio and its response to the earthquake disaster (as of July  31, 2011). Although some of Casios business sites were damaged, fortunately employees and their families were not harmed, and  the group was able to recover quickly. Nevertheless, operations at production sites have slowed slightly as a result of  delays in the procurement of parts due to the damage sustained by certain suppliers.  In response, Casio has decentralized suppliers, started manufacturing parts in-house, and taken other measures to  get operations back up to speed as soon as possible. The Great East Japan Earthquake and the subsequent power interruptions have had no impact on the quality of Casio  products. The radioactive contamination from the damaged Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station has had no im- pact on Casios production facilities in Yamagata and Yamanashi prefectures. The radiation levels in both prefectures  were surveyed by Japans Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, and the readings were below  levels harmful to the human body. Casio products are also regularly checked for radiation at production and logistics  sites, and their safety has been con rmed. As a support measure for people in areas stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake, Casio o ered to repair Casio  brand consumer products at half the usual price for products damaged in municipalities where the Disaster Relief Act  was applied. This o er was made available until September 30, 2011. Casio donated a total of 55 million yen in relief funds to Japan Platform in order to help the victims and assist in the  recovery e ort. The company also matched the donations of its employees with an equal or greater amount. Casio  Group employees worldwide donated a total of about 10.57 million yen, which was matched by Casio Computer Co.,  Ltd., with an additional 22 million yen, for a total of 32.57 million yen. This money was donated to the Japanese Red  Cross Society, local governments in the disaster-a ected areas (through the Japanese Association of Metal, Machinery,  and Manufacturing workers), and Japan Platform.  Casio is also making ongoing donations to the Ashinaga Donation Fund for Children Orphaned by the Great East  Japan Earthquake and Tsunami operated by Ashinaga, a non-pro t organization, in order to support children who lost  their parents in the disaster. In  scal 2012, Casio donated 5 million yen and will continue to donate 2 million yen per  year over 10 years for a total amount of 25 million yen.  All told, donations of aid money from the Casio Group will total 102 million yen.  Additionally, Casio is providing ongoing non-monetary support, including the donation of clocks for temporary hous- ing, digital cameras with hybrid GPS for disaster response headquarters in prefectures and municipalities a ected by  the disaster, and calculators for schools that lost teaching materials.  Casio is committed to continuing to provide as much support as it can to meet the needs of people in the disaster- a ected areas. Since the earthquake disaster, Casio has undertaken a number of energy-saving measures such as turning o  some  lights in o  ces and billboards, changing air conditioning temperatures, stopping some elevators, and expanding the  length of the summertime cool-biz campaign (which encourages people to dress more casually to save on air- conditioning).  In response to the power usage restrictions issued in the summer of 2011 based on Article 27 of Japans Electricity  Business Act, Casio is working to strengthen the above energy-saving measures and making other aggressive e orts  to comply with the restrictions, including moving days o  from Saturday to Wednesday.  In July, Casio established a system to monitor electricity use at principal sites during working hours via an internal  portal, which will help raise the awareness of employees at each business site to remember to save electricity by letting  them see how much energy is being used in real time.  Status at Casio  Impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake on Quality  Special support for customers affected by the disaster  Relief efforts for the disaster-affected areas  Casios efforts to save electricity Casios Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 9  Customers Quality Assurance In all of its business processes, Casio always takes the customers perspective and bases its actions on the  Principle of the Five Gensin Japanese, genba (on site), genbutsu (actual goods), genjitsu (reality), genri  (theory) and gensoku (rule). Casio focuses on daily improvement in order to provide customers with reliabil- ity and peace of mind, and to meet customer demands with speed and integrity. In order to deliver products and services that o er reli- ability and peace of mind to customers, Casio is con- stantly working on improvements to pursue the best  solution for customers.  Casio believes it is important not only to provide prod- ucts and services that delight customers, but also to win  acceptance from the whole of society and achieve mu- tual prosperity. Toward this end, Casio Quality includes  everything from the quality of individual products, to  environmental protection and recycling. The role of  quality assurance is to deliver quality that satis es cus- tomers in every possible way.  Quality assurance at Casio In order to carefully maintain and improve Casio Quality,  the company has created the quality assurance system  shown in the diagram below. Chaired by the Executive  Vice President, the Promotion Committee for Group- wide Quality Enhancement meets twice a year. It pursues   Quality assurance system activities such as making quality data accessible and  easy to understand, and sharing quality information,  while passing resolutions on quality policy and mea- sures. The results are used for quality assurance activi- ties in each division. President and CEO Promotion Committee for Groupwide Quality Enhancement Chaired by the Executive Vice President Product & Purchasing Unit Consumer Business Timepieces Business Digital Camera Business System equipment Business Production & Purchasing Division Manufacturing Aliates Global Marketing Headquarters Sales Departments for each business Sales & Service Aliates Division in charge of groupwide quality CS Control Group CS activities Engineering Department Quality activities Collaboration  Quality Assurance Framework Functions, performance, design, price, usability Environmental conservation, recycling Serviceability Safety, legal compliance Reliability, durability Casio Quality  Casio Quality Responsibilities to Stakeholders 10 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  As the division in charge of group-wide quality manage- ment, the CS Department (within the Global Marketing  Headquarters) has been linked together with the Engi- neering Department (within the Production & Purchas- ing Division). By closely connecting the product develop- ment and sales teams, Casio is working hard to ensure  quality, with the cooperation of all departments, while  always pursuing the best solution for customers.  In order to create a common group-wide awareness of  Quality First being the foundation all operations, strong  leadership is essential from top management and those  responsible for quality. The Promotion Committee for  Group-wide Quality Enhancement implements training to  ensure employees understand and are widely aware of  regulations and standards relating to quality and safety,  and to learn technology expertise. This includes holding  presentations for the improvement of quality manage- ment skills.  Moreover, Casio is striving to raise the level of quality  initiatives and improve the quality skills of employees,  including the holding of in-house seminars given by out- side instructors.  Casios production plants carry out plan-do-check-act  (PDCA) cycles using the ISO 9001 Quality Management  System. In order to deliver reliability and peace of mind  to customers that use Casio products, Casio employees  focus on daily improvement. Casios e orts to achieve premium quality are guided  by a clearly articulated Quality Concept and Quality   Pursuing top quality  List of ISO 9001 Certi ed Sites Quality Concept Casio maintains a strong quality assurance system, based on its belief in Quality First. This system requires all employ- ees to make quality their  rst concern in every task they perform, enabling the company to o er products and services  that please and impress customers. The companys commitment to quality supports its corporate growth and makes  social contributions possible, while at the same time winning customers trust and giving them peace of mind. Quality Management Policies   To build a good corporate image, we o er products and services that please and impress our customers, gain their  strong trust, and ensure their peace of mind.    We respond to our customers requests and inquiries with sincerity and speed, and re ect their valuable comments in  our products and services.   In all our business processes, we base our actions on the Principle of the Five Gensin Japanese, genba (on site), genbutsu  (actual goods), genjitsu (reality), genri (theory) and gensoku (rule)and adhere to the basics of business operations.   We capture and analyze quality assurance activities quantitatively, using reliable data, and use the analysis to make  continuous improvements. We also maintain a quality information system that enables the sharing of quality informa- tion and prevention of problems before they occur, and prevents recurrence of quality problems. Classi cation Certi ed and Registered Sites Initial Version Registration Date Development, Production  and Service Sites in Japan Product Solution Unit, System Product Divi- sion, Casio Computer Co., Ltd. June 25, 1994 Kofu Casio Co., Ltd. August 1, 1994 Casio Electronic Manufacturing Co., Ltd. August 5, 1994 Yamagata Casio Co., Ltd. December 16, 1994 Casio Micronics Co., Ltd. March 29, 1996 Casio Techno Co., Ltd. May 21, 2004 Production Sites  outside Japan Casio (Thailand) Co., Ltd. October 24, 2000 Casio Electronic (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd.,  Guandu Factory March 22, 2002 Casio Electronic Technology (Zhongshan)  Co., Ltd. October 26, 2006 Management Policies, which provide indices for evaluat- ing all quality initiatives. 11 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Raising Customer Satisfaction Casio believes customer satisfaction can always go up, and is strengthening its three main customer satis- faction initiatives. In order to improve customer satisfaction (CS), in  scal  2009, Casio began strengthening its initiatives for the  three main CS activities listed below. The company is  working to incorporate the voice of the customer more  than ever before in the creation of even better  products. After-sales CS:  Responding to customer requests and  inquiries with service that is fast, accu- rate, and polite Functional CS:  Striving to create value and product  functionality that leads to customer  satisfaction Quality CS:  Working to strengthen product quality to  assure customer satisfaction  Raising Customer Satisfaction Customer feedback is essential information for product  improvement, and Casio regularly conducts customer  satisfaction surveys. While also referencing customer   Ensuring customer satisfaction Under these three main CS activities, Casio is investing  in programs to improve product knowledge, repair tech- nique, and customer service skills. With regard to after- sales CS activities, in  scal 2011 Casio established its  own survey method, recognizing the importance of con- tinually ascertaining customer satisfaction levels.  Casio is also working hard to ensure that customer  feedback is always delivered to the relevant depart- ments, and that uni ed improvement measures are tak- en by those departments. The company is also working  to ensure continual enhancement of product functions  (functional CS), through daily e orts such as research  into various industry-leading technologies.  Casio gathers and analyzes the details of customer  inquiries regarding product quality, and strives to rapidly  detect and respond to any problems. comments received by the Customer Support Center,  Casio is striving to develop even better products and  improve the level of customer satisfaction. Casio works to develop products using human-centered  design (HCD) in conformity with ISO 13407 processes,  with the objective of improving product ease of use as  part of the products overall quality. In the HCD process,  Casio seeks optimal ease of use by determining impor- tant issues from customer feedback and observation of  product use in real-world situations. Through repeated  evaluation and verification, Casio works to develop  highly desirable products.  In  scal 2011, Casio made its multi-function chrono- graph watches even easier to use. During the develop- ment of the OCW-T1000, issues with the complicated  operations necessary for function setting were identi-  ed in the HCD process, and a new electronic crown was  developed that enables more intuitive operation. In addi- tion to the straightforward setting of the watch hands   Going beyond universal design to human-centered design by turning the crown, the user can now easily switch  between di erent functions just by pressing the crown  like a button. This has dramatically improved watch  usability. Casios UD log OCW-T1000 12 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  The Global Teachers Meeting 2010  was held at the Hamura R&D Center  and the Hatsudai Headquarters  from August 23 to 25, 2010. Nine  teachers passionate about mathe- matics education were invited from  the US, Germany, France, Australia,  and Norway. The meeting has been  held regularly since 2007, in order  to obtain product feedback from  teachers living in di erent parts of  the world, and contribute to the de- velopment of mathematics educa- tion in classrooms.  The main theme of this years  meeting was the perfection of the  color graphing scienti c calculator,  planned for worldwide launch in  2011. There was a lively exchange  of opinions based on the needs of  actual classrooms. These opinions  were immediately examined by the  product development team, and the   nal product was improved to en- able a deeper understanding of the  relationship between mathematics  and events in daily life. Improvements  included the color coding of corre- sponding data on graphs, which was  hard to follow on previous graphing  models, and the layering of graphs  on top of real-life images. Holding regular Global Teachers Meetings TOPICS Color-coded, nested sets of brackets help prevent student errors and increase their understanding Conventional model fx-9860G It is dicult to distinguish individual sets of brackets.  If the brackets are input incorrectly, the answer will be wrong. Color graphing model The bracket sets are automatically color coded during input to prevent error Color coding is activated only in input mode Color coding in automatic input mode User input is  the same Conrming data and charts Various charts can be created with the same information Data from the table can be easily matched to the chart Adding color coding to a chart Relation between  latitude and GDP (Corresponding data in dierent graphs and charts can be identied by color) (The relationship between the data and the chart can be easily seen for  students just starting to learn statistics) Level dierences are clear in a bar chart Numbers above the average value are in red Relationship between the average value and the data is clear Special function for education not found in Excel Country with the highest GDP Latitude GDP Applied feedback example Although inserting a punctuation  mark after every third digit is the  standard way to write long numbers  internationally, in India, a comma is  usually inserted after the thousand  position, and then after every subse- quent two digits (i.e. hundred thou- sand, ten million, etc.). Also, the Indian  comma appears above the numbers  rather than below. Casio was the  rst  company to introduce a calculator  that adopts this regional custom. The  calculator was developed based on  the idea of Casio sta  in India, and  consumer appreciation of the product  is steadily growing. Of course, the  calculator can also display numbers  using three-digit grouping, and even  in the European format with a decimal  comma instead of a decimal point.  Casio excels at providing products  that are tailored to meet consumer  needs. First in the Industry to Offer Indian Digit Grouping TOPICS MJ-120D Calculator with Indian  Digit Grouping 13 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Customer Support Center Activities and Customer Feedback Utilization Aiming to build enduring relationships of trust with customers, Casio values customer communication and  incorporates the voice of the customer into its e orts to improve products and services. In order to promote long-lasting relationships of trust  with customers, the Customer Support Center responds  to customer inquiries with service that is fast, accurate,  polite, and sincere. The center strives to resolve any is- sues customers may have.  Casio is working to expand its training programs for  improving the primary skills of customer support sta ,  including technical, communication, and writing skills.  These abilities are required every day to properly pro- vide customers with the useful information that they  need. The Customer Support Center also aims for the  fast and accurate resolution of customer inquiries by  standardizing customer response procedures in  writing.  Customer inquiries and complaints are welcomed as  important customer feedback. After analyzing the con- tent of this feedback, the relevant departments and the  Center work together to implement improvement mea- sures, and these e orts help to improve customer satis- faction for Casio products and services.  Customer Support Center activities  Breakdown of Customer Inquiries (Fiscal 2011) Customer Support Center Other 3.8% Complaints 0.3% Requests for catalogues  and user manuals 5.9% Pre-purchase  inquiries 11.2% Post-purchase inquiries 78.8% Providing Support Information/Repair Service Casio is improving its system for providing product support information, as well as the service skills of its  sta , to ensure customer satisfaction and peace of mind. Casio has customer support websites for various re- gions around the world, o ering customers convenient  access to information 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.  In order to ensure that customers can use Casio prod- ucts with con dence and peace of mind, these websites  provide product operation, repair and other support in- formation that customers may need. In  scal 2011, the  Japanese Casio website was improved so that custom- ers can now look up product repair costs on their own  just by entering the model and symptom. For some  products, customers can also make a repair request   Online support sites online. In this way, Casio continues to improve customer  convenience.  Casio continues to monitor and analyze the tra  c at  each of its websites. The company is working to improve  and expand its online support sites so that customers  can get the information they need before having to call  a customer support center. Support http://www.casio-intl.com/support/ 14 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Casios service departments, which are responsible for  product repairs, strive to satisfy customers by providing  after-sales service that ful lls three commitments: reli- able technology, prompt response, and reasonable fees.  Each year, Casio conducts its own customer satisfaction  surveys concerning after-sales service. The  ndings are  used in ongoing improvement activities. Reliable technology Casios service departments are working to improve  their repair technology, product knowledge, and cus- tomer service skills (through training programs and in- house competitions, for example) in order to maintain  customer con dence and realize the kind of service  quality that customers expect. In fiscal 2010, Casio  holds technical contests where representatives from  Casio sites across Japan compete. These events have  produced many outstanding engineers.  Since  scal 2002, Casio Techno Co., Ltd., which han- dles repair of Casio products, has been encouraging its  employees to obtain formal quali cations. In  scal 2011,  the company revised its human resources development  system with reference to the ITSS career framework,  and set up four levels of recommended quali cations  according to job types. At the same time, it added .com  Master to the recommended quali cations, which in- volves systematically learning basic Internet knowledge.   Repair service Technical contest It is now a mandatory quali cation for all employees.  Moreover, individual departments have their own sys- tems of upper level quali cations. Casio Techno is en- couraging its employees to obtain formal technical and  other qualifications as part of its human resources  development. time to bring in a broken digital camera, electronic dic- tionary, or watch to a service center or the retailer to  arrange the repair through an online repair request sys- tem. In  scal 2011, the online request page for digital  camera repair was completely redesigned. Fees for the  pick-up repair service were also cut by 50% or more,  thereby further improving convenience for busy  customers. market and at other companies, and revised its fees to  ensure even greater customer satisfaction. Going for- ward, Casio will continue to meet customer needs, re- duce costs and provide services that are a good value  for repair fees. Casios service departments are taking steps to improve  operations by focusing on parts procurement, the repair  system, and repair technology, so as to shorten repair  time and return repaired products to customers as  quickly as possible. The reception counters at some  service centers o er quick service for the repair of digi- tal cameras and watch battery replacement within about  60 minutes. Casio also o ers an online pick-up repair  service that enables customers who do not have the   Prompt response Casio is striving to ensure reasonable repair fees by  controlling costs through the improvement of methods  for repair and parts procurement. The company has  created a fee structure based on  xed prices that are  easy for customers to understand. In  scal 2011, Casio  carried out analysis of digital camera repair costs in the   Reasonable fees 15 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Suppliers Strong partnerships with suppliers Casio procures various materials from a large number of suppliers in and outside Japan. In order to develop  long-term business relationships based on its Procurement Policies, Casio is working to strengthen CSR ac- tivities across its entire supply chain, while improving measures for proper transactions. Casio has established Procurement Policies in order to  execute its social responsibility to conduct fair and  equitable transactions throughout the supply chain.  The policies cover matters including legal compliance,  respecting human rights, labor, safety, and health, as  well as environmental protection such as biodiversity   Socially responsible procurement at Casio In order to ensure compliance with the Procurement  Policies together with its suppliers, Casio has estab- lished the Supplier Guidelines. All of Casios suppliers in  Japan and elsewhere have agreed to these guidelines to   Ful lling social responsibilities together with suppliers 1. Fair and equitable transactions Casio carries out fair and equitable transactions by provid- ing equal opportunities to all suppliers (and candidates) in  and outside Japan in accordance with its internally estab- lished procedures. 2. Compliance with laws and social norms Casios procurement activities comply with all relevant laws,  social norms, standards and treaties worldwide, including  the protection of human rights, the prohibition of child la- bor, forced labor and discrimination, and respect for free- dom of association, the right to associate, and the right to  collective bargaining, as well as ensure that absolutely no  contact is made with organized criminal elements. There- fore, Casio requires its suppliers to observe the same legal  and social requirements. 3. Environmental protection Casio helps to protect the global environment through en- vironmentally friendly procurement, which is based on the  Casio Environmental Vision and Casio's Environmental Dec- laration, in cooperation with suppliers. 4. Strengthening partnership with suppliers Casio builds up relationship of trust with its suppliers  Casio aims to ful ll its social responsibilities, including compliance with relevant laws and social norms, and protection  of the environment, through fair and equitable transactions throughout the supply chain by strengthening partner- ship with suppliers. through reciprocal e orts, such as merging and comple- menting mutual technological development abilities, supply  chain cooperation, compliance with laws and social norms  and protection of the global environment, which will bene t  both parties. 5. Policies on supplier selection and transaction continuation Casio initiates and continues transactions with suppliers  based on comprehensive evaluation criteria, which include  compliance with laws and social norms, environmental pro- tection, proper information security, respect for intellectual  property, sound and stable corporate management, supe- rior technological development ability, right price and qual- ity, stable supply capabilities and electronic transaction  systems. 6. Securing right price and quality Casio endeavors to secure right price and quality in order  to provide its customers with stable supply of optimal  products, which ensures that Casio gains the full con - dence of customers around the world. 7. Prohibition of personal-interest relationships Casio does not allow any employees to have personal-inter- est relationships with any suppliers. Procurement Policies preservation and risk control of chemical contents and  information security. Casio constantly improves its so- cially responsible procurement by obtaining the under- standing and support of suppliers for the policies and  building strong partnerships. help Casio ful ll its social responsibilities.  Casio is also managing its supply chain more success- fully by introducing a regular monitoring system that  ensures that these guidelines are properly ful lled. 16 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Over 80% of Casios production activities are in China  and ASEAN. Every year, Casio holds brie ngs on its Pro- curement Policies in Southern China and Thailand.  In the past, these brie ngs simply involved Casio ex- plaining its business policies to suppliers and asking  them to undertake initiatives. Starting in  scal 2010  however, Casio is using these brie ngs as an opportu- nity for interaction, for instance, by having a selected  supplier present its own exemplary CSR initiatives.  Through joint e orts with suppliers, Casio is aiming for  continued improvement in the level of CSR  performance.  More recently, Casio asked suppliers whose sites it  had audited for CSR performance to present examples  of their e orts to improve CSR activities. It is proving  highly e ective to share case studies and know-how  when addressing CSR issues.  Disseminating supplier guidelines In  scal 2008, Casio started conducting a questionnaire  survey* of principal suppliers in Japan on CSR perfor- mance in order to con rm the status of CSR procure- ment. In  scal 2010, the survey was expanded to include  suppliers in China and Thailand. Additionally, starting in   scal 2010, Casio has been evaluating suppliers in Ja- pan based on a  ve-point scoring system for all 340  items in the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook  published by the Japan Electronics and Information  Technology Industries Association (JEITA), in an e ort to  gain a better grasp of and visualize the situation.  In  scal 2011, Casio again conducted a questionnaire  survey of suppliers in and outside Japan. The results  were sent back to all suppliers, along with information  on Casios approach and goals for CSR procurement, to  help support suppliers improvement e orts.  After the questionnaire survey was conducted, imple- mentation audits of major suppliers in China (three com- panies) and Thailand (two companies) were carried out  with local sta  members of the CSR promotion project  launched at overseas sites. During these audits, opin- ions were exchanged with suppliers managers and com- mitments received from them to make new develop- ments, including improvement e orts in the next  scal  year, by deepening their understanding of CSR  performance.  Comprehensive management of CSR performance Brie ng on Procurement Policies Presentation of exemplary CSR imple- mentation and improvement by a supplier Award ceremony at the Procurement  Policies brie ng  In Japan, the questionnaire response rate (95%) great- ly exceeded the rate for the previous year (85%), provid- ing assurance that understanding of and concern for  CSR is increasing. Moreover, Casio visited suppliers who  are passionate about CSR initiatives and held discussion  meetings aimed at solving future issues with a view to- ward creating good partnerships within the industry. *  The questionnaire was prepared in accordance with a Supplier Checklist  for CSR Procurement based upon the Guidebook for Supply Chain  Implementation of CSR Procurement published by the Japan Electronics  and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). It covered:  (1) human rights and labor conditions; (2) health and safety; (3) the  environment; (4) fair transactions and ethics; (5) quality and consumer  safety; (6) information security; and (7) social contribution.   Improving CSR across the supply chain Fiscal 2011 Achievements Conducted onsite audits of  suppliers with local staff  members in China  and Thailand Fiscal 2012 Expand onsite audits  by local staff members Medium-term CSR Promotion Plan (3-year plan) Fiscal 2013 Vision of goals  achieved Disclosure of  purchasing  policies Questionnaire  survey on  CSR performance Disclosure and  feedback of  questionnaire results Ascertainment of  actual conditions  through onsite audits Support for  improving  CSR issues Building a system for  CSR procurement across  the entire supply chain ROHM Co., Ltd., takes an  active approach to CSR  implementation based on  the ROHM Group Business  Conduct Guidelines.  We support Casios Pro- curement Policies, and will  strive to ful ll and main- tain the CSR performance  items requested by Casio. Supplier Message Hiromitsu Koizumi East Sales Unit 3 West Tokyo Sales Team ROHM Co., Ltd. 17 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Shareholders and Investors Proper Shareholder Return and Information Disclosure Casio discloses information promptly and fairly to shareholders and investors, and always strives to increase  shareholder returns.  Casio considers the maintenance and expansion of re- turns for all of its shareholders an important manage- ment issue, and constantly strives to improve its busi- ness performance and financial structure. The  companys dividend policy calls for maintaining stable  dividends, and Casio determines the allocation of pro t   Basic policy for shareholder returns As of June 2011, Casio was included in the Morningstar  Socially Responsible Investment Index, based on an  evaluation of its proactive CSR initiatives.  SRI listings Basic policy for shareholder returns IR events Every quarter, Casio holds a  nancial results brie ng for  institutional investors and securities analysts on the  same day that the company announces its results. The  president or the director responsible for investor rela- tions is the main speaker at these brie ngs, and explains  the financial results and forecasts. Casio also holds  meetings with institutional investors and analysts world- wide, while occasionally providing factory tours and  small on-the-spot meetings for investors interested in  speci c business areas. Improving IR publications To provide IR information for shareholders and inves- tors, the company issues an Annual Report, semiannual  business reports (Japanese only), and quarterly Consoli- dated Financial Results. Casios Investor Relations web-  Communication with shareholders and investors by taking into account all factors such as pro t levels,   nancial position, the dividend payout ratio, and future  business development and forecasts.  Considering the above policy and forecasts for  scal  2012, Casio paid dividends of 17 per share in  scal  2011. site also features these publications and other IR infor- mation. Casio also periodically redesigns its Investor  Relations site to re ect market changes and make the  information more accessible and useful. Reaching out to individual shareholders and investors Casio is carrying out various initiatives in order to deep- en the understanding individual investors and share- holders have of its business. Following the General  Meeting of Shareholders, a management brie ng was  held, showing clips introducing Casios core products  and explaining key businesses using images. On the  Japanese Investor Relations website, a section was  added speci cally for individual investors in an e ort to  make information disclosure clearer. Results Brie ng Website for individual investors 18 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  At a meeting of the Working Group for Female Employee Advancement Employees Human Rights (Respect for Human Rights, Prohibition of Discrimination) Building Workplaces for a Diverse Workforce In addition to participating in the UN Global Compact, Casio has spelled out its strong commitment to human  rights in the Casio Group Code of Conduct, which is being thoroughly implemented throughout the group. Casio respects the human rights of every individual, and strives to continually expand the creation of employ- ment opportunities for people, regardless of their gender or any disabilities they may have. The Casio Group Code of Conduct mandates that the  Casio Group complies with all laws, respects all funda- mental human rights, will not engage in any form of dis- crimination, and will not use or permit any form of child  or forced labor. The Code of Conduct also stipulates that  Casio will respect the diversity of individuals and their  unique personalities, will not engage in any acts that ig- nore individuality, including discrimination based on gen- der, creed, religion, ethnicity, social status, physical dis- ability, or any other discriminator, and will not permit acts  of violence, sexual harassment, or power harassment.  Policy concerning respect for human rights and prohibition of discrimination / expanding awareness The Casio Group Code of Conduct states that we will  respect all fundamental human rights. In line with this   Policy on respect for human resources diversity By promoting environments and systems that enable  employees to further demonstrate their abilities, Casio is  developing a greater number of professional employees,  with the aim of raising productivity for the entire com- pany. As part of these e orts, Casio created a Working  Group for Female Employee Advancement in April 2008,  and has been actively encouraging its activities.  Focusing on changing both employee mindset and  behavior, Casio held a seminar for female employees  and managers to encourage womens active involve- ment. The seminar created an opportunity for women  and their supervisors to think about how to make the  most of female employees enthusiasm for work and  channel it into ful lling careers. Lectures by outside in- structors as well as exchanges of opinions and informa- tion among the female employees helped the women  gain insight about their career plans and get new ideas  about how to approach their work.  Additionally, starting in  scal 2011, Casio has been intro-  Initiatives to enhance the role of female employees  Casio shares the Code of Conduct with group compa- nies in and outside Japan and attempts to ensure it is  thoroughly understood in order to expand awareness of  these human rights. Additionally, Casio Computer Co.,  Ltd., provides human rights education at training ses- sions given to new hires and employees before and after  promotion and appointment to managerial positions.  In keeping with its participation in the UN Global Com- pact, which it joined in December 2010, Casio will con- tinue to carry out its business operations with full con- sideration for human rights. policy, Casio is working to create workplaces that truly  respect diversity. ducing female employees who are active within the com- pany on a section of its intranet entitled Interviews with  Inspired Casio Women. This is helping employees share  information among each other and raise motivation.  From here on Casio will continue to actively and ef- fectively take actions aimed at building a corporate cul- ture that fully supports the job satisfaction and career  advancement of women. 19 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Casio hires people who display creativity and have the  desire to work and take on challenges, regardless of any  disabilities they may have. The company is creating  workplace environments that allow every individual to  display their full abilities and aptitudes.  The percentage of the workforce with disabilities in  the Casio Group is 1.86%, higher than Japans legally  mandated rate.  Initiatives for hiring persons with disabilities For seniors, Casio has introduced a Casio Senior Sta   Program and a Senior Employee Program at all group  companies in Japan. The purpose of these programs is  to provide retirement-age employees with employment  opportunities, and to e ectively utilize the skills and  know-how that these individuals have accumulated over  the course of their careers. The system enables employ- ees that wish to work past the age of retirement to  continue using their career skills and expertise within  the Casio group.  Each year, Casio holds Life Planning Seminars for em- ployees who have just reached age 53 or age 58. The  seminars cover topics such as the pension system, as  well as living costs, taxes, and health after retirement.  This provides participants with an awareness of these  issues while they are still working, and helps them plan  their post-retirement lives. Taught by an outside instruc-  Encouraging the hiring of seniors / supporting the lives and employment of seniors Along with the globalization of its operations, Casio is  actively pursuing local hiring at its sites outside Japan.  The aim is to promote management that is responsive to   Prioritizing local hiring and promotion at subsidiaries outside Japan  Percent of workforce with disabilities As of April 1,  2009 As of April 1,  2010 As of April 1,  2011 Casio Computer Co., Ltd 1.83% 1.93% 1.93% Group companies in Japan 1.52% 1.60% 1.80% Average for consolidated  group companies in Japan 1.67% 1.76% 1.86% tor, the seminars also provide  nancial information in- cluding details on the costs required to sustain full re- tirement. These learning opportunities have been well  received by participants. local conditions in each country, as a truly global com- pany. This is being done not just in manufacturing, but  also in various other  elds. Number of Casio Group employees Casio Group employees by region (FY2011) Total number of  Casio Group employees 11,522 Number of  employees  by region (as of March 31, 2011) Japan 44% Asia  47% Europe 6% Americas 2% 15,000 12,000 9,000 6,000 3,000 0 (Number of employees) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 6,491 4,953 263 651 6,274 4,997 263 713 5,108 5,415 269 730 11,522 12,247 12,358 Japan Americas Europe Asia  Number of Casio Group employees * This includes only regular employees. Life Planning Seminars 20 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management    Number of employees taking childcare leave / returning from  childcare leave (Casio Computer Co., Ltd.) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Number of employees taking  childcare leave 26 32 30 Number of employees  returning from childcare leave 25 31 30  Return rate 96.2% 96.9% 100.0%  Program  Description  Vacation Day Accumulation Employees can accumulate a maximum of 30 unused vacation days to carry over to the following year, but which  will expire at the end of that year. The leave days can be used if the employee gets sick or injured, or in order to  care for a family member. Refresh Leave This program grants  ve days of leave for every 10 years worked. Childcare Leave  An employee can take this leave until the day before the child turns one year and six months, or until March 31  after the child turns one. The employee can also reduce working hours, up to two hours per day, from the time  that the employee returns to work until the child completes grade three of elementary school.  Nursing Care Leave An employee can obtain up to one year of nursing care leave per eligible family member. After that, the employee  can also reduce working hours, up to two hours per day, as long as the reason for nursing care leave continues. Re-employment of Employees that Retire  for Childcare or Nursing Care Reasons  This program enables the re-hiring of employees that retire in order to give birth, care for a child, or care for a  family member, when they are ready to come back to work.  Child Nursing Care Leave An employee with a child that has not yet completed grade three of elementary school, can take up to  ve days  o  per year (or ten days when there are two or more eligible children) in order to care for the child when sick or  injured, or in order to take the child for vaccinations or medical appointments. Hourly Leave  Employees can take their annual paid leave in hourly increments, for a maximum of  ve days per year.  Creating Supportive Workplaces Casio creates work environments and systems that enable all employees to demonstrate their full potential. Casio is working to build a supportive work environment  that permits all employees to ful ll their job responsibili- ties and demonstrate their full potential on the job. Ca- sio aims to be a place where people can achieve their  desires for their own lifestyles and life stages. As part of  this e ort, Casio has set up a Special Committee on  Measures to Aid the Nurturing of the Next Generation of  Children. Through the exchange of information between  the company and union, and while also considering the  opinions of employees, the committee is working to  build an employee support system that adjusts work  schedules for family responsibilities such as child and   Initiatives to help employees balance work and family life  Main employee leave programs Kurumin mark for helping to  foster the next generation Discussion meeting on work-life balance Vacation Day Accumulation: Earthquake exceptional measures Casio made accumulated vacation days usable in the fol- lowing situations as a measure in response to the earth- quake disaster. Furthermore, in this case, accumulated  vacation days were allowed to be taken even if all of an  employees annual paid vacation had not been used yet.  (Usually, accumulated vacation days cannot be taken  until all annual paid vacation days have been used.) (1)  When an employee or his/her family was a  icted by  the disaster and the employees help was needed to  evacuate from the area or for recovery (2)  When an employee intended to serve as a volunteer  supporting the disaster-a ected area Work structure in response to scheduled blackouts In response to scheduled blackouts during working  hours implemented as a result of the earthquake disas- ter, Casio introduced a staggered time schedule includ- ing 1-2 hour  exes in addition to the usual work system  as a temporary measure in order to make the most ef-  cient use of time so that work would not back up and  development lag behind in each department. Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake nursing care. Casios programs for child care support  surpass legal requirements in Japan. During the three- year period from  scal 2008 through 2010, over 90% of  the eligible women at Casio Computer Co., Ltd., took  childcare leave in connection with childbirth.  As a result of these initiatives, in July 2009, the Japa- nese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare granted  Casio the Kurumin mark for helping to foster the next  generation. This certi cation recognizes Casio as a com- pany that actively supports employees e orts to bal- ance their work and family lives. 21 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Effectively appointing and deploying employees Casio works to maintain a healthy corporate culture where fairness is valued in all promotion decisions. The  company uses a merit-driven system combined with a performance-based approach to evaluate employees  and determine compensation. Based  rmly on a foundation of fairness, Casio aims to  continuously improve its human resource system in  light of changes in the social environment. Within that  system, the present basic human resources policy  combines a role-based system that grades individual  employees based on the extent of their roles with a  performance-based approach to evaluation and com- pensation based mainly on outcomes of job performance   Policy for fair evaluation and compensation Casio provides newly appointed managers with evalua- tor training in an e ort to improve their evaluation, lead- ership, and interviewing skills. Additionally, all managers  are evaluated by their colleagues and subordinates  about once every three years. The results are fed back   Education for fair evaluation and compensation Casio has various human resource development pro- grams designed to develop creative employees who are  eager to take on challenges and to train professionals  with early tracking into specialized  elds.  Casio aims to develop professionals in the form of  strategic generalists who pass on the companys corpo- rate culture, and technical specialists who pass on the  companys unique technology and know-how. For this  purpose, based on the convictions that people grow  through their work and that the source of growth is per- sonal motivation, Casio helps employees improve their  skills by providing environments that enable them to  overcome challenges through personal determination  and e ort.  Accordingly, the company emphasizes on-the-job  (OJT) training to improve practical skills, complemented   Overview of human resource development within their roles.  In addition to the above policy, Casio will place a pre- mium on the six points of view listed below as it pushes  ahead with innovative personnel measures. By taking  this approach, Casio aims to strike the optimal balance  between the growth and revitalization of society and the  expansion and growth of the company. to managers during training sessions to encourage con- tinual improvement. An overview of the evaluation and  compensation system is posted on the company intra- net to keep all employees thoroughly informed about  this system. by o -the-job (o -JT) training to provide theoretical  knowledge. In recent years, the training system has been  improved to ensure even more e ective, e  cient skill  development via a broader choice of training courses.   Respect of will: Grant signi cance to the individuals  will and intentions   Human resources development: Create opportunities for  the acquisition of knowledge and skills needed in work   Signi cance of abilities: Grant signi cance to abilities  demonstrated through work   Right person for the right job: Re ect individual wishes  in job requests   Priority distribution: Distribute limited management  resources as e  ciently as possible   Stable employment: Strive to create workplaces where  employees can work according to their abilities 2,500 2,200 1,900 1,600 1,300 1,000 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Participants (Number of employees) Percentage of total employees  Training participants 22 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management   Career Challenge System This system lets employees periodically register their  careers, skills, and personal challenges with the compa- ny, and serves as an important reference for assisting  managers to determine policies on developing their sub- ordinates and future placement planning.  Career Challenge: Advanced This program preferentially places employees who have  been in their current career position for a rather long  time and hope to challenge themselves to pursue work  environments and careers that require new skills, for the  objective of self-improvement and making further con- tributions to the company, in their desired divisions, if  their desires meet the needs of the new department.  Group-wide Job Posting System This system seeks to satisfy both the companys busi- ness needs and employees career paths, and is a pro- gram for priority placement of suitable people, based on  selection of candidates for jobs which the company of- fers. It is operated jointly with other Casio group  companies.   New Employee Training, Follow-up Training, Career  Development Training Training for young employees becomes a place for  learning the basics of being a Casio employee, and of- fers opportunities for employees to consider their own  career paths, with training for new entrants as well as  one-year and three-year employees.  Main human resource development programs The Career Challenge System, Career Challenge: Ad- vanced System, and Job Posting System are o ered  every year, and the company strives to place the right  people in the right jobs by valuing employees intentions.   Right person for the right job   Skill Selective Training The training targets all regular employees, for the objective  of e ectively and e  ciently acquiring diverse skills required  for work operations, in a training program that allows em- ployees to select from a large variety of training courses.  Techno Power This is a technology exhibition held annually for the ob- jective of stimulating engineers, and of sharing and ac- cumulating technology, serving as a place for recogniz- ing technology superiority, patentability, completeness,  and other in-house advanced technology.  Advanced Technology Seminars These are in-house seminars mainly targeting engineers,  using case studies of innovators at other companies  who were able to develop revolutionary new manufac- turing methods and create new businesses, for the ob- jective of understanding advanced technology trends  and of fostering a development mindset and the will to  take on challenges.  Intrapreneurship Program Casio established its Intrapreneurship Program in April  2010 to foster the desire to take on challenges and ex- pand opportunities for new business development. The  program allows individual employees to make their own  business proposals to top management. Those employ- ees whose proposals are approved as management  themes become the project leaders, and then work to  realize the goals they proposed. Additionally, career interviews are conducted with those  who desire one and support provided as appropriate  when employees consider their career direction. Division Manager Consulting Engineer Department Manager Senior Engineer Section Manager Advisory Engineer Chief Engineer G3 G2 G1-2 G1-1 T Rank 4 Rank 3 Rank 2 Rank 1 Measures to train  existing workers  to make them professionals Measures for  proper placement Training for  selected employees Training for  specic job grade Other Award system and  other incentives Skill selective  training OJT Off-JT Development  Evaluation System OJT-MAP Assessment of  Job Performance Assessment of  Job Performance Career  Roadmap Career Challenge:  Advanced Career Challenge  System Job Posting  System Skill Selective  Training Sales Training  System for Engineers Advanced Technology Seminars /  Language Training /  Correspondence Education Training for Each Department /  Professional Ability Techno Power /  Presidents Award Patent Award  System Ventures  Program Department Manager  Career Training Section Manager  Career Training G3 Career Training G3 Candidate  Training New Manager  Training Multi Evaluation  System for Leaders Multi Evaluation System  for Regular Employees Career Development  Training Follow-up Training New Employee Training Multi Evaluation  System for Managers  Training system 23 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Initiatives for Health and Safety Casio undertakes various measures to maintain and enhance the health of all employees and prevent occu- pational injuries. Based on Japans Industrial Safety and Health Act, vari- ous other legal requirements, and Casios employment  regulations, the entire Casio Group is dedicated to build- ing an environment which ensures that all employees  can work with peace of mind. Casio strives to maintain   Approach and policies Casio has established Occupational Safety and Health  Committees in all of its business locations. The commit- tees industrial physicians, occupational health manag- ers, and labor and management representatives design  and implement policies tailored to each workplace, doing   Occupational health and safety activities Casio is carrying out an initiative to prevent the damag- ing health e ects to the brain or heart which can be  caused by accumulated fatigue due to long working  hours. In order to ensure proper work schedules, all em- ployees that work 80 hours or more of overtime in a  month must be interviewed by an industrial physician. The  physician then checks the employees health condition,   Initiative to prevent working long hours Casio goes beyond employee health management. It  also seeks, by taking active measures to promote better  health, to improve employee motivation and raise  productivity.  Employees receive regular health checks that are  more thorough than legally mandated, in order to main- tain and enhance their health and to help prevent life- style-related diseases. An increased number of indus- trial physicians have been stationed at principal Casio  sites, and careful health management activities are be- ing carried out, including o ering health guidance to  employees after their regular health checks.  In the e ort to prevent lifestyle-related illnesses, Casio  is promoting initiatives that focus on exercise and  healthy eating. From September to November every  year, Casio holds a Walking Campaign at its sites across  Japan: 2,809 people participated in  scal 2011. In this  way, Casio is providing opportunities for employees and  their families to improve their health through exercise.  The employee cafeterias provide healthy menu choic-  Initiatives for managing and promoting employee health and enhance employee health and to prevent occupa- tional injuries and eliminate any chance of recurrence if  one does occur. Similar measures have been adopted at  group companies outside Japan in compliance with each  nations laws and regulations. all they can to keep employees physically and mentally  healthy and to ensure occupational safety. Committee  activities are reported to employees via the intranet.  Casio also runs campaigns to raise employee awareness  about occupational safety and health. and provides the person with advice and guidance. In  this way, Casio is working to prevent health problems  from overwork, and to ensure employees observe ap- propriate working hours. Going forward, Casio will keep  working to transform the employee mindset, encourag- ing the adoption of more productive working styles. es featuring a balance of calories and nutrition. Wellness  Fairs are also held at all Casio cafeterias. Casio holds  employee cafeteria conferences attended by the em- ployees and medical sta  of company sites as well as  those who run its cafeterias. The purpose of the meet- ings is to report and share information on conditions  and initiatives in di erent regions, in order to create  menus that meet needs and develop recommendations  for improving employee health. Healthy menu selections in the cafeteria 24 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Casio has established a mental health education system  to support the mental health of its employees.  As part of this system, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., has  initiated an e-Learning Program, a Self-Checkup, and a  Stress Test by Organization for all its employees. A  separate e-Learning Program and a Program for Manag- ers have also been created for those in leadership posi- tions. All of these programs are designed to improve  awareness of mental health issues.  Mental health care initiatives Under Japans Health Promotion Act that came into ef- fect in 2003, smoking is prohibited in all company build- ings. Staring in  scal 2011, Casio and its Health Insur-  Quit smoking campaign Casio is committed to the goal of zero occupational inju- ries and operates regular safety programs with the aim  of maintaining an accident-free record at all Casio work  sites.  In addition, each site and group company conducts   Safety initiatives  In addition, Casio has an in-house mental health physi- cian and an external Physical and Mental Health Hotline  in place to offer counseling in and outside the  company.  In  scal 2011, Casio prepared to establish the same  kind of support system for group companies in Japan, in  order to ensure that all group employees can perform  their jobs in good health. ance Association have been cooperating in the  implementation of a concrete Quit Smoking Encourage- ment Program that uses stop smoking aid products.  re and disaster prevention/evacuation drills, as well as  general lifesaving classes to ensure emergency pre- paredness. The company has made good progress on  equipping worksites with automatic external de brilla- tors (AEDs) and other emergency equipment.  Occupational injuries at Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (in the last  ve years) (FY) Injury frequency rate*1  Injury severity rate*2  Casio  Manufacturers  Casio  Manufacturers  FY2007 (Jan.-Dec. 2006)  1.11  1.02  0.027  0.110  FY2008 (Jan.-Dec. 2007)  0.33  1.09  0.004  0.100  FY2009 (Jan.-Dec. 2008)  0.51  1.12  0.005  0.100  FY2010 (Jan.-Dec. 2009)  0.19  0.99  0.001  0.080  FY2011 (Jan.-Dec. 2010) 0.20 0.98 0.001 0.090 *1  Number of deaths and injuries, per 1 million actual cumulative working hours, resulting from occupational accidents. *2  Work days lost per 1,000 actual cumulative working hours; indicates accident severity *  The term occupational injuries here includes injuries or illnesses (requiring at least 1 day o  work) and deaths of workers in connection with the perfor- mance of their jobs. 25 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Local Communities Social Contribution Activities Striving to be a model corporate citizen, Casio makes the most of its unique know-how and management  resources to ful ll its various social responsibilities. Aiming to help create a healthy, generous society, Casio  is earnestly engaged in a variety of social contribution  initiatives. Casio takes good corporate citizenship liter- ally, so its process for determining the most useful  things to do is guided by communication with various  stakeholders. The  ve priority themes of Casios social  contribution initiatives are outlined in the  gure below.  Leveraging its unique know-how and management re- sources as well as the wide range of knowledge and ex- perience possessed by its employees, Casio ful lls its  social responsibilities in its own innovative way.  Going forward, Casio will continue to provide assistance  to people su ering in the aftermath of the Great East Ja- pan Earthquake. Casio also plans to make sure that its  social contribution initiatives target global challenges.  Philosophy on Social Contribution Factory tours, classes in the company, and school visits In 2004, Kofu Casio started the Factory Tours for  10,000 People educational program with the aim of giv- ing children awareness through factory tours that can  help link family connectedness, the power of science,  and the realization of dreams with the power to live.  In 2007, Casio started an original educational program  for elementary school students including school visits  and classes o ered at the Hachioji R&D Center.  The school visit program is roughly divided into three  parts. The  rst part covers the importance of life through  connectedness, creativity, and emotional growth. In the  second part the students take apart and then reassem- ble a calculator to learn about environmentally friendly  product technology. In the  nal segment, the instructor  explains the importance of protecting the global environ- ment with speci c examples. The program is designed to  help the children think for themselves, to understand the  importance of empathy, kindness, goodwill, and a smile,  and to foster generosity of spirit by raising awareness.  The classes o ered at the Hachioji R&D Center are  focused more on environmental initiatives. Touring the  facilities at the Hachioji R&D Center, one of the most  advanced environmentally friendly business sites in the  Casio Group, gives children an experience intended to  promote their awareness and understanding of the  need to protect the global environment.  Raising up the next generation People are very interested in  the Factory Tours for 10,000  People program, which en- ables visitors to observe and  experience things for them- selves.  The Hachioji R&D Center reg- ularly holds classes for Casio  employees and their family  members. The school visit program is of- fered for students from kin- dergarten through university.  Casios social contribution priorities Education of the next generation Community service Culture and arts Casios social contribution priorities Study and research Environmental conservation 26 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management   The school visit program is o ered for students from  kindergarten through university and has been spreading  around the country. In  scal 2011, these learning op- portunities were provided to a total of 1,932 students at  45 schools.  In fiscal 2011, Casio started offering cooperative  classes with several universities a  liated with NGOs/ NPOs. These classes give college students a chance to  interact directly with the public and are also used to give  students hoping to become educators someday some  experience with teaching.  After these activities, the students have held their own  summits to discuss issues such as life, peace, human  rights, poverty, and the environment, and multiple elemen- tary schools have rolled out interesting social initiatives.  One elementary school became the  rst to exhibit at  Children have unlimited possibilities and high  aspirations. They have a great deal of power  to change the world of adults. Children will  eventually become the leaders of society. We  should help them to build a more sustainable  world by giving them early sentiments on  life, which is the starting point of living. That  is why we place value on the Class on Life.  Children who have had contact with senti- ments on life and fostered awareness and  aspirations engage on their own with peace,  human rights, poverty or environmental initia- tives. Efforts to foster children who can  change society for the better by thinking and  acting for themselves are important as a cor- porate social responsibility. From here on, we  will work even harder on this, as a core part of  our CSR initiatives. I was recently transferred to Nagatadai Ele- mentary School. Thinking that I would really  like the children here to experience the class  o ered by Mr. Hiroshi Wakao of Casio Com- puter Co., Ltd., I asked him to conduct a  school visit.  For a long time children in the individual  support class at Nagatadai Elementary School  have grown plants outside the building to cre- ate green curtains that keep the building cool  in summer, recycled vegetable peels and rain  water, and undertaken other sustainable prac- tices. I really wanted to exhibit these e orts at  the Eco-Products exhibition.  I hoped that the exhibition would boost the  childrens self-con dence by letting people  know about their initiatives. When we con ne  our thinking to just within the school, our ef- forts tend to get stuck in a dead end, and so  I asked Mr. Wakao for broad-ranging advice.  Mr. Wakaos continued involvement has  helped to broaden and deepen the childrens  learning. Seeing how he interacts in earnest  with the children and keeps talking to them,  the teaching sta  too has obtained new in- sights and strengthened its dedication to ed- ucation. This has also led to forward-thinking  e orts within Kanagawa Prefecture, such as  our membership in the UNESCO Associated  Schools. I am very grateful. Employee message Message from a school principal Hisashi Wakao CSR Promotion O  ce Masaharu Sumita, Principal Nagatadai Elementary  School the Eco-Products exhibition in Japan in  scal 2010. In   scal 2011, two elementary schools exhibited.  What is more, Nagatadai Elementary School in Yoko- hama, Kanagawa Prefecture, which became involved  through Casios school visit program, declared its desire  to become a UNESCO Associated School in order to  engage actively in Education for Sustainable Develop- ment (ESD). In  scal 2011, the school was the  rst ele- mentary school in Kanagawa Prefecture to obtain certi-  cation from UNESCO.  Taking the ESD initiatives recommended by Japans  Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and  Technology seriously, Casio will continue expanding  these initiatives in collaboration with educational institu- tions in the future. 3.11I think that this great disaster  has become a major turning point not  just for individuals, but also for corpo- rations and NGOs/NPOs. It has  changed their values and altered the  course of disaster support.  Through the cooperation of Mr.  Wakao of Casio Computer Co., Ltd.,  my NGO, People for the Advancement  of Cambodian Education, has had op- portunities to give lectures at elemen- tary schools and at the Japan Interna- tional Cooperation Agency (JICA).  Children have the power to change  the world of adults. Being able to  communicate these words from Mr.  Wakao together with the things that  we have gained from our actions on  the ground in Cambodia to as many  children in Japan as possible has been  a very valuable experience for us.  Corporations and NPOsalthough  their standpoints are di erent, I think  that having been able to work on a  public awareness campaign together  became a trigger for the further ex- pansion of our initiatives. I believe that  this overlaps exactly the spectacle of  the Japanese people, of NGOs/NPOs,  and of corporations groping for what  that each could do and then taking  action in response to the disaster.  I am determined to give my best in  all our endeavors from here on, not  just public awareness campaigns. Message from an NPO Noriko Takahashi People for the Advancement of Cambodian  Education 27 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Support for the Casio Science Promotion Foundation Casio is contributing to the development of science and  technology by supporting the Casio Science Promotion  Foundation. About the Foundation The Casio Science Promotion Foundation was estab- lished in 1982 by the four Kashio brothers and the for- mer chairman, Shigeru Kashio.  The Foundation provides research grants with the  principle objective of fostering pioneering and creative  research in the early stages by young researchers who  are persevering with challenging research on limited  funding. This is based on the philosophy that advanced  R&D should be promoted in various  elds, in order to  ful ll the Foundations mission of helping Japan contrib- ute to the world as a nation of advanced technology. Grants in  scal 2011 In addition to its 21 basic categories in 5  elds, in  scal   Academic Research 2011 the Foundation established 3 special topics con- sidered to be important based on recent social trends:  miniaturization and energy-saving technology; electronic  devices for the maintenance and improvement of health;  and human intellectual progress in an IT society.  After a rigorous selection process, 44.00 million (34  grants) was awarded in the natural sciences, and 6.75  million (5 grants) was awarded in the cultural sciences.  Over the last 28 years, the Foundation has provided a  total of about 1,332 million in 1,053 grants. The Casio Science Promotion Foundation donated  10 million yen to three universities in the Tohoku  region that were severely damaged in the earth- quake disaster in order to support the earliest pos- sible recovery of university research. Recipients: Tohoku University: 5 million yen Tohoku Gakuin University:  2 million yen Fukushima University:  3 million yen Relief for the Great East Japan Earthquake Thank you very much for the research grant from  the Casio Science Promotion Foundation. I am  grateful to the selection committee and everyone  involved. My research is concerned with energy-re- lated materials. Since the energy  eld is a pressing  issue, there is a tendency merely to improve on ex- isting research and to neglect basic research. In  this context, Casio was bold enough to understand  the value of my extreme- ly challenging proposal,  which could be seen as a  privilege of academics. I  will work at developing  an innovative energy  device so that it can help  in the restoration of  Japan. I ask for your  continued guidance and  encouragement in the  future. Message from a grant recipient Jun Matsui, Assistant Professor Institute of Multidisciplinary Re- search for Advanced Materials,  Tohoku University By sponsoring symphony orchestras and cultural facili- ties, Casio provides people with opportunities to feel  delight and deep emotion and promotes the develop- ment of culture and the arts.  Culture and the arts Tree planting events Casio Electronics (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., has been partici- pating in tree planting events since six years ago with  the aim of mutual harmony and bene t between the  global environment and the local community.  In April 2011, 32 employees participated in the 2011  Green Universiade* Memorial Tree Planting Event, plant- ing 25 jacaranda trees in the Longcheng Park in Shen- zhens Longgang District. The event helped the company  build good relationships with community residents and  heighten solidarity among employees. *  An environmentally friendly Universiade hosted in Shenzhen, China in  August 2011.  Environmental Conservation  Sponsorship of the NHK Symphony Orchestra  Sponsorship of the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra   Sponsorship of the Maison de la culture du Japon   Paris (Institute of Japanese Culture in Paris), and more 2011 Green Universiade Memorial Tree Planting Event 28 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Establishment of a Casio Technology Course in a manu- facturing technical school and acceptance of trainees In 2009, Casio Electronic Technology (Zhongshan) Co.,  Ltd., established a Casio Technology Course in a manu- facturing technical school in Hunan province through an  agreement with the school. The purpose of the course is  to contribute to the community by training engineers and  technicians in a developing region of Chinas interior, and  to give students who wish to work at Casio an opportu- nity to join the company. The course currently has 309  students in six classrooms. In addition to manufacturing  technical education, the students are provided with skills  training in the assembly of Casio products using assem- bly practice equipment provided by the company and  code of conduct education using Casios work rules.  Additionally, Casio provides in-house practical training  for students during summer and winter vacations. A to- tal of 1,660 students have completed the practical train- ing as of March 2011.  Local community initiatives Product disassembly and separation work contracted to  a welfare workspace Aiming to be a company that is good for people and  environmentally friendly, Casio Business Service Co.,  Ltd., contracts disassembly and separation work of Ca- sio products to a welfare workspace operated by a so- cial welfare corporation as part of its recycling initiatives  in product disposal.  The workers have rated the work contracted by Casio,  which handles a great variety of products, as giving   Others  The  rst graduates of the Casio Technology Course  are anticipated to join the company in June 2011, and  Casio has expectations that they will become candidates  for production line leaders in the future. Support for Cherry Marathon in Higashine City Yamagata Casio has been supporting the Cherry Mara- thon in Higashine City since 2004. The companys inten- tion is to become an enterprise that is appreciated by  the local residents not only for its corporate activities,  but also for its contribution to the local community and  Higashine City.  At the ninth annual marathon held in 2010, Yamagata  Casio provided prizes as a corporate sponsor and set up  a sales booth. About 60 Yamagata Casio employees also  participated in the event as runners, cheering squad  members, and route volunteers. them a high sense of  ful llment. Casio has re- ceived reports that the  ability to concentrate  and the self-con dence  gained here spreads  into workers everyday  lives and helps shape  them as citizens.  Disassembly work Yamagata Casio booth Casio Technology Course opening celebration Support for Jewelers for Children Casio America, Inc., has supported Jewelers for Children  since 2010.  Jewelers for Children (JFC) is an NPO established in  1999 by the US jewelry industry. It manages a fund used  to help children  ghting intractable diseases and chil- dren who have faced abuse and similar hardships. Since  its inception, JFC has donated more than $35 million to  support the sound de- velopment of children.  Relief efforts for disaster victims When a major natural disaster strikes, Casio provides  relief to disaster victims, as well as support for rapid  post-disaster reconstruction.   Relief after the 2010 Yushu earthquake in China   Casio made the following donations for the relief of  people su ering in the aftermath of the major earth- quake that struck Yushu prefecture, Qinghai province,  China in April 2010:  Amount:  1.5 million yen from Casio Computer Co., Ltd.,  and 1.0 million yen from Casios local sales  subsidiaries in China   Donated through the Japanese Red Cross Society and  the local Red Cross Society 29 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Environmental Initiatives Environmental Vision Environmental Management at Casio: The Road to 2050 Casio is working hard to help build a sustainable society. Its initiatives, based  on the Casio Environmental Vision, adopt a long-term perspective with a  target date of 2050.  Environmental Management Policy On behalf of everyone at Casio, I would like to take this  opportunity to express our heartfelt condolences to the  victims of the recent Great East Japan Earthquake and  their families. We o er our sincere hopes for a speedy  recovery and reconstruction.  The earthquake also resulted in a series of  res, nuclear  meltdowns, and releases of radioactive materials at  several reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power  Station operated by the Tokyo Electric Power Company,  and this continuing challenge has yet to be fully resolved.  As a result, on June 1, 2011, the Japanese govern- ment issued power usage restrictions for large power  customers (power contracts of 500 kW or more) of the  Tokyo Electric Power Company and the Tohoku Electric  Power Company, based on Article 27 of the Electricity  Business Act. Energy saving measures are also required  for small electrical users and households.  Given this situation, Casio is striving to reduce its  energy usage in Japan by adopting creative ideas from  employees. Emergency energy-saving measures are  being carried out in various areas in order to ensure a  reliable foundation for our business. Casio sites required  to restrict power usage based on Article 27 of the Elec- tricity Business Act are taking the necessary measures  to comply with it.    The international COP16 conference on climate  change was held in Cancun, Mexico in late November  and early December 2010, and the Copenhagen Accord  from COP15 was formally adopted. However, regarding  the extension of the Kyoto Protocol to which Japan,  Russia, and Canada are opposed, continued discussion is  still needed while respecting the position of developing  countries.  As for developments in the protection of biodiversity,  COP10 was held in Nagoya in October 2010. The con- ference adopted the Aichi Biodiversity Targets, which  outline 20 targets including long-term targets to be  achieved by 2050 in order to build human societies that  live in harmony with nature, as well as short-term targets  Casios goal is to help build a more sustainable world while contributing to the  creation of new markets and cultural phenomenon by developing compact,  lightweight, slim, and energy-e  cient products. to be achieved by 2020 in order to stop the loss of bio- diversity. The Nagoya Protocol was also adopted, which  sets out methods for the acquisition and handling of  genetic resources and the distribution of their bene ts.  Speci c initiatives are now needed for the protection  of biodiversity.  Since  scal 2010, we have been promoting environ- mental management with the objective of building a low- carbon society. Given the recent environmental trends,  however, starting in  scal 2012 we intend to add the  protection of biodiversity as an additional objective of  our environmental management. Casio will take steps to  achieve both these objectives.  In order to improve resource productivity, Casio is  contributing to both the  ght against climate change  and the protection of biodiversity by leveraging its  expertise in creating products that are compact, light- weight, slim and energy efficient, thereby saving re- sources (parts/materials, and plant-derived materials).  In the future, Casio will continue to undertake the  following two initiatives as it seeks to build its business.      1.  Generation of pro ts and improvement of brand  power by pursuing superiority over competitors  products through the improvement of resource  productivity.      New green procurement (adding requirements  relating to biodiversity)      Expanding paperless products (electronic dic- tionaries, data projectors, digital cameras, etc.)       Recycling (investigating and promoting the  recycling of rare and precious metals, as well  as plastics)      2. New environmental businesses       Introducing products and frameworks that con- tribute to the creation of a paperless culture      Expanding products that care for nature Yukio Kashio Executive Vice President & Rep- resentative Director 30 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Increasing need for environmental management Moving from activities within the company to broader social engagement  Environmental response Environmental protection Environmental management Environmental  management  Building a low-carbon  society Environmental management  Building a low-carbon society  Preserving biodiversity Starting in scal 2012 * Contributing to CSR management    through environmental management Responding to environ- mental regulations  Compliance  Pollution risk avoidance Voluntarily reducing  environmental impact  Energy and resource saving  3R (reduce, reuse, and  recycle) activities  Measures to help prevent  global warming  Zero emissions achievement  Green procurement  ISO 14001 certication Combining environmen- tal protection and prot  creation  Environmental accounting  Casio Environmental  Action Plan  Green Products  LCA / environmental  eciency indicators  Environmental brands  Ecological and SRI Funds Prot creation through  carbon control  Green Star Products  Green IT Starting in scal 2010 1. Increasing resource productivity  and creating prots   New green procurement   Paperless products   Recycling 2. New environmental businesses   Creating a paperless society   Products that care for nature (Outdoor-oriented products: Protrek, EXILIM G, and digi- tal cameras with GPS function, etc.)  In fiscal 2012, as part of efforts to fight climate  change, Casio will establish speci c plans and measures  to achieve a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions by  scal  2021, a target of the Casio Environmental Action Plan  already announced. As part of its activities to protect  biodiversity, Casio will evaluate the impact of its business  activities on biodiversity, revise its Green Procurement   Casios  scal 2012 environmental management policy for the realization of a sustainable society 1.  Response to social environment  changes after the Great East Japan  Earthquake (emergency measures)       Performing business activities using  the creative ideas of all employees       Striving to conserve energy in or- der to ensure a reliable founda- tion for the business    Casio is complying with power us- age restrictions based on Article  27 of the Electricity Business Act,  at sites designated as large con- tract power users of 500 kW or  more within the service areas of  the Tokyo Electric Power Company  and the Tohoku Electric Power  Company. 2.  Investigation of measures to achieve  medium and long-term targets for  reducing greenhouse gas emissions       Establishing a speci c plan for a 30%  reduction in CO2 emissions compared  to  scal 2006 by  scal 2021, and an  80% reduction by  scal 2051. 3.  Promotion of Green Of ce and Green  Star Product development       Promoting paperless products for  the realization of Green O  ces       Enhancing technologies to develop  Green Star Products that are more  compact, lightweight, slim and en- ergy e  cient. 4.  Establishing and executing strategies for  improving environmental management       Identifying issues through close  examination of various stake- holder surveys to devise and im- plement the necessary measures       Starting initiatives for the acquisi- tion of ISO 26000 certi cation 5.  Investigation and promotion of initia- tives for the protection of biodiversity       Evaluating Casios impact on  biodiversity       Re ecting  ndings in the Green  Procurement Standards, and sur- veying suppliers       Investigating possibilities for business  contribution through products and  services that help protect biodiversity  New environmental management initiatives Standards, and conduct supplier surveys based on  those standards, following its Biodiversity Guidelines  established on March 31, 2011. Casio will then con rm  whether its business activities are posing any problems  for biodiversity.  Through these initiatives, Casio intends to strengthen  its foundation as a leading environmental company,  while helping to build a more sustainable world. 31 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Efforts to Fight Climate Change In order to ensure that the next generation inherits this irreplaceable planet, Casio has established and is  implementing medium- and long-term targets to  ght climate change. With the establishment of these medium- and long-term  targets, Casio intends to reduce its greenhouse gas  emissions signi cantly. Moreover, the company is em- phasizing its goal of becoming carbon neutral,*1 which   Approach to setting medium- and long-term targets Scope of emissions reduction targets When Casio established its medium- and long-term  emissions reduction targets, it also announced the tar- get scope as greenhouse gas emission from business  activities at Casios production sites and o  ces in Japan  and around the world. Furthermore, Casio is aiming to  become a carbon neutral company by o setting its total  volume of greenhouse gas emissions (including the  CO2 emissions resulting from logistics, product usage,  employee travel, and consignment production) with the  Switching to total-volume emission reduction targets With the setting of global medium- and long-term tar- gets, total-volume emissions reduction targets for  greenhouse gases have been established in Japan and  around the world, including reduction targets and emis- sion trading systems. Casio has now  nished the move  to total-volume emissions reduction targets.  Casio had already set targets for the total volume of  greenhouse gas reduction at its o  ces worldwide. How- means reducing Casios net greenhouse gas emissions  to zero. Accordingly, Casio has adopted the following  Environmental Management Policy. reduction e ects of Casios eco-products such as data  projectors, electronic dictionaries and other products  that promote paperless lifestyles.  In addition to the CO2 emissions reduction achieved  by the e orts of the Casio group, the target CO2 emis- sions reduction also includes reductions due to the  availability of cleaner energy such as electricity, and due  to carbon reduction in the entire social infrastructure  (see diagram). ever, with the establishment of its recent medium- and  long-term targets, Casio has now set worldwide targets  for reductions in the total volume of CO2 emissions,  which is a change from previous targets for reduction  per unit of production.  The base year for Casios medium- and long-term tar- gets is  scal 2006, decided based on changes in Casios  business structure, as well as the scope and accuracy of  data acquisition. Casios goal is to become carbon neutral by leveraging its ability to develop compact, lightweight,  slim, and energy-ef cient products to create new markets and cultural phenomenon. *1 Casio de nes carbon neutral as o setting its direct CO2 emissions with CO2 emissions reduction and absorption through other methods. CO2 emissions from business  activities (direct emissions) CO2 emissions arising from the  use of energy-saving products  (indirect emissions) CO2 emissions that can be  absorbed due to promotion of  paperless products (oset amount) Scope of announced targets Base year  2006 Current  situation 2021 target 2051 target Share of reduction from  Casios own eorts Share of reduction from  carbon reduction in the  social infrastructure  CO2 Emissions Reduction Targets 32 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Carbon neutral calculation examples Casio is looking into trial calculations for its reduction of  greenhouse gases based on the use of Casios eco- products and, in particular, products encouraging the  transition to a paperless society.   Casios current target products for this paperless ini- tiative are data projectors and electronic dictionaries.  Casio calculates the amount of CO2 emitted during the  manufacture and use of these products, as well as the  amount of CO2 absorbed by the trees not harvested to  make the paper saved by these products. When these  two amounts are equal, the products are considered  carbon neutral.  Medium- and long-term targets In order to achieve its medium- and long-term targets  for  scal 2021 and 2051, Casio will steadily promote the  following three points relating to initiatives for green- house gas reduction, taken from the  ve points of the  Casio Environmental Declaration.   1. CO2 reduction and absorption     In order to contribute to the realization of a low- carbon society, Casio will work to create products  that reduce CO2 and systems that absorb CO2  more than ever before.  Measures for achieving medium- and long-term targets Casio is studying the potential of the following initiatives  to achieve the medium-term target for 2020. It will also  strive to assess as quickly as possible their potential to  help meet the 2050 target.  1   Response to social environment changes after the Great  East Japan Earthquake     Responding to energy issues     Introducing renewable energy sources  2.  Environmental contribution through product usage     Reducing the amount of electricity used by  products     Minimizing and optimizing the amount of product  packaging     Increasing the percentage of products that run  on solar cells     CO2 absorption e ect based on the expansion of pa- perless products (reducing demand for logging, etc.)  Measures for 2020  2. Utilization of clean energy     Casio will work to create products and systems  using energy sources that are easy on people and  the planet.  3. Adoption of renewable energy in business activities     Casio will undertake its business activities based on  the adoption of renewable energy resources such  as solar, wind, and water-powered energy.  3. Utilizing carbon offsets     Purchasing carbon o sets for products     Promoting tree planting and greening     Emissions trading, Clean Development Mecha- nism (CDM), and Joint Implementation (JI)  4.  Reduction of CO2 emissions in various business activity  processes     Materials procurement, product manufacturing,  transport and distribution, product usage, recy- cling, and disposal     Expansion of the scope of CO2 emission data gath- ering on logistics, transport e  ciency improvement,  and modal shift     Making production facilities more energy e  cient,  and improving production processes  5.  Saving energy and increasing the percentage of non-fossil  fuels used at sites     Installation of LED lighting     Installation of solar panels     Installation of highly efficient air conditioning  equipment Casio groups medium- and long-term targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction Medium-term target:  To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 30%  compared to  scal 2006, by  scal 2021 Long-term target:  To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 80%  compared to  scal 2006, by  scal 2051. *  Business activities: This indicates activities of production sites and o  ces in Japan and overseas, and does not include CO2 emissions from logistics,  product usage, or employee travel. 33 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Green Star Products Casios Green Star Products o er even greater environmental performance than Casios conventional products. In order to minimize the environmental impact of its  products, Casio is promoting the development of envi- ronmentally friendly products in every aspect of planning  and design.  In 1993, Casio began product assessment in order to  systematize and promote its development of eco  products. New products had to undergo a preliminary  assessment for their environmental impact and meet  certain criteria in order to be certi ed as Casio Green  Products. Prior to  scal 2008, Casio worked towards an  initial Green Product sales target of 80% of total sales,   Green Star Product concept The Green Star mark is used according to the strict  requirements of the Casio Green Star Mark Operation  Manual.  Green Star Mark See the product lineups that were certi ed as Casio  Green Star Products in fiscal 2011 (photos show   Casio Green Star Products and in that year the company achieved 84%.  With the achievement of this target, Casio decided to  create even stricter criteria and implement more spe- cific, detailed assessments. Qualifying products are  certi ed as Green Star Products, representing the best  of Casio Green Products. This ensures that Casios  products continue to set the bar higher and drive the  realization of a sustainable society.  For the convenience of customers, Casio indicates in- formation about environmental features in catalogs and  on packaging of the Green Star Products. DS-2DT EX-Z3000 XD-B8500 XJ-M255  Calculator  Digital camera  Electronic dictionary  Data projector This mark indicates a product that was  developed in accordance with the  Green Star Concept. product examples). 34 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  GE5000 AP-420 OCW-T1000 IT-300  Page printer  Electronic musical instrument  Watch  Handheld terminal In  scal 2010, Casio set a target of a 30% sales ratio of  Casio Green Star Products to be achieved by fiscal  2013. The result in  scal 2011 was 42%, hitting the   Share of Casio Green Star Products in total sales: Performance and targets In order to develop more Green Star Products, Casio is  strengthening initiatives at each stage of the product  lifecycle. Casio addresses environmental issues based   Concept for Green Star Product expansion and designation standard target two years ahead of schedule. A new target has  been set in  scal 2012, and Casio is aiming for even  greater improvements. on the Casio Green Star Concept, which calls for low  environmental impact across the lifecycle.  Develop products with functions that yield    very high environmental performance  Conserve resources through the use of IT  Improve recyclability rate  An unbroken recycling loop  Use transport methods with    high environmental eciency  Optimize loading eciency  Optimize packaging for loading eciency  Adopt packaging with excellent 3R features  Procure safe parts  Procure parts with high    environmental performance  Ensure factories have strong    environmental performance  Transition to renewable energy Casio Green Star  Product  C.G.S.P Green Star  Design Green Star Recycling Green Star Logistics Green Star Packing Green Star Factories Green Star Procurement Casio Green Products Products that meet the certication  standards of the Green Product  Assessment below  Casio Green Star Products Target: 30% Products that meet the certication  standards of the Green Product  Assessment below and meet at least  one criterion of the Green Star  Product Assessment  Assessment criteria      for each product Green Product Assessment Casio Green Star Product Assessment  1. Promotes recycling     (labeling of materials contained)  2. Designed for recycling  3. Components of products can be     separated, disassembled  4. Improved recyclability  5. Reduced resource volume  6. Reduced resource weight  7. Improved energy eciency  8. Regulated use of chemical substances  9. Recyclability of batteries  10. Recycling label on batteries  11. Regulatory compliance  12. Components of packaging can be     separated, disassembled  13. Regulated use of packaging materials  14. Preserves the natural environment  90 points or more, out of a total  100 points possible  1. Power consumption during use reduced by 20%  2. Solar batteries used and Eco Mark acquired  3. Use of solar batteries and long-life structure  4. Comes with a 10-year battery and long-life structure  5. Body volume reduced by 20% or more  6. Weight reduced by 20% or more  7. Load ratio reduced by 20% or more due to more     compact packaging  8. Uses 30% or greater recycled plastic  9. Uses 25% or greater bioplastics  10. Contains no specic hazardous chemical substances     (polyvinyl chloride)  11. Improvement of 10% or more over the conventional ratio     based on as LCA environmental assessment 12. Improvement of 10% or more over the conventional ratio     based on product environmental eciency  13. Has functions that make considerable contributions to     environmental performance When products meet the Green Production standards and also  fulll a criterion above. * Casio Green Star Product certication standards may vary for some products. * These standards will be periodically revised to keep pace with environmental advances.  Casio Green Star Concept diagram  Assessment categories 35 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Biodiversity This section introduces Casios initiatives for preserving biodiversity. The 10th Conference of Parties to the Convention on  Biological Diversity (COP10) was held in Nagoya, Japan  in October 2010. At this important international confer- ence for resolving issues related to preserving the abun- dance of life on this planet, the following measures were  adopted.   New Strategic Biodiversity Plan (2020), and the Aichi  Biodiversity Targets (2050)   Nagoya Protocol on Access and Bene t-sharing   In March 2011, Casio established Biodiversity Guidelines   Casios approach to biodiversity preservation  Casio Group Biodiversity Guidelines for the entire Casio Group, as part of step 1 on this is- sue in its Environmental Action Plan. Next, the company  will take steps 2 and 3 in order to preserve biodiversity  and the services provided by ecosystems.  Step 1:  Establish a Casio Biodiversity Activity Policy and  Guidelines (Recently completed)  Step 2:  Evaluate levels of biodiversity impact in all business  areas (by  scal 2012)  Step 3:  Implement Casios policy themes for the realization  of biodiversity preservation (by fiscal 2013) Casio Group Biodiversity Guidelines Basic Policy The Casio Group recognizes that its existence and business activities depend on the benets aorded by biodiversity,  and that these activities also have an impact on biodiversity. Casio emphasizes biodiversity preservation activities as well  as eorts to ght climate change. By including biodiversity preservation in environmental management and creating a  system for implementation, the Casio Group is working to build a more sustainable world. Specic Initiatives 1. Business Activities:   Casio will help to build a more sustainable world by creating and providing products  and services that encourage consumers to care for nature. This will be done by learning  from nature and developing technologies that utilize this wisdom.    Facilitating a paperless society    Contributing to resource saving by developing original technology    Developing products with care for nature 2. Impact Assessment:   Casio will survey and analyze its impact on biodiversity through activities including R&D,  design, procurement, manufacturing, logistics, sales, product use, disposal, and recy- cling, and at its oce and plant locations. It will establish improvement measures and  implement them starting with areas of highest environmental impact and benet.    Actively taking initiatives for proper procurement of parts (leather, wood, paper, etc.)  and materials (mineral resources, etc.) that depend on ecosystem services.    Conducting questionnaire surveys across the supply chain in order to check ecosys- tem protection eorts for parts and materials that make up products.    Establishing impact assessment methods (checklists and indices) for the Casio Group 3. Information Disclosure:    Casio will strive to improve social awareness of biodiversity, by actively disclosing the  results of its environmental activities. 4. Community Involvement:   Casio will actively support activities that contribute to biodiversity preservation by  NPOs and NGOs, government agencies, and local citizens. 5. Full Employee Participation: Casio is aiming for activities that involve the participation of all employees, by increas- ing understanding of biodiversity preservation, and training employees to act on their  own initiative. March 31, 2011 Yukio Kashio, Chairman, Casio Environmental Conference 36 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Supporting Exhibitions by the Wild Bird Society of Japan Casio Computer Co., Ltd., supported the 3rd Intercon- nections Between Living Things Art Exhibit held in To- kyo from November 12 to 21, 2010, and the exhibit of  the same name in Nagasaki, held from November 27 to  December 6, 2010. The two exhibits were attended by a  total of more than 3,000 people.  The Casio Group is advancing activities to support  biodiversity, fostering the many interconnections  between living things, including more than 30 million  species on this planet. Casio has come together to pro- mote activities to help protect all the irreplaceable living  things on this planet and preserve the bene ts they  a ord, while raising public awareness of these e orts.  Fiscal 2011 Biodiversity Preservation Activities  The Beautiful Tama River Forum Casio will begin support for the Beautiful Tama River  100 Year Plan, with the aim of revitalizing the area,   Activities Starting in Fiscal 2012  WWF Japan Casio endorses the mission and action principles of the  World Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan), which  is striving to build a future where people and nature can  live in harmony. Casio also supports the organization as  a corporate member.  Activities Receiving Ongoing Support  ICERC Japan Since the 4th International Dolphin & Whale Conference  was held in Japan in 1994, Casio has released both o  - cial G-SHOCK and Baby-G models to support the Inter- national Dolphin & Whale Eco-research Network. For  over a decade, Casio has donated a portion of the watch  sales to help promote dolphin and whale educational  and research activities worldwide through ICERC Japan  (International Cetacean Education Research Center). based on activities in three main sectors: economy, envi- ronment, and education/culture. Exhibit in the Collaboration  Area (Tokyo) Outdoor exhibit of stained  glass with living things  (Nagasaki) G-SHOCK and Baby-G watches help  support the International Dolphin &  Whale Eco-Research Network project 37 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Environmental Action Plan Environmental Action Plan (Targets and Performance) Casio sets environmental targets and undertakes environmental initiatives for each  scal year, based on a  detailed Environmental Management Policy which takes into account the latest global trends. Casios approach to environmental management is  based on its Environmental Vision for the realization of a  sustainable society and its Environmental Management   Environmental Vision for the realization of a sustainable society Policy. Please see pages 31-32, Environmental Vision,  for more information on the Environmental Vision and  the Environmental Management Policy.  Fiscal 2012 Casio Environmental Action Plan 1. Development target for eco-products   Increase Casio Green Star product sales to 30% of total sales by FY2013. 1.  Medium- and long-term targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction      To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 30% compared  to  scal 2006, by  scal 2021      To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 80% compared  to  scal 2006, by  scal 2051.   *  Business activities: This indicates activities of production sites and o  ces in Japan and overseas, and does not include CO2 emissions from  logistics, product usage, or employee travel. 2. Energy conservation targets (electrical power, fuel etc.)      Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of actual production by 35%, averaged over 5 years from FY2009 to 2013  (compared to FY 1991).   *  Actual production is calculated by adjusting the production output by the Bank of Japan Domestic Corporate Goods Price Index for  electronic products, based on the policies of the four main electrical and electronics industry associations in Japan      Reduce CO2 emissions per unit by 9%, averaged over 5 years from FY2009 to 2013 (compared to FY 1991).     Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production by 30% by FY2013 (compared to FY 2005).     Reduce CO2 emissions per unit by 3% by FY2013 (compared to FY 2005). 3.  Reduction target for greenhouse gases other than CO2    Reduce total emissions of greenhouse gases other than CO2 (CO2 equivalent) to below  scal 2001 level by   scal 2013.    Reduce HFC-134a emissions   * Replace HFC-134a used in machinery such as dust blowers, with products that use chemical substances that have a lower global warming factor Medium-term target Long-term target Japan production sites Japan of ce sites Production sites outside Japan Of ce sites outside Japan Product Targets Plant and Business-site Targets 38 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  4.  Resource conservation targets (water, paper)     Reduce water usage per unit of actual production by 25% by  scal 2013 compared to  scal 2001.     Reduce water usage per unit of production by 15% by  scal 2013 compared to  scal 2005.     Reduce paper usage in o  ces per unit of sales by 10% by  scal 2013 compared to  scal 2008. 5. Waste reduction targets      Reduce generation of waste per unit of actual sales by 50% by  scal 2013 compared to  scal 2001.     Reduce generation of waste per unit of sales by 30% by  scal 2013 compared to  scal 2005. 6. Volatile organic compound (VOC) reduction target     Reduce emissions of VOCs by 30% by  scal 2011 compared to  scal 2001.   *  20 types of VOCs are speci ed by the four main electrical and electronics industry associations in Japan. Among them, Casio uses 8 types. 7.  Hazardous substance phase-out targett    Detoxify PCB-containing equipment now in storage as Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO)  starts program in each region.    Kofu Casio Co., Ltd: By  scal 2015   *  Store stabilizers, including the low concentration capacitors kept at Hachioji R&D Center, until they can be accepted by JESCO. 8.  Target for output reduction of PRTR substances      Reduce output of PRTR substances per unit of actual production by 40% by  scal 2013 compared to   scal 2004. 9.  Green procurement target    Achieve 100%*1 green parts*2 procurement rate (all supplied parts are green parts) by  scal 2012.   *1 Excluding those substances that are within legal limits, if customer request   *2 Green parts: Parts and materials that do not contain prohibited substances as designated by Casio 10.  Green purchasing target    Raise the green purchasing ratio at Japan sites to 75% of total purchases (based on the number of pur- chases) by  scal 2013.   * Applicable to sites using the CATS e-P system 11. Logistics target for the  ght against climate change    Achieve by 2012 a 22% reduction in CO2 emissions* from logistics in Japan per unit of sales, compared to   scal 2006   * Scope covers processes relating to product sales, not including processes relating to materials procurement and recycling Japan production sites Production sites outside Japan Japan sites Japan sites Production sites outside Japan Japan production sites Japan production sites 1.  Biodiversity preservation target    To preserve biodiversity and eco-system services, conduct biodiversity impact surveys in all business areas  by  scal 2012, and establish a policy theme Overall business activity targets 39 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management   Fiscal 2010 Casio Environmental Action Plan Performance Fiscal 2010 Casio Environmental  Action Plan Performance Theme Target Per-unit value  of base year,  etc. Target  per-unit value  of target year,  etc. Actual  performance of  per-unit value  for FY2011, etc. Performance  by the end of  FY2011 Progress  assessment Product targets 1. Eco-products Raise share of Green Star  Product sales in total  sales. Increase Green Star Product sales  to 30% of total sales by FY2013. Maintain Green Product sales at  80% of total sales or more.  30% [80% or more] 15.8 83 ] 14.2 percentage  points remaining to  reach target  Exceeded target by  3 percentage points  Plant and business-site targets Upper level: FY2011 Lower level: FY2010 Upper level: Compared with base year Lower level: (Compared with previous year) 1.  Reduction of  greenhouse gas  emissions over the  medium and long  term Reduce greenhouse gas  emissions over the  medium term. Reduce the total volume of global  greenhouse gas emissions from  business activities by 30% by  scal  2021 compared to  scal 2006. 132,213  92,549  54,217  Reduced by 59.0%  99,029  (Reduced by 45.3%) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) Reduce greenhouse gas  emissions over the long  term. Reduce the total volume of global  greenhouse gas emissions from  business activities by 80% by  scal  2051 compared to  scal 2006. 132,213  26,443  54,217  Reduced by 59.0%  99,029  (Reduced by 45.3%) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) 2.  Energy  conservation  (electrical power,  fuel, etc.) Reduce CO2 emissions  (Japan production sites) Reduce emissions per unit of actual  production by 35%, averaged over  5 years from FY2009 to 2013,  compared with FY1991. 0.312  0.203      0.185 1 Reduced by 40.7%      0.211 2 (Reduced by 12.1%) (Tons-CO2/ million) (Tons-CO2/ million) (Tons-CO2/ million) Reduce CO2 emissions (Japan o  ce sites) Reduce total emissions by 9%,  averaged over 5 years from FY2009  to 2013, compared with FY1991. 11,492  10,458      8,533 1 Reduced by 25.8%      9,533 2 (Reduced by 10.5%) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) Reduce CO2 emissions  (production sites outside  Japan) Reduce emissions per unit of  production by 30% by FY2013  compared to FY2005. 0.235  0.165  0.206  Reduced by 12.3%  0.265  (Reduced by 22.3%) (Tons-CO2/ million) (Tons-CO2/ million) (Tons-CO2/ million) Reduce CO2 emissions  (o  ce sites outside  Japan) Reduce total emissions by 3% by  FY2013 compared to FY2005. 5,099  4,946  7,496  Increased by 47.0%  7,362  (Increased by 1.8%) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) .  Reduction of  greenhouse gases  Reduce total emissions of  greenhouse gases other  than CO2 (CO2 equivalent)  to below 2000 level. Reduce total emissions to below  2000 level by 2010. 7,278  7,278  3,007  Reduced by 58.7%  11,355  (Reduced by 73.5%) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) or below (Tons-CO2) .  Resource  conservation  (water, paper) Reduce water usage  (Japan production sites) Reduce usage per unit of actual  production by 25% by FY2013  compared to FY2001. 0.0077 0.0058 0.0045 Reduced by 41.6%  0.0089 (Reduced by 49.4%) (Thousand m3/  million) (Thousand m3/  million) (Thousand m3/  million) Reduce water usage  (production sites outside  Japan) Reduce usage per unit of  production by 15% by FY2013  compared to FY2005. 0.0039 0.0033  0.0045  Increased by 14.9%  0.0032 (Increased by 40.1%) (Thousand m3/  million) (Thousand m3/  million) (Thousand m3/  million) Reduce o  ce paper  usage (Japan sites) Reduce usage per unit of sales by  10% by FY2013 compared to  FY2008. 0.00035 0.00032  0.00047  Increased by 32.9%  0.00041  (Increased by 13.5%) (Tons/ million) (Tons/ million) (Tons/ million) 5.  Waste reduction Reduce generation of  waste (Japan sites) Reduce waste per unit of actual  production by 50% by FY2013  compared to FY2001. 0.024  0.012  0.0136 Reduced by 43.2%  0.0195 (Reduced by 30.1%) (Tons/ million) (Tons/ million) (Tons/ million) Reduce generation of  waste (production sites  outside Japan) Reduce waste per unit of  production by 30% by FY2013  compared to FY2005. 0.012  0.008  0.0083  Reduced by 31.0%  0.0106 (Reduced by 21.9%) (Tons/ million) (Tons/ million) (Tons/ million) .  Reduction of  volatile organic  compounds (VOCs) Reduce emissions of  VOCs to atmosphere (Japan production site) Reduce emissions by 30% by  FY2011 compared to FY2001. 47  33  21  Reduced by 54.7%  32  (Reduced by 33.5%)  tons  tons  tons .  Hazardous  substance  phase-out Detoxify PCB-containing  equipment now in storage  as Japan Environmental  Safety Corporation starts Detoxify all PCBs stored at Kofu  Casio by FY2015.   Finished delivering  this equipment to  JESCO. Continuing to  store equipment until  it can be accepted  for treatment.   .  Output reduction of  PRTR substances Reduce output of PRTR  substances (Japan production sites) Reduce output per unit of actual  production by 40% by FY2013  compared to FY2004. 0.00011 0.00007 0.00003  Reduced by 71.1%  0.00005 (Reduced by 36.4%) (Tons/ million) (Tons/ million) (Tons/ million) .  Green procurement Improve the green  procurement ratio. Achieve green part procurement  ratio (ratio of green parts*4 to all  parts and materials ordered) at  sites in and outside Japan of  100%.*5 *4  Parts and materials that do not  contain prohibited substances as  designated by Casio *5  Excluding those substances that  are within legal limits, if customer  requests  FY2011: 100% In Japan: 100% Outside Japan: 100%   10.  Green purchasing Raise green purchasing  ratio of o  ce supplies  and o  ce equipment  (Japan sites) Raise the ratio to 75% of total  purchases by FY2012 (based on  the number of purchases)  75 62.8   11.  Logistics-related  global warming  countermeasures Reduce CO2 emissions*3  (distribution in Japan) Reduce emissions per unit of sales  in Japan by 22% by FY2013  compared to FY2006.  Reduce 22%  by FY2013 75.2%  compared to  FY2006 Reduced by 24.8  Overall business activity targets 1. Biodiversity  preservation target Preserve biodiversity and  ecosystem services Conduct biodiversity impact  surveys in all business areas by  2012, and establish a policy theme.    Established the  Casio Group  Biodiversity  Guidelines.  *1 Average value for FY2009 to FY2011. *2 Average value for FY2009 and FY2010. *3 The scope of target for logistics-related global warming countermeasures is distribution for product sales.  Progress assessment key Performance  Target was achieved and a new, higher target was established.  Target was achieved.  Target not achieved, but steady improvement made over previous  scal year.  Making progress toward achieving target and expect results next  scal year and beyond.  Same as or worse than base value.      40 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Environmental Communication Environmental Communication Casio understands the importance of communicating with all of its stakeholders about environmental issues. Every year, Casio exhibits at the Consumer Electronics  Show in Las Vegas, the worlds largest event of its kind.  This time, the show was held from January 6 to 9, 2011,  and attracted 120,000 visitors. The show was an excellent  opportunity for Casio to promote its innovative new  products.  The environmental exhibit area of the Casio booth  featured the companys initiatives under two themes:  Save Energy and Preserve Ecosystems. An intuitive  panel display promoted Casios advantages, and exhibits  featured Casio Green Star products, including digital  cameras and watches, as well as eco-friendly digital  camera packaging.   The projector area of the booth highlighted Casios   Participation in CES Every year Casio exhibits at Eco-Products, the largest  environmental trade show in Japan. Marking the shows  12th year, Eco-Products 2010 was held at Tokyo Big  Sight from December 9 to 11. Over 700 companies and  organizations set up booths to display their environmen- tally friendly products and services. The show attracted  more than 180,000 visitors, the largest attendance to  date. Casio has exhibited each year since the show be- gan, and in 2010 the Casio exhibit was based on the  theme, The Harmony of Technology and Ecology. Di- vided into two zones, the exhibit presented Casio Green  Star products and various other environmental initiatives  taken by the Casio Group to build a more sustainable  world. The Blue Zone featured the results of Casios  initiatives to address climate change, and the Green  Zone highlighted Casios e orts to protect ecosystems,  which are part of its biodiversity preservation initiative.  On the main stage of the exhibit, Casios environmen- tal initiatives were described in a narrated video.   Exhibiting at Eco-Products 2010 Throughout the exhibit space, various displays with  eye-catching copy pointed out all the environmentally  friendly components in various Casio products. And of  course, the ever-popular calculator assembly classes  attracted many children, teens, and young adults.  As the Eco-Products trade show continues to grow in  coming years, Casio will continue to be there to inform  the public about its environmental activities and intro- duce its new environmental concepts and strategies. Green Slim Data Projectors, which are mercury and lead  free since they use a hybrid light source that combines  LED and laser technologies. Exhibit featured Blue and  Green zones Working watches encased in  ice but is it real ice? Going beyond initiatives against cli- mate change, for the  rst time this  year the exhibit featured Casios  e orts to protect ecosystems. Green Slim Data Projector 41 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  In October 2008, the Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corpo- ration began o ering SMBC Environmental Assessment  Loans, followed by SMBC Environmental Assessment  Private Placement Bonds in June 2009. Currently, about  30 companies have raised approximately 100 billion yen  from such loans and bonds.  Under this program, the Japan Research Institute  interviews the heads of environmental management  departments at applicant companies concerning the  details of their responses to a survey conducted by the  institute. After making a comprehensive assessment  based on this, SMBC then assigns environmental ratings  to the companies and preferential interest rates are  made available to those with high ratings.  In 2010, Casio applied to participate in this private  placement bond program. Based on the assessment re- sults, the companys environmental corporate manage- ment was deemed to be outstanding, and Casio was  given the highest rating, AAA. The process also helped  Casio to identify issues with its environmental communi- cation, and made it clear that more speci c work needs  to be done to reduce CO2 emissions at sites outside  Japan, performance of waste reduction measures needs   Casio obtains AAA rating for its environmental activities from the SMBC private placement bond program to be improved, and more attention needs to be given to  biodiversity preservation. This feedback will be used to  make improvements to enable Casio to achieve an even  higher level of environmental management. *  A private placement bond (Shibosai bond) is a bond sold directly to a  few investors. It di ers from a publicly issued bond, which is widely sold  to an unspeci ed number of investors through securities companies. Customer  (bond issuing  company) Bond administration  consignment Guarantee  consignment Credit  guarantee  association SMBC SMBC SMBC Guarantee agencies Guarantee Issuing Bond Bond holder Recording bondholder  rights Fiscal agent Transfer  agency  Private Placement Bond System Environment Data External Evaluation Material Balance The material balance represents an environmental assessment of Casios energy-saving and resource-saving  manufacturing practices. Casio is always striving to minimize its energy and resource inputs as well as its  emissions and outputs. A material balance provides an overall picture of a com- panys environmental impact. It shows the amount of  energy and resources a company uses in its business  activities (inputs into business activities), the amount of   What is a material balance? At the beginning of  scal 2011, the TFT-LCD business  (Kochi Casio and the Hachioiji R&D Center electronic  component division) and the cellular phone business  were transferred and removed from the consolidation  scope of the Casio Group. Accordingly, Casio reduced  the boundary of its environmental management in  scal  2011, and there was a dramatic reduction in some envi- ronmental  gures as a result.  Fiscal 2011 performance environmentally harmful substances (including waste) it  emits, and the amount of output it produces and sells  (outputs from its business activities).  Casio has been working to save energy with its pro- duction equipment and is striving to improve production  processes.  The group is now taking further energy-saving mea- sures in order to cope with the power supply shortages  following the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck in  March 2011. 42 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  *1. Ozone depleting substances have been fully phased out. *2. Parts and materials include consumables, such as toner cartridges. *3. Recycled waste includes thermally recycled material. *4. Product distribution is consigned to transportation companies. Energy          Electricity          Fuel Water resources SF6 (sulfur hexauoride) Greenhouse gases  other than SF6 VOC Paper usage PRTR substance kl crude oil equivalent million kWh kl crude oil equivalent million m3 tons tons tons tons tons tons tons tons tons tons tons Parts and materials*2          Recycled material Manuals          Recycled material Packaging material          Recycled material m3 Rainwater m3 Recycled industrial  water tons Reused plastics Greenhouse gases          CO2 emissions          SF6 emissions          Other greenhouse          gas emissions Air pollutants*1          NOx          SOx          Dust VOC emissions to atmosphere Wastewater          BOD PRTR substance Releases / transfers          Releases          Transfers Waste generated, etc.          Waste          Valuables Landll disposal Recycled waste*3 53,719.5 0.0 497.5 3.2 1.2 0.7 21.4 1,126.8 22.8 18.0 4.7 13.2 3,676.9 1,798.6 1,878.3 257.7 3,302.4                                         31,219 million kWh Electricity 34.8 0.13 4.0 710.3 tons tons tons tons Household PCs System equipment from corporate customers Label printer tape cartridges Drums and toner cartridges 98,297 CO2 emissions 1.1 Total products sold 13,164 CO2 emissions 29.5 0.10 4.0 710.3 System equipment from  corporate customers Household PCs Label printer tape cartridges Drums and toner cartridges Inputs Outputs Recycled Logistics Sales Recovery recycling Use Logistics4 sales Manufacture Procurement R&D/design Recovered Material balance for business sites Material balance for products 26,291.4 90,204.0 3,448.6 1,208.8 0.0 0.4 104.4 143.4 19.3 26,131 329 4,120 56 13,014 10,597 4,900 146,700 8.5 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 equivalent tons-CO2 equivalent tons tons tons tons million m3 tons tons tons tons tons tons tons tons tons tons-CO2 million tons-CO2 tons tons tons tons  Material balance in business activities ( scal 2011) 43 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Environmental Performance This section presents environmental impact data related to business activities. 2009 2006 2007 2008 2005 Rail  Sea  Air Per unit of sales Per unit of sales: Compared to FY2005, % 140 80 100 60 0 0 70,000 100,000 125,000 150,000 40 20 120 2 CO2 emissions: tons- CO2 100 72,926 21,530 1,303 95.1 69.436 25,327 1,611 100.8 82,074 26.193 1,683 100.7 102.6 90,369 20,742 1,447 71,992 22,157 1,681 2010 105.5 69,540 18,786 1,441 (FY) 2011 74,729 20,484 1,538 114  CO2 emissions and emissions per unit of sales for logistics outside Japan 2006 2007 2008 2009 Per unit of sales: Compared to FY2006, % Plant/port fi Logistics Center Distribution C fi Customer  Logistics C fi Distribution C Logistics C fi Customer  Per Unit of sales 120 60 80 100 40 0 0 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 500 20 CO2 -CO2 CO2 emissions: tons- CO2 530 100 1,085 210 635 550 94.9 1,139 174 554 518 85.6 967 152 547 476 83.7 784 136 539 2010 446 79.3 651 127 529 (FY) 2011 397 598 108 443 75.2  CO2 emissions and emissions per unit of sales for logistics in Japan  CO2 Fiscal 2011 marked the third year of the target period ( ve years from  s- cal 2009 to  scal 2013) for CO2 emissions from sites in Japan. The perfor- mance  gures using comparisons with the base year are average values for  the initial year ( scal 2009) through the third year ( scal 2011).   The target for production sites in Japan was a 35% reduction in CO2  emissions per unit of actual production compared to  scal 1991. In  scal  2011, the sites CO2 emissions were approximately 41% lower than in  scal  1991, which also represented a roughly 12% decrease from the previous   scal year. The main reason for this decline from the previous year was the  transfer of the TFT-LCD and cellular phone businesses, and their removal  from the consolidation scope of the Casio Group.   The target for o  ce sites in Japan was a 9% reduction in the total  amount of CO2 emissions compared to  scal 1991. In  scal 2011, emis- sions were about 26% lower than in  scal 1991, meeting the target again  this year. This was also an approximately 11% reduction from the previous   scal year.   Fiscal 2013 is the target year for all sites outside Japan. The target for  production sites outside Japan was a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions per  unit of production compared to  scal 2005. Fiscal 2011 emissions for  these sites were about 12% lower than in  scal 2005, an approximately  22% reduction from the previous year.   The target for o  ce sites outside Japan was a 3% reduction in the total  amount of CO2 emissions compared to  scal 2005. In  scal 2011, emis- sions were approximately 47% higher than in  scal 2005, which also repre- sented an approximately 2% increase over the previous  scal year.   Casio will continue to strive to improve the energy e  ciency of its pro- duction equipment and to streamline production processes at all of its  production sites in and outside Japan. Casio will also work to reduce CO2  emissions by implementing energy-saving measures for its lighting and  heating/cooling equipment at o  ces in and outside Japan. Casio has set a target of reducing its emissions of greenhouse gases other  than CO2 to less than year 2000 levels by 2010.*    The  scal 2011 results for SF6 emissions were approximately 59% lower  than in 2000, and this represented an approximately 74% reduction com- pared to the previous year. In April 2010, the TFT-LCD business (Kochi  Casio and the electronic component division of the Hachioji R&D Center)  was transferred, and removed from the consolidation scope of the Casio  Group. This was the main reason for the emissions reduction.   In the future, Casio will put e ort into reducing greenhouse gases in- cluding those contained in dust blowers, spot freezing and sprays used  mainly at service sites. 1991 22,693 0.312 2007 79,472 0.209 79,365 0.205 0.181 47,143 53,688 0.240 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Emissions per unit of actual production: tons-CO2/million 0.35 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0 100,000 75,000 50,000 25,000 0 CO2 emissions: tons- CO2 2011 20,014 0.134 CO2 emissions Emissions per unit of  actual production  CO2 emissions (production sites in Japan) *  Trends in CO2 emissions from energy sources (electrical power, fuel, etc.)  used at production sites in Japan.  SF6 gas SF6 emissions to the atmosphere (CO2-equivalent): tons-CO2 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0 SF6 inputs: tons 7,278 0.6 0.3 1.6 0.8 1.7 0.9 1.6 0.8 1.5 0.8 0.9 0.4 18,714 20,446 19,682 18,021 10,397 2000 2005 2006 2007 2009 2008 0.2 0.1 2,510 2010 (FY) SF6 input SF6 emissions to  the atmosphere SF6 emissions to  the atmosphere CO2 -equivalent  SF6 gas usage and emissions to atmosphere (Japan production sites) *  Years shown in this graph are calendar years, to match industry action  targets. 2005 16,410 0.235 2006 18,491 0.242 20,654 0.193 33,569 0.272 0.291 23,758 29,040 0.265 2007 2008 2009 (FY) Emissions per unit of production: tons-CO2/million 0.32 0.24 0.16 0.08 0 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 CO2 emissions: tons- CO2 2011 2010 19,677 0.206 CO2 emissions Emissions per unit of  production  CO2 emissions (production sites outside Japan) *  Trends in CO2 emissions from energy sources (electrical power, fuel, etc.)  used at production sites outside Japan. 1991 11,492 2007 9,451 9,350 9,410 6,532 9,655 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 12,500 10,000 7,500 5,000 2,500 0 CO2 emissions: tons- CO2 2011 CO2 emissions  CO2 emissions (of ce sites in Japan) *  Trends in CO2 emissions from energy sources (electrical power, fuel, etc.)  used at o  ce sites in Japan. 2005 5,099 200 5,690 5,907 6,489 7,362 7,496 6,500 2007 2008 2009 (FY) 10,000 7,500 5,000 2,500 0 CO2 emissions: tons- CO2 2011 2010 CO2 emissions  CO2 emissions (of ce sites outside Japan) *  Trends in CO2 emissions from energy sources (electrical power, fuel, etc.)  used at o  ce sites outside Japan. 44 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Water resource input is evaluated using  scal 2013 as the target year.   The target for production sites in Japan was a 25% reduction in water  resource input per unit of actual production compared to  scal 2001. In   scal 2011, water input per unit of actual production was about 42% lower  than in  scal 2001, which also represented a reduction of about 49% from  the previous  scal year. Total water resource input was down by about 21%  from the previous year. This was due to the transfer of the TFT-LCD and  cellular phone businesses, and their removal from the consolidation scope  of the Casio Group.   The target for production sites outside Japan was a 15% reduction in  water resource input per unit of production compared to  scal 2005. In   scal 2011, the  gure was 15% higher than in  scal 2005, representing an  approximately 40% increase compared to the previous year. This increase  was due to the rise in TFT production output at the Casio Computer (Hong  Kong) Ltd. Casio will continue to strive to reduce water usage. Casio evaluates its waste reduction (waste and valuables) using  scal 2013  as the target year.   The target for reducing waste produced from sites in Japan was a 50%  reduction in waste per unit of actual production compared to  scal 2001. In   scal 2011, waste was reduced by about 43% compared to  scal 2001,  which also represented an approximately 30% reduction from the previous  year. Although the amount of waste produced compared to the previous   scal year fell by about 15%, this was due to the transfer of the TFT-LCD and  cellular phone businesses, and their removal from the consolidation scope of  the Casio Group.    The target for reducing waste from production sites outside Japan was a  30% reduction per unit of production compared to  scal 2005. In  scal  2011, emissions were reduced by about 31% compared to  scal 2004, for  an approximately 22% reduction from the previous year. Further waste  reduction measures for production sites outside Japan are being considered. The reduction target for the usage of o  ce paper at sites in Japan, set in  scal  2010, was a 10% reduction compared to  scal 2008 by  scal 2013, per unit of  sales. The result for  scal 2011 was about 33% higher than in  scal 2008. This  increase was due to a drop in sales, as the total volume of o  ce paper used  fell from 115 tons in 2007 to 75.5 tons in 2010. Along with the increased  promotion of green IT, Casio will reinforce its e orts to reduce paper usage. Reducing PRTR substances The target for reduction of emissions of substances speci ed by Japans  PRTR Act was a 40% reduction per unit of actual production compared to   scal 2004, by  scal 2013. In  scal 2011, Casio met the target for another  consecutive year, with approximately 71% lower emissions than in  scal  2004, which was a reduction of 36% over the previous year. Casio will con- tinue striving to further reduce the use of these chemicals.  Reducing VOCs Fiscal 2011 is the target  scal year for reducing atmospheric emissions of  volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from production sites in Japan. The  target was a reduction of 30% compared to  scal 2001. In  scal 2011,  Casios emissions of VOCs were about 55% lower than in  scal 2001,  achieving the target. This also represented a reduction of approximately  34% from the previous  scal year. Casio will continue to pursue VOC re- placements. Reducing NOx, SOx and Dust Casios atmospheric emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides  (SOx) and dust in the peak year of  scal 2006 were 138 tons, 37 tons, and  2 tons, respectively. Emissions in  scal 2011 were 1.9 tons, 1.1 tons, and  0.2 tons, respectively. These dramatic reductions are attributed to the  transfer of the TFT-LCD and cellular phone businesses, and their removal  from the consolidation scope of the Casio Group.   By adjusting settings and practicing indoor temperature management,  Casio also intends to reduce emissions of atmospheric pollution generated  by air conditioning equipment such as hot and chilled water generators). 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 0.025 0.020 0.015 0.010 0.005 0 Per unit of actual production: tons-CO2/million Per unit of actual production Generation of waste General waste, etc: [ Volume of Landll disposal Valuable Wastes] 2001 2006 2007 2008 2010 2009 (FY) 1,089 74 29 20 31 0.024 0.018 0.017 0.016 6,414 6,312 4,138 1,679 1,920 1,397 6,614 6,695 4,735 4,392 2,741 25 1,378 2,439 0.020 3,818 2011 7 2,032 0.014 0.014 Generation of waste, and volume  of landll disposal: tons 0.014 753 1,279   Generation of waste, volume of land ll disposal, and waste  per unit of actual production (all sites in Japan)  Waste 0.0105 804 152 0.0093 994 168 0.0110 1,364 311 0.0124 1,238 340 0.0106 951 90 2,000 1,750 1,500 1,250 1,000 750 500 250 0 0.020 0.015 0.010 0.005 0 Per unit of production: tons-CO2/million Per unit of actual production Generation of waste Volume of Landll disposal 2006 0.0120 839 164 2005 2007 2008 2010 0.0083 791 42.4 2011 2009 (FY) Generation of waste, and volume  of landll disposal: tons  Generation of waste, volume of land ll disposal, and waste  per unit of production (production sites outside Japan) 2005 274 318 368 54 46 48 45 384 312 284 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 0.0050 0.0040 0.0030 0.0020 0.0010 0 Water resources, and recycled Industrial water: thousand m3 2010 2011 Per unit of actual productions: thousand m3/million Water resources 0.0039 0.0040 0.0034 0.0031 0.0031 0.0032 99 428 0.0045 Recycled industrial water Per unit of actual production   Usage of water resources and recycled industrial water, and  usage per unit of production (production sites outside Japan)  Water resources 2001 2,073 2006 2,851 2,827 1,937 1,876 2,801 208 209 106 125 185 2007 2008 2009 (FY) 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 0.012 0.010 0.008 0.006 0.004 0.002 0 Water resources, and recycled Industrial water: thousand m3 2010 Per unit of actual productions: thousand m3/million Water resources 0.0077 0.0075 0.0074 0.0072 0.0065 0.0096 758 48 2011 Recycled industrial water Per unit of actual production 0.0051   Usage of water resources and recycled industrial water, and  input per unit of actual production (Japan production sites) 2008 115 0.00035 98 0.00037 0.00041 91 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Per unit of sales: tons/million 0.00060 0.00045 0.00030 0.00015 0 400 300 200 100 0 Oce paper usage: tons 0.00047 76 Oce paper usage Per unit of sales  Of ce paper usage (all sites in Japan)  Paper 317 211 244 47 52 43 142 32 177 39 2001 2007 2008 2009 (FY) 500 400 300 200 100 0 2010 104 21 2011 VOC usage VOC emissions to the atmosphere VOC usage and emissions to the atmosphere: tpns  VOC usage and emissions to atmosphere (Japan production sites)  VOCs, NOx, SOx, and dust 158 39 2004 2007 2008 2009 (FY) Per unit of actual production: tons/million 0.00014 0.00012 0.00010 0.00008 0.00006 0.00004 0.00002 0 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2010 182 256 18 16 177 12 110 10 Usage Releases Per  unit of actual production 0.00004 0.00004 0.00005 2011 19 5 0.00003 0.00005 0.00011 PRTR substance usage and releases: tons   PRTR substance usage, releases, and releases per unit of  actual production (Japan production sites)  PRTR 77 22 2 18 5 1 16 5 0.3 11.1 3.90.4 2007 2008 2009 (FY) 100 80 60 40 20 0 Unit: tons 2010 3.21.20.7 2011 NOx emissions SOx emissions Dust emissions  Nox, SOx and dust emissions to atmosphere 45 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Environmental Accounting This section shows a breakdown of the costs for environmental conservation activities and the bene ts of  environmental conservation. Casios capital investments in environmental conserva- tion, including the introduction of equipment to prevent  water pollution, and energy-saving equipment, were val- ued at 137 million in  scal 2011.  The expenses of Casios environmental conservation  activities, including recycling of products, parts and sup- plies such as toner cartridges, as well as the costs of  maintenance of energy-saving and wastewater process- ing facilities, along with costs for processing and reduc- ing waste, were 1,745 million.  That investment resulted in 1,498 million in business  pro ts including a real bene t of 1,304 million from  strengthening recycling activities and a cost savings of  194 million through energy-saving activities and the   Overview of  scal 2011 performance reduction of resources used in product packaging. The   scal years total economic bene ts were 1,854 million.  This includes the reduction of CO2 emissions from busi- ness activities, and the reduction of power consumption  during product use by customers. It also includes esti- mated economic bene t such as the environmental im- pact reduction achieved by paperless products includ- ing electronic dictionaries and data projectors.  Although the environmental expenses and economic  bene ts were lower than in the previous  scal year due  to the transfer of the TFT-LCD and cellular phone busi- nesses and their removal from the scope of consolida- tion, the environmental pro tability rate improved and  economic bene ts exceeded environmental expenses.  Environmental conservation costs (April 2010 - March 2011)  Economic bene ts of environmental conservation (April 2010 - March 2011) *  The estimated bene t is calculated as the CO2 reduction amount from business activities plus the reduction from power savings during product use by  customers. It also includes the environmental bene t of paperless products such as electronic dictionaries and data projectors, as well as cost reductions  achieved by a modal shift from air to sea transport, and the resource saving bene t from water recycling.    The calculation method for power savings during product use by customers was revised. It is now calculated as the electricity saving e ect when comparing  a product sold in this  scal year to one sold in the previous  scal year.    The following statistical sources are used to perform these calculations:    CO2 unit prices are the average values for  scal 2011 (1,431.3/ton) based on the Nikkei-JBIC Carbon Quotation Index.    Electrical power unit prices are based on the  scal 2009 results published by the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy of the Ministry of Economy,  Trade and Industry (16.02/kWh). Category by business activity Environmental investment ( million) Environmental expenses* ( million) Main initiatives Business area costs (costs arising in the main areas of business activity (manufacturing, processing,  sales, distribution etc.) 137 291   (1) Pollution prevention cost Upgrading and maintenance of wastewater and exhaust  gas treatment facilities 60 65 (2)  Global environmental  conservation cost Introducing and maintenance of energy-saving systems 77 128 (3)  Resource circulation cost Reducing and recycling of industrial and general waste - 99 Upstream/downstream cost*2 Collection and recycling of products, parts, supplies - 1,103 Administration cost Secretariat operation costs, environmental information  disclosure - 293 R&D cost R&D for reduction of environmental impact - 44 Social activity cost Participation in, donations to, and support for  environmental conservation organizations - 15 Totals 137 1,745 Economic bene!t Amount ( million) Type of bene!t Actual bene!t  (bene!t that contributes to pro!ts as a result of the promotion of environmental conservation measures) 1,498  Pro ts Business revenue from recycling of used products, etc. 1,304  Pro ts Cost reduction through energy saving activities 13  Cost reduction due to resource-saving activities such as the creation of  smaller packaging, and reduction of waste disposal costs, etc. 181  Estimated bene t* Reduction of CO2 emitted from business activities  Reduction of power consumption during product use by customers, etc. 356  Totals 1,854  *1 Depreciation costs are included in the expenses. *2 Costs arising before and after the processes of the main business activities. 46 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management   Trends in environmental investments, environmental expenses, and economic bene ts ( scal 2009 -  scal 2011)  Environmental conservation effect FY2009 Amount  ( billion) Environmental protability rate FY2010 FY2011 3 120% 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2 1 0 Environmental investment Environmental expenses Economic benet Environmental protability rate (economic benets /environmental expenses) * The above graph revises past  gures with regard to the estimated e ects, based on the standards adopted this  scal year. *  The large decreases compared to the previous  scal year were due to the transfer of the TFT-LCD and cellular phone businesses and their removal from the  scope of consolidation. Scope of data compilation for environmental accounting: Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and consolidated subsidiaries in and outside Japan. Reference guideline: Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Environment, Japan Types of environmental  conservation e ects Environmental performance  indicator Unit FY2010 FY2011 Environmental conservation  e ect Environmental conservation  e ect relating to resources used  in business activities Water resources Thousand  m3 2,183  1,209  974  Environmental conservation  effect relating to environment  impact and waste generatedby  business activities CO2 emissions Tons-CO2 87,674  53,720  33,955  Specially designated chemical (PRTR) emissions Tons 10  5  5  Waste emissions Tons 5,584  3,677  1,907  BOD Tons 29  23  6  NOx emissions Tons 11.1  3.2  7.9  SOx emissions Tons 3.9  1.2  2.7  47 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  CSR Implementation System Via its communication with stakeholders, Casio has determined the issues it must address to meet social  expectations. The company is implementing management cycles to improve performance in these areas. A CSR Committee headed by the director responsible  for CSR has been established under the board of direc- tors. The committee is the central body for implementa- tion of CSR.  Operations conducted by the CSR Committee are  based on the use of management cycles. A stakeholder  meeting is held at the beginning of the  scal year, after  which the annual initiative themes are established and/ or updated. The departments mainly responsible for  each theme establish goals for their themes and set an- nual plans to achieve the goals before implementing the  necessary programs. At the end of the  scal year, the  departments review and evaluate their own results, in  addition to an objective evaluation by the Internal Audit  Department. Based on this, issues are then re-de ned  and used to establish the themes and plans for the next   scal year.  In  scal 2011, Casio worked on 11 themes, including  those continued from the previous year. There were  eight relating to CSR, and three relating to compliance  risk. The details are shown below. Fiscal 2011 Themes Themes relating to employees: 4 Themes relating to brand value: 1 Themes relating to social contribution: 1 Themes relating to BCM: 1 Themes relating to supply chain: 1 Themes relating to compliance risk: 3  Targets were achieved for  ve of these themes in  s- cal 2011. The remaining six themes were carried over   CSR Committee and continued as  scal 2012 themes.  To choose the  scal 2012 themes, in addition to those  continued from the previous  scal year, four working  groups discussed theme proposals from the CSR-relat- ed departments, after the stakeholder meeting outlined  below. When looking at proposals, they considered the  CSR contribution level, return on investment, and simi- larity to other proposals. The proposals were then  ranked within categories, before a balanced set of new  themes was selected for  scal 2012. Since the establishment of its CSR Operations Section  in 2004, Casio has been implementing CSR activities  while expanding the themes to be undertaken and the  scope of their impact. In the initial stage, there was an  emphasis on protecting corporate value. Now however,   CSR Implementation System Board of Directors CSR Committee Reports and resolutions CSR-related departments Ascertaining social needs  through meetings with  stakeholders Determining CSR emphases Setting CSR implementation  themes Input Output Secretariat General Affairs and  Personnel Department Finance Department Corporate Management  Department Strategic Sourcing  Department Secretarial & External  Affairs Department Information Technology  Department Procurement Department Public Relations  Department Advertising Department Intellectual Property  Center Environment Center Business Administration  Department Casio Computer Co., Ltd. /  Group companies Supply chain  CSR Committee System the company is working to generate new corporate val- ue from a global perspective. In  scal 2012, Casio re- vised its system for CSR implementation to make it even  more global, by incorporating all Casio Group companies  worldwide. Philosophy and Management 48 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  General Meeting of Shareholders Auditors Directors Election and  discharge Election and  discharge Election and  discharge Board of  Corporate Auditors Directors: 12 (1 external), Corporate Auditors: 3 (all external) Audit sta Subcommittees Audit Audit Oversight Oversight Accounting audit Internal audit Accounting audit Board of Directors Board of Corporate ocers Business divisions / Group companies Corporate ocers Internal Audit Department Accounting auditor President and CEO Appointment, dismissal,  and oversight The  scal 2011 stakeholder meeting was held prior to  setting the themes for the coming  scal year. Hideto  Kawakita of the International Institute for Human, Orga- nization and the Earth (IIHOE) was invited to come and  give a talk on the latest CSR trends and examples of  leading initiatives. This was followed by a Q&A session,  which also deepened the understanding of the CSR  Committee members.  In the CSR Committee meeting at the start of  scal  2012, Hideto Kawakita was invited in again. He and the  committee members discussed how to re ect the arrival  of ISO 26000 and the consequences of the Great East  Japan Earthquake in the setting of  scal 2012 initiative  themes.  After the meeting, each CSR-related department   Stakeholder Meeting selected new theme proposals that Casio ought to  pursue in  scal 2012, submitted them to the Secretariat.  The proposals were then divided up and discussed by  the working groups mentioned above. Mr. Kawakita, who has pro- vided the Independent Opin- ion for some years now, of- fers ever more in-depth  advice and proposals.  Corporate Governance To increase corporate value, Casio always strives to improve management integrity and transparency. True  to this commitment, Casio works to ensure that management decision-making is quick and that all operations  are executed properly and e  ciently. Casio constantly strives to improve corporate  governance.  The board of directors is tasked with making prompt,  reasonable management decisions. Board meetings are  attended by directors and corporate auditors, who dis- cuss and make decisions on important business issues.  Furthermore, in order to clarify the management re- sponsibility of directors and to ensure a prompt re- sponse to changes in the business environment, the  term of o  ce of directors was changed from two years  to one, as of June 2007.  At the regular General Meeting of Shareholders in  June 2011, a new external director and a new external  auditor were appointed, with the intention of further  strengthening the management supervisory function.  In accordance with audit policies approved by the  board of corporate auditors, the corporate auditors (all  external auditors) attend board of directors' meetings,  meetings of the corporate o  cers, and other important  meetings. In addition, they perform careful audits by  gathering information and receiving reports from direc- tors and others, and by reviewing resolution documents  relating to important decisions. The external director  and external auditors are independent o  cers regis- tered with the Tokyo Stock Exchange in compliance with  regulations. In addition, Casio has full-time sta  that  provide support for corporate auditors.  Corporate governance framework  Accounting auditors perform external audits  according to generally accepted Japanese auditing  standards, and they also provide recommendations for  operational improvement. The Internal Audit Department  carries out audits to ensure that all Casio Group  operations are being carried out in conformity with laws  and regulations as well as internal standards.  Corporate Governance Framework 49 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Based on its corporate creed of "Creativity and Contri- bution," Casio has established basic policies to ensure  the accuracy and reliability of its  nancial reporting. It  has also set up an Internal Control Committee com- posed of members of the Accounting Department, In- formation System Department, CSR Operations Section,  and Internal Audit Department, in order to secure an ef- fective system of internal controls.  Fiscal 2011 marked the third year since the  introduction of the internal control reporting system  based on Japans Financial Instruments and Exchange  Act (J-SOX). Casio seeks to improve the financial  strength of the entire group and enhance management  culture ahead of the introduction of the International  Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). As part of those  initiatives, the company also promoted the strengthening  of internal controls.  System of internal controls  Here are the main initiatives.   Reviewed the uni ed group accounting rules based on  actual conditions, and revised them to establish the  Casio Global Criteria for journal entry.   Managed issues identi ed through daily organizational  management as main J-SOX risks, and set Operation  Improvement Rules for the entire group.   Established Standard Operation Flows that should be  regularly used across the entire group for main  business processes, with the aim of ensuring that the  Operation Improvement Rules are being followed.  By regularly checking and improving operation condi- tions based on these standards and rules, Casio intends  to raise the level of operation processing group-wide.  For  scal 2012 and later, Casio will continue to pursue  activities that enhance the level of internal control, while  further improving  nancial strength for the entire group  and improving the management culture. Compliance and Risk Management Casio is pursuing total compliance through integrated management of three foundations of employee con- duct: the Casio Group Code of Conduct, risk management, and the Whistleblower Hotline. The Casio Group Code of Conduct represents a pledge  of ethical behavior by Casio executives and employees  to those in and outside the company. They use the code  to make speci c decisions in their daily work and per- sonal lives.  With the globalization of Casio, the code has been  translated from Japanese to English, and is also  translated into the languages of other countries where   Casio Group Code of Conduct Based on its Basic Risk Management Policies, Casio has  built a system to manage risks e  ciently. In  scal 2008,  Risk Management Committee was established to take  measures with an emphasis on managing compliance  risk.  In the committees  rst year,  scal 2008, it identi ed  70 laws relating to Casios businesses, and listed mea- sures being taken to comply with each law. Regarding  laws where Casio had de ciencies relating to manage- ment cycle operation and manual preparation, the com- mittee analyzed the importance of each risk based on  the occurrence possibility and its impact on company  management. Measures were then prepared to deal  rst   Risk management Casio operates when needed.  With the revision of the code in 2008, Casio began  conducting yearly compliance training for all group  employees in Japan, in order to promote even better  awareness. The company also conducts biannual  compliance questionnaires together with the training,  and is promoting improvement by identifying problem  points and making them known. with the risks of higher importance.  In  scal 2008, there were 19 law types where the com- panys compliance was de cient and the risks were of  high importance. By the end of  scal 2011, speci ed  measures had been put in place to deal with all of these  laws.  As a result, Casio has changed its risk management  method, and the Risk Management Committee Secre- tariat is regularly monitoring the risks identi ed by the  Committee. The company has moved towards a system  that checks for de ciencies in the status of manage- ment cycle implementation. 50 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  In order to respond to emergencies with the resources  of the company organization, Casio has created a Crisis  Management Manual for securing the safety of all em- ployees, directors, and their families, preserving corpo- rate assets, and maintaining business activities.  Sequential updates of the manual keep pace with  changes in the business environment, and the company  is taking practical initiatives at the same time. Speci cally,  the following measures have already been undertaken:   Regular evacuation drills and general lifesaving class- es for employees   Development and in-house distribution of disaster  prevention support tools as well as disaster  stockpiling   Construction of a system to ensure absolutely no con-  Responding to emergencies tact with organized criminal elements   Disaster prevention drill with the local community and  provision of an open area for a temporary evacuation  site  However, with the Great East Japan Earthquake that  struck in March 2011, circumstances were encountered  that exceeded previous expectations. Learning from  this, the Crisis Management Manual required substantial  revision. Visits were made to the sales sites in the disas- ter zone and interviews conducted. By verifying emer- gency response activities at the headquarters and local  sites from the victims perspective, Casio was able to  identify various points for improvement. These points  have been carefully re ected in the revised Crisis Man- agement Manual to make it even more e ective. Casio is aware of its important social responsibility to  maintain the security of information that it collects from  customers and other stakeholders in relation to its  business activities. Casio strives to maintain the highest  level of information security. With the full implementation  of Japan's Act on the Protection of Personal Information  in 2005, Casio launched the Protection of Personal  Information Project and publicized the Privacy Policy on  its web site. Furthermore, as part of Casio's drive to  strengthen its system for safe and proper handling of  personal information, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., worked  to qualify for the Privacy Mark* certi cation and received  it in December 2005.  Since obtaining certi cation, Casio has been properly  carrying out the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle to  maintain its personal information protection  management system. This includes the establishment of  annual plans, having all employees undergo training and  make a pledge, regular checking of personal information,  access management on information systems, consignee  supervision, and internal audits. Accordingly, Casio has  been able to renew and maintain its certi cation.  In fiscal 2011, Casio worked to further raise the  awareness of employees by conducting an information  accident prevention campaign and putting up posters in  the company. The aim is to reduce the risk of an  information security accident occurring at the individual  employee level, such as data theft or loss o  premises,  or mistakenly sending a con dential email to the wrong  recipient.  In November 2007, Casios Information System  Department received information security management  system certi cation (ISO 27001). The aim of applying   Information security for certification was to evaluate fulfillment of  responsibility by the information system department,  which has specialized skills and takes care of information  assets for the entire company. Since then, Casio has  further improved information security and its  e ectiveness, and continues to implement PDCA cycles  for risk reduction activities. A certi cation renewal audit  is held every three years. With the audit conducted in  January 2011, the compatibility and e ectiveness of  Casios information security management system was  again evaluated. *  Privacy Mark: A program where the Japan  I n f o r m a t i o n  P r o c e s s i n g  D e v e l o p m e n t  Corporation, a public-service foundation,  evaluates the adequacy of corporate protective  measures related to the handling of personal  data. Companies that are found to have adequate  protective measures in place are certified and  permitted to display the Privacy Mark. CSR Committee Personal Information Protection Oce Person responsible for customer service Person responsible for information systems Person responsible for departmental personal information management Person in charge of departmental personal information management Person responsible for education Contact for matters relating to personal information Ocer in charge of audits Chief Privacy Ocer (CPO) and  personal information manager  Personal information protection system 51 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  As a way to help ensure compliance, Casio set up a  Whistleblower Hotline in April 2006. The hotline has  been functioning with neutrality and fairness across all  of its internal and external contact points.  Operating on a basis of impartiality, the hotline follows  up on all whistleblower reports and consultations, and  takes resolute measures against any improper behavior  discovered. E ort is put into preventing issues before  they grow into real problems. In  scal 2010, the hotline's  intranet site was improved, and hotline awareness was  raised within the company.  There were nine whistleblower reports in  scal 2011.  In each case, the callers were interviewed, and based on  the content of their reports, investigations were made,  and correction measures implemented to resolve the   Whistleblower Hotline Export control, or export control security, aims to main- tain international peace and security. It involves regula- tions on the export of goods and technology that could  be diverted for the development of weapons of mass  destruction or other weaponry. The regulations are de- signed to prevent such goods and technology from  reaching countries and regions of concern or terrorist  organizations.  In 1987, the Export Control Security Program of Casio  Computer Co., Ltd. (a compliance program) was estab- lished in order to make sure proper measures are taken  to ensure the security of exports. The program has  since been continually updated along with changes in  the Japanese Export Control Regulation.  Casio has appointed employees responsible for ex-  Export control Casio continues to hold compliance seminars given by  employee instructors at the sales o  ces of Casio Com- puter Co., Ltd., in Japan. In order to promote proper  transactions as well as fair, transparent and free compe- tition, it is essential for sales employees to have a proper  understanding of Japan's Act on Prohibition of Private  Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade and Act  against Unjusti able Premiums and Misleading Repre- sentations. In  scal 2011, ten seminars were given at  sales o  ces, while three were held at the sales manage- ment department in the headquarters. A total of 738   Initiatives for compliance with fair trade and advertising laws problems.  With the aim of making the hotline well known within  the company, a Whistleblower Hotline website was es- tablished. In  scal 2011, the website content was further  improved, and Casio is working to increase awareness  among employees. port control in relevant departments as part of an inter- nal system to ensure observance of the program.  As the Exporter Compliance Standards took e ect in  April 2010, Casio has been striving to maintain and man- age its system by conducting voluntary annual audits  while ensuring through legal compliance, in response to  the revision of applicable laws and regulations. E orts  include the strengthening of training activities at group  companies in Japan.  Casio has also established a management system for  complying not only with Japanese export laws but also  with US Export Administration Regulations. The compa- ny is working to improve global export management, in- cluding the implementation of export management  training at group companies outside Japan. employees received the training, expanding their under- standing of fair transactions.  As a tool for promoting proper and fair competition  and transactions, Casio distributed Sales Compliance  Cards to its sales employees in Japan so that they could  always have it with them. The cards contain information  such as an ethics and compliance test for making di  cult  decisions and contacts for advice or to make a whistle- blower report. This led to an increase in the number of  employee consultations on potential issues in advance. Fiscal 2011 Report Details  4 cases concerning interpersonal relations in the workplace  2 cases relating to internal rules  3 other cases Investigation Improvements/notication   Applicable departments External hotline agency Whistleblowers Hotline Internal hotline Hotline Oce Reporting Instructions Top management Information  Whistleblower Hotline 52 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management   Compliance and risk management FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Monitor to con rm successive ongoing  improvements and implemented simula- tions related to major laws The Risk Management Committee Secretariat implemented  monitoring relating to  ve major laws, and checked e ective- ness and points for improvement (no simulations in  scal  2011) Continue monitoring relating to major laws by the  Risk Management Committee Secretariat and  implement simulations Conduct compliance training that includes group  employees outside Japan Carry out education on the Casio Group  Code of Conduct at all group companies  in Japan and for Japanese sta  over- seas Along with implementing compliance training for all group  employees in Japan based on the Casio Group Code of Con- duct, conducted a questionnaire relating to the Charter of  Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment, and  promoted a more thorough understanding of it (questionnaire  not yet conducted at group companies outside Japan) Implement activities to reduce the risk of  personal information leakage using the  Privacy Mark system Expanded training on personal information protection and  employee pledges to group companies Conduct risk review ahead of the Privacy Mark  renewal audit and reestablish safety measures Promote the e ective utilization of information  assets in the ISMS, along with better and more  thorough management of incidents Start operation processes using the ITIL, and es- tablish PDCA cycles for improvement Implement activities to reduce informa- tion system risk using ISMS Established PDCA cycles for the ISMS, and received evaluation  and certi cation for compatibility by renewal audit Take on the challenge of reducing major  system malfunctions to zero through  ITIL introduction Obtained ITIL V3 Foundation certi cation and promoted op- eration improvement projects through ITIL introduction  Customers FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Take thorough initiatives for defect re- occurrence prevention and improve  technological ability to prevent prob- lems Prevented defect reoccurrence based on the utilization of  quality information database, and strengthened the preven- tion system  Strengthen initiatives to prevent reoccurrence  based on re-analysis of past failure examples Implement a voluntary action plan on product  safety Minimize risk by accelerating and streamlining  collection of accident information  Establish a system for responding to safety laws Execute the Product Safety Action Plan  and put safety  rst in every action Implemented voluntary action plan relating to product safety,  and ensured thorough safety- rst actions Shared accident information and revised the design and  manufacturing standards through cause analysis Ensure accurate compliance with all laws  and regulations related to safety Implemented an internal safety survey, and veri ed legal com- pliance measures Promote continuing measures to im- prove customer satisfaction, based on  surveys of after-sales customer satisfac- tion levels Identi ed issues based on an after-sales customer satisfaction  survey Continue to promote measures to improve cus- tomer satisfaction through after-sales customer  satisfaction surveys Promote customer satisfaction improvement by  strengthening the Casio online repair direct re- quest system Update the customer service website Strengthen feedback for product quality im- provement, by ensuring the thoroughness of the  market monitoring function Promote ongoing improvement of cus- tomer support websites Increased direct requests for repairs by improving conve- nience of Casio online repair system  Added content to the customer support website Promote ongoing improvement of cus- tomer satisfaction by enhancing repair  service Changed repair fees for digital cameras in order to improve  customer satisfaction Strengthen analysis of customer feed- back, and create a database for informa- tion distribution and sharing Continued to analyze customer comments and use the infor- mation as feedback Started update of database for improvement proposals and  sharing Expand the operation area for produc- tion management system integration Improved production planning speed by improving the simula- tion function (already introduced at sites in Japan, and will be  progressively expanded overseas) Diversify China concentration risk Improve and streamline production system Restructure and integrate functions in Southern  China Strengthen technological abilities at production  sites in Japan Simplify site allocation policy by stan- dardizing production facilities and shar- ing management systems at production  sites in China Implement SCM production in close ad- herence to the sales plan Promoted cooperation with sites in and outside Japan in the  e ort to move from standardization to automation and fewer  personnel Begin full-scale operation of the plan- ning system. Promote logistics process  reform at the global level together with  Casio SCM Partial operation with a new logistics system (SPACE) Social Initiatives: Action Plans and Performance In order to steadily promote CSR initiatives, Casio carries out activities using a speci c plan-do-check-act  (PDCA) management cycle. The following covers the  scal 2011 issues and activity results for social initia- tives, along with the priority issues for  scal 2012, based on these activity results.  Corporate governance FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Promote further internal control im- provements based on Japan's Financial  Instruments and Exchange Act Enhanced  nancial strength for the entire group ahead of the  introduction of the International Financial Reporting Stan- dards (IFRS), and promoted the strengthening of internal  controls, among initiatives to improve management culture  Promote further improvement of internal controls  based on Japans Financial Instruments and Ex- change Act. 53 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management   Suppliers FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Continue CSR questionnaires for suppliers in and  outside Japan Continued implementation of CSR questionnaires  in and outside Japan (responses were received  from 128 companies in China and 41 in Thailand) An online questionnaire was conducted in Japan,  with a response rate of 95% (85% rate in the  previous  scal year) Continue to implement CSR questionnaires for  suppliers in and outside Japan (Investigating a  change in the question format for overseas  questionnaires to one using a response scale of 1  to 5) Expand CSR inspections for suppliers outside  Japan (plan and implement inspections by CSR  promotion project members at overseas sites,  from planning to inspection result evaluation) Continue implementation of model initiative  presentations by suppliers that have received  onsite CSR measure inspections (present model  cases where improvements have been made on  issues identi ed in onsite inspections) Urge CSR promotion by suppliers outside Japan  through the activities of the CSR promotion proj- ect with new CSR organizations overseas Implemented inspections of CSR measures at  supplier sites outside Japan with local CSR  promotion project sta  (3 companies in China and  2 in Thailand) After inspection completion, held exchange of  opinions with supplier top management in order to  deepen understanding of Casios CSR objectives Make model CSR initiative presentations by repre- sentative suppliers a regular feature at vendor  meetings outside Japan, and use the meetings as  an opportunity for dialogue At vendor meetings in China and Thailand, a  selected supplier presented model CSR initiatives.   Employees FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Conduct an awareness survey among female em- ployees and managers concerning female employ- ee advancement, and establish a female employee  advancement action plan based on the results Conducted an awareness survey among female  employees and managers concerning female  employee advancement Established an action plan based on the results  (action guidelines and targets) Listened to details of initiatives taken at three  leading companies in the advancement of female  employees H e l d  t w o  f e m a l e  e m p l o y e e  r o l e  m o d e l  presentations Held seminars for female employees and managers  (3 seminars / 450 attendees) Continue activities for the advancement of female  employees Maintain the employment rate of persons with  disabilities within the Casio Group in Japan Continue to provide job opportunities to employees  that have reached the age of mandatory  retirement Continue to maintain the percentage of eligible  female employees taking childcare leave at above  90% Continue initiatives for reducing overtime work Ensure recommendation of proper medical  examinations at medical institutions for those with  high-risk results in a regular health check Continue smoking cessation support program Continue to promote achievement of the legally  mandated employment rate of persons with  disabilities, group-wide Employment rate of persons with disabilities rose  from 1.76% to 1.86% for the consolidated Casio  Group in Japan, achieving the legally mandated  rate (1.8%)  Continue to provide employment opportunities to  retirees Continued to provide rehiring opportunities to  employees that have reached mandatory  retirement age Continue to maintain the percentage of eligible  female employees taking childcare leave (above  90%) Maintained percentage of eligible female  employees taking childcare leave (above 90%) Promote activities to reduce overtime work as well  as health and safety activities, group-wide Began health and safety activities group-wide, and  provided health counseling to employees including  those posted outside Japan Computerized attendance management system at  Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Promote awareness raising activities for better  employee health Began health and safety activities across Japan  including group companies, and implemented  smoking cessation support programs to raise  awareness through guidance relating to the safety,  health and hygiene of employees.  Local communities FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Expanded activities by enhancing the content of  the school visit program Provided opportunities for learning to a total of  1,932 students from kindergarten to high school,  through the development of programs in which  many children can participate (an increase of  1,132 students compared to last year) Expand activities by further improving content of  programs for educating the next generation Continue support for cutting edge science and  technology research Continue support for victims and for the disaster  region after the Great East Japan Earthquake Continue to support cutting-edge science and  technology research Provided a total of 39 research grants totaling  50.75 million yen, through the Casio Science  Promotion Foundation 54 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Initiatives Philosophy and Management  Independent Veri cation   Independent Verification Report  11 July 2011  CASIO COMPUTER CO., LTD.  K.K. Satisfactory International  3-12-8 Hacchobori Chuo-ku Tokyo, Japan  Representative Director  Komatsu Takeshi    Objective of Verification  Casio Computer Co., Ltd (Casio) has commissioned K.K. Satisfactory International (KKSI) to  conduct verification of Casios environmental performance data of the financial year of 2010 (1 April  2010  31 March 2011) for inclusion in the Casio Sustainability Report 2011(Report).  The aim of this verification is to consider the accuracy of environmental performance data detailed  in the Report and to provide a verification opinion based on objective evidence.     Scope  The scope of the verification work covers the activities including 1)Inputs: Energy(Electricity and  fuels), Water resources, SF6, GHGs other than SF6, VOC, PRTR substance, rainwater use and  waste water use. 2)Outputs: GHGs (CO2, SF6, Other GHGs, Air Pollutants (NOx, SOx, Dust), VOC  emissions, Waste water, BOD, PRTR substance, waste generated, Landfill Disposal, Recycle waste,  3) CO2 emissions from Logistics and Sales, 4) CO2 emissions from products use.  The total of 50 business sites are covered, which comprises of 6 production sites and 20 offices in  Japan and 4 production sites and 20 offices overseas.     Methodology  KKSI has conducted its verification activities by document reviews, five site visits, enquiries to  person in charge and verification of the documents to determine the following.    The reliability and adequacy of data collection and aggregation systems and related processes.    The relevance of the scope of data selected for inclusion in the report.    The reliability of measured and collected data and accuracy of aggregated data.    The validity of conclusions drawn from and reported against aggregated data.    Verification Opinion    There is no material error found in the reported data.    All errors in reported data identified during the verification process have been duly corrected.    The data measurement, collection and aggregation systems are credible and appropriately  operated.  55  Independent Opinion Independent Opinion on the Sustainability Report 2011 The opinion presented here was written based on the content of this report (website version) and interviews  with Casio personnel responsible for environmental, procurement, human resources, and CSR initiatives.  The report makes it reasonably clear that Casios CSR initiatives have begun to use the plan-do-check-act  (PDCA) management cycle with a focus on reducing the companys environmental impact.   I commend the company for including e orts to build a  low carbon society and protect biodiversity as themes in  its medium- to long-term environmental policy. As Casio  works toward these goals, I have high expectations for the  progress of its initiatives across the entire product life- cycle. In addition to the companys efforts within the  group and across its supply chain, I look forward to seeing  how the company helps its customers to make the most  eco-friendly use of its products, including improving recy- cling rates at the end of the product cycle. I also expect  the company to disclose information on its progress.   Regarding the CSR initiatives for suppliers, it is admi- rable that Casio is ascertaining, visualizing, and shar- ing data about suppliers. For instance, feedback was   Commendable efforts by Casio   Regarding the environmental impact reduction data in  this report, it is commendable that details are provided  on the principal sites in and outside Japan including  group companies. My hope, however, would be that Ca- sio will continue to increase the level of accuracy of  group reporting, not only for environmental data, but  also for personnel and procurement initiatives and data.  Points for improvement   Regarding e orts to make Casio a better place to work,  the company deserves congratulations for achieving  3.96% in the percentage of employees who make use of  leave and reduced working hours programs for childcare  and nursing care. Now Casio needs to more proactively  create opportunities for users of these programs to share  their awareness of issues and how they overcame them.   Regarding the improvement and utilization of human re- sources diversity throughout the group, Casio should be  commended for giving consideration to di erent cultures  and the environment at production sites and other sites.  Now it is essential for the group to further globalize its busi- ness development. Casio should take a ten-year perspec- tive, and plan a global personnel portfolio that goes beyond  division and company boundaries. Along with the appoint- ment of a global personnel o  cer to oversee and promote  personnel hiring, training, and interaction, the group should  build a human resources database for getting a compre- hensive grasp of its personnel, including the national sta   in each country. In these and other ways, Casio needs to  establish strategies and systems that can make the most of  its diverse workforce as a truly global company.  Points for improvement while commending progress to date sent to 169 suppliers in China and Thailand based on  the results of questionnaires on the reduction of envi- ronmental impact, initiatives to protect the human  rights of workers, and other matters, plus onsite inves- tigations of some companies. Casio also evaluates sup- pliers in Japan based on a  ve-point scoring system for  all 340 items in the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment  Guidebook, published by the Japan Electronics and In- formation Technology Industries Association (JEITA).  Going forward, I hope that the company will further  raise the visibility of its suppliers initiatives and issues  by providing specific examples, while continuing to  build a system of dialogue for sharing case studies,  rewarding outstanding suppliers, and resolving issues.   Regarding the hiring of employees with disabilities, Casio  deserves applause for exceeding the legally mandated  employment rate within the consolidated group in Japan  and for starting a follow-up program that makes it easier  for persons with disabilities to keep working within the  group and ensures cooperation between employment  sites and the personnel department. Now the company  should work at building community based on the di erent  types of disabilities and occupations, and continue making  Casio an easy place for persons with disabilities to work.   Regarding the CSR initiatives for the entire group, Casio  should be commended for the fact that many divisions  started proposing initiatives following the reorganization  of its CSR Committee in at the end of  scal 2010 to allow  each division to independently look into and pursue is- sues of concern to society. In the future, Casio will need  to further promote bottom-up approaches like these.   On a related matter, Casio should be praised for continuing  to feature articles about CSR in its internal newsletter. I hope  that the newsletter will continue to cover particularly impor- tant CSR issues and initiatives from diverse sites within the  group, in and outside Japan, as well as from suppliers. International Institute for Human, Organization and the Earth (IIHOE) Hideto Kawakita  Chief Executive O  cer Pro le of IIHOE: International Institute for  Human, Organization and the Earth (IIHOE)  is a nonpro t organization (NPO) that has  been supporting NPO management and  CSR capacity building since 1994. http://blog.canpan.info/iihoe (in Japanese) 56  Responses to the Independent Opinion on the 2010 Report Independent Opinion Regarding the CSR initiatives for the entire group (pag- es 32-33), Casio should be commended for reorganizing  its CSR Committee in March 2010, in order to allow  each division to independently look into and pursue is- sues of concern to society. In the future, Casio will need  to promote and establish bottom-up approaches to  make the most of this new framework. Casios Response In keeping with the reconsideration of the operation of  the CSR Committee in  scal 2011, Casio decided to  operate the committee as follows from  scal 2012: 1)  In order to con rm societys expectations of Casio,  the committee held a stakeholder meeting in April  and extracted themes that Casio should address. 2)  These themes were broadly grouped into four cate- gories. Working groups made up of members from  relevant divisions were established for each theme.  The working groups delved into the speci c issues  that should be addressed in  scal 2012 and set a  priority order. 3)  Based on the conclusions of these working groups,  each division responsible envisioned how resolving  these issues would change their operations, devised  annual action plans, and committed to carrying out  the plans in a concrete manner.  Through the establishment of the above system, Ca- sio is promoting a bottom-up approach to resolving  issues.  Independent Opinion On a related matter, Casio should be praised for con- tinuing to feature articles about CSR in its internal news- letter. I hope that the newsletter will continue to cover  particularly important CSR issues and initiatives from  diverse sites within the group. Casios Response In  scal 2011, Casio continued to introduce CSR initia- tives undertaken by group companies in and outside  Japan using an internal website in addition to articles in  the internal newsletter. A total of 73 articles on CSR  were published, taking up issues such as the creation of  comfortable work environments at production sites, co- operation in community development events, site tours  and other educational support, and relief e orts for ar- eas stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Independent Opinion It is also admirable that Casio cut paper usage by 39%  compared to the previous year by reducing the size and  number of pages for user manuals for products such as  electronic dictionaries and other measures. Now the  company should make an even greater contribution by   Points for improvement while commending progress to date introducing universal design fonts and other such  steps. Casios Response Casio began using universal design fonts, mainly for the  new models of multifunction watches such as OCEAN- US, EDIFICE, and PROTREK, making increased clarity the  highest goal.  This e ort resulted in the user manual for the OCEAN- US winning an award for excellence in the 1st category  of booklet operational manuals in the Japan Manual  Contest 2011.  The number of pages increased with additional prod- uct functions, but from here on the company will strive  to reduce the number of pages through measures such  as improving the heading organization and wording.  These e orts will then be expanded to other products. Independent Opinion Regarding the environmental impact reduction data in  this report, it is commendable that details are provided  on the principal sites in and outside Japan including  group companies. My hope would be that Casio will con- tinue to increase the level of accuracy of group report- ing, not only for environmental data, but also for person- nel and procurement initiatives and data. Casios Response In the 2011 report, Casio worked hard to disclose data  on group company initiatives, to the extent currently  possible, in the area of social activities in addition to in- cluding a special feature on the initiatives of Casio (Thai- land) Co., Ltd., which is one of the groups principal  production sites.  The company will continue striving to improve the  level of its reporting. Independent Opinion Regarding the employment of persons with disabilities  (page 68), Casio deserves congratulations for maintain- ing the legally mandated employment rate, which had  been an issue for many years. Now however, the com- pany must work with the parties concerned to make it  easier for persons with disabilities to keep working  within the Casio group. Casios Response In  scal 2011, the entire group in Japan reached Japans  legally mandated employment rate for persons with dis- abilities. Going forward, the group will continue with  proactive hiring of all persons, regardless of level of abil- ity, who are ready for a challenge and have the will to  work and demonstrate creativity.  57  Independent Opinion Casio must take steps to promote reuse of the rare met- als used in high-performance products such as digital  cameras and electronic dictionaries, for which recycling  systems have not yet been established. Measures could  include further studies with other companies in the same  industry and recovery of rare metals in used products.  This, in turn, could be linked to sales promotion, and to  development of products that use recycled metals. Casios Response In recent years, study groups looking into the recycling  of rare metals contained in cellular phones, digital cam- eras, and other used small electronic devices have been  launched, mainly by Japans Ministry of Economy, Trade  and Industry and Ministry of the Environment. These  groups are studying the issue, including facilitating re- covery demonstration pilots by local governments.  The Mobile Recycling Network operated jointly by cel- lular phone network carriers is already recovering and  recycling cellular phones. Digital cameras are collected  and disposed of as general waste by local governments  and there are also secondhand markets. Accordingly,  the industrial associations concerned are jointly estab- lishing study sessions on the recycling of used small  electronic devices and looking into how to handle this  issue.  Furthermore, the Ministry of the Environment is put- ting together the outline of a new recycling program,  creating a system with intermediate processors and re-  ning companies centered on municipalities, and mov- ing ahead with plans to extract metals such as gold, sil- ver, copper, zinc, and palladium. Also, a bill on other rare  metals is anticipated to be submitted into a regular ses- sion of the Japanese Diet in 2012. Casio will therefore  closely monitor these developments and consider how  to respond.  (Main products: Cellular phones, digital cameras, elec- tronic dictionaries, calculators, and AC adapters)  Points for improvement Independent Opinion The improvement and utilization of human resources  diversity throughout the group is essential for the com- pany to further globalize its business development. Ca- sio should take a ten-year perspective, and plan a global  personnel portfolio that goes beyond division and com- pany boundaries. Along with the appointment of a global  personnel o  cer to promote this goal through various  channels including personnel hiring, training, and inter- action, the company needs to establish recruitment and  training systems that can make the most of a diverse  workforce as a truly global company. Casios Response In  scal 2011, the company began needs-analysis and  other preparatory studies regarding the development  and implementation of a human resources management  system be tting a global company. First, the company  identi ed the issues and needs not only of the personnel  department, but also the relevant departments and each  of the Casio sites in and outside Japan. Based on these  e orts, Casio then began implementing speci c mea- sures for the building of a global human resources man- agement system. Going forward, the company will con- tinue to strengthen these e orts. 58  About Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Name Casio Computer Co., Ltd Headquarters 1-6-2, Hon-machi, Shibuya-ku,  Tokyo, Japan Established June 1, 1957 President and CEO Kazuo Kashio Employees 2,629  Company data (as of March 31, 2011)  The Casio Groups Global Reach   Net Sales and Income Paid-in capital 48,592 million Net sales 341,678 million Operating income 12,042 million Ordinary income 11,702 million Net income 5,682 million Americas:  6 companies Europe:  9 companies Asia:  12 companies Japan:  19 companies Consumer Sales: 252,083 million (73.8%) Operating income: 16,521 million  Watches  Clocks  Electronic dictionaries  Calculators  Label printers and photo printers  Electronic musical instruments   Digital cameras, etc. Others Sales: 43,084 million (12.6%) Operating income: 576 million  WLP processing consignments  LCDs  Molds, etc. Net sales 341,678 million System Equipment Sales: 46,511 million (13.6%) Operating loss: 1,488 million  Handheld terminals  Electronic cash registers (including POS)  Oce computers  Page printers  Data projectors, etc. Asia and other  24.3% Europe 15.9% North America 12.3% Japan  47.5%  Sales and operating income by reportable segment  Sales by region 59   Products and Services  Timepieces Casio provides highly appealing timepieces un- der the G-Shock, Oceanus, Protrek, and other  brands. Casios timepiece product develop- ment and marketing approach are unique,  driven by advanced electronic technologies,  such as a solar-powered radio-controlled func- tion that can receive standard time signals  from six radio towers worldwide. In 2009, Casio  surpassed the 50-million mark for G-Shock  watches sold. Casio has the top share of the  global market for radio-controlled watches  (Casio survey). G-SHOCK GW-9300  Electronic Dictionaries At over 50%, Casio has the top share of the  electronic dictionary market in Japan (accord- ing to a 2010 GfK Japan survey). The company  o ers a full lineup of products for diverse cus- tomer segments including high school students,  foreign language learners, and businesspeople.  While delivering ease of use through intuitive  touch-panel operations and easy-view color  screens, Casios electronic dictionaries appeal  to the universal desire to learn and are packed  with all the resources people need to get the  job done. EX-word XD-B10000  Electronic musical instruments Casio aims to make the joy of music accessible  to as many people as possibly by providing a  diverse lineup of instruments. Casio o ers elec- tric pianos with the beautiful sound and rich  power of expression of a grand piano, as well as  high-grade keyboards that o er the enjoyment  of making songs and creating original sounds. It  even makes electronic keyboards for beginners  with keys that light up and show where the  n- gers should go. PriviaPX-830BP  Data projectors All Casios data projectors are equipped with its  original Laser & LED Hybrid Light Source. This  technology o ers high brightness without using  a lamp containing mercury, which is hazardous  to the environment. These advanced, next-gen- eration projectors have been well received by  many kinds of users.  XJ-H1650  Electronic cash registers Casio has the largest share of the electronic  cash register market in Japan (according to a  2010 RJC Research survey), thanks to an ex- tensive o ering of functions and uses. With the  2007 development of the Net Register service,  which enables users to perform sales tracking  and management over an Internet connection,  Casio cash registers are popular with restau- rants and retailers. QT-6000  Electronic components Casio Micronics is engaged in consignment  production of cutting-edge semiconductor  packages (WLP), which are used in many de- vices including smartphones. Kofu Casio man- ufactures electronic components such as small  and medium-sized STN/TN LCDs. WLP  Label printers and photo printers Casio products meet a diverse range of printing  needs from the home to the o  ce. Casios  unique label printers and photo printers can be  used as stationery tools. The Name Land conve- niently prints beautiful labels, and the Purin- sharu prepares and prints custom postcards  without a computer.  Purinsharu  Digital Cameras Casio digital cameras deliver outstanding  performance in fundamentals like image quality  and battery life, but thats not all. They also  o er people entirely new ways to do digital  photography made possible by Casios high- speed image processing technology and ultra  high-speed burst shooting, and a revolutionary  function for creating composite moving images  right on the camera. Casio is constantly  rede ning what the digital camera can do. EXILIM EX-TR100  Calculators Casio also commands the largest portion of the  calculator market in Japan, with a share of over  50% (according to a 2010 GfK Japan survey).  The company has sold over 1 billion units  worldwide. The diverse lineup of models ranges  from practical business calculators that meet  the needs of accounting and  nance experts,  to scienti c calculators that are useful for  mathematics education. Casio calculators are  popular worldwide thanks to their convenient  functions and superior quality. DS-20DT  Cellular phones Casio develops innovative cellular phones for  the Japanese and US markets. Casios cellular  phones make the most of toughness technolo- gies from the companys other waterproof and  shock-resistant products and o er advanced  camera performance based on Casios work  with the Exilim digital camera. *  The cellular phone business is operated by  NEC Casio Mobile Communications, Ltd. auG'zOne IS11CA  Handheld terminals Casio is bringing the bene ts of IT to a variety  of di erent industries with its extensive lineup  of durable, intuitive handheld terminals. These  range from communication terminals for im- proving retail customer service, to handheld  terminals for logistics that have special features  for people working up high in a warehouse. IT-300  Page printers Casios page printers are both environmentally  friendly and economical, leveraging a unique,  all-in-one system that includes the main printer  unit, the toner and the printing software. Casio  was the  rst in the industry to o er toner fea- turing a carbon o set, and also provides free  printing tools to help users save paper. Users  appreciate all these advanced features. SPEEDIAGE5000  System Solutions Casio Information Systems develops specialized  systems for various industries, business types,  and operations. One such system solution is  Rakuichi, which provides support for sales man- agement, accounting, and payroll operations at  small and medium-size companies. Casio Hu- man Systems o ers the ADPS Personnel Sys- tem and other tools to support the e ective use  of human resources. Rakuichi  Molds and plastic molding Utilizing the molding technologies it has devel- oped for making Casio products, Yamagata  Casio is engaged in consignment production  of molds, and the molding of plastic parts for  cellular phones and electronic components in  automobiles. Mold FOR CONSUMERS FOR PROFESSIONALS 60  1957 Four Kashio brothers start commercial production of the  worlds  rst all-electric compact calculator, the 14-A. Casio  Computer Co., Ltd., founded. 1965 001 transistor-based electronic desktop calculator  released. 1966 Export of electronic desktop calculators  to overseas markets begins. 1967 Europe o  ce established in Switzerland. 1970 Casio Inc., a sales subsidiary, established in the US. Casio stock listed on the second section of the To- kyo Stock Exchange. 1972 Casio stock transferred to the  rst section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Casio Mini, the worlds first personal electronic  calculator, released. 1974 Casiotron digital wristwatch released. 1978 Casio Taiwan Co., Ltd., a production subsidiary,  established. 1980 Casio Tone electronic keyboards released. 1981 TR-2000 electronic dictionary released. 1983 First G-SHOCK shock-resistant wristwatch released. 1985 China o  ce established in Beijing. 1989 ADPS R1, an o  ce information processing device that  requires no user program, released. 1995 QV-10, a digital camera with an LCD monitor, released. FKT-100 radio-controlled watch released. 2000 C303CA, a waterproof, shock-resistant cellular phone,  introduced for sale by the IDO/DDI Cellular Group. 2002 EXILIM, then the worlds thinnest, wearable card-sized  digital camera, released. 2003 Charter of Creativity for Casio established. Casio enters the data projector market. 2004 OCEANUS, a solar-powered radio-controlled watch with full  metal case, released. 2006 Casio achieves total sales of 1 billion calculators  worldwide. 2008 EX-F1 high-speed burst shooting digital camera released. 2009 Casio achieves total sales of 50 million G-Shock watches. 2011 Imaging Square online service launched. History of Casio 61