COMMUNICATION ON  PROGRESS 2011 UNITED NATIONS  GLOBAL COMPACT  2 NIRAS is an international, multidisciplinary  engineering and consultancy company. We provide sustainable technical solutions  for global challenges within construction,  infrastructure, environment, water, wastewa- ter, energy, natural resources and develop- ment consulting. Our special trademark is an  inter-disciplinary and innovative approach to  projects, and we take pride in transforming  clients visions and challenges into sustain- able solutions. NIRAS was founded in Denmark in 1956.  Today, NIRAS is an international consultancy  company with 1400 consultants and  specialists. We have permanent offices in  more than 10 countries in Europe, Asia and  Africa, and we have completed projects in  more than 180 countries all over the world.  We are independent of contractors,  manufacturers and suppliers. NIRAS is a  member of the Danish Association of  Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the Interna- tional Federation of Consulting Engineers  (FIDIC). ABOUT NIRAS  3 Carsten Toft Boesen Chief Executive Officer It is of fundamental importance to NIRAS  that employees, clients and societies are able  to rely on our business ethics and concern  for the environment. At NIRAS, we are aware  of our social and environmental responsibility  and consider the Global Compact a natural  part of doing business. During 2011, we continued our efforts to  ensure that our mission, vision and values  become deeply rooted within our organisa- tion. To this end, we have developed the  NIRAS Fundamentals. We have upgraded our management training  programmes to ensure that one common  standard applies to the management of our  business, projects and employees. Based on our NIRAS Fundamentals, we have  implemented employee and management  portals that ensure easy access to relevant  information and tools for both employees  and managers. NIRAS aim is to develop sustainable  solutions, both for our clients and for  ourselves. In order to do so, we take the  environment and climate into consideration  whenever possible. Our new head office in  Denmark is climate-friendly and has one of  Denmarks largest, privately owned solar cell  systems.  We take a very serious approach to corpo- rate responsibility. However, there is even  greater potential in helping our clients and  societies across the world improve the way in  which they work with corporate responsibility.  We can do this when we design biogas  plants in China and offshore wind farms in  the North Sea, when we develop climate  adaptation strategies for Danish municipali- ties to prevent flooding or when we give  advice on land management in Africa to help  governments distribute land rights to their  populations. We are proud, yet humbled, to be involved in  efforts to improve social and environmental  conditions for our clients and societies  around the world. Carsten T. Boesen Chief Executive Officer STATEMENT OF  CONTINUED SUPPORT  4 PRINCIPLES 1. Businesses should support and respect  the protection of internationally  proclaimed human rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they  are not complicit in human rights abuses. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME Especially when working in developing  countries, our project managers on interna- tional projects are specifically informed about  NIRAS participation in the United Nations  Global Compact, its principles and the  implications of this participation. We have participated in the Worlds Best  News, a campaign in which the UN, the  Danish International Development Agency  and a number of Danish aid organisations  focused on the positive outcome of helping  developing countries and called for further  action to ensure that the UNs goals for 2015  are reached. NIRAS believes that personal growth and,  hence, the growth of our company will  prosper if there is an open and trusting  relationship between managers and  employees, and we encourage this in many  different ways on a continual basis. We have further developed our fundamen- tals by defining a code of conduct for the  way in which we act and interact in order to  live up to our mission and values. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS supports the United Nations Universal  Declaration of Human Rights. NIRAS wishes to take a holistic approach,  making space for the whole person. The  aim is for this to be reflected in the way in  which we relate to and act towards one  another. Thus, our values encompass the  following:  – We are human, receptive and dedicated,  as well as committed to our work and  open towards our colleagues.    – Job satisfaction and good cooperation  permeate our daily lives.   – We have a great degree of freedom and  we take responsibility for the interests of  our colleagues, the client and the  company.  HUMAN RIGHTS  5 PRINCIPLES 3.  Businesses should uphold the freedom of  association and the effective recognition  of the right to collective bargaining. 4.  Businesses should uphold the elimination  of all forms of forced and compulsory  labour. 5.  Businesses should uphold the effective  abolition of child labour. 6.  Businesses should uphold the elimination  of discrimination in respect of employ- ment and occupation. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME In 2011, NIRAS implemented both an  employee and a management portal to  support our fundamentals and to ensure easy  access to relevant information and tools for  both employees and managers. One element  of this was the formalisation of our action  plan for dealing with stress. We focus on work-life balance by being  flexible and supporting the needs of the  individual in order to ensure that all our  employees are able to achieve their potential  and reach their goals. Furthermore, we have upgraded our  management training and executive  programmes in order to provide our  managers with adequate tools and knowl- edge to ensure and enhance the motivation,  well-being and job satisfaction of our  employees. NIRAS does not employ children who are  under age. REFERENCE TO POLICIES Employment Conditions NIRAS employees are free to enter into  associations and to enter into collective  bargaining with management. All NIRAS  employees have individual contracts, and the  employment conditions comply with current  national legislation and requirements.  Occupational health and safety NIRAS must be a safe and healthy workplace,  where employees have good job satisfaction  and good potential for development. Activities related to NIRAS projects and  in-house operations must be performed such  that the health, safety and welfare of the  affected human beings are ensured to the  greatest possible degree. Diversity and discrimination NIRAS considers diversity to be a business  advantage that ensures our clients a better  quality of service and promotes inspiration in  house. NIRAS ensures all present and future  employees equal opportunities, regardless of  gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic  and social origin, disability, political or sexual  orientation and family status. The culture and values at NIRAS are based on  respect for the individual and this also implies  acceptance and tolerance of diversity among  colleagues and clients. We are open minded  and welcome employees and business  partners with different cultural, political and  religious backgrounds. LABOUR  6 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 7.  Businesses should support a precaution- ary approach to environmental chal- lenges. 8.  Businesses should undertake initiatives to  promote greater environmental responsi- bility. 9. Businesses should encourage the  development and diffusion of environ- mentally friendly technologies. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME NIRAS develops sustainable solutions, both  for our clients and for ourselves.  We integrate environmentally friendly  technologies into an increasing number of  client projects relating to buildings, construc- tion in general and industry as well as water,  energy and wastewater systems.  This applies when we design biogas plants in  China and offshore wind farms in the North  Sea, when we develop climate adaptation  strategies for Danish municipalities to  prevent flooding or when we give advice on  land management in Africa to help govern- ments distribute land rights to their popula- tions. In developing countries, NIRAS provides  technical assistance regarding the environ- ment, climate change, natural resource  management, watershed management,  water supply and sanitation, and health. We take the environment and climate into  consideration whenever possible and have  recently relocated to a new and climate- friendly head office in Denmark. Our new  head office has one of Denmarks largest,  privately owned solar cell systems. The  system will be able to cover more than 25 %  of our electricity consumption with carbon- free electricity. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS accepts responsibility for the society  and the environment. NIRAS maintains an open dialogue with  clients and stakeholders and seeks solutions  that are compatible with the principles of  sustainable development.  NIRAS supports the International Federation  of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) recommen- dations on the environment and sustainable  development.  7 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10. Businesses should work against corrup- tion in all its forms, including extortion  and bribery. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME Requirements for compliance with NIRAS  Business Integrity Policy are strongly  emphasised in all contracts with employees,  managers, sub-consultants and agents. REFERENCE TO POLICIES NIRAS has a Business Integrity Policy as well  as an internal Business Integrity Management  System, which is a tool for the prevention of  corrupt behaviour and the promotion of  integrity. NIRAS agrees with and has adopted the  Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct as  defined by the International Federation of  Consulting Engineers (FIDIC).   www.niras.com NIRAS A/S Sortemosevej 19 3450 Allerd, Denmark T +45 4810 4200 F +45 4810 4300