The IKEA Group approach to sustainability  How we manage sustainability in our business  Customers 3 IKEA products 3 Customer engagement  6 Environment 7 Climate  7 Forestry  8 Cotton 10 Water 11 Waste  12 Suppliers  12 The IKEA supplier code of conduct 13 Co-Workers 17 Communities 19 References 21 List of key organisations 21 About this document This document describes the overall IKEA approach to environmental  and social responsibility and the systematic work we do in many areas. For specific news about our progress in 2011, please read the   IKEA Sustainability Report 2011. Would you like to know more? You can find more information and download documents on our   website. Please visit About IKEA/People and the Environment   at www.IKEA.com If you have any questions or comments, please send an e-mail   to sustainability.report.se@IKEA.com Contents 2  We meet our customers in the stores and through the range IKEA stores offer everything for the home displayed in inspiring room  settings. In 2011, 665 million customers visited 287 IKEA Group  stores in 26 countries. The IKEA range comprises some 9,500 home furnishing products.  Materials and products are subject to extensive testing, and we work  proactively to stay ahead of health and safety standards and regula- tions. We want customers to confidently and freely choose among all  our products, knowing that IKEA is committed to sustainable practices  and that they do not have to choose between sustainability, style,  function or price. PRoduCTS A generous return policy and strict follow-up routines IKEA has a generous return policy, and customers have at least 30  days to bring back purchased products for a full refund regardless of  the reason for the return. Every return and complaint is systematically  documented so that IKEA can analyse reasons for returns and take  action throughout the value chain when needed.  Rigorous safety alarm procedures Any indication of safety problems with IKEA home furnishing and food  products immediately prompts measures determined by our safety  alarm process to prevent injury and/or health risks. The process helps us to secure and monitor product safety and  safety standard compliance on all IKEA markets and to initiate correc- tive and preventive action if needed. All IKEA co-workers have a duty  to report safety-related incidents or risks involving IKEA products. Our  guidelines state that the threshold should be deliberately low for  reporting to minimise the risk of missing an indication that something  is amiss.  Alarms are directed to a central internal team, which monitors the  system continually. In case of severe risk, an immediate sales stop or  recall can be set in motion. Every alarm triggers an investigation,  involving all necessary parts of the IKEA organisation as well as sup- pliers and authorities when needed. Safety alarms also provide impor- tant information for product developers and designers in their quest to  develop safe and healthy products. Every IKEA store and national Service Office has dedicated  resources working with safety alarm procedures, and they receive reg- ular training. CuSTomERS The IKEA approach   to sustainability How we manage sustainability   in our business Customers 3  The IKEA range shall comply with the strictest laws and safety  standards in all our markets, and we have detailed requirements on  the use of chemicals and other substances in the manufacturing proc- ess. If one country tightens its rules, we introduce these new regula- tions in all IKEA markets where and when possible.  Examples of such legislation are the EU RoHS directive on hazard- ous substances in electrical and electronic components and the REACH  legislation on the restriction of chemicals. IKEA participates in formal  and informal networks related to REACH. For instance, we monitor the  updates of The International Chemical Secretariats (ChemSec) initia- tive Substitute it Now (SIN), which lists substances that may be  included in REACH.  The IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card The IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card is an internal tool intro- duced in 2010 to help classify the IKEA home furnishing range and help  us move towards more sustainable product development. It guides us  to improve the product in relation to 11 criteria that have an impact on  a products sustainability profile throughout its life-cycle. By the end of  2015, 90 percent of the IKEA sales value shall come from home fur- nishing products classified as more sustainable. The Score Card is an internal tool and results will not be communi- cated to customers in the form of individual product labels.  For a product and its packaging to be classified as more sustain able,  it must score a certain number of points in the IKEA Sustain ability  Product Score Card. It is a prerequisite that the product is produced  by suppliers that meet the social and environmental requirements   in the IKEA supplier code of conduct IWAY.  IKEA SuSTAInAbILITy PRoduCT SCoRE CARd CRITERIA   In bRIEF:  More from less (using less material in the product)  Renewable material   Recycled material   Environmentally better material   Separable & recyclable material  Product quality   Transport efficiency (number of products per container)  Energy efficient production  Renewable energy in production   Raw material utilisation at suppliers  Product use (less use of energy and water, and less waste   in customers homes) Home furnishing products  Proactive risk assessment and extensive testing IKEA uses proactive risk assessments to ensure product safety by  evaluating, detecting and eliminating potential hazards. Each year,  thousands of tests are carried out on home furnishing products dur- ing IKEA product development, and various tests are conducted con- tinuously during production.  Tests are based on European and international safety and quality  standards as well as IKEA unique criteria that look at how customers  might assemble and use the products. The IKEA Test Laboratory in  lmhult, Sweden is also a competence centre working closely with  IKEA designers, product developers and technicians during product  development.  Suppliers are required to have product tests conducted at third- party laboratories approved by IKEA. We have our own third-party  accredited test laboratories in Sweden and China, which are comple- mented by more than 100 external laboratories around the world. Special focus on childrens safety IKEA pays particular attention to childrens products, which must  meet especially high quality and safety requirements. We test IKEA  childrens products to strict national and international safety stand- ards and legislation at independent, third-party test laboratories and  institutes around the world. Tests are made before we start produc- tion and thereafter on a regular basis. Special risk assessment based on childrens needs is a cornerstone  of our quality work during product development and in the production  stage. The purpose is to detect and eliminate potential hazards and  to ensure the product is safe to use also in ways an adult may not  normally anticipate. Co-workers across IKEA who work with the Childrens IKEA range  go through regular training in the IKEA Childrens School. Our teach- ers are experts in their field and teach about childrens development  and needs with focus on quality, safety and health. An e-learning  module is followed by classroom activities during one to three days,  depending on the work role, before a participant is licenced to work  with the IKEA Childrens range. Suppliers of childrens products are  also invited to take part on a voluntary basis. using the safest possible chemicals IKEA aims to refrain from the use of chemicals and substances that  could potentially be harmful to people and the environment. We  strive to always use materials, surface treatments and production  techniques with the lowest possible emissions.  Customers 4  fied wood from responsibly managed forests. IKEA also purchases  Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Certificates to cover the  palm oil volume used by IKEA in order to help stimulate more sustain- able palm oil production.  In the future, we want to focus even more on finding ways to not  only decrease the amount of raw materials required for IKEA prod- ucts, but also to find alternative materials to avoid the depletion of  precious resources.  Labelling of IKEA home furnishing products We label our home furnishing products exclusively with the IKEA logo,  as we want our customers to know that this stands for products that  are safe and produced with respect for people and the environment.  As this applies to the entire IKEA range, we have chosen not to use  any certification labels for home furnishing products.  Food products  Safe and healthy food products Health is an important parameter when we develop the IKEA food  range. We try to minimise the use of chemical additives, such as cer- tain preservatives, and have prohibited monosodium glutamate (MSG)  and AZO dyes. We have banned all flavour enhancers in IKEA branded food prod- ucts. Also, IKEA does not allow genetically modified organisms (GMO)  in IKEA branded products. As it is almost impossible to source GMO- free food in the United States and Canada, an exception of the ban  has been issued for those countries. However, our own packaged  brand products are always GMO-free regardless of where they are  sourced and sold. IKEA has limits on artificially produced trans fats in the cooking oil,  food products and dishes sold and used in our stores. A maximum of  two percent of the total fat content may be trans fats, which is the  smallest quantity that can be measured.  Full nutritional information is available on products in the Swedish  Food Market range to help customers make informed choices. Ensuring restaurant food safety IKEA is determined to ensure that the food served in our restaurants  and sold in our Swedish Food Markets is safe to eat. IKEA has a man- datory web-based learning program on food safety for all co-workers  working with food in our restaurants, kitchens and stores.  Two annual food safety audits are performed by external parties in  every IKEA store. The audit includes food handling, cleaning practices,  storage rooms and garbage practices. If deviations from protocol are  dedicated resources to sustainable product development IKEA of Sweden is responsible for developing the range of home fur- nishing products. Business areas have dedicated sustainability lead- ers, supported by a central group of sustainability specialists. They  are responsible for leading and supporting the sustainability work  within product development and supply chain. Product developers, technicians and other key internal stakehold- ers are invited to take part in training modules on waste, energy and  water issues. A separate training program is available on how to use  the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card. better energy efficiency, lower water consumption By the end of 2015, the goal is that our energy consuming products,  such as lights and white goods, are at least 50 percent more efficient  than average installed products on the market. Our water consuming  products, such as taps, dishwashers and washing machines shall be  at least 50 percent more efficient than average installed products on  the market in 2008. Comparisons for both water and energy con- sumption are based on estimated averages for the European market. Renewable, recyclable and recycled materials By the end of 2015, all product materials shall be renewable, recycla- ble or recycled. The main raw materials used in IKEA products are  wood, cotton and glass. The latter is recyclable, while wood and cot- ton are renewable and recyclable materials. Economising on resources – making more from less We want as many people as possible to be able to afford IKEA prod- ucts as part of our vision to create a better everyday life. Cost-con- sciousness is essential to this idea, inspiring us to make economical  use of all resources and to seek innovative solutions. This in turn  helps us to reduce our overall environmental impact.  IKEA always strives to use the least possible resources to make  the best possible products – using hollow legs on furniture and chip- board as filling are classic IKEA ways of saving on wood resources,  and we often blend cotton with other materials to reduce cotton use  without any negative impact on the quality.  Sustainable sourcing of raw materials Raw material extraction can be associated with environmental and  social concerns. IKEA wants to support the development of sustaina- ble practices for what are often long and complex supply chains. We work actively with our partners to spread better management  practices in cotton cultivation, and to increase the availability of certi- Customers Read more about our  work with forestry on  page 8 Read more about   our work with cotton   on page 10 Read our industry-  specific requirements   for IKEA food suppliers  on page 14 Read more about   Roundtable on Sustain- able Palm Oil at   www.rspo.org 5  Encouraging and enabling recycling IKEA wants to make it easy for customers to recycle our products at  the end of their life cycle. Our Sustainability Direction states that IKEA  must take responsibility to enable and encourage customers to recy- cle and reuse products when they are no longer wanted.  Today, many stores offer at least some opportunities for customers  to return and sort waste for recycling. For example, customers can  return batteries and compact fluorescent light (CFL) bulbs at most  IKEA stores. IKEA has also started investigating the opportunities for  full recyclability of different materials used in IKEA products, and how  cyclic systems can save scarce natural resources and minimise CO2  emissions.  IKEA FAmILy customer club More than 45 million customers in 24 countries are members of IKEA  FAMILY, the customer club that helps us care for and reward our most  active customers. Several stores run IKEA FAMILY activities aimed at  engaging customers to participate in our sustainability work and sup- port a variety of projects in the local community. The IKEA FAMILY  live magazine helps us reach six million households around the world  with tips and ideas for a more sustainable life at home, as well as in- depth features on what we do to take responsibility for people and the  environment. Collecting feedback from customers To collect structured feedback from customers, IKEA conducts market  research through the Brand Capital survey, a tool to monitor and  improve the implementation of the IKEA concept and to measure cus- tomer satisfaction in each market. The survey is conducted once a  year. In addition, we monitor how satisfied customers are with their  local IKEA store through the annual Customer Satisfaction Index  (CSI) survey. The survey provides an international benchmark for our  stores, and ensures that customer satisfaction issues are regularly  addressed. Engaging customers through campaigns and activities IKEA customers are encouraged to contribute to positive developments  through campaigns and activities run by IKEA and our partners.  During the holiday season at the end of each year, one euro for  every soft toy sold in IKEA stores worldwide is donated by the IKEA  Foundation. The money is split between Save the Children and  UNICEF projects aimed at improving the education for children in  Africa, Asia and Central and Eastern Europe. And every time a customer buys a SUNNAN solar lamp, IKEA  detected, the store must immediately set up corrective measures and  undergo a new audit. In addition, independent third-party auditors  conduct compliance and calibration audits to ensure consistent audit  judgement levels and follow-up procedures. All coffee at IKEA is uTZ Certified All coffee sold and served at IKEA is UTZ Certified. That means it has  been produced with care for people and the environment, and that  you can trace the beans all the way back to the plantations through a  code on the packaging. UTZ Certified is an independent non-profit  organisation that sets social and environmental standards for sustain- able coffee growing and distribution, and now also cocoa and tea. organic food available in all stores All stores must offer at least one food dish based on exclusively  organic ingredients. In addition, many markets source organic food  for their national menu in the restaurants. Tackling concerns over fishing and animal welfare IKEA wants to offer quality food products at low prices, while also  giving our customers peace of mind knowing that we source food  products in a responsible manner.  IKEA uses an animal welfare standard for broiler chicken, devel- oped together with Compassion in World Farming (CIWF) and sup- ports the development and use of globally accepted independent  standards for other species from the Global Animal Partnership  (GAP).  We have strict requirements on food products to prevent overfish- ing and therefore support the international MSC certification sceme.  The herring sold by IKEA comes from responsible fisheries off the  coast of Norway, and all of our salmon suppliers take part in the  stakeholder process od Salmon Aquaculture Dialogue standards.  When local restaurant dishes include fish caught in the wild, it must  be ensured that it comes from sustainable fisheries - MSC is a credi- ble indicator of this.  CuSTomER EnGAGEmEnT  Promoting a more sustainable life at home We want to inspire IKEA customers to adopt more sustainable behav- iours in their everyday life and thus reduce their environmental  impact. IKEA aims to identify products and services that we could  offer to help our customers live a more sustainable life at home and  to create customer awareness of how they can help reduce climate  impact. The focus is on reducing energy and water consumption, pre- venting food waste and minimising other household waste. Customers Read more about   UTZ Certified at   www.utzcertified.org Read the industry-  specific requirements  for IKEA Food suppliers on  page 16 Read more about Com- passion In World Farming  at www.ciwf.org.uk Read more about   the Global Animal   Partnership at   www.globalanimal- partnership.org Read about current   IKEA FAMILY activities   in your country at   www.IKEA.com Read more about   the IKEA Foundation   on page 19 6  Round Table (ERRT) to improve energy efficiency and reduce emis- sions. IKEA has standards for the most important building components of  stores, and specifies a range of energy efficient measures for new  IKEA buildings. Space and water heating for new-builds come from  more sustainable sources whenever possible. This is done using  ground source heat pumps, air heat pumps, biomass boilers and solar  panels.  Cooperating with suppliers to reduce energy use and emissions All IKEA suppliers must have plans in place to reduce the environ- mental impacts from their production and operations. They must work  to reduce their energy consumption and prevent pollution. IKEA and key suppliers work together in energy projects with the  goal of reducing consumption and carbon dioxide emissions, while  also saving costs and increasing competitiveness.  Striving for more efficient goods transport IKEA has strived for innovative and efficient transport solutions for  our products ever since the early 1950s. Effective distribution in the  entire goods flow from supplier to customer is an important aspect of  achieving a low price, and to minimise the environmental impact from  transport.  IKEA products are purchased both globally and regionally to secure  low prices and high quality while also trying to avoid unnecessary  transport. We use direct deliveries from suppliers to stores to a large  extent, and try to minimise goods going into intermediate storage in  distribution centres. We choose rail transport where possible, and where this is the  more environmentally adapted option. Truck and container loads are  optimised to maximise fill rates and minimise the number of trans- ports, and we work actively with transport service providers to reduce  their environmental footprint. Smart packaging is the most effective way to reduce the environ- mental impact from goods transport. Already at the drawing table,  designers and product developers include considerations to packaging  solutions as part of their assignment. Product packaging is optimised  to increase filling rates.  IKEA works to increase the awareness along the value chain. Each  IKEA trading area has a filling rate coordinator, and analysis tools and  training packages are available for all.  donates another one of these solar lamps to a child living in the devel- oping world without easy access to electricity, helping thousands of  children around the world draw, write and read after sunset. We strive to minimise negative impact IKEA strives to minimise negative impact on the environment by  applying innovative thinking in every step of the long chain, from the  very first idea for a product to when the customer no longer has use  for it. Cost-consciousness is part of our culture, and it inspires us to  try to make more from less resources and minimise waste in every  form.  We believe that IKEA has the possibility to contribute to a better  environment. For example, we can help reduce greenhouse gas emis- sions and minimise waste and water consumption in society by offer- ing products that help our customers live a more sustainable life at  home. CLImATE  Reducing emissions throughout the value chain IKEA wants to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from all aspects of  our operations, including raw material extraction, product manufac- turing, transportation, energy usage in IKEA buildings, how people  are transported to our stores, the use of our products in customers  homes, and finally at the end of a products life-cycle. This is a great  challenge, but IKEA is making progress.  Reducing emissions from our own buildings Our long-term goal is that all IKEA buildings shall be powered using  100 percent renewable energy. We also work to improve our overall  energy efficiency.  IKEA defines renewable energy as energy derived from resources  that are regenerated naturally or cannot be depleted. IKEA has decided  not to pay premium prices for grid electricity from renewable sources.  This is one of the reasons why IKEA invests in alternative solutions, such  as solar panel systems and wind turbines, to supply its buildings with  renewable electricity. Investments in more sustainable energy solutions  often represent significant cost savings and relatively short pay-back  periods.  Each IKEA market is responsible for reducing carbon dioxide emis- sions from its buildings and for increasing its use of renewable  energy. National management teams are supported by experts and  facilitators, as well as coordinators at each local unit. Many markets  also cooperate with WWF, and with retailers in the European Retail  EnvIRonmEnT 7 Environment  Getting to and from IKEA with more sustainable transportation IKEA wants to help customers and co-workers use more sustainable  modes of transport to travel to and from IKEA easily.  Public transport solutions are an important consideration when  planning new stores and upgrading others, and there are many local  examples of initiatives aimed at promoting sustainable transport for  customers and co-workers.  Stores often operate free shuttle buses to and from the city cen- tre, and offer discounted home delivery of IKEA purchases.  IKEA has developed a toolbox together with WWF to spread  ideas and solutions for more environmentally friendly people trans- port. It contains a checklist of opportunities for promoting sustainable  transport, guidelines for how to work with municipalities and external  partners on improving alternative transportation access to stores, as  well as a model for how to calculate the effect of implemented meas- ures. Helping co-workers meet and travel with less emissions There has been a substantial shift from business travel to virtual  meetings via video, web and phone over the past few years. Regular  training and information sessions are being held in all locations to  encourage use and make sure participants get the best possible  experience from virtual meetings. When business travel is needed, IKEA co-workers can make  informed choices of local travel alternatives to and from IKEA units.  When searching for information on the IKEA Intranet on how to get  to a specific location, the CO2 footprint for the various alternatives  such as cars, trains and buses are listed. In close cooperation with our travel agencies, the work to improve  the CO2 reporting and information on air travel is on-going, both on a  corporate and individual trip level.  Cooperating with WWF on climate change IKEA has cooperated with WWF to tackle climate change since 2007.  A majority of carbon dioxide emissions related to IKEA come from  material extraction, suppliers, customer transportation, and the use  and disposal of products – areas that IKEA can only indirectly influ- ence. This is why we have several climate-related projects that aim  to increase our ability to positively influence suppliers, customers,  policy makers and others, while also developing our range to become  more energy efficient. Below is a summary of our current joint cli- mate projects with WWF. Energy use at suppliers  This project focuses on Poland and China. The aim is to identify spe- cific barriers and develop relevant strategies to remove barriers pre- venting us from proceeding faster to a low carbon supply chain as well  as to develop and run specific actions. We explore what needs to hap- pen at IKEA and what needs to happen externally, for example when  it comes to infrastructure and legislation, and develop an innovation  platform on how to improve energy efficiency.  Sustainable life at home  This project aims at identifying smart products and services that IKEA  can offer to help our customers live a more sustainable life at home,  and at increasing customer and co-worker awareness of how their  behaviour can help to reduce climate impact.  Climate perspective on food products  This project aims at finding ways of adapting the IKEA food range to  be more sustainable, with a special focus on the climate. The initial  goal is to identify short-term greenhouse gas reduction potentials.  The next step is to initiate and implement actions to reduce the cli- mate impact from all food-related operations and outline a strategy  for long-term adaptation of the IKEA food business. A research project  has been commissioned, working with independent experts, to iden- tify a potential food range for 2020 that has a more low carbon, sus- tainable focus.  Closing the loops  This project investigates the opportunities for full recyclability of differ- ent materials used in IKEA products, and how cyclic systems can save  scarce natural resources and minimise CO2 emissions. It explores how  to close material loops, with specific focus on recyclable products and  use of recycled materials in new products. We hope to find new and  innovative ways to handle materials, and investigate aspects of full  recyclability and how cyclic systems can save natural resources, mini- mise CO2 emissions and optimally have a positive impact on the envi- ronment.  FoRESTRy  IKEA forestry requirements All IKEA solid wood and board product suppliers must live up to the IKEA  supplier code of conduct IWAY as well as our forestry requirements.  Forest management in our wood sourcing areas must not threaten  high conservation values. In sensitive areas we require forest manag- ers to have a certified management plan that respects conservation  values. IKEA suppliers are required to document the origin of their  wood. Suppliers must deliver a wood procurement plan and demonstrate  Read our requirements  for wood used in IKEA  products on page 10 8 Environment  ning of our wood supply chain audits. Suppliers are contractually  obliged to report their wood sources within 48 hours upon request. IKEA focuses its approach and resources for supplier monitoring  and wood supply chain audits on high-risk suppliers and high-risk  areas. This means that IKEA suppliers sourcing wood certified by  acknowledged forest certification schemes, such as FSC, are mainly  monitored through independent auditors. Our own audit resources  focus on suppliers that are not yet forest management or chain-of- custody certified, e.g. suppliers operating in areas associated with  risks of unacceptable forest management practises, including illegal  logging, and suppliers that have failed earlier audits.  In addition, third-party auditors, such as NEPCon, conduct wood sup- ply chain audits for IKEA. Wood supply chain audits by IKEA or third- party auditors are based on risk assessments using supplier data on  wood origin. Any indication that unwanted wood could be entering the  IKEA supply chain triggers a stop of deliveries and an audit.  As Swedwood is an industrial group owned by IKEA, audits in its  supply chain are always conducted by third-party auditors to avoid  conflicts of interest.  Welcoming legislation against handling of illegally   logged wood More and more governments are legislating against the handling and  illegal trading of illegally logged wood – the US, EU, Switzerland and  Australia have already implemented or are developing legislations. We  anticipate that more than 80 percent of IKEA retail markets will be  covered by these legislations by 2013. IKEA welcomes this development. We also believe we can and will  contribute valuable input on how to design efficient control systems  as, for more than a decade, we have had systems in place to ensure  the legality of the wood we use for more than a decade. We are mem- bers of the Timber Retail Coalition in the EU and the Forest Legality  Alliance in the US. In Australia, IKEA and Greenpeace were two of the  signatories of the Common Platform, requesting the Australian gov- ernment to legislate against illegal logging. Special focus on logging in Russia and China IKEA is engaged in a number of projects together with WWF to address  the challenges of illegal logging and unsustainable forest management  in Russia and China, which are two of our most important wood sourc- ing countries. We have also chosen to concentrate most of our own  resources here by dedicating two-thirds of our forestry specialists to  the area. Some of these specialists focus entirely on cross-border trade  as approximately one-third of the wood IKEA suppliers source in Russia  is processed in China. that they have systems to ensure that IKEA minimum requirements  are met before they are allowed to start delivering to IKEA. Our for- estry specialists assess the wood procurement plan and the evidence  provided. Compliance with the requirements is followed up through  regular audits and reporting. A strategic approach to forestry challenges Wood is a valuable resource, and resource efficiency is of great  importance not only from an environmental point of view but also  from a cost perspective. We are constantly searching for new tech- niques to get the best possible return from every tree trunk. We source wood also from regions that are troubled by illegal logging  and other unsustainable forestry practises. Our suppliers in these areas  struggle with low availability of certified wood volumes and traceability in  complex supply chains. To be able to operate in these regions, it is part of  our global sourcing approach to have systems in place to avoid controver- sial wood entering the supply chain, and we cooperate with forest manag- ers and NGOs to increase the availability of wood from responsibly man- aged forests. We believe we best contribute to lasting positive change by  conducting responsible business and actively supporting certification  development in countries such as China and Russia. Our long-term goal is that all wood used in IKEA products should  be recycled or come from forests verified as responsibly managed,  according to a system recognised by IKEA. Today, Forest Stewardship  Council (FSC), including Forest Management (FM) and Chain of Cus- tody (CoC) standards, is the only certification scheme recognised by  IKEA as a preferred source.  The Wood Supply function of IKEA works to support selected wood  suppliers in developing efficient and sustainable supply strategies. It  aims to secure future price reductions and access to competitive  wood raw material.  IKEA forestry specialists  IKEA forestry specialists spread knowledge about responsible forestry  in the wood supply chain. They support our trading service offices  with wood supply chain audits, when they trace the supply of wood  all the way back to the forest to verify that IKEA requirements are  met. The forestry specialist also help suppliers to improve the sus- tainability of their sourcing by mapping availability of certified wood  and advising on how to secure IKEA requirements.  monitoring focused on high-risk supply IKEA suppliers must be able to report the origin of their wood every  four months, which forms the basis for the risk assessment and plan- 9 Environment   Not from forestry operations engaged in forest-related social conflicts  	 Not	harvested	in	Intact	Natural	Forests	(INF)	or	other	geographi- cally	identified	High	Conservation	Value	Forests	(HCVF),	unless	they	 are	certified	as	responsibly	managed	   Not harvested from natural forests in the tropical and sub-tropical  regions being converted to plantations or non-forest use   Not from officially recognised and geographically identified commer- cial Genetically Modified (GM) tree plantations  Suppliers must have procedures in place to secure this throughout their  supply chain. They must know the origin of their wood and accept  audits at every link in the chain. They regularly report the wood origin,  volume and species used in IKEA products via the IKEA Forest Tracing  System. 2. CRITERIA FoR IKEA PREFERREd Wood SouRCES* Wood certified according to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Forest  Management (FM) and Chain of Custody (CoC) standards meets the  IKEA requirements for preferred sources. In order to count towards  the preferred wood objective, suppliers must have a valid FSC CoC,  covering in its scope the production for IKEA. *As of 2012, the definition of preferred wood sources will also include recycled wood. CoTTon  IKEA supports more sustainable cotton farming IKEA has set out to create lasting and large-scale improvements in  conventional cotton cultivation together with parties including other  international companies, NGOs, governments and authorities. We  want to take part in making more sustainable cotton a globally availa- ble commodity.  IKEA cooperates with WWF and other local partners to influence  mainstream farmers to grow cotton in a more sustainable way – mainly  in India and Pakistan but also in China and Turkey. It started as Farmer  Field Schools with 20 weeks of training for 450 farmers in 2005. Today,  IKEA supported projects reach an estimated 100,000 farmers. The projects are based on hands-on training in the field, which  allows farmers themselves to see and experience the benefits of chang- ing the way they grow cotton. Successful farmers act as an inspiration  to others, and better farming practices are being spread from farmer to  farmer. As farmers start using less chemical pesticides and fertilisers,  and less water, their environmental impact is reduced while cotton crop  yields are maintained at a lower cost and farmers earnings increase.   An increase in sustainable farming practices leads to significant  improvements in mainstream cotton farming and drastically increases  IKEA conducts seminars and training sessions in Russia and China  together with representatives from forestry companies and authorities  such as customs. IKEA also encourages suppliers to participate in the  WWF initiative Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) to strengthen  their commitment to eliminate illegal logging and promoting responsi- ble forestry. In China, IKEA works with the Rainforest Alliance Trees  Programme, WWF China and the Chinese Academy of Forestry, in addi- tion to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), to improve the standards  of forest management and availability of certified wood. outdoor furniture and acacia IKEA outdoor furniture represents about six percent of the wood used  for our home furnishing offer. IKEA does not use wood from high  value tropical tree species, e.g. teak or mahogany. Most of our out- door furniture is made of acacia, which is sturdy and hardwearing.  Acacia is mostly grown in plantations to produce wood for the pulp  and paper industry. IKEA sources acacia from plantations in Indone- sia, Vietnam and Malaysia. The acacia used for IKEA products must comply with our minimum  forestry requirements, including that the origin must be known and it  must comply with all legal requirements. Our long-term goal is to  source all wood in the outdoor furniture range from forests that are  independently verified by a third party as responsibly managed. Cooperating with WWF  IKEA cooperates with WWF to support responsible forest manage- ment, and to increase the availability of certified wood. For example,  we have joint WWF projects that aim to ensure responsible forest  management practices and to curb illegal logging in the cross-border  trade between China and Russia, as well as a number of projects in  Bulgaria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Lithuania,  Romania, Ukraine and Vietnam.  IKEA is also a participant in the Global Forest & Trade Network  (GFTN). The GFTN is a WWF initiative to eliminate illegal logging and  drive improvements in forest management. Participants are commit- ted to promoting responsible forestry and credible certification.  Requirements for wood used in IKEA products The IKEA Forestry Standard is a material-specific supplement to the  IKEA supplier code of conduct IWAY. It contains basic requirements  for IKEA wood product suppliers. 1. minimum criteria on wood for IKEA products  Not from forests that have been illegally harvested  Read more about the joint  projects with WWF at  www.panda.org Read more about   the GFTN at   www.gftn.panda.org 10 Environment  available volumes of cotton grown in a more sustainable manner. We  are increasing the share of this more sustainable cotton across the  range, and the goal is that all cotton used for IKEA products shall be  produced according to the Better Cotton Initiatives (BCI) social and  environmental criteria by the end of 2015. Part of the better Cotton Initiative (bCI) IKEA is one of the founding members of the Better Cotton Initiative  (BCI). This global multi-stakeholder organisation aims to make global  cotton production better for the people who produce it, better for the  environment it grows in and better for the sectors future. Leading  participants are international companies and NGOs, as well as an  increasing number of ginners and textile producers.  BCI has developed criteria for Better Cotton. Criteria cover envi- ronmental aspects, such as the use of chemicals and water, as well as  social aspects relating to child labour, working conditions and wages.  Once these criteria have been fully evaluated, set and introduced,  BCI will take on responsibility for verifying compliance at farm level  within our supply chain. IKEA, BCI, the Rabobank Foundation, the Dutch Sustainable Trade  Initiative (IDH), WWF, Solidaridad and a number of international  retailers have a joint strategy to speed up the implementation of Bet- ter Cotton as a tradable commodity. To support this strategy, the Bet- ter Cotton Fast Track Program (BCFTP) and its related fund have been  established with the aim of reaching a production of one million  tonnes of Better Cotton by 2015. Addressing childrens rights in Pakistan and India We believe that children everywhere have the right to be protected  from exploitation, abuse and neglect. All children should have access  to quality education, and child labour is unacceptable. The IKEA  Foundation has identified cotton and cotton-seed farming as areas  where there is a great need to improve the rights and lives of chil- dren. Between 2009 and 2015, around 10 million children in more  than 15,000 villages in cotton and cotton-seed growing areas in India  and Pakistan will benefit from the programmes supported by the IKEA  Foundation and managed by UNICEF and Save the Children. The aim  is to create child-friendly communities, where the idea of every child  attending and staying in school is fully-embraced and encouraged by  society. Connecting suppliers to more sustainable cotton We support IKEA suppliers working with cotton textiles to connect  with suitable raw material sources. IKEA has also facilitated access to  a number of new cotton sources to enable suppliers to blend the right  quality. In return, the suppliers must commit to buying more sustain- able cotton as it becomes available. Functional traceability systems Tracing the cotton used in IKEA products all the way back to farm-level  is an important part of securing more sustainable cotton products.  Today, IKEA uses a web-based traceability system initially introduced to  be used in connection with our cotton projects in India and Pakistan.  This system is being implemented throughout the IKEA cotton supply  chain, but IKEA is also searching for alternative, innovative solutions  that may be better suited for large-scale tracing. Reducing our need for cotton At the same time as IKEA works to use more sustainable cotton, we  also try to reduce our reliance on cotton as a raw material for our  products. One way to reduce the need for cotton is to use blends, such as cot- ton and linen. Alternative materials play an important role, too. For  example, Lyocell made from cellulose fibres is already used in a number  of IKEA products that require similar characteristics as cotton. IKEA  expects the range of Lyocell textile products to increase substantially in  coming years, contributing to a decreased use of cotton. In addition, IKEA suppliers are adapting production to meet new  quality standards that reduce the amount of cotton needed and the  weight of textiles, while the overall textile quality is enhanced. WATER Reducing water consumption at IKEA All IKEA stores and distribution centres measure their water use, and  several stores have implemented various measures to reduce con- sumption. For instance, new stores may install waterless urinals and  existing stores can be retrofitted with grey water systems so that roof  run-off water can be used for toilet flushing. design to minimise water use in manufacturing Product design can, to some extent, determine the amount of water  needed in manufacturing, and IKEA uses a number of techniques that  reduce consumption. A printing technique called Soft Pigment Printing  (SPP) reduces the water consumption by 60 percent compared to tra- ditional printing techniques while also giving the textile a soft feel and  excellent light-fastness. Today, a large portion of our printed textile  products are produced with techniques that require less water. Water treatment and water use at IKEA suppliers The IKEA supplier code of conduct IWAY includes requirements on  Read more about the  Better Cotton Initiative  at www.bettercotton.org Read more about   Solidaridad at   www.solidaridad- network.org Read more about the  IKEA Foundation on   page 19 11 Environment  water treatment. IKEA supports suppliers to implement waste water  treatment processes to ensure water quality in suppliers local com- munities, and selected suppliers are eligible to take part in a Supplier  Development Program to improve water practices. All IKEA home furnishing suppliers must have action plans on how  to reduce their environmental impact, and IKEA supports suppliers in  regions with scarce water resources. All IKEA Catalogue suppliers are  required to monitor and report water consumption as well as emis- sions to wastewater, and IKEA calculates and reports this data per  Catalogue copy. Sustainable water practices in cotton farming The biggest water footprint in the IKEA value chain comes from raw  material extraction. Cotton farming is particularly water intensive if  appropriate irrigation methods are not used, and this is one of the  reasons why we support projects for more sustainable cotton farm- ing. Participating farmers water consumption has been significantly  reduced through the introduction of better management practices,  and project results show that the water consumption can often be  halved. Helping customers save water at home We develop the IKEA range to help IKEA customers live a more sus- tainable life at home by reducing their energy and water consump- tion. IKEA taps are fitted with a Pressure Compensating Aerator  (PCA) that can reduce water use by 30 percent or more by limiting  the water pressure and adding air to the water flow. Furthermore, we  are constantly looking for other innovative techniques to support  reduced household water usage.  WASTE minimising waste at IKEA stores and distribution centres All IKEA stores and distribution centres recycle large quantities of  material. The Waste Management Manual for the IKEA group was  first established in 1999. The manual requires all stores to, at a mini- mum, sort the most common waste categories; cardboard, paper,  plastic, wood, metal and glass.  In some stores, as many as 15 categories of waste are sorted. In  practice, this ensures that nearly 90 percent of waste in IKEA stores  is recycled or used for energy production. At some newer stores, food  waste from restaurants, bistros and staff canteens goes to a special  treatment centre, where it gets reused as biogas fuel for cars and  buses. In addition, a number of countries sort food waste for com- posting and animal feed.  IKEA stores and distribution centres also work to minimise dam- age to products. However, when damage does occur, IKEA attempts to  repair products rather than simply discard them. The results of efforts  made in the stores are measured in the Recovery Index. Waste management at IKEA suppliers IKEA wants to minimise the amount of waste generated in the manu- facturing process, and if possible use it in the production of other  home furnishing products. Our designers, product developers and  technicians get great ideas by spending time in the factories and talk- ing to suppliers.  Waste from production can still come to good use even if it is not  suited for home furnishing products. For example, the production  units at Swedwood and Swedspan often use their own wood waste to  produce energy instead of relying on oil and gas.  IKEA products must be safe to use, but IKEA suppliers sometimes  need to use production methods that generate hazardous waste. This is  why our supplier code of conduct IWAY requires suppliers to handle,  store and dispose of any such waste in an environmentally safe man- ner, and that workers must have the appropriate competence and pro- tection. Products and solutions to help customers minimise waste IKEA wants to develop products and solutions that enable customers  to conveniently sort and reduce household waste volumes, and our  product developers receive special training on household waste issues. IKEA has a climate-related project focused on reducing energy and  water consumption when using IKEA products, preventing unneces- sary food waste and minimising other household waste.  Turning waste into resources and minimising its environmental  impact are serious challenges to society as a whole, and we want to  make it easy for customers to recycle our products at the end of their  life-cycle. This is why we also have a project investigating the opportu- nities for full recyclability of different materials used in IKEA products,  and how cyclic systems can save scarce natural resources and minimise  CO2 emissions.  IKEA suppliers and their workers IKEA suppliers and service providers cover a wide range of products  and services required for global operations. In addition to the suppli- ers of home furnishing products in the IKEA range, food product sup- pliers, goods transport service providers and companies provide IKEA  with indirect services and materials. In turn, most of these have a  number of sub-suppliers. IKEA is a production-oriented company. Many ideas for design and  SuPPLIERS Read more about how  IKEA works with  cotton on page 10 Read more about how  we cooperate with WWF  on climate change on  page 22 12 Environment Suppliers  product development are born on the factory floor when IKEA co-work- ers are on-site. This close relationship also opens up possibilities for  frank and honest dialogue about topics related to environmental and  social issues. We cooperate with suppliers to spread best practices in  various areas to increase their ability to take on more social and envi- ronmental responsibility. For a supplier, investments in working condi- tions and the environment often lead to more orders, better productiv- ity and improved profitability, thereby improving com petitiveness. Close and long-term relationships support development The supply chain is often long with numerous sub-suppliers, and  many IKEA home furnishing suppliers operate in developing countries  facing social and environmental challenges. We believe IKEA contrib- utes to positive developments in the supply chain by being on-site  and conducting responsible business, and by cooperating with others  – our suppliers, other companies, authorities and NGOs. IKEA strives to build long-term relationships with suppliers who  share our values and want to grow and develop together with IKEA.  Our focus is to motivate and support suppliers to take more responsi- bility and ownership themselves, so that developments become sus- tainable and independent of IKEA presence.  Prioritised home furnishing suppliers with particular potential to  improve within a specific area are offered support through a Supplier  Development Program (SDP) for a certain period of time. Support can  be provided within six main categories: sustainability, purchasing  (including raw materials), logistics, manufacturing, quality and prod- uct development. SDP Sustainability focuses on two sub-categories:  energy and water. Forestry issues and several other environmental  aspects of suppliers activities, such as raw material utilisation, are  sub-categories covered by other SDP categories.  The supplier code of conduct IWAy IWAY is the IKEA supplier code of conduct, first introduced in 2000. It  specifies the requirements that we place on suppliers of products and  services. Our goal is that all home furnishing suppliers and transport  service providers shall comply with the requirements in IWAY by the end  of 2012. To achieve full IWAY compliance by 2012 among suppliers in some  Asian countries, we face challenges relating particularly to working  hours. Although we have made progress, working hours continue to  be above legal requirements and international norms in some  regions. In China, there is a wide gap between the legislated working  hours and the 80 hours per week that are common in regions with a  high share of migrant workers. As an interim step, we will accept that  suppliers here secure a maximum 60-hour total work week by the end  of 2012 as a step-wise approach to achieving the legal limit of 40  working hours per week plus a maximum of 36 overtime hours per  month and three per day. In China and Vietnam, legal restrictions regarding freedom of asso- ciation prevent suppliers from meeting some IWAY requirements. In  both of these cases we have given an exception to these questions in  order to work with suppliers to solve issues that are complex and not  always fully under their own control.  In IWAY, we focus on building the suppliers understanding of what  they need to comply with so that they can implement the most suita- ble measures more independently. IKEA suppliers are responsible for  communicating the content of the IKEA supplier code of conduct to  their workers and sub-suppliers.  New suppliers are selected based on a list of IWAY start-up require- ments. This helps us select suppliers that share our values and who  want to grow and develop together with us. Suppliers must comply with  the start-up requirements before being allowed to deliver to IKEA, while  being given a maximum implementation time of 12 months from the  first delivery date for other IWAY requirements.  An important part of IWAY is the section about child labour. There  are also several sector-specific supplements to IWAY, for example for  our transport service providers. IWAy support and monitoring IKEA co-workers from our local and regional IKEA Trading Service  Offices are often on-site at suppliers factories to support and moti- vate suppliers to implement and maintain IWAY requirements. Their  active presence contributes to suppliers development.  IKEA auditors regularly visit suppliers to ensure that IWAY criteria  are met. These visits can be both announced and unannounced. Over  the last few years, the number of unannounced audits has increased  substantially. This gives us an accurate picture of suppliers factories  and helps us focus support to specific areas of non-compliance. Each home furnishing supplier is audited at least every second  year, and more frequently in some countries based on risk assess- ment. IKEA auditors help with action plans when there is non-compli- ance, and they conduct follow-up visits to review progress.  There are clear mandatory directions for how to conduct audits,  what the consequences are in case of non-compliance, how to follow  up, etc. Non-compliance with the IWAY start-up requirements leads to  immediate stop of deliveries, while suppliers have up to 90 days to  implement corrective actions in case of non-compliance with other  requirements. Once non-compliance with start-up requirements is  Read the requirements  in the IKEA supplier  code of conduct on  page 15 13 Suppliers  resolved, suppliers are still on probation for six months with intensi- fied monitoring. Non-compliance data are followed up on a monthly  basis. The IKEA Compliance and Monitoring group (CMG) is responsible  for ensuring that the same audit judgement level and follow-up proce- dures are used worldwide. This is done through separate calibration  activities and training as well as compliance audits to verify results.  Together these ensure a common audit and implementation standard. Third-party auditors verify IKEA working methods and audit  results. These third-party auditors also conduct audits at IKEA suppli- ers, including unannounced random checks of suppliers and their  sub-contractors with special emphasis on child labour.  Suppliers responsible for IWAy at sub-suppliers A sub-supplier is defined as a company supplying services, raw mate- rial, components, and/or production capacity to an IKEA supplier. It is  the responsibility of the IKEA suppliers to ensure that their sub-sup- pliers acknowledge, understand and accept the IWAY requirements.  The IKEA supply chain is often long, and ensuring IWAY compliance  at many thousands of sub-suppliers represents a major challenge. Yet,  IKEA is making progress and new global guidelines on how to better  secure the requirements at sub-suppliers were introduced in 2010. The  work with sub-suppliers is primarily focused on compliance with the  IWAY start-up requirements among those sub-suppliers that are cate- gorised as critical.  IKEA initiates wood supply chain audits at sub-suppliers of wood raw  material for IKEA products. For other types of sub-suppliers outside of  suppliers premises, we conduct a limited number of IWAY audits. These  audits primarily target sub-suppliers who produce a key part of an IKEA  product and those who use processes recognised as potentially harmful  to the environment or to the health or safety of workers. Audits also tar- get sub-suppliers operating in an industry or supply setup that is prone  to child labour and/or forced and bonded labour. Collecting feedback from suppliers Every three years, IKEA conducts a supplier survey to collect feed- back on our relationship. The feedback is given anonymously to  encourage frank and open input. We ask questions about, for  instance, if IKEA is sensitive to suppliers opinions, if discussions are  respectful, and if IKEA handles complaints in a satisfactory manner. If  the feedback indicates a need for improvement, an action plan is  developed for the area concerned. Collaborations help us improve our supply chain IKEA believes that cooperation with others helps us achieve more  than we could on our own, not least when it comes to challenging  areas and topics that are not unique for IKEA. For example, in South  Asia, we collaborate with other retailers to support positive develop- ments related to wages and compensation, as well as code of conduct  implementation at sub-suppliers.  IKEA is a member of the Global Social Compliance Programme  (GSCP), an industry-initiated programme working towards a sustain able  approach for the improvement of working and environmental conditions  in global supply chains. GSCP provides a platform for companies to build  consensus on best practices and to work in partnership with suppliers on  the continuous improvement of working and environmental conditions  through training and capacity building activities. IKEA transport service providers IKEA products are transported by road, rail and sea between suppli- ers, distribution centres and IKEA stores, and from the stores to our  customers. Our long-haul ocean and land transport service providers  have been covered by the supplier code of conduct IWAY since 2005.  In 2010, the scope was expanded to include customer delivery carri- ers that transport products from our customer distribution centres  (CDC) directly to IKEA customers. IKEA audits its transport service providers at least every 24 months  to monitor IWAY compliance, including the transport industry-specific  requirements. IKEA transport social and environmental developers  engage in dialogue with transport service providers on a regular basis  to support best-practice exchanges between suppliers and to make  sure transport service providers conduct their own internal audits  annually.  IKEA food suppliers Food for the IKEA restaurants is purchased from both global and  national suppliers. The global range, bought from 90 suppliers, is the  same in all IKEA stores worldwide. The IKEA branded food products  sold in the Swedish Food Market in-store are produced by some 40  suppliers. Each retail country also purchases food for part of its res- taurant menu from a number of suppliers.  In addition to the requirements in IWAY, IKEA food suppliers must  fulfil a number of industry-specific requirements. Global food suppliers  compliance of IWAY requirements is monitored by IKEA auditors, and  audits are step-by-step being introduced also at national food suppliers. Our global food suppliers must have an approved food safety man- agement certification, such as the BRC Global Standard for Food  Safety, and provide relevant documentation to prove this. National  food suppliers must have a Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point  (HACCP) system in place, and provide documentation upon request. Read more about   Global Social Compli- ance Programme at   www.gscpnet.com Read the industry-  specific requirements for  IKEA transport service  providers on page 16 Read the industry-  specific requirements for  IKEA Food suppliers on  page 16 14 Suppliers  IKEA Catalogue suppliers All IKEA Catalogue suppliers must comply with industry-specific require- ments and document data on fibre sourcing and use; water and energy  consumption; as well as water and air pollution. Using this information,  IKEA reports the catalogues environmental impact per copy. Catalogue suppliers have provided regular information on environ- mental performance and compliance towards the IKEA Catalogue  Sustainability Requirements since 2002. In 2011, systematic sustain- ability audits were introduced. Suppliers of indirect materials and services  IKEA Indirect Material & Services (IMS) is a purchasing organisation  within IKEA, buying materials and services that are not used for IKEA  products but needed to run our daily business. Some 250 co-workers  across three continents manage relations with key suppliers and pro- vide support to the IKEA units that handle decentralised purchases  made from many thousands of national and local suppliers. IKEA IMS purchasers have in-depth business knowledge within   their respective purchasing area, such as marketing, IT, retail opera- tions, external services, travels and store equipment. The purchasing  offices in Sweden, China and the US are supported on nearly all IKEA  markets by national purchasers with a broad knowledge in national  and regional purchasing.  IKEA IMS has a step-wise approach to implementing IWAY due to  the large number of suppliers and their diverse characteristics. Audits  are based on risk assessment and focus mainly on companies that  are unlikely to have their own well-functioning code of conducts and  that operate in areas where challenges related to working conditions  and the environment are common. Suppliers of products that are  sensitive from a health and safety perspective – such as childrens  play equipment for IKEA stores – is another group of particular  importance. IKEA Components  IKEA Components is a fully owned purchasing unit that develops com- ponents and raw materials for our products and acts as a sub-supplier  to IKEA suppliers manufacturing finished products. Its co-workers  around the world purchase fittings, drawers, lighting and mattress  components, cardboard for packaging as well as raw materials such as  plastic, metal and glass which in turn are used in thousands of IKEA  products.  This gives IKEA unique opportunities to integrate sustainability  aspects into key product components, as well as to embed IWAY  deeper into our supply chain. IKEA Components has the same goal  and follows the same IWAY working methods as the rest of the IKEA  purchasing organisation. IKEA as well as third-party, audits are con- ducted regularly throughout the supply chain.  Today, about half of IKEA Components 184 suppliers are IWAY- approved, and the average fulfilment rate is over 90 percent.  THE IKEA SuPPLIER CodE oF ConduCT – IWAy IWAY specifies the requirements that we place on suppliers of products  and services. Suppliers are responsible for communicating the content  of the IKEA supplier code of conduct to their workers and sub-suppliers.  Below is a summary of some of the key points of IWAY. 1. Legal compliance The IKEA supplier shall always comply with the most demanding  requirements whether they are relevant applicable laws or IKEA IWAY  specific requirements. 2. Start-up requirements (IWAy musts) The following criteria need to   be fulfilled before starting up a business relationship with IKEA:  No child labour  No forced or bonded labour  No severe environmental   pollution  No severe safety hazards  A transparent and reliable system for records of working hours and  wages  Insurance covering medical treatment for work-related   accidents to all workers 3. Environmental standards Suppliers shall reduce the environmental impacts from their produc- tion and operations.   Suppliers must:  Work to reduce energy consumption  Prevent pollution to air, ground and water  Handle, store and dispose of chemicals and hazardous waste in an  environmentally safe manner  Ensure that workers handling chemicals and hazardous waste have  the right competence and are adequately trained 4. Social and working conditions IKEA expects its suppliers to respect fundamental human rights, and  to treat their workers fairly and with respect. Suppliers must:  Provide a healthy and safe working environment Read the industry-  specific requirements for  IKEA Catalogue suppliers  on page 16 Read the complete   code of conduct at   www.IKEA.com 15 Suppliers   Provide health and safety training for workers  Ensure their buildings are safe, have reasonable privacy, are quiet  and have facilities for personal hygiene, in those instances where  housing facilities are provided  Pay at least the minimum legal wage and compensate for overtime  Base overtime on voluntary agreements, not exceeding legal limits  Allow time off and regular breaks  Not discriminate on any basis  Not prevent workers from exercising collective bargaining activities  nor prevent from associating  Not accept corporal punishment, threats of violence   or other forms of mental or   physical coercion Industry-specific requirements for IKEA transport  service providers IKEA transport service providers must comply with the requirements   in our supplier code of conduct IWAY, including industry-specific  requirements. Below is a summary of key points in the industry-specific  requirements. 1. Industry-specific start-up requirements   Trucks must not be older than 10 years (5 years for vehicles   less than 3.5 tonnes)  Completed Environmental Performance Survey (EPS)   with annual update  A minimum EPS score of 100 in Europe and 50 in   Russia & Asia Pacific   In North America, carriers must be a member of the   EPA SmartWay programme and have a score of at least 1.0 2. other industry-specific requirements  Practical plans for reducing CO2 emissions, including annual targets  Anti-alcohol and anti-drug policy combined with clear communication  Emergency phone numbers to all truck drivers  Fire-fighting equipment in vehicles  Driver licence checks at least annually  Appropriate personal protective equipment including safety vests  First aid equipment in all trucks and locomotives  Appropriate housing facilities  Working time capped at 60 hours including overtime per week  Regular rest periods and daily breaks Industry-specific requirements for IKEA food  suppliers IKEA food suppliers must comply with the requirements in our sup- plier code of conduct IWAY, including industry-specific requirements.  Below is a summary of key points. 1.  Food safety, traceability, testing and labelling  A person appointed as responsible for food safety systems,   including crisis management, recalls, etc.  Food safety training for all co-workers on a regular basis  A Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) system in place  A Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) third-party approved food  safety management certification  Full traceability for all ingredients in IKEA products including   packaging material  Routines for analysis from raw material to finished products  Verified declared shelf life of products  Verified declared content and nutritional values. The product shall  be analysed for energy, water, protein, ash content, sodium, total  fat content, saturated fat, trans fats, carbohydrates and sugars. If  the product has a declared content of dietary fibres, reduced sug- ars, or if the product claims to be free from certain allergens, e.g.  gluten, this should also be analysed  Appropriate, legal labels and packaging for all IKEA markets 2.  General product requirements  No use of genetically modified food ingredients  Restrictions on levels of industrially produced trans fatty acids   in the total fat content of food products (below 2 percent)  Palm oil only from members of the Roundtable of Sustainable   Palm Oil (RSPO)  Restrictions on additives, such as AZO colours and MSG   (monosodium glutamate) 3.  Animal welfare & species protection  No ingredients from force-fed animals and those that have been  subject to routine administration of antibiotics or hormones  Compliance with specific animal welfare standards (i.e. broiler  chicken) that have been approved by IKEA   No fish from endangered stocks  Membership in the Salmon Dialogue if supplying salmon products  No lobster or tiger prawns/scampi unless certified by an international  organic standard 16 Suppliers  Industry-specific requirements for   IKEA Catalogue suppliers IKEA Catalogue suppliers must comply with the IKEA Catalogue  Sustain ability Requirements, which are based on the supplier code of  conduct IWAY, as well as industry-specific requirements for pulp and  paper suppliers; artwork, repro and IT online service suppliers; and  for gravure and offset printing suppliers. Below is a summary of key  points in the industry-specific requirements. 1. Pulp and paper suppliers:  The origin of wood fibres for pulp and paper must be known  Virgin wood fibre must comply with IKEA wood requirements  No elementary chlorine used for bleaching processes  All transport of fibre, pulp and paper must be documented  Use of energy must be documented and energy reduction targets set  Use of energy from renewable sources must be reported  Specific limits on emissions to air and water 2. Artwork, repro and it online service suppliers:  A procedure to take environmental aspects into consideration   when purchasing computers and screens  Reuse or recycling/destruction of discarded electronics by   authorised companies  Use of energy must be documented and energy reduction targets set 3. Gravure printers:  Safe plating processes and safe chrome management  Documentation of production and paper consumption  Use of energy must be documented and energy reduction targets set  Clean water consumption must be documented  Emissions to air and water must be documented  All transport related to printed products must be documented 4. offset printers:  Safe discard of plate developer  Documentation of production and paper consumption, including waste  Use of energy must be documented and energy reduction targets set  Clean water consumption must be documented  Emissions to air and water must be documented  All transport related to printed products must be documented     Co-workers are our most valuable resource  Our co-workers are our most valuable resource – when they grow,  IKEA grows. IKEA is committed to being a good employer for its many  thousand co-workers around the world. We want to offer a safe and  healthy work environment together with development opportunities  for each individual. our values show us the way IKEA embraces human rights and respect for the individual, and the way  we work is based on a strong and living company culture. The foundation  is a set of shared values that guide us in our everyday work.  We value togetherness, humbleness, simplicity, cost-consciousness  and common sense. We share a strong desire to learn and improve. We  encourage co-workers to question accepted solutions and test new ideas,  and see mistakes as a way to grow and develop. We expect our manag- ers to lead by example, to live and explain the IKEA values. Listening to our co-workers IKEA uses VOICE – a company-wide survey – to monitor how co- workers view various aspects of their employment at IKEA. Each year,  we ask our co-workers to fill in the survey anonymously to highlight  what motivates them and what they are dissatisfied with. Results from  the survey help define areas to improve at IKEA. As a complement, the  IKEA Leadership Index quantifies how co-workers view their manag- ers.  Safe and healthy working conditions IKEA strives to offer a safe and healthy work environment for all our  co-workers. The safety of co-workers and customers is a top priority  at IKEA, and much emphasis is placed on making sure co-workers get  appropriate training and have access to the right tools and safety  gear. All co-workers within retail and distribution undergo safety training  before starting to work at IKEA. This includes training on how to use  equipment and machinery, fire and evacuation training, routines to  prevent and handle workplace accidents, ergonomics, etc.  Each country operation shall have its own safety committee with  co-worker representatives, working actively to secure a safe working  environment. Each IKEA unit also has a risk manager, responsible for  local safety routines and drills based on the IKEA Group Risk Manual.  Safety work is evaluated annually. IKEA co-workers travelling on business are provided with up to  date travel-risk information and a 24 hour global emergency service.  Co-WoRKERS 17 Suppliers Co-workers  Added to that, IKEA has processes in place to locate and assist trav- elling co-workers affected by incidents that might influence their  safety or security.  Guidelines for compensation and benefits IKEA wants to offer competitive and transparent compensation and  benefits that attract, motivate and retain talent, and have global,  mandatory guidelines for compensation and benefits that are being  implemented throughout the organisation. The guidelines provide a  common global approach combined with clear local responsibility to  secure relevance, competitiveness and to meet the individual need in  line with different life situations.  Each country must offer the same benefit structure for all of its  co-workers and support them with individually adapted benefits to  reflect and meet changing needs in life over the years. Benefits are  to be based on core IKEA values as well as local laws and market  conditions, and there must be an element that is considered out- standing on the market. For example, legislated parental leave varies  from country to country, and IKEA may locally select this as an area  where outstanding benefits could be offered.  dialogue with unions IKEA strives to have open and honest dialogues with co-workers,  unions and other co-worker associations locally and internationally,  building and developing constructive relationships based on mutual  respect. Through our commitment to this dialogue, we challenge our- selves, our co-workers and their associations to find innovative and  sustainable solutions based on the IKEA culture of simplicity and  cost-consciousness. IKEA supports each co-workers right to freedom of association.  We respect the rights of our co-workers to join, form or not to join a  co-worker association of their choice without fear of reprisal, interfer- ence, intimidation or harassment.  Striving for diversity and equal opportunities We strongly believe that IKEA becomes more creative and dynamic  with a diverse work force, and we strive to recruit co-workers who  have different backgrounds and experiences. The top 200 IKEA man- agers around the world represent more than 22 different nationalities,  and our overall ambition is to have a workforce that mirrors the  diverse IKEA customer base. Support to fulfilling careers We want our co-workers to have a fulfilling career and grow with us,  both professionally and personally. Each co-worker is in charge of his or  her own competence development with continuous support from IKEA.  Co-workers who have mastered their current job are encouraged to  seek new challenges. This could be in the form of more responsibility or  through an alternative career route inside IKEA by changing location or  work function. The annual development talk is one opportunity to dis- cuss and outline career paths as well as training needs. Competence development in many forms is available to all, from  the introduction of new co-workers to top management, often in the  form of on-the-job training complemented by traditional classroom  courses and a wide range of web-based training activities for all  aspects of IKEA operations.  E-learning activities from the IKEA Learning Centre help develop  relevant and essential skills for various IKEA functions and reach  many co-workers with the same education.  Keeping co-workers informed Access to relevant information is a necessity to enable co-workers to  do their job, but IKEA also wants to build strong relations with co- workers and help them engage in their workplace with a sense of  value and belonging. Well-functioning internal communication is a  foundation for our co-workers ability to perform their tasks and to  learn and develop, as well as for effective leadership. Each manager is responsible for ensuring that his or her co-work- ers have the ability and tools to receive and understand relevant  information. Communication skills are part of all basic leadership  training programmes, and there are a number of tools and specialists  available to support managers. The IKEA Intranet is complemented by a variety of different chan- nels such as regular meetings, easily accessible notice boards and  plasma screens, newsletters and closed-circuit radio. The global co- worker magazine Readme is distributed to all co-workers and trans- lated into 19 languages. In many parts of the organisation, it is com- plemented by national and local magazines.  In many countries, IKEA has web-enabled services to better reach  co-workers with limited computer access at work and better access  outside work. Co-workers can log in through the web browser of any  computer or mobile phone to access a range of simply written benefit  descriptions and self-serve applications relating to wages and bene- fits, as well as news and information about various IKEA activities.  Supporting work-life balance Co-workers of different ages are at different stages in their lives, and  have different professional needs and abilities. IKEA can meet individ- 18 Co-workers  ual co-worker needs for work-life balance in various ways, for exam- ple, by offering flexible working hours, part- or full-time work, more  or less responsibility, job sharing or telecommuting. The way we meet and travel at IKEA also affects our work-life bal- ance. By supporting well-planned and efficient meetings and replac- ing unnecessary travel by virtual meetings, we save time and reduce  stress.   IKEA engages in the community IKEA is active in the communities where we do business. We partici- pate in a wide range of activities globally, nationally and locally.  Through partnerships with carefully selected organisations, we sup- port projects that are designed to match the needs of the communi- ties in which they take place. Regular dialogue with others is an important way for us to gain  and share knowledge that helps us move forward. By cooperating  with companies, trade unions, organisations, NGOs and IGOs, we  accomplish more than we could have done by working on our own.   The IKEA Charity Policy & Community Involvement Guidelines IKEA has a Charity Policy and Community Involvement Guidelines for  global, national and local community support. The guidelines clarify  principles and definitions, what kind of projects IKEA prefers to sup- port and with which type of partners. They also provide guidance on  how to structure projects, as well as how to work with accounting. Sponsored projects focus on prioritised social and/or environmen- tal issues related to children, the homeless, and victims of emergen- cies and/or natural disasters. The prioritised environmental issues  are related to the protection of natural resources, climate change,  and education and training in these areas. As part of our commitment to being a good neighbour, most IKEA  stores are actively involved in their local communities in partnership  with selected organisations. There are many examples of national and  local community projects, which can be found on the IKEA website.  Engagement in Earth Hour During Earth Hour, IKEA units from around the world pledge support  for the environment by turning off non-essential exterior and interior  lighting, as well as offering a range of climate-related activities for  customers and co-workers. WWF runs the Earth Hour event annually  to increase awareness of climate change and to inspire practical  actions that reduce carbon emissions.  The IKEA Foundation reaches out to 100 million children The IKEA Foundation is a Dutch charitable foundation, funded by the  Stichting INGKA Foundation, which also owns the IKEA Group parent  company, INGKA holding B.V. The IKEA Foundation aims to improve  opportunities for children and youth in developing countries.  The IKEA Foundation provides:  Financial support for programmes run by strategic partners  In-kind donations of IKEA products  Know-how in the form of IKEA expertise Strong partners such as UNICEF, Save the Children, UNDP and UNHCR,  help us achieve large scale results. Programmes have a holistic  approach to addressing childrens fundamental needs with the aim to  create substantial and lasting change, enabling them to eventually take  charge of their own future. Long-term commitments are focused on  South Asia, and particularly India, where the needs of children are  great and IKEA has been doing business for many years.  The programmes aim to turn the cycle of poverty into a cycle of  prosperity and are based on the Convention on the Rights of the Child  and strive to fulfil the Millennium Development Goals.   The IKEA Foundation works in four dimensions: A place to call home – Where a better life begins. Shelter and safety,  along with love and nutrition, all nurture children so they can not only  survive, but thrive. A healthy start in life – Helping children get a good start, avert disease,  survive illnesses and grow up stronger. Clean water, a place to go to the  bathroom, and simply learning to wash hands, all help save lives. A quality education – When children go to school and stay there, they  get a huge step up in life and are much less vulnerable to the dangers  of child labour or falling prey to exploitation. A sustainable family income – When parents have a regular income,  their children can go to school instead of to work. Helping mothers  learn a skill or start a business can help break the cycle of poverty for  them, their children, and for generations to come. CommunITIES Read more at www.ikeafoundation.org  www.unicef.org www.savethechildren.net www.undp.org www.unhcr.org Read more about   what IKEA is doing   in your country at   www.IKEA.com Read more about   Earth Hour at  www.earthhour.org Read our list of key  organisations on page 20 19 Communities  Emergency relief We are committed to protecting children in emergencies. The IKEA  Foundation helps with product donations and invests in their recovery  by providing financial support for childrens rehabilitation and  resumed education. Financial support can be provided to assist with  the mid- and long-term recovery in the aftermath of disasters such  as earthquakes, floods and cyclones.  To support immediate humanitarian relief efforts during major  emergencies in developing countries, the IKEA Foundation helps with  in-kind donations of IKEA products such as blankets, cooking utensils  and comforting soft toys. IKEA retail country operations manage  emergency support when needed in their countries and local commu- nities. 20 Communities  List of key organisations IKEA engages in regular dialogue with a number of  key NGOs and other organisations. This list gives  a short overview of what they do, and how IKEA  cooperates with them on a global level. better Cotton Initiative (bCI) aims to promote measurable  improvements in the key environmental and social impacts of cotton  cultivation worldwide to make it more sustainable, and works to  develop globally accepted criteria for Better Cotton. The BCI is a  collaborative, multi-stakeholder effort initiated by WWF, the global  conservation organisation, and the International Finance Corporation.  Leading participants are international companies and NGOs. IKEA is  one of the founding members of the BCI. Read more at www.bettercotton.org business for Social Responsibility (bSR) is a global organisation  that helps member companies achieve business success while  respecting ethical values, people, communities and the environment.  IKEA is a member of BSR.  Read more at www.bsr.org Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) is administered by BSR, and  is working to promote sustainable product transportation. CCWG  develops voluntary environmental management guidelines and meas- ures to help evaluate and improve the performance of freight trans- port. The aim of CCWG is to integrate product transport into corpo- rate supply chain management. IKEA is a member of the CCWG. Read more at www.bsr.org Compassion in World Farming (CIWF) is a recognised interna- tional farm animal welfare charity. It engages with Europes leading  food companies, supporting products and initiatives that represent  tangible benefits for farm animals. The charity bases its work on a  solutions-led approach, developing relationships with food companies  that are based on trust, mutual benefit and reward for progress.  CIWF also works in partnership with other NGOs and sustainability  platforms to integrate farm animal welfare into public procurement,  policy and reporting frameworks. IKEA and CIWF work together on  improving farm animal welfare standards in the IKEA food business. Read more at www.ciwf.org.uk European Retailers Round Table (ERRT) is a network organisation  for retail companies in Europe. The group liaises with policy makers in  the European Union on issues related to the retail industry, to help  companies stay informed of developments. It also provides an oppor- tunity to promote industry interests. Focus for activities include con- sumer protection, food safety, environmental issues, corporate social  responsibility and trade issues. IKEA is a member of the organisation. Read more at www.errt.org Fair Labor Association (FLA) is a collaborative effort of socially  responsible companies, colleges and universities, and civil society organi- sations to improve working conditions in factories around the world. It  facilitates a transparent platform to secure cooperation and improvements  among stakeholders. IKEA begun collaboration with FLA in 2011 through a  pilot project in China, Build Motivated Workforce, to support suppliers  development efforts towards full labour law compliance. Read more at www.fairlabor.org Forest Legality Alliance (FLA) is a joint effort of the World  Resources Institute and the Environmental Investigation Agency, sup- ported by the United States Agency for International Development  and companies in the forest sector. FLAs goal is to reduce illegal log- ging through supporting the supply of legal forest products. IKEA is  one of its members. Read more at www.wri.org/fla Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an international network pro- moting responsible management of the worlds forests. Through con- sultative processes, FSC sets international standards for responsible  forest management and accredits independent third-party organisa- tions that certify forest managers and forest product producers to FSC  standards. IKEA supports the Forest Stewardship Council, and was  one of the first members of FSC when it was founded in 1993. Read more at www.fsc.org  Global Compact is a network founded by the United Nations. It pro- motes responsible corporate citizenship, and provides policy dia- logues, training and networks to ensure that business is involved in  solving the challenges of globalisation. The organisations activities  are based on ten universal principles that promote human rights,  labour rights, environmentally sustainable business practices and anti- corruption. Global Compact encourages companies to work with UN  agencies, labour and civil society to support universal environmental  21 References  and social principles. IKEA is a member of the Global Compact.  Read more at www.unglobalcompact.org Global Forest & Trade network (GFTn) is WWFs initiative to  eliminate illegal logging and drive improvements in forest manage- ment. Participants are committed to promoting responsible forestry  and credible certification. IKEA is part of this network.  Read more at www.gftn.panda.org Global Social Compliance Programme (GSCP) is a collaborative  initiative for companies to build consensus on best practices in labour  and environmental standards in the supply chain. The aim is to  develop a sustainable global approach to improving working and  environmental conditions in global supply chains. With a joint  approach, the Programme can reduce audit fatigue and duplication,  making monitoring and improvement processes more efficient for  both companies and suppliers. Participating companies represent  retailers and consumer goods manufacturers. Read more at www.gscpnet.com Greenpeace is an international non-profit organisation focusing on  biodiversity and the environment. Greenpeace campaigns, amongst  other things, to stop climate change, protect ancient forests and  encourage sustainable trade. IKEA discusses forestry issues with  Greenpeace.  Read more at www.greenpeace.org International Labour organization (ILo) is a specialised agency  of the United Nations, and is committed to social justice and develop- ing internationally recognised human and labour rights. The ILO is a  tripartite agency bringing together representatives from govern- ments, employers and workers. One of its main responsibilities is to  shape and oversee international labour standards. IKEA engages in  dialogue with the ILO on working conditions and labour standards. Read more at www.ilo.org The network for Transport and Environment (nTm) is a non- profit organisation, which works for a common base of values to cal- culate the environmental impact of various modes of transport. IKEA  is a member of the organisation.  Read more at www.ntmcalc.se Rainforest Alliance is a non-profit organisation that works to con- serve biodiversity and promote sustainable agricultural and forestry  practices. The organisation is present in approximately 60 countries  around the world, helping communities, businesses and governments  to change their land-use practices. Rainforest Alliance provides input  to IKEA wood procurement practices, and Rainforest Alliances Smart- Wood Program is used for audits in certain regions. Read more at www.rainforest-alliance.org The Retail Forum is a multi-stakeholder platform set up in order to  exchange best practices on sustainability in the European retail sector  and to identify opportunities and barriers that may further or hinder the  achievement of sustainable consumption and production. During 2010,  issues such as sustainable forestry, life-cycle data on daily use products,  carbon footprint of stores and product labelling have been discussed. The  Retail Forum has been initiated by the European retail sector together  with the European Commission, and the objective is to engage all key  stakeholders, such as producers, suppliers, and consumer and environ- mental organisations, in the discussion. IKEA is a member of the Retail  Forum. Read more at ec.europa.eu Roundtable on Sustainable Palm oil (RSPo) is a non-profit asso- ciation working to develop and implement global standards for sus- tainable palm oil. The organisation includes stakeholders from the  entire palm oil industry - palm oil producers, palm oil processors,  traders, consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, investors and NGOs  involved in environmental conservation and social development. IKEA  has been a member since 2006.  Read more at www.rspo.org Save the Children is the worlds leading independent organisation for  children with 29 national organisations working together to deliver pro- grams in more than 120 countries around the world. From emergency  relief to long-term development, Save the Children helps children  achieve a happy, healthy and secure childhood by securing and protect- ing childrens rights to food, shelter, health care and education, and to  freedom from violence, abuse and exploitation. Save the Children listens  to children, involves children and ensures their views are taken into  account. Working on both a governmental level with decision makers  and on the ground close to the children and the communities, Save the  Children delivers immediate and lasting improvements to childrens  lives. The IKEA Foundation and Save the Children have worked together  since 1994 to develop long-term projects that will make a change for  22 References  more children around the world. Save the Children has a global corpo- rate partnership with IKEA, working together on both an international  and a local level. Read more at www.savethechildren.net undP, the united nations development Programme partners  with people at all levels of society to help build nations that can withstand  crisis, and drive and sustain the kind of growth that improves the quality  of life for everyone. On the ground in 177 countries and territories, UNDP  offers global perspective and local insight to help empower lives and build  resilient nations. The IKEA Foundation cooperates with UNDP in a wom- ens empowerment project in Uttar Pradesh, India. Read more at www.undp.org unHCR, the un Refugee Agency works in more than 120 coun- tries. It is mandated by the United Nations to lead and coordinate  international action for the worldwide protection of refugees and the  resolution of refugee problems. Its primary purpose is to safeguard  the rights and well-being of refugees, ensuring access to shelter, edu- cation, health services and livelihoods activities. It strives to ensure  that everyone can exercise the right to seek asylum and find safe ref- uge in another state, with the option to return home voluntarily, inte- grate locally or to resettle in a third country. It also has a mandate to  help stateless people and those who are internally displaced. The IKEA  Foundation supports UNHCRs relief efforts in the Horn of Africa, Bang- ladesh and eastern Sudan. Read more at www.unhcr.org unICEF, the united nations Childrens Fund is on the ground in  over 150 countries and territories to help children survive and thrive,  from early childhood through adolescence. The worlds largest pro- vider of vaccines for developing countries, UNICEF supports child  health and nutrition, good water and sanitation, quality basic educa- tion for all boys and girls, and the protection of children from vio- lence, exploitation and AIDS. UNICEF is funded entirely by the volun- tary contributions of individuals, businesses, foundations and govern- ments. The IKEA Foundation has supported UNICEF programs for  more than a decade. UNICEF has a corporate partnership with IKEA,  working together on both a global and local level. Read more at www.unicef.org  uTZ Certified is an independent, non-profit organisation that oper- ates the worlds largest and fastest growing certification programme  for responsible coffee and cocoa production. All coffee served and sold  at IKEA is UTZ Certified. Read more at www.utzcertified.org WWF, the global conservation organisation, is one of the worlds larg- est and most experienced conservation organisations. WWFs mission  is to stop the degradation of the planets natural environment and to  build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature, by con- serving the worlds biological diversity, ensuring the sustainable use of  renewable natural resources and promoting the reduction of pollution  and wasteful consumption. WWF and IKEA cooperate on projects that  focus on sustainable forest management, sustainable cotton produc- tion and climate change.  Read more at www.panda.org 23 References  Sustainability  Report 2011 IKEA Group September 1, 2010 – August 31, 2011  2 Introduction IKEA at a glance  4 Milestones 5 Highlights 2011 6 Letter from the President and CEO 7 Letter from the Chief Sustainability Officer 8 Sustainability Direction 9 Governance 10 Customers IKEA products 13 Customer engagement  17 Environment Climate  20 Forestry  26 Cotton 29 Water 31 Waste  32 Suppliers  Home furnishing suppliers 35 Other IKEA suppliers 39 Co-workers Our most valuable resource 43 Communities Community involvement 46 Metrics & References Key performance indicators 49 Cross-reference table 52 About this report This report describes the sustain ability work carried out and results  on a global level by the IKEA Group  during financial year 2011, from   1 September 2010 to 31 August  2011 (FY11). How to read this report The structure of this report reflects  the environmental and social  responsibility approach to our  stakeholders and describes devel opments during FY11. We use key  performance indicators (KPIs) to  show results against our targets.  The report complements the IKEA  Yearly Summary, which provides an  overview of the companys financial  results and highlights from FY11.   It is available at the IKEA website. In the last chapter, Metrics &  references, we have gathered the  metrics presented throughout this  report. This report is our communi cation on progress (CoP) as a sig natory to the UN Global Compact,  and a crossreference list shows  how we implement the ten princi ples of the UN Global Compact in  our operations. The report supplement The IKEA  approach to sustainability – How we  manage sustainability in our busi ness contains descriptions of our  systematic work with sustainability. Read the Yearly Summary at   www.IKEA.com Would you like to know more? You can find more information and  download documents on our website.  Please visit About IKEA/People and  the Environment at www.IKEA.com TELL US WHAT YOU THINK We encourage you to send your  feedback and/or questions about  this report to us at   sustainability.report.se@IKEA.com Contents  CO2 reduction target for transportation  of products in our operations. –10 % by 2015 Introduction  SALES PER REGION Europe 79%  North America 14%  Russia, Asia & Australia 7% PURCHASING PER REGION  Europe 63%  Russia, Asia & Australia 33% North America 4% CO-WORKERS PER REGION  Europe 106,500  North America 16,500 Russia, Asia & Australia 8,000 TOP 5  PURCHASING  COUNTRIES China 22% Poland 18% Italy 8% Sweden 5% Germany 4% TOP SELLING  COUNTRIES  Germany 15% USA 11% France 10% Italy 7% Sweden 6% 287 IKEA group stores worldwide 49 208 13 14 3 TOTAL SALES FY11  Sales increased by 6.9% compared to 2010.  Total sales amounted to EUR 24.7 billion. STORE VISITS In 2011, the IKEA Group stores had 655 million visits. PRODUCTS The IKEA range consists of approximately 9,500 products. PRINTED CATALOGUES, LANGUAGES & EDITIONS The IKEA catalogue was printed in more than 208 million  copies in 30 languages and 59 editions. IKEA.COM IKEA websites had 870 million visits in 2011. CO-WORKERS PER FUNCTION Purchasing, distribution, wholesale, range & other: 14,300 Retail: 100,000 Swedwood: 16,000 Swedspan: 700 Total coworkers in FY11 131.000 THE IKEA GROUP The IKEA Group has operations in 41 countries. 29 Trading offices  are located in 25 of these countries. The remaining 16 countries  are home to 26 Distribution Centres and 11 Customer  Distribution Centres. SUPPLIERS IN 2011 IKEA had 1,026 home furnishing suppliers in 53 countries. INDUSTRIAL GROUPS Swedwood, a manufacturing group within the IKEA Group,  had 16,000 coworkers and 33 production units in 10 countries. Swedspan, an industrial supplier within the IKEA Group,  had 700 coworkers and 5 production units in 5 countries. IKEA Industry Investment & Development (IIID) is an advisory  and investment service company and has 13 coworkers. 4 Introduction   IKEA at a glance  Flatpacks and selfassembly become part of   the IKEA concept. By using flat packing we can  fit more products in every trailer and container  and thus minimise the number of shipments  – which in turn means less carbon emissions. The Dutch registered charitable  foundation, IKEA Foundation, is   created. Since 2009, all our global  philanthropic efforts have been  managed by the IKEA Foundation. IKEA appoints its first  environmental manager  for our global business. The first IKEA environmental policy   is developed, stating that IKEA shall  always strive to minimise any possible  damaging effects to the environment.  IKEA bans the use   of tropical wood   not originating from  responsible forestry  or plantations. The iconic IKEA Catalogue becomes  the first major colour print publication  in the world to use totally chlorine  free (TCF) paper. IKEA becomes a founding member  of the global forest certification  organisation Forest Stewardship  Council (FSC).  IKEA updates all supplier contracts to reflect Inter national Labor Organization (ILO) standards on  child labour. IKEA starts work with Save the   Children to promote and protect childrens rights,  integrating knowledge into our supplier standards.  IKEA employs its first   forestry manager to  increase respons ible   forest management   practices.  A Waste Management  Manual is established for  IKEA retail operations.  IKEA launches its supplier code of conduct, IWAY,  covering both environmental and social standards.  A childrens rights project with UNICEF breaks  ground in India, providing quality education to  80,500 children in Uttar Pradesh.  Together with WWF, IKEA  starts a number of projects to  further encourage greater  adoption of responsible forest  management. The IKEA Soft Toys campaign is  introduced. During the holiday  season at the end of each year,  the IKEA Foundation donates  one euro for every soft toy sold  in IKEA stores to support Save  the Children and UNICEF proj ects aimed at improving access  to quality education for children.   So far, 35.2 million euro have  been donated as a result of  the campaign. IKEA and WWF form  a strategic partner ship aimed at further  reducing greenhouse  gas emissions in IKEA  operations, supply  chain and among  customers. IKEA Foundation supports UNICEF  and Save the Children programmes  on childrens rights in cotton growing  com munities in India and Pakistan.  The Never Ending List is released to  IKEA customers, outlining our prog ress on sustainability. IKEA develops a Sustainability Direction for  2015, with key priorities and overall goals.  Steve Howard is appointed to the IKEA Group  management as Chief Sustainability Officer. The first IKEA Social  and Environmental  Responsi bility Report  is published.  IKEA becomes a founding member of the Better Cotton  Initiative, which aims to reduce stress on the environ ment and improve the livelihoods in cotton farming  communities. IKEA and WWF establish Farmer Field  Schools in India and Pakistan to train cotton farmers in  more sustainable cultivation practices. IKEA confirms its longterm ambition  to run all IKEA owned operations from  100% renewable energy and to be come 25 percent more energy efficient  compared to 2005. All coffee sold and served across IKEA is converted  to UTZ Certified, meeting independently verified  social and environmental standards for responsible  coffeegrowing practices. The coffee beans can be  traced back to the plantations through a unique  code on each pack.  1953 1982 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1998 2007 1999 2000 2002 2004 2005 2008 2009 2010 2006 2003 Steps towards a sustainable IKEA Introduction   Milestones  5  SIGNIFICANTLY MORE  SUSTAINAbLE COTTON  IN IKEA TExTILES IKEA works with WWF and other local partners to help cotton farm ers in India, Pakistan, China and Turkey to introduce more sustaina ble cultivation methods to their cottongrowing practises. More  than 100,000 farmers now use techniques that significantly reduce  the need for chemical pesticides, fertilisers and water. The share  of more sustainable cotton in the IKEA range increased signifi cantly in FY11 – up to 50 000 tonnes, representing 23.8 percent  of our total  cotton use, compared to 13.4 percent last year. Read more on page 29 INCREASED SHARE OF  CERTIFIED WOOD  IN THE RANGE IKEA forestry requirements demand that all wood used in our prod ucts shall be of known origin, and we work in partnership with WWF  and the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) toward our longterm goal  of sourcing all of our wood from responsibly managed forests that  are independently verified.  In FY11, the share of FSCcertified wood in the IKEA range  increased from 15.8 percent to 16.2 percent, bringing our total use  of FSCcertified wood to 2.2 million cubic metres – equivalent to  55,000 fully loaded timber trucks. Read more on page 26 SPEEDING UP INvESTMENTS IN  RENEWAbLE ENERGY IKEA has made major investments in renewable energy  as we move towards our longterm goal of using 100  percent renewable energy. More than half of our  buildings energy need now comes from renewable  sources. Solar panel installations on 40 IKEA build ings in seven countries and 60 wind turbines pro duced 152 gigawatt hours (GWh) of green  electricity this year, equivalent to around 12  percent of the electricity needed to run all  IKEA stores and distribution centres.  Read more on page 20 LARGE DONATIONS FROM THE  IKEA FOUNDATION The IKEA Foundation aims to improve the opportunities for  children and youth in developing countries by funding holistic,  longterm programmes run by expert partners such as UNICEF  and Save the Children. Programmes are designed to  create  substantial, lasting change, enabling communities in develop ing countries to take charge of their own future. Total dona tions from the IKEA Foundation increased  to 65 million euro from 45 million the  year before, and currently funded pro grammes are expected to benefit  an estimated 100 million  children. Read more on page 46 DRIvING  ENERGY EFFICIENCY During FY11, energy efficiency across all IKEA stores improved by 4  percent compared to FY10, helping us save 6.2 million euro and  demonstrating how sustainability improvements can deliver strong  business benefits. This was mainly achieved through improved  energy efficiency of store equipment, such as  heating, ventilation,  and air conditioning (HvAC) systems  and smarter use of commercial light ing. We are also enabling cus tomers to save energy in  their homes. During FY11,  we sold around 168,000  energy efficient induction  hobs, which is nearly half of  all kitchen hobs sold  at IKEA. Read more on page 20 Introduction   Highlights 2011 6  What is good for  society is good for us  Our vision to create a better everyday life for the many people gives  IKEA endless opportunities to do good for people and the environ ment. The many people are not just customers or potential custom ers. It also covers our coworkers, the  people working at our suppli ers factories, the local community and beyond. We believe what is good for society is good for IKEA. We are pas sionate about creating a successful business where we act in a  responsible way through small and large actions. It is a way of  being. This is why sustainability is a cornerstone in the IKEA strategic  direction – it is highly prioritised and serves as a driver of further  innovation and development. Economising with resources, finding  new ways of doing things and developing our knowledge and exper tise, are important parts of our business idea and heritage. A low  price company must be a low cost company, and this includes being  careful with earths limited resources. IKEA has unique capabilities and tremendous enthusiasm to make  a positive contribution across the world  from the forests of Siberia to  the cotton fields of India and all the way into peoples homes in New  York,  Lisbon and Shanghai. Our customers rightly expect us to not  only to make our products in a responsible way, but also to help them  live more sustainably. Many of our ambitions and endeavours to create a better every day life involve risks, and we are aware that we will make mistakes  along the way. We are constantly learning new things, and must  remain honest about the areas where we can improve – continuing to  share our progress. Thank you for letting us share some of them  through this report. Mikael Ohlsson President and CEO, IKEA Group Introduction   Letter from the CEO 7  IKEA truly wants to   make a difference There is no doubt that sustainability is having a greater impact on all of our lives.  In a world where millions of people will come out of poverty in the coming decades   a positive step forward for society  and many millions are moving into cities every  year, we need to move quickly if we are to ensure this growth has less impact on the  environment.  Climate change is already having an effect on peoples lives. Extreme weather is  causing chaos. Resource shortages are being reflected in higher market prices for  everything from cocoa to copper. If we are not really smart and do things right – and  fast – we will risk serious food and raw material scarcity in the future. Yet I am optimistic. The sense of urgency in IKEA has intensified and we are  continuing to push ourselves to do even more. We are working hard to secure more  renewable energy, protect raw materials, and drive innovation to eliminate waste   choosing instead to create new, valuable resources. And we are making good  progress. Nearly a year has passed since I joined IKEA. It is clear that IKEA sees  sustainability as a key, strategic issue which is also driven from a values perspective,  deeply rooted in the company culture. As a lifelong environmentalist, I can see that  IKEA truly wants to make a difference. IKEA coworkers are enthusiastic and  committed, and this is incredibly powerful. We could not do this alone. We are grateful for the support from those that have  helped take us this far – IKEA suppliers, customers, and expert partners. But we  should not forget that the real task lies ahead of us. Social and environmental  leadership is not optional if we are to be the worlds leading home furnishing company.  We must continue to go further with our commitments, engage even more with  society, take full responsibility of every impact of our business, and bring a sustainable  lifestyle into peoples homes. I believe that IKEA can make sustainable life affordable and inspiring and that  business can be a force for good. If we can achieve that, we will be doing both  ourselves and society a great service. Steve Howard Chief Sustainability Officer, IKEA Group Introduction   Letter from the CSO 8  9 3 Turning waste into resources IKEA is investigating new and innovative ways to turn waste into resources, and   is testing how to close material loops – minimising the amount of waste that   ends up in landfill or being incinerated. So far, we have focused on testing plastics   from packaging and home furnishing products. The results show great potential   for recycling of materials.  GOALS FY15  We shall have zero waste to landfill from our own operations.  We shall enable and encourage all customers to reuse or recycle all IKEA products   at endoflife.  4 Reducing our water footprint Our most significant water footprint comes from cotton cultivation. This is why we actively  support cotton farmers efforts to introduce more sustainable farming practices. In FY11, we  mapped water use in the manufacturing of our products and started working with suppliers  to help them reduce water consumption. GOALS FY15  We shall significantly reduce the water footprint in our own operations and   throughout our supply chain. 5 Taking social responsibility The share of suppliers that fully comply with the IKEA supplier code of conduct IWAY has  increased steadily. Today, 67 percent of our home furnishings suppliers are IWAY approved.  Since IWAY was first introduced in 2000, it has contributed to more than 165,000 registered  improvements. GOALS FY12  All our home furnishing suppliers and transport service providers shall comply   with all requirements in our supplier code of conduct, IWAY. GOALS FY15  The global index average in the annual coworker survey vOICE shall reach   700 or above out of a maximum of 1,000.   The IKEA Foundation funded projects will reach more than 100 million children.  All IKEA units shall have a clearly defined plan for community involvement   based on our Charity Policy. Introduction   Sustainability Direction The IKEA Sustainability  Direction 2015  Sustainability is one of four cornerstones in the fiveyear strategy for IKEA,  Growing IKEA together. The Sustainability Direction outlines our priorities  until FY15. Its five main priorities that influence the entire value chain, from  product design and development to the very end of a products life, are: 1 Offering a range of products that are more sustainable We have started to evaluate our home furnishing products against the IKEA Sustainability   Product Score Card, our tool for more sustainable product development and purchasing. The  ambition is to have evaluated 80 percent of products (based on sales value) by FY12. Existing  products are continuously improved, and designers and product developers have new tools   that enable us to develop a more sustainable range of products. GOALS FY15  90 percent of our sales value shall come from home furnishing products classified   as more sustainable in the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card.  All materials for home furnishing products shall be renewable, recyclable or recycled.  Our energyconsuming products shall on average be 50 percent more efficient than what  was installed on the market in 2008. 2 Taking a leading role towards creating a low carbon society IKEA has made major investments in renewable energy. Today, we have 60 operational wind  turbines and 40 photovoltaic installations that contribute a total of 152 Gigawatt hours (GWh)  to the electricity grid, and many more are under way. More than half of   the energy used to run our units is now renewable. GOALS FY15  By being innovative, energy efficient and using more renewable energy, we shall   significantly reduce CO2 emissions from our own operations, the supply chain  and customers travelling to IKEA stores.  We shall help reduce CO2 emissions in society by offering products, solutions  and knowhow that enable our customers to reduce their carbon footprint and   live a more sustainable life at home.  We shall actively participate in developing tools to measure the companys   positive impact on the climate.  10 Sustainability is a cornerstone of our overall direction Sustainability is one of the four cornerstones of the overall direction for  the IKEA Group, Growing IKEA together. We want sustainability to be  an integrated part of our business, which means that all IKEA strategies  and business plans must clearly and systematically integrate sustaina bility improvements and investments as part of everyday operations. To  assist this process, we have developed the IKEA Sustainability Direc tion with key priorities and overall goals for FY15.  We want to take social and environmental responsibility in every  stage of our value chain. We are therefore creating and securing sus tainable processes for:  product development and sourcing of raw materials   of home furnishing and food products  production and distribution  stores and shopping centres  product endoflife Local, national and global responsibility  The IKEA culture is key in defining how we work with sustainability.  Among our values are togetherness, humbleness, simplicity and cost consciousness. We believe in doing more from less, listening to and  learning from others, and being fair and honest. IKEA managers and coworkers, right across our business, are all  responsible for including sustainability in their areas of responsibility  and setting relevant goals to measure progress. Sustainability manag ers and social and environmental experts provide support on a wide  range of areas, such as chemical, forestry, energy, code of conduct  and auditing. In addition, all IKEA stores and distribution centres have  social and environmental coordinators who deliver with sustainability related training, and review and manage working conditions, safety,  waste, and water and energy conservation.  All sustainability managers report to their line manager, but they  are also part of a sustainability matrix headed by the Chief Sustaina bility Officer (CSO), IKEA Group. The CSO reports to the CEO of IKEA  and is also a member of the IKEA Executive Management.  Sustainability is core   to everything we do The vision for the IKEA business is to create a better  everyday life for the many people. This means caring  about people and the environment. IKEA sees sustain ability as a business opportunity as well as   an essential component of being a good company.   The IKEA Sustainability Direction for FY15 helps us  consistently move all aspects of our operations in the  right direction towards our goals.  IKEA VISION, bUSINESS IDEA AND SUSTAINAbILITY  The IKEA vision is to create a better everyday life for the   many people.  Our business idea is to offer a wide range of welldesigned, func tional home furnishing products at prices so low that as many  people as possible will be able to afford them.  Our ambition is to take the lead in a sustainable, affordable life  at home – inspiring the many people to fulfil their needs and  dreams at home, within the limits of the planet. Introduction   Governance  11 Anti-corruption stance IKEA does not accept corruption in any form, whether direct or indi rect, and works proactively to prevent it. All suppliers must sign an  acceptance of this policy.  Our anticorruption policy and internal code of conduct describe  how to act if fraud, corruption, theft or other misconduct is sus pected. Clear policies and an internal ethics program with training  and workshops help to minimise the risk of unwanted behaviour in  the IKEA organisation. We make regular risk assessments in coun tries around the world and handle any deviations to our policy and  guidelines with systematic urgency. Working together with others IKEA cooperates with companies, trade unions, NGOs, governments  and industry organisations to develop and strengthen the impact of  our work within the sustainability field. By sharing experiences and  learning from others, we can accomplish more than we could have  done by working on our own.  IKEA has longterm partnerships with UNICEF and Save the Chil dren to strengthen childrens rights. We also work with the global con servation organisation, WWF, on forest, cotton and climate change  projects. Global Compacts guiding principles IKEA is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We are  committed to aligning our operations and strategies to the Global  Compacts ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, envi ronment and anticorruption. Read more in  The IKEA approach   to sustainability Introduction   Governance Read more on page 51  Communication on   progress  We were the first retailer in the world to  introduce 100% traceable UTZ Certified  cocoa in the form of a chocolate bar. Customers  13 Developing more  sustain able products  without compromises We want customers to confidently and freely choose  among all our products, knowing that IKEA is com mitted to sustainable practices and that they do not   have to choose between sustainability, style, function  or price. It is in our nature to economise on resources,  and we always try to make more from less.   Our products must always be safe and healthy.  IKEA started to test product quality back in the 1960s.  Today, we conduct thousands of tests in laboratories  each year to check IKEA products fire resistance,  durability, emissions and much more.  New tools to facilitate sustainable product development The IKEA Sustainability Score Card, developed last year, is now actively  in use. This is the most important of a number of new tools helping  IKEA develop more sustainable products. By the end of FY15, we aim to  have 90 percent of our sales value come from products that are classi fied as more sustainable according our Score Card criteria.  In addition to evaluating all the products we sell, we are continuing  to make improvements at an individual product level. At the start of  2011, 200 design and range development coworkers received train ing on how to use the webbased Score Card. So far, products that  account for around seven percent of IKEA sales value have been eval uated using the Score Cards 11 criteria. Our ambition is to have 80  percent of the sales value evaluated by the end of FY12.  IKEA has also started to use a basic lifecycle assessment tool that  helps us compare materials and products with a focus on CO2 emissions.  In addition, product developers and technicians use a new guide  that provides a quick overview of key sustainability aspects of 100 of  the most important materials in IKEA products, outlining the carbon  footprint and to what extent it is renewable and/or recyclable. All three tools – the IKEA scorecard, lifecycle assessment tool and  material guide – contribute to making sustainability part of product  development, helping us identify opportunities for continuous  improvements of the IKEA range of products. Mapping materials to investigate the need for alternatives  By the end of FY15 we aim to ensure that all materials used in  IKEA products shall be recycled, recyclable or renewable. Analysis  conducted in FY11 shows there are currently 45 materials – used in  products representing around 10 percent of IKEA sales value – that  do not meet any of these criteria. Challenging materials include foam,  rubber and plastic composites. The next step is to develop action  plans for replacing these materials or improving them so they can, for  example, become recyclable. At the same time, it is important not to  introduce additional renewable materials that lead to new social and  environmental conflicts. For instance, plastics made from vegetable oils  may cause conflicts if land is used for raw material crops instead of  food crops.  We meet our customers in the IKEA  stores, where we sell everything for  the home displayed in inspiring  room settings. In FY11, 655 million  customers visited our 287 stores in  26 countries.  The IKEA range comprises some  9,500 home furnishing products.  Materials and products are subject  to extensive testing, and we work  proactively to stay ahead of health  and safety standards and regula tions.  All IKEA stores have a customer  restaurant serving fresh, affordable  dishes including organic and  healthy options. Most stores also  have a Swedish Food Market, offer ing delicious food items under the  IKEA Food brand. Read more in  The IKEA approach   to sustainability Customers   IKEA products DID YOU KNOW  14 Polyurethane foam, which is widely used for mattresses and sofas,  is durable and comfortable, but it is based on fossil oil and is difficult  to recycle. This is why we are investigating how to make it more sus tainable – by introducing, for example, renewable raw materials in  the foam and by recycling production scraps as well as foam that has  been discarded by consumers. Products that reduce the use of energy and water We want to help our customers reduce their energy and water use at  home. We are well on our way to reaching our FY15 goal that all energy  and water consuming products shall be on average at least 50 percent  more efficient than the average installed products in 2008. All IKEA appliances now have energy rating A or A+, and all incandes cent light sources have been replaced with the more energy efficient  Compact Fluorescent (CFL), halogen and energysaving lightemitting  diodes (LED). Our new range of frontloaded washing machines, introduced on  European markets in FY11, is highly waterefficient. The largest, with  a seven kilogram capacity, uses only 45 litres per load. Introducing more and more affordable LED light sources Energysaving lightemitting diode (LED) solutions are one example  of how IKEA makes efficient technology more widely available by cre ating an affordable, competitive offer. Our first LED lighting product was introduced in the range in 2007.  The first separate LED light bulb, with a bayonet fitting, was intro duced in FY11. In FY12, the range of LED bulbs will be expanded to  fit a variety of lamp sockets and lighting needs. The range of lamps  with integrated LED lights will also be significantly expanded. Phasing out expanded polystyrene packaging IKEA has decided to phase out packaging solutions using expanded  polystyrene (EPS) foam by the end of FY15, and no new EPS packag ing applications will be allowed as of 2012. EPS is commonly used as  a shock absorber for fragile products, including white goods and  ceramics. EPS is oilbased and difficult to recycle in many IKEA markets, and  in some regions it ends up in landfills. Instead, IKEA wants to use a  number of more sustainable alternatives. One promising solution is to  use fibrous shock absorbers made from 100 percent recycled paper  and cardboard, which is folded or moulded to suit the product it sur rounds – basically the same solution commonly used for egg cartons. Innovative technology saves on resources for flat-line products Many popular IKEA products such as PAx wardrobes and MALM chest  of drawers are made from foiled, veneered or lacquered particle  board. This heavy material is increasingly being replaced with a light weight particle board called BoBoard, which is unique to IKEA. Using  BoBoard, products are made with high density board only where fit tings are placed and extra sturdiness is needed. Significantly less raw  material is needed. Product quality and durability, however, remain  the same. Developed at one of our Swedspan factories in Sweden from 2004  onwards, this technology was implemented on a bigger scale in FY11  when Swedspan Lithuania introduced BoBoard manufacturing. Next  year, we expect to produce 400,000 cubic metres of BoBoard for the  IKEA range, saving around 40,000 tonnes of raw materials or 80,000  cubic metres of wood.  Tackling challenges with palm oil  IKEA purchases Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certifi cates equivalent to the volume of palm oil used in IKEA products,  mainly for candles. We estimate that we will buy 60,000 certificates to  cover the palm oil volume used by IKEA in FY11.  Our goal is to help stimulate more sustainable palm oil production.  We want to play our part in addressing deforestation, peat land  destruction, and social issues relating to indigenous populations and  smallholders as well as working conditions in big producer countries  such as Malaysia and Indonesia. This is also why IKEA, together with Kraft Foods, has committed to  support a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) project in  Indonesia, which aims to achieve sectorial change that will support sus tainable palm cultivation on a national scale. Focus will be placed on  small palm oil producers needs in order to produce sustainable crops.  Smallholders account for 40 percent of Indonesias total palm oil pro duction and are key to the countrys economic growth and to preserv ing the environment. The ambition is to start in mid2012 and run the  initiative over five years, depending on additional funding from other  parties.  We hope that national, provincial and district governments in Indo nesia as well as companies, NGOs and other associations will provide  coordinated support across the sector and throughout the value chain  to address the key issues and thus contribute to thriving ecosystems,  local communities and economy. Customers   IKEA products  15 Converting the IKEA Food range to 100% IKEA branded  products The entire range of some 100 food products sold in our stores Swed ish Food Markets is now IKEA unique and sold under the IKEA Food  brand.  By moving exclusively to IKEA branded food products we can offer  unique, quality products at low prices, and gain better opportunities  to influence sustainability aspects during product development and  along the supply chain. Over the coming years, the IKEA Food range will be expanded fur ther. Among the new products to be introduced in FY12 are organic  ginger bread cookies and organic sweets. Focused efforts to use more sustainable food ingredients We are currently working to increase our use of more sustainable raw  materials in our food products, focusing on those that have particular  social and/or environmental impacts. We have chosen to work mainly  with coffee, cocoa, tea, salmon and other animalbased products. At least one dish served in IKEA restaurants must be made exclu sively with organic ingredients. All coffee sold and served at IKEA is  UTZ Certified since 2008. In 2011, IKEA was the first retailer in the  world to introduce UTZ Certified cocoa in the form of a fully traceable  chocolate bar. All our chocolate bars and the tea sold and served at  IKEA shall be UTZ Certified by the end of FY15. IKEA is also part of the Salmon Dialogue, which is developing prin ciples and criteria for responsible salmon farming. The goal is that all  IKEA salmon products are sourced according to the Aquaculture  Stewardship Council (ASC) standard by 2015. All other fish must be  sourced according to the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) criteria  or appear in the WWF Seafood consumer guide to species that  come from healthy and wellmanaged populations that can sustain  current fishing levels.  Taking the next steps towards ensuring animal welfare IKEA believes that good animal welfare is important and an essential  criteria for highquality food and home furnishing products, and we  do not accept cruelty to animals.  IKEA has developed an Animal Welfare Policy containing basic  requirements on animal rearing, transport and slaughter. It will be  rolled out across our home furnishing and food supply chains in FY12. IKEA has decided not to develop further IKEA specific animal welfare  standards for food sourcing, such as our standard on broiler chicken we  developed together with Compassion in World Farming (CIWF) in FY10.  Instead, IKEA supports the development and use of globally accepted  independent standards for animal welfare from the nonprofit Global  Animal Partnership (GAP). Standards originally developed for the US  market are now being adapted globally by GAP, which includes input  from farmers, scientists, retailers, sustainability experts and animal wel fare advocates. We believe this will support harmonised efforts and help  solve challenges related to animal welfare.  Increased training in product safety Annual training in the IKEA safety alarm process, which helps us pre vent injury and/or health hazards, became mandatory for represent atives for all IKEA stores in FY11. Each IKEA market has at least one  dedicated specialist resource, spreading knowledge through a train thetrainer approach.  IKEA has also started a Product Safety and Compliance School,  offering key coworkers from across IKEA training in the safety alarm  process, risk assessment, investigations in case of noncompliance  and much more. The training is built of different modules relevant for  different IKEA functions working with productrelated safety devia tions. The aim is to have all modules ready in 2013, mixing class room sessions with elearning activities. Customers   IKEA products Read more about the  Global Animal Partnership  at www.global animalpartnership.org  16 Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 For a product and its packaging to be classified as more sustainable,  it must score a certain number of points in the IKEA Sustainability  Product Score Card. It is a prerequisite that the product is produced  by suppliers that meet the social and environmental requirements in  the IKEA supplier code of conduct IWAY. We started using the Score  Card following an intense training period in the first quarter of 2011.  At the end of FY11, products that account for around seven percent  of IKEA sales value had been evaluated, of which 21 percent were  classified as more sustainable – equivalent to 2 percent of our total  sales value. Evaluations are moving forward and we believe 80 per cent of the sales value will be evaluated by the end of FY12. We want the entire IKEA range to be made out of renewable, recy lable or recycled materials by the end of FY15, and the current 88  percent share of the total range indicates that developments are on  track. We are well on our way to meet our efficiency goal for energy con suming products such as appliances and lights. However, we have not  yet found a reliable solution for how to measure improvements in  water efficiency compared to historic market averages. LED is by far the most energy efficient lighting technology on the  market. The first separate IKEA LED bulb was introduced in FY11,  and we expect the LED share of sales to increase over the next few  years as we introduce a wider range of affordable bulbs with this  technology.  KPI – CUSTOMERS: More sustainable products FY11 Goal FY15 IKEA home furnishing products classified as  more sustainable*, % sales value 2 90 Renewable, recyclable, recycled materials % 88 100 Improved efficiency, % Improved efficiency of energy consuming  products (compared to the average installed  on the market 2008) 31 50 Improved efficiency water consuming prod ucts (compared to the average installed on  the market 2008) n/a 50 *According to criteria in the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card Customers   IKEA products  Record high ambitions for the IKEA Soft Toys campaign During the holiday season at the end of each year, the IKEA Founda tion donates one euro for every soft toy sold in IKEA stores world wide, split between Save the Children and UNICEF projects, aiming  at improving childrens education. Joining the campaign with a pur chase is an easy way for customers to engage in our fight to realise  every childs right to a quality education. The FY12 campaign, starting in November 2011, is expected to  generate a record 12 million euro. The money will support projects in  16 countries; Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, China, Ethiopia,  Indonesia, Lithuania, Madagascar, Mali, Mozambique, Myanmar, Niger,  Philippines, Romania, Russia and South Africa. Save the Children  projects focus mainly on Asia, while UNICEF projects focus on Africa. Customers purchased 8.6 million soft toys during the FY11 cam paign. In total, the IKEA Foundation donated 11.4 million euro  based on this and other campaign activities, enabling UNICEF and  Save the Children to extend or start projects in 20 countries. Since  the campaign began in 2003, the IKEA Foundation has donated 35.2  million euro and contributed to improved education for approxi mately eight million children in 45 countries. Making a difference by  engaging millions of  IKEA customers IKEA customers are encouraged to contribute to posi tive social and environmental development through  campaigns and activities run by IKEA and our partners.   Customer engagement helps us raise awareness of  key issues and make a difference in many parts of the  world. We also want to inspire customers to adopt  more sustainable behaviours in their everyday life and  thus reduce their environmental impact. IKEA CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT  There are two global customer engagement activities – the Soft  Toys campaign and the sale of SUNNAN solar lamps.  The IKEA FAMILY customer club, with more than 45 million   customers in 24 countries, is often used to engage customers   in a variety of national and local activities related to social   and environmental responsibility.  IKEA wants to help people live a more sustainable life at home   by creating awareness and promoting relevant and affordable   product solutions that reduce energy and water use as  well as household waste. Read more in  The IKEA approach   to sustainability Read more about the Soft  Toys campaign at  www.ikeafoundation.org 2.2 2003–2004 1.9 2005 2.9 2006 4.2 2007 5.4 2008 7.2 2009 11.4 2010 Customers   Customer engagement IKEA Foundation   Soft Toys campaign donations  (million euro) 17  18 SUNNAN lamps light up childrens lives For every SUNNAN solarpowered lamp sold in IKEA stores, the IKEA  Foundation donates one SUNNAN lamp. The lamps are distributed by  UNICEF and Save the Children to children in developing countries  such as Ethiopia, Kenya and India to help them play, read, write and  study after dusk. Since the start of the project in June 2009, approxi mately one million SUNNAN lamps have been sold, enabling the same  number of lamps to be donated. IKEA FAMILY engages customers through local activities  The IKEA FAMILY customer club helps us care for and reward our  most active customers, and the relationship provides opportunities to  engage them and capture their feedback on social and environmental  issues. General guidelines for member activities are developed centrally   and managed nationally or locally. IKEA markets are encouraged to  engage members in charities and a variety of environmental events,   as well as in IKEA FAMILYarranged seminars on living a more sustain able life at home.  IKEA FAMILY has email addresses to many of its 45 million mem bers. This helps us engage them in specific activities. IKEA and UNICEF,  for example, are working together on a trial in three IKEA markets to  encourage IKEA FAMILY members to sign up for UNICEFs Global Parents  campaign on national UNICEF web sites. Raising awareness of climate change through Earth Hour In March 2011, IKEA units in 25 countries engaged coworkers and  customers in the annual Earth Hour campaign, and 18 of these ran  national activities together with WWF. Earth Hour is an opportunity for us to pledge support of planet  Earth by turning off nonessential lighting, as well as to offer a range  of climaterelated activities for customers and coworkers. WWF runs  the annual Earth Hour campaign to make people more aware of cli mate change and inspire them to take practical actions to reduce  their own carbon footprint.  Learning more about consumers views In FY11, IKEA commissioned a brand strategy consultant to better  understand perceptions of IKEA and its sustainability efforts. The  project captured insights from 8,500 consumers and 1,250 IKEA co workers in eight countries on three continents. The study, using focus groups and quantitative surveys, explored  attitudes towards sustainability – what consumers expect from IKEA  and what they will give us permission to do to help them live a more  sustainable life at home.  The results show that consumers welcome help from IKEA on inte grating sustainability into their lives at home. They also want IKEA to  take an active role beyond the companys own operations. The study  will provide valuable input to our sustainability strategy and internal  and external communication over the coming years. Encouraging people to live a more sustainable life at home IKEA and WWF are working together in a climaterelated project to  promote a more sustainable life at home by inspiring IKEA customers  and coworkers to adopt sustainable behaviours. The focus is on  reducing energy and water consumption, minimising food and other  household waste. The project, which started in FY10, has been  extended to run throughout FY12. IKEA created an internal educational film based on two small tests  involving customers and coworkers in China and Sweden. In FY12, the  project will further explore customer behaviour and needs further. A  number of households and one small business in Kalmar, Sweden, will  over a sixmonth period test IKEA products and solutions to live a more  sustainable life and the results, including their environmental impact,  will be measured and shared internally and externally.  The households will evaluate the way IKEA communicates its sus tainable solutions so that we can find more inspiring and effective  ways to engage the many customers. A strategy for communication  and store solutions will be developed based on the households input.  The project is also expected to provide valuable insights to range  development at IKEA.  In addition to the project, an increasing number of IKEA stores are  using room settings to engage customers and promote sustain able  solutions. In FY12, all stores will display three kitchens with products  and communication aimed at raising awareness of how to minimise  waste and reduce energy and water use. Customers   Customer engagement Read more about  Earth Hour at  www.earthhour.org  Share of more sustainable cotton used in IKEA products. 13.4 % Environment  20 Read more in  The IKEA approach   to sustainability Environment Climate Reducing the carbon  footprint throughout the  value chain Climate change affects us all. It leads to more extreme  temperatures, new wind patterns, worsening drought  in some regions, heavier rain in others, melting gla ciers and rising global average sea levels. IKEA wants  to take a leading role towards creating a low carbon  society and strives to reduce emissions throughout the  value chain.  Tackling climate change requires a wide range of  actions beyond how our products are manufactured and  transported, and how we heat, cool and light our build ings. This is why we have a holistic approach and take  part in climaterelated initiatives all the way from raw  material extraction to the use of our products in cus tomers homes and at the end of a products lifecycle.  IKEA joins call for 30 percent emissions reduction IKEA supports the Joint Business Declaration, an EU business call for  30 percent greenhouse gas emissions reduction by 2020 founded by  The Climate Group, University of Cambridge Programme for Sustaina bility and WWF Climate Savers. The decision to support this call signals our willingness to collabo rate with governments, NGOs and other companies to help achieve an  exciting, affordable low carbon society. Increased investments in renewable energy for IKEA buildings IKEA has made major investments in renewable energy over the past  few years as we move towards our longterm goal of using   100 percent renewable energy. The work to install photovoltaic (solar) panels on around 150 IKEA  stores and distribution centres is progressing at increasing speed.  Installations have been completed at 40 units in seven countries –  Germany, Canada, Spain, US, Italy, UK and Belgium. Another 20  projects are on the way, and so far investment decisions have been  taken for a total of 124 photovoltaic projects.  IKEA also made large investments in wind farms in FY11. One  operating wind farm with seven turbines was purchased in Scotland,  and IKEA is building a nine turbine wind farm in central Sweden. This  wind farm, expected to be connected to the grid at the end of 2011,  will produce renewable electricity equivalent to 75 percent of the elec tricity consumption of the 17 IKEA stores in Sweden. In FY11, our 60 operational wind mills and 40 solar panel installa tions generated around 152 gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity,  equivalent to around 12 percent of the electricity needed to run our  stores and distribution centres. The amount of renewable energy gen erated from our own sources is expected to increase significantly in  FY12. More energy efficient IKEA stores During FY11, energy efficiency across all IKEA stores improved by four  percent compared to FY10, helping us save 6.2 million euro and dem onstrating how sustainability improvements can deliver strong busi ness benefits. This was mainly achieved through improved energy  efficiency of store equipment, such as heating, ventilation, and air   IKEA investments in renewable  energy have increased substantially  over the past few years.  IKEA strives to use innovative and  efficient transport solutions for our  products. Effective distribution in  the entire goods flow from supplier  to customer is an important aspect  of achieving a low price and mini mising climate impact.  We support IKEA suppliers to  reduce their energy consumption  and increase the share of renewa ble energy used for manufacturing  and to heat and cool buildings. DID YOU KNOW  21 conditioning (HvAC) systems and smarter use of commercial lighting. A simulation tool was used for all new store projects in FY11 to  help integrate more energy efficient methods before construction  breaks ground. The tool helps calculate the consequences of archi tectural aspects, as well as various technological solutions for light ing, heating and cooling while also comparing estimated payback  time. By simulating the consequences of different options before the  final decisions are taken, IKEA can reduce the stores energy con sumption and operating costs for many years to come.  The current average energy consumption for existing stores is close  to 67 kilowatt hours (kWh) per cubic metre of sold goods. New stores  in some locations – depending on the local climate and other factors –  have the potential to limit the consumption to 25–30 kWh/m. New IKEA national energy efficiency targets for stores We have set annual targets for energy efficiency improvements at  national levels, based on local conditions and circumstances. Energy  efficiency in IKEA stores is expected to improve by 3 to 5 percent per  annum FY12–15, representing an overall improvement of 20 percent  compared to FY10. New ambitious CO2 reduction target for transport of products IKEA has to set a more ambitious reduction target for CO2 emissions  from transport of products.  The goal set in FY10 was to reduce emissions by 10 percent by the  end of FY15, with FY10 as the base year and calculated as grams per  cubic metre transported goods (CO2/m3). Having revised that target  we now aim to reduce emissions by 20 percent by the end of FY16.  This new target reflects improving filling rates as well as efforts among  transport service providers to reduce their fleet emissions.  Continued efforts to reduce transport needs by   optimising loads Ongoing efforts throughout the IKEA supply chain help us fit more  products into each truck and container, reducing the number of  transports and thus reducing carbon emissions.  The work to phase out wooden pallets is progressing well. Today   70 percent of shipments from suppliers to IKEA distribution centres and  stores in Europe and all transport in Asia are made using paper pallets  and recycled plastic loading ledges. Stores and distribution centres are  in the process of adapting their warehouse racking to accommodate  the new goods standards in a safe and effective manner.  IKEA product developers and packaging specialists optimise  designs to fit modern trucks and containers rather than the fixed  wood pallet sizes. The compact, lightweight and recyclable paper pal lets and loading ledges allow more goods in each load. Paper pallets  are only five centimetres high, one third of wooden pallets. Around 60 percent of product volumes going by sea are now trans ported in HighCube (HC) containers with a standard height of 2.7  metres. These are only 12 percent larger than traditional Dryvan  (Dv) containers with a height of 2.4 metres, but we can often load 25  percent more as HC allows for an extra halfpallet layer of products  loaded on paper pallets and loading ledges. Similarly, we are shifting road transport from the standard 2.4  metre high trailers to the increasingly common 2.7 metre high trailers  in Europe. This is expected to have the same positive impact on  reducing road transport as the HC containers have at sea. In turn, this  will contribute to keeping CO2 increases from transport lower than the  overall IKEA sales growth. A third, halfpallet level is not always possible due to issues such  as weight limitations, but our tests show that if we use the higher  trailers and containers globally where and when suitable, the saving  can be 100,000 loads less per year, equivalent to 58,000 tonnes of  CO2 emission. Increasing intermodal transportation to reduce road travel IKEA strives to reduce road transportation to cut CO2 emissions, and  instead use more rail. While railway transport all the way from suppli ers to stores or distribution centres is not always feasible, we are  increasing the use of intermodal transport. Goods are loaded onto   a container or trailer that can be transported by ship, rail or truck  without handling the freight itself when changing modes.  In FY11, two new intermodal routes were introduced; one between  Romania via the Benelux countries to the UK, and one between Poland  and Italy. In total, around a dozen intermodal routes have been  established in Europe. Projects contribute to improved energy efficiency at suppliers Successful energy projects with suppliers prove that relatively modest  investments often lead to big improvements in energy efficiency.  Some 30 home furnishing suppliers in a number of industries have  collectively saved more than 370 gigawatt hours (GWh) and 80,000  Environment Climate  22 tonnes of CO2 emissions with support from IKEA in FY11. One textile supplier in Bangladesh has piloted the IKEA Supplier  Development Program (SDP) for energy in FY11. The supplier identi fied and implemented a number of efficiency measures that reduced  energy consumption by 29 percent and cut CO2 emissions by 25 per cent. The annual savings represent 1.1 million euro, and 15,600  tonnes of CO2. In FY12, a number of suppliers will be eligible to take  part in SDP energy projects with the goal of reducing consumption and  carbon dioxide emissions, while also saving costs and increasing com petitiveness. Many suppliers have also invested in renewable energy, for exam ple, installing photovoltaic panels or biomass boilers. Today, the share  of renewable energy used at IKEA home furnishing suppliers is 12 per cent, excluding what is being purchased from electricity grids. Joint WWF project to help suppliers reduce emissions A joint IKEA and WWF project Climate Positive Opportunities for Sup pliers is currently underway in Poland and China and will continue to  run until the end of 2011. The aim of the project is to encourage the  development of innovative solutions that will help suppliers reduce  their carbon footprint. It will also help to identify and aid the removal  of barriers preventing suppliers pursuing such projects.  As a result of the joint project, we know that awareness – what  can be done and how  and costs are two of the main barriers for our  suppliers in Poland. This is why the project has produced a factsheet  to help suppliers understand new government incentives available for  energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. By informing sup pliers and guiding them on how to apply for the incentives, we expect  that they will be more likely to embark on energy and carbonreduc tion projects. IKEA and WWF have also invited innovative companies to develop  low carbon solutions for textile and plastic manufacturing processes  with a view to improving the drying process for wet textiles and  injection moulding in plastics, two potentially resource intensive  methods. So far, more than 30 proposals have been submitted and  are being evaluated in cooperation with suppliers. In addition, the project has organised workshops and participated  in a number of energy forums in China and Poland, and had dialogues  with politicians and authorities to support legislative changes that  make investing in renewable energy more attractive. Developing the IKEA Food range with climate considerations IKEA has started to adapt its food range to reduce CO2 emissions by  using a basic carbon calculator when developing new dishes. Next  year, the use of beef and pork will be reduced in favour of fish, poultry  and vegetarian alternatives. A new chickenbased meatball recipe,  with a five times smaller carbon footprint than todays meatballs made  of beef and pork, will also be tested in selected IKEA restaurants in  five countries in FY12.  Moving towards more sustainable people transport IKEA wants to help customers and coworkers use more sustainable  modes of transport to travel to and from IKEA easily. A number of glo bal and local initiatives support this ambition, and a toolbox devel oped together with WWF help spread ideas and solutions for more  sustainable people transport.  Internally, an increasing number of coworkers use virtual meetings  instead of travel. In FY11, meetings via the web and telephone  increased by 27 percent to nearly 105,000. The number of hours of  video meetings tripled to 2,800 hours as a result of better service  quality and more facilities – we now have 70 locations with video facil ities compared to 33 one year ago. This trend is expected to continue  thanks to increased efforts to promote virtual meetings. Environment Climate  23 Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 IKEA buildings CO2 emission, tonnes Stores 314,744 326,700 435,344 428,997 Distribution 41,604 39,963 47,999 45,151 Swedwood 230,000 239,620 246,277 287,907 Swedspan – – 83,835 92,770 Offices 5,178 2,950 4,730 4,791 Total  586,348 609,233 818,185 859,616 Total kg CO2/m3  sold IKEA products  25.7   26.4   34.3   34.4  Other figures FY11 Estimated CO2 emissions, tonnes Raw materials 15,960,000 Production and distribution 4,097,000 – Suppliers 3,300,000 – Goods transport  750,000 – Business travel  47,000 IKEA 965,000 – Buildings  860,000 – Employee commuting 105,000 Customers 9,130,000 – Transportation to stores 2,170,000 – Product use 6,960,000 Products end-of-life 1,640,000 Total 31,792,000 Climate Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 IKEA wants to take a leading role towards a low carbon society, and  significantly reduce the carbon footprint from all parts of our opera tions, while also helping to reduce emissions in society. Emissions in the value chain are based on the draft Corporate  value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard developed  by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business  Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Our calculations  show that 84 percent of the carbon dioxide emissions related to IKEA  and our products are attributed to material extraction, customer  transportation, the use of products and their endoflife.  We measure energy consumption in IKEA buildings and CO2 emis sions are calculated based on this data. The total increase in absolute  terms corresponds with our overall growth, and total emissions per  cubic metre sold goods are stable. Estimated total CO2 emissions 2011 13  % Production and  distribution 3  % IKEA 5  % Products   endoflife 50  % Raw materials 29  % Customers Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) Scope 1-2-3   CO2 emissions, tonnes Scope 1 (Direct emissions from sources  owned or controlled by IKEA) 122,000 Scope 2 (Emissions generated from purchased  electricity consumed by IKEA buildings) 738,000 Scope 3 (Estimate based on the draft GHG  Protocol Corporate value Chain Accounting  and Reporting Standard) 30,932,000 Total Scope 1-2-3 31,792,000 Environment Climate  24 Actual energy consumption in IKEA buildings (GWh) 1,582 3,600 905 916 198 Stores Total Swedwood Swedspan Distribution Comments on KPI and figures 2011  IKEA has made major investments in wind and solar energy, and at  the end of FY11 the electricity generated from our own sources  equalled around 12 percent of what is needed to run our stores and  distribution centres. The share of renewable energy used in IKEA buildings increased  and we hope to achieve 7080 percent by FY15 if the current rate of  progress is maintained. Overall, energy efficiency in our buildings improved during the  year. Efficiency in Swedspan operations, however, decreased com pared to FY10 mainly due to the installation of new equipment for  capacity increase in the Hultsfred factory in Sweden. During that  process, energy was still required for auxiliary processes but there  was no production of particle board. 40 IKEA buildings with   solar panels installed 60 Number of   wind turbines 152 GWh Total renewable   energy produced Renewable energy fed to the grid Climate:   Energy use in  IKEA buildings KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Renewable energy FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Direction Renewable energy IKEA buildings, % total consumption Stores  37 38 34 40 100 Distribution 37 41 34 39 100 Swedwood 60 63 59 61 100 Swedspan – – 62 62 100 Total 47 50 47 51 100 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Energy efficiency FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Direction Improved energy efficiency, % compared to 2005, kWh/m3 sold goods Stores  7 5 7 10 25 Distribution 21 21 22 33 25 Swedwood 28 23 32 36 25 Swedspan – – – –5* 25 *Compared to FY10, which was Swedspans first year of operations. Environment Climate  25 Climate:   Transport of   people Climate:   Transport of   products Comments on KPI and figures 2011  The number of web and video meetings increased substantially in  FY11. This reflects increasing internal awareness of the possibilities to  conduct efficient virtual meetings, as well as improved availability of  high quality facilities. We strive to keep business travel to a minimum, and encourage co workers to make informed choices of local travel alternatives to and  from IKEA units. When searching for information on the IKEA Intranet  on how to get to a specific location, the CO2 footprints of the various  alternatives such as cars, trains and buses are listed. Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 business travel Business travel expenditure index,  base year 2007 – 69 67 66 Number of web and video meetings –  52,000 82,434 104,920 Comments on KPI and figures 2011  IKEA has set a new, more ambitious reduction target for CO2 emis sions from transport of products. The previous goal was to reduce  emissions by 10 percent compared to FY10 by the end of FY15, and  we now expect to reduce emissions by 20 percent by the end of FY16.  Filling rates measure to what extent trucks and containers are  filled with IKEA products. The aim is to fill each shipment as much as  possible – considering weight restrictions, etc. – in order to reduce  the overall number of shipments and thus minimise emissions from  transportation. However, this measurement does not fully reflect the  benefits of the increased use of larger trucks and containers over the  past few years – loads now often hold more goods even if the filling  rate is somewhat lower, and emissions are reduced as the number of  shipments is reduced. For example, containers shipped at sea from  Asia transported around three percent more goods in terms of vol ume in FY11 compared to FY10 following the increased use of High Cube containers. KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Transport of products FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 Filling rate, % Inbound (supplier   to warehouse) 62 63 64 63  70 Outbound (warehouse  to store) 58 60 60 61  70 Direct (supplier to store) 57 60 62 63 70 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Transport of products FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY16 CO2 emissions reduction per cubic metre transported goods  (% change CO2 gram/m 3, compared to FY10) Compared to FY10 – – – –4.9 –20 Environment Climate  26 IKEA forestry  requirements influence  global timber trade Wood has always been one of the most important raw  materials for IKEA. In FY11, we used 14.5 million  cubic metres of timber for products, printed matter  and packaging – equivalent to 362,500 fully loaded  timber trucks.  With the scale of our use comes responsibility and  opportunities to influence the global timber trade.   Our IWAY forestry requirements demand legality and  known origin of the timber used in IKEA products,  which means that high standards are applied through out the supply chain.  New goal for the share of certified wood in the IKEA range IKEA has set a new goal for the share of wood used in the range that  meets our requirements for preferred sources. By the end of FY17, an  estimated 10 million cubic metres, representing 50 percent, of the solid  wood and board materials used for IKEA products shall meet IKEA pre ferred wood requirements. Today, preferred sources means FSCcerti fied wood with a fully verified supply chain. As of FY12, we will also  include recycled wood in our definition of preferred sources as we  believe it is important to promote efficient material use. IKEA is one of the worlds largest retailers in terms of FSC certified  wood volumes. In FY11, the share of FSCcertified wood used in the  IKEA range increased to 16.2 percent from 15.8 percent – this repre sents 2.2 million cubic metres, an increase of 225,000 cubic metres  on the previous year  During the year, our 15 forestry specialists worked closely with   IKEA purchasers and suppliers to increase the number of certified  suppliers, who now handle 63 percent of total wood volumes used in  IKEA products  up from 73 suppliers and 47 percent of wood volumes  in FY10. We work actively to increase overall availability of FSCcertified  wood in cooperation with WWF and others in important wood sourcing  regions such as Russia, China and Eastern Europe. For example, in  FY11 we contributed to the opening of an FSC office in Siberia that will  support certification locally, including IKEA subsuppliers in China. Implementing IKEA forestry requirements for board materials IKEA forestry requirements for responsible wood sourcing were  applied also to board materials in FY11 – more than doubling the vol ume of woodbased products covered by our sustainability require ments. The roughly 100 board product suppliers were given four months  to adjust to the new requirements. Overall compliance on board mate rial wood sourced in Europe was high from the start, while suppliers in  some Asian countries had some difficulties meeting our tracing  requirements. We were aware of the potential risk of overall compli ance with our forestry requirements lowering as a result of including  board materials in our responsible sourcing scope. Instead, compli ance with IKEA forestry requirements improved during the year.  All wood used for IKEA products  must live up to our minimum  requirements, which include not  using wood that has been illegally  harvested. Suppliers must demon strate that they have systems to  ensure that IKEA minimum require ments are met before they are  allowed to start delivering to IKEA.   Our longterm goal is that all wood  used in IKEA products is recycled  or comes from forests independ ently verified as responsibly man aged. The Forest Stewardship  Council (FSC) is currently the only  certification standard that meets  IKEA requirements. IKEA was one  of the companies that initiated and  founded FSC in 1993 together with  Greenpeace and WWF.  IKEA and WWF have worked  together since 2002 on projects  aimed at combatting illegal logging,  promoting responsible forest man agement and protecting high con servation value forests. Today, we  have joint projects in 11 countries  in Europe and Asia. Read more in  The IKEA approach   to sustainability Environment Forestry DID YOU KNOW  27 More than 80 percent of the wood used for IKEA board materials  comes from the EU, where suppliers generally have wellestablished  systems for bookkeeping and certificates to show where the raw  material comes from. But board materials are made from a variety of  species and come from many sources – such as branches and small  logs, cutoffs from other manufacturing, chips and saw dust – which  makes tracing more challenging in countries where suppliers lack  appropriate documentation routines.  This is why IKEA conducts additional supply chain risk assess ments and cooperates with the Rainforest Alliance, Forest Legality  Alliance, WWF and others to ensure that our control systems are effi cient and that we benefit from their knowledge and expertise.  Extending our forest partnership with WWF IKEA has agreed to extend its forest cooperation work with WWF  from seven to 13 projects in 11 countries over a threeyear period.  New project countries are Indonesia and BosniaHerzegovina.  The new project in BosniaHerzegovina aims to improve the coun trys forest management through FSC certification and implementa tion of the High Conservation value Forest concept. One new Indone sian project aims to set up a rattan production system that supports  legality and sustainable sourcing, based on similar projects already  running in Laos, vietnam and Cambodia. IKEA will also contribute funding to core WWF activities that are  not tied to specific forest projects, including communication and  organisational capacity building.  Since the start in 2002, the IKEA and WWF partnership has con tributed to improved forest management over vast areas in Europe  and Asia. In Romania alone, some 80,000 hectares received FSC cer tification for the first time in FY11, and 600,000 hectares were re certified. IKEA support for WWF and the national FSC organisation in  Russia has helped to increase certified forest areas to around 30 mil lion hectares in 2011 from around 300,000 in 2002. Requirements for wood used in   IKEA products The IKEA Forestry Standard is a materialspecific supplement to the  IKEA supplier code of conduct IWAY. It contains basic requirements for  IKEA wood product suppliers. 1. Minimum criteria on wood for IKEA products  Not from forests that have been illegally harvested   Not from forestry operations engaged in forestrelated social con flicts   Not harvested in Intact Natural Forests (INF) or other geographi cally identified High Conservation value Forests (HCvF), unless they  are certified as responsibly managed   Not harvested from natural forests in the tropical and subtropical  regions being converted to plantations or nonforest use   Not from officially recognised and geographically identified commer cial Genetically Modified (GM) tree plantations  Suppliers must have procedures in place to secure this throughout their  supply chain. They must know the origin of their wood and accept  audits at every link in the chain. They regularly report the wood origin,  volume and species used in IKEA products via the IKEA Forest Tracing  System. 2. Criteria for IKEA preferred wood sources* Wood certified according to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Forest  Management (FM) and Chain of Custody (CoC) standards meets the  IKEA requirements for preferred sources. In order to count towards  the preferred wood objective, suppliers must have a valid FSC CoC,  covering in its scope the production for IKEA. *As of FY12, the definition of preferred wood sources will also include recycled wood. Environment Forestry Read more about the  IKEA and WWF partner ship at wwf.panda.org  28 Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 Our total wood consumption increased approximately 10 percent in  FY11, mainly as a result of the overall IKEA growth. Meanwhile, the  use of wood from preferred sources increased by around 12 percent  in terms of volume and we remain determined to increase the overall  share in the IKEA range from todays 16.2 percent. This is why we have set a new, ambitious goal to increase the  share of preferred wood to 50 percent by the end of FY17, which rep resents an estimated fivefold volume increase to 10 million cubic  metres. Today, preferred sources means FSC certified wood with a  fully verified supply chain. As of FY12, we will also include recycled  wood in our definition of preferred sources as we believe it is impor tant to promote efficient material use. No historical data on recycled  wood is available. Longterm, we want all wood used in the IKEA  range to be recycled or come from forests verified as responsibly  managed. In FY11, external and internal auditing covered suppliers corre sponding to 74 percent of IKEA wood that was sourced for IKEA.  Audit intensity increased compared to FY10. Compliance with IKEA  forestry requirements remains high. Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Total amount of wood used in IKEA products (m3) Solid wood 7,223,000 5,686,000 5,320,000 5,924,300 Board material – – 7,000,000 7,855,500 Total – – 12,320,000 13,779,800 Number of IWAY and wood supply chain audits Performed by IKEA  foresters 84 60 117 134 Performed by 3rd party  3 3 7 5 Volumes audited by IKEA foresters in IWAY and wood supply chain  audits Cubic metres 1,500,000 500,000 1,270,820 1,692,896  Share of total wood used in   IKEA products, % – – 10.3 12.3 Externally verified  Share of IKEA suppliers that are   FSC CoC certified, % 7.9 19.6 20.3 34.9 Share of total wood volume  that comes from FSC CoC  certified suppliers, % 23.9 35.3 47.0 62.0 23.3 % Poland 8.0 % Germany 7.2 % Russia 6.7 % Sweden 6.7 % China Top 5 sourcing countries for wood Top 5 tree species used for solid wood in IKEA products Pine Beech Spruce Birch Acacia KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Forestry FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal  Responsible forest management, % Wood used in IKEA prod ucts coming from preferred  sources, % total   15.8 16.2 FY17: 50% Wood used in IKEA prod ucts coming from preferred  sources, m3  1,988,110 2,230,625 10,000,000 Solid wood used in IKEA  products coming from pre ferred sources, % total 7% 16% 23.6% 22.9 FY12: 35% Audited wood volumes that  comply with IKEA minimum  forestry requirements, %   80% 92% 97% 94% Includes solid wood and board materials.  FSC certified.  FSC certified or recycled. Environment Forestry  Read more in  The IKEA approach   to sustainability DID YOU KNOW 29 IKEA is determined to  make cotton production  more sustainable Cotton is one of the most important raw materials for  IKEA. It has excellent comfort qualities as it is soft and  breathable – and it is a renewable resource. At the  same time, it is a material associated with major con cerns for both people and the environment.  This is why IKEA supports projects in major cotton  producing regions to help farmers make conventional  cotton production more sustainable, and the IKEA  Foundation supports projects to prevent child labour.  By the end of FY15, all cotton in IKEA products should  be produced according to the social and environmental  criteria set by the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). Nearly doubled share of more sustainable cotton in the range IKEA suppliers purchased 50,000 tonnes of more sustainable cotton  from project farmers in the 2010/11 season, about twice as much as  the year before. As a result, the share of more sustainable cotton in  IKEA products increased from 13.4 percent to 23.8 percent of our  total cotton use. The total harvest of more sustainable cotton reached 250,000  tonnes with more than 100,000 farmers using better management  practices through IKEA supported projects. IKEA suppliers purchased  only 1/5 of the seasons total production from the projects in order to  leave sufficient volumes available on the market to speed up the proc ess of making this cotton a tradable commodity available to all.  Moving towards better Cotton by incorporating   decent work criteria The first certified Better Cotton, produced according to social and  environmental criteria developed by the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI),  was harvested in October 2010 in Pakistan, and farmers here pro duced almost 63,000 tonnes of Better Cotton over the past season.  IKEA aims for all cotton used for IKEA products to be Better Cotton  by the end of FY15. This means that farmers wanting to produce Bet ter Cotton must incorporate not only the environmental criteria origi nally developed by IKEA and WWF, but also the decent work criteria  defined by the BCI. IKEA supported projects in several countries have  already started training farmers so that they can meet all Better Cot ton requirements through continuous improvements. Child labour and bonded labour is unacceptable but, unfortunately,  not uncommon in rural Pakistan and India, and this represents a  major challenge to fulfilling BCI criteria on decent work. This is why  IKEA and the IKEA Foundation fund projects run by partners such as  WWF, UNICEF and Save the Children to find ways to bring about last ing and largescale improvements to these issues in India and Paki stan – in the fields as well at strategic levels.  Workshops based on the International Labour Organization (ILO)  programme Decent Work have been conducted in Lahore, Pakistan.  The aim was to find synergies between projects run in the same areas  by several organisations, such as UNICEF, Save the Children, WWF  and the BCI. The organisations will continue to meet and develop col laborative plans.   In order to address the challenges  associated with cotton, we must  start at the farms. IKEA and WWF  started to support cotton farmers  by introducing more sustainable  farming practices in 2005. Today,  IKEA supports projects run by sev eral organisations and we reach  more than 100,000 farmers.   IKEA was a founding member of  the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI)  and takes an active role in helping  make Better Cotton a tradable  commodity. Our goal for the end of  FY15 is that all cotton used for  IKEA products is Better Cotton and  compliant with BCIs social and  environmental criteria.  The IKEA Foundation supports  projects run by UNICEF and Save  the Children in cotton farming  areas in India and Pakistan to  improve childrens rights. Between  2009 and 2015, around 10 million  children in more than 15,000 vil lages are expected to benefit from  the project. Environment Cotton Read more about the Better  Cotton Initiative at www. bettercotton.org Read more about the IKEA  Foundation at  www.ikeafoundation.org  Read more about the  Better Cotton Fast Track  Programme at   www.bettercotton.org 30 New cotton projects started in China and Turkey IKEA supports cotton projects run by a number of organisations in  order to reach a large number of farmers with more sustainable  farming practices. Some 100,000 farmers are now engaged in  projects in India and Pakistan, and new smallscale projects were ini tiated in China and Turkey in FY11. Three projects in cooperation with the Better Cotton Fast Track Pro gramme have started in the xinjiang province in China, where farms  are often large and specialised cooperatives with big landholdings and  many employees. In Turkey, four farmer projects have been initiated  by IKEA textile suppliers. Cotton farms in Turkey are generally small by  Chinese standards, but still large compared to most farms in India and  Pakistan. As there are no great commonalities between cotton farming in  different countries, the projects in each country have to be locally  adapted to get the best possible results. Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 The share of more sustainable cotton used in IKEA products contin ued to increase significantly in FY11. Availability is improving rapidly,  and the current rate or progress indicates that we are well on track  to meet our goal for FY15. Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Cotton used in IKEA products,  tonnes – 185,000 190,000 210,000 More sustainable cotton   used in IKEA products, tonnes – 11,470 25,500 50,000 More sustainable cotton 6.2% FY09 13.4% FY10 23.8% FY11 benefits of more sustainable cotton cultivation -50% –30% -50% Reduced use   of pesticides Reduced use of   chemical fertilisers Reduced use   of water Many project farmers have halved their water consumption and chemical pesticide  use, and cut the use of chemical fertilisers by one third. This contributes to signifi- cant cost reductions and better earnings for farmers. KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Cotton FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 Share of more sustain able cotton used   in IKEA products, % – 6.2 13.4 23.8 100 Environment Cotton  Read more in  The IKEA approach   to sustainability Environment Water DID YOU KNOW 31 Reducing our water  footprint throughout   the value chain Reducing the IKEA water footprint is one of the priorities  in the IKEA Sustainability Direction. We want to minimise  the water consumption throughout the value chain, from  raw material sourcing all the way to customers homes.   While our overall footprint estimate is still very rough,  it is clear that the most significant footprint comes from  cotton cultivation. This confirms the importance of our  ongoing efforts to spread more sustainable water man agement practices in cotton farming. At the same time,  we have mapped water use in manufacturing and work  with selected suppliers to help them reduce their water  consumption and improve water quality. Getting a clearer picture of water consumption  in manufacturing In FY11, IKEA collected water consumption data from around 300  suppliers, representing more than one quarter of our total home fur nishing supplier base, including all suppliers using wet manufacturing  processes. This has enabled us to make a more reliable estimate of  how much water is used to produce IKEA products. It will also help us  set relevant reduction targets for our supply chain during FY12. We now estimate direct suppliers total water footprint for FY11 to  be between 55 and 70 million cubic metres. The most waterintensive  product categories are textiles, rugs and carpets, appliances, glass,  board materials and ceramics. Around 10 percent of suppliers with  confirmed data use more than 100,000 m3 per year. These are prima rily textile suppliers in South Asia and SouthEast Europe. While global reduction targets are yet to be developed, IKEA South  Asia has taken the lead with the ambition to help its suppliers reduce  water use by 20 percent over the next few years. Developing a water strategy for the IKEA supply chain A water strategy is being developed for the IKEA home furnishing sup ply chain for rollout in FY12. The strategy, supported by detailed  guidelines, aims to set the direction and priorities for how IKEA and  its suppliers can work to reduce water use and improve waste water  quality. It will also include goals for 2015 and 2020. Some regions currently have IKEA water specialists, notably in  South Asia where water stress is an urgent challenge and where many  IKEA suppliers have waterintensive production processes. To support  the implementation of the new water strategy, IKEA will develop more  competence and resources in the relevant regions. Projects to help IKEA suppliers improve water management  A pilot project with 20 textile suppliers in six Asian countries and Tur key has explored ways to reduce water use and improve water treat ment. In FY12, we plan on engaging a greater number of suppliers in  Supplier Development Programs, with a particular focus on better water  management.  In the pilot project, suppliers, IKEA water experts and external  consultants have identified a number of best practices to reduce the  amount of wastewater, increase the amount of recycled water and  introduce advanced water treatment. The next step will be to develop  guidelines to help IKEA textile suppliers implement these practices.  In 2009, a first estimate of our  water footprint indicated that   2 billion cubic metres is used every  year for the production of raw  materials, in manufacturing, in our  buildings and by customers using  IKEA products. Today, we believe  that the total footprint may actually  be significantly larger, and new cal culations will be made during 2012.  IKEA does not allow direct dis charge of untreated waste water  from production processes, and  suppliers must take precautions to  avoid contamination of local water  supplies. A biological treatment  plant is a business prerequisite for  textile suppliers in South Asia,  where water stress is an urgent  challenge and where many IKEA  suppliers have waterintensive pro duction processes.  Environment Water Environment Water – Waste DID YOU KNOW 32 Other figures FY10 FY11 Water consumption IKEA units (m3) Stores 3,927,551 4,438,075 Distribution centres 265,524 228,772 Swedwood 483,096 510,742 Swedspan 283,277 1,392,882 Total 4,959,448 6,570,471 Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 We have reliable data on water consumption in our own units, and  have started mapping consumption at IKEA suppliers. Estimates of  the water required for raw material extraction are still rough, and  we are yet to identify a reliable method to estimate the water foot print of customers use of IKEA products. Swedspans water consumption increased sharply in FY11 as cal culations this year include water used to clean industrial equipment  in the factories. This data was not collected in FY10.   All IKEA stores and distribution cen tres recycle large quantities of  materials such as cardboard, paper,  plastic, wood, metal and glass. In  some stores, as many as 15 catego ries of waste are sorted. Customers  can return used batteries and low energy bulbs to most stores for safe  recycling.   Waste from production can be put  to good use, even if it is not suita ble for home furnishing products.  Production units at Swedwood and  Swedspan – the industrial groups  owned by IKEA – often use their  own waste to produce energy  instead of relying on oil and gas.    IKEA has products and solutions  that help customers to conveniently  sort and reduce household waste.  The range is continuously being  developed following customer feed back and research. We want to turn waste  into resources Economising on resources is a crucial part of the IKEA  culture, and we strive to minimise waste throughout  our value chain. One of our goals for FY15 is that no  waste from our own operations is sent to landfill.  Already today, a high share of our waste is recycled,  reclaimed or used for energy production.   We believe that turning waste into resources is an  important step towards a more sustainable society. We  sort large amounts of waste for recycling in our own  units, and are committed to improving the recyclability  of IKEA products as well as increasing the use of  recycled materials in our range. The aim is to reduce  our overall environmental footprint, including CO2  emissions. Estimated water footprint, % 3.6 % Home furnishings   production  0.2 % IKEA stores &   distribution centres 96.2 % Raw material  extraction  Read more in   The IKEA approach   to sustainability  Environment Water – Waste 33 Great potential for material recyclability Closing the loops is a project that investigates aspects of full mate rial recyclability with the aim to save natural resources, minimising  CO2 emissions and have a positive impact on the environment. The  project, which started together with WWF in 2010 and will run until  mid2012, intends to find new and innovative ways to turn waste  into resources. During FY11, smallscale tests on the opportunities and chal lenges related to closing material loops were conducted, focusing on  plastic packaging materials and home furnishing products. The first  findings show great potential for recycling of materials that are cur rently prematurely incinerated for energy use  many of these mate rials could have been used again. The project has specifically focused  on upcycling possibilities.  As part of one test project, consumers were invited to return dis carded plastic furniture to two IKEA stores in Sweden. Two large con tainers of unwanted plastic furniture were collected over a twoweek  period, and analysis showed that a large share of the material  could  be used again. IKEA and WWF, together with other stakeholders, will  continue to explore the opportunities to recycle more, and have  started to develop guidelines to enable the use of more recycled and  recyclable materials to help turn waste into resources.  Store project to help turn waste into resources We are committed to identifying ways to further improve waste man agement in our stores, in order to meet our goal of zero waste to  landfill for store operations. Today, less than 15 percent of the waste  generated in stores goes to landfill, and up to 15 different types of  waste are sorted for recycling, where infrastructure and local facili ties allow.  During FY11, this helped us save around 6.7 million euro. An IKEA project being delivered in cooperation with waste man agement companies in Sweden and Germany will explore if more  types of waste could be separated and get a second life by being  recycled. The project, currently at prestudy level, will investigate  how IKEA can encourage and enable customers to reuse and recycle  IKEA products. This may include organising secondhand events as  well as providing opportunities for customers to bring back products  such as sofas and mattresses, if they cannot be donated or resold  by the customer, so that IKEA can help with appropriate separation  and recycling. Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Amount of waste, tonnes Stores 276,173 285,156 279,778 307,877 Distribution centres 33,952 38,929 34,369 41,758 Swedwood 17,864 29,956 31,176 26,177 Swedspan* – – 10,015 24,621 Recovery Index, % IKEA stores 61 61 66 67 * FY10 was Swedspans first full year of operations. Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 Our goal for FY15 is that no waste from our own operations is sent to  landfill, and IKEA units already recycle large amounts of materials  such as cardboard, paper, plastic, wood, metal and glass. The indus trial units run by Swedwood and Swedspan often use their own waste  to produce energy instead of relying on oil and gas. Following the acquisition of a factory in Lure, France, Swedspan  removed contaminated soil on the factory premises in order to pre vent groundwater contamination on the site. This caused an increase  of the total waste amount and a decrease in the share recycled for  FY11. Stores consistent efforts to repair damaged goods to sell as is in  their bargain corners are reflected in the improved Recovery Index. KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Waste FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 Waste recycled or used in energy production, % Stores 85 86 84 86 100 Distribution 90 90 91 90 100 Swedwood 72 74 95 98 100 Swedspan – – 86 64 100  IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers. 57 % Suppliers  35 Our supplier code of  conduct contributes to  positive developments IKEA relies on good, longterm relationships with sup pliers who share our values and take social and envi ronmental responsibility. We want to motivate and  support suppliers continuous efforts to improve. Our  supplier code of conduct IWAY plays an important role  in positive developments.  IKEA is a productionoriented company, and we are  often onsite in the factories. This active presence and a  solid understanding of production give us the opportu nity to take on an active role in supplier development. Increased efforts to reach FY12 goal of full IWAY compliance IKEA aims to achieve full IWAY compliance among our home furnishing  suppliers by the end of FY12. This commitment is reflected in focused  efforts throughout by IKEA purchasing teams to engage and support  suppliers as we work towards this goal. We expect that some existing  suppliers are unlikely to be fully IWAYcompliant by the end of FY12, and  as a result, we are preparing to phase out those that are unwilling or  unable to commit to our requirements.  IKEA has decided to eliminate earlier IWAY exceptions relating to  compensation and social insurances for some Asian countries. However,  there is a wide gap between the legislated working hours and reality in  China. This is why we will accept that suppliers here secure a maximum  60hour total work week by the end of FY12 as a stepwise approach to  achieving the legal limit of 40 working hours per week plus a maximum  of 36 overtime hours per month and three per day.  Consistent and clear communication, workshops and training ses sions, together with IWAYbased capacity planning and order manage ment have contributed to significant improvements and reduced the  number of working hours at key suppliers in China. At the end of FY11,  all prioritised suppliers and the majority of our top50 Chinese suppliers  were compliant with a maximum 60hour week. Local legislation restricts our suppliers from being fully compliant with  the IKEA requirement on freedom of association in China and vietnam.  For this reason we register this point as not applicable on our audit  reports in those countries.  Fair Labor Association to help speed up developments in China If, by FY12, we are to achieve our aim of reducing maximum working  hours in factories we source from in China to 60 hours per week,  including overtime, we recognise that making overall factory manage ment improvements is crucial and that workers are fully engaged.  This is why we have partnered with the Fair Labor Association (FLA)  to further develop labour relations through a pilot project called Build  Motivated Workforce. The pilot project has carried out a series of base line assessments of management and workers and conducted training  for capacity building in selected factories in three strategic regions in  North, Central and South China.   IKEA strives to build close, long term relationships with suppliers  who are a good strategic fit – we  want those who share our values  and make highquality, affordable  products in a sustainable manner to  grow and develop with us.   We contribute to positive develop ments in our supply chain by setting  clear standards, being onsite and  conducting business responsibly.  Our supplier code of conduct, IWAY,  was first introduced in 2000. So far  it has contributed to more than  165,000 registered large and small  improvements. Many suppliers have  experienced that investments in  working conditions and environ mentally adapted solutions often  lead to more orders, better produc tivity and improved profitability. Suppliers Home furnishing suppliers Read more in   The IKEA approach   to sustainability Read more about the   Fair Labor Association at  www.fairlabor.org DID YOU KNOW  36 This initiative will help us identify the best way to build trusting  and productive relationships between workers and managers in order  to create a motivated workforce. The project will develop a set of  best practices and steps on how factory workers and managers  across China can work together to reach full IWAY compliance  through continuous improvements. Introducing a sustainability index to measure  supplier performance IKEA suppliers sustainability performance has previously only been  measured in terms of IWAY compliance. In FY11, a sustainability  index was developed to measure their performance on three other  important criteria that are part of the IKEA Sustainability Score Card  for products – energy efficiency in production, use of renewable  energy in production and raw material utilisation.  Scores from evaluation of the three areas are translated into an  overall index figure for each supplier. By using the index we can  identify best practice suppliers as well as those that have room for  improvement and may benefit from IKEA support.  A supplier with low scores on energy efficiency may need to  improve factories energy management systems. Low scores on  renewable energy often reflect market conditions and infrastructure,  and suppliers acting in countries with good availability of renewable  energy can be expected to have higher scores. Measuring raw mate rial utilisation gives us an understanding of efficiency and suppliers  contribution to our ambition to save on natural resources. The first baseline indicates that there is room for improvements to  be made at many supplier locations. At the end of FY11, around 75  percent of all home furnishing suppliers had been evaluated. Targets  relevant for each material category will be developed during FY12. New business ethics training and global trust line   for suppliers IKEA has zero tolerance towards unethical business practices,  including corruption, and works proactively to prevent them. We  strive to foster an ethical business culture to minimise the risk of  illegal behaviour, and our latest supplier survey shows that 97 per cent of IKEA home furnishing suppliers consider our rules and  instructions on corruption to be clear.  The IKEA supplier code of conduct – IWAY Our IWAY supplier code of conduct outlines the requirements that we place on   suppliers of products and services. Suppliers are responsible for communicating   the content of the IKEA code of conduct to their workers and subsuppliers.   Below is a summary of some of the key points of IWAY. 1. Legal compliance The IKEA supplier shall always comply  with the most demanding require ments whether they are relevant  applicable laws or IKEA IWAY specific  requirements. 2. Start-up requirements   (IWAY musts) The following criteria need to be ful filled before starting up a business  relationship with IKEA:  No child labour  No forced or bonded labour  No severe environmental pollution  No severe safety hazards  A transparent and reliable system for  records of working hours and wages  Insurance covering medical treat ment for workrelated accidents to  all workers 3. Environmental standards Suppliers shall reduce the environ mental impacts from their production  and operations. Suppliers must:  Work to reduce energy consumption  Prevent pollution to air, ground   and water  Handle, store and dispose of chemi cals and hazardous waste in an  environmentally safe manner  Ensure that workers handling chem icals and hazardous waste have the  right competence and are ade quately trained 4. Social and working conditions IKEA expects its suppliers to respect  fundamental human rights, and to  treat their workers fairly and with  respect. Suppliers must:  Provide a healthy and safe working  environment  Provide health and safety training   for workers  Ensure their buildings are safe, have  reasonable privacy, are quiet and  have facilities for personal hygiene,  in those instances where housing  facilities are provided  Pay at least the minimum legal wage  and compensate for overtime  Base overtime on voluntary agree ments, not exceeding legal limits  Allow time off and regular breaks  Not discriminate on any basis  Not prevent workers from exercising  collective bargaining activities nor  prevent from associating  Not accept corporal punishment,  threats of violence or other forms of  mental or physical coercion Suppliers Home furnishing suppliers  37 Comments on KPIs and figures 2011  The share of IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers increased  significantly in FY11 following focused efforts supported by IKEA  purchasing teams. We are determined to reach our goal for FY12,  and suppliers that are unwilling or unable to commit to our require ments will be phased out.  Today, many suppliers in China do not comply with requirements  relating to working hours, and it is not realistic to close the gap  between the legislated working hours and reality in a short period of  time. Chinese suppliers have been granted one exception from full  IWAY compliance by the end of FY12. We will accept that they  secure a maximum 60hour total work week by the end of FY12 as a  stepwise approach to achieving the legal limit of 40 working hours  per week plus a maximum of 36 overtime hours per month and  three per day. Also, local legislation restricts our suppliers from  being fully compliant with the IKEA requirement on freedom of asso ciation in China and vietnam. For this reason we register this point  as not applicable on our audit reports in those countries.  To improve awareness and openness and to clarify our values and  rules, all coworkers in the IKEA purchasing teams received manda tory training in business ethics during FY11. A similar training pro gram for our home furnishing suppliers will be rolled out in FY12.  An ethics helpline for suppliers – a trust line – has been opera tional in some regions since 2009. A similar solution will be rolled  out to all suppliers in FY12, so they can seek advice or report  unethical behaviour in English and local languages. Sensitive infor mation is treated confidentially and every precaution is taken to pro tect the information providers identity in the event of further inves tigations. * Excluding Customer Delivery carriers    ** Excluding suppliers managed nationally/locally Number of IKEA suppliers 248 IKEA Transport serv ice providers *  1,026 IKEA Home   Furnishing suppliers 38 IKEA Catalogue  suppliers 88 IKEA Food   suppliers ** 748 Indirect materials &  services ** China 22 % Poland 18 % Italy 8 % Sweden 5 % Germany 4 % Top 5 purchasing countries, % KPI – SUPPLIERS: Home furnishing suppliers FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers, % Europe 80 79 89 90 100 Americas 91 83 85 94 100 Asia, total 21 22 26 41 100  China 7 7 7 11 (30*) 100*  South Asia 34 41 62 65 100  South East Asia 63 65 68 65 100 All regions 54 52 57 60 (67*) 100 *Approved with maximum 60hour working week. Suppliers Home furnishing suppliers  38 Average IWAY fulfilment rates 99 % Europe Asia 95 % Americas 99 % All regions 98  % 63  % Europe Asia 33  % North America 4  % Purchasing per region, % Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Number of Trading IWAY audits /of which were unannounced Europe 480/21 375/70 365/29 341/144 Americas 31/0 29/2 29/1 26/12 Asia 693/359 646/451 645/501 626/555 Total 1,204/380 1,049/523 1,039/531 993/711 Number of IKEA CMG calibration audits Europe 20 19 21 24 Americas 2 2 2 3 Asia 24 22 32 25 Total 46 43 55 52 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Number of third party audits /of which were unannounced Europe 17/16 15/15 12/12 12/12 Americas 0 0 0 3/3 Asia 29/15 30/30 35/35 32/32 Total 46/31 45/45 47/47 47/47 Terminated business, number of suppliers Due to IWAY   noncompliance only 20 10 10 8 Due to noncompliance   and other reasons 28 43 17 11 Number of third party child labour audits Total 435 365 365 370 Suppliers Home furnishing suppliers  39 Extending the   code of conduct IWAY   to the wider range of   IKEA suppliers In addition to IKEA home furnishing suppliers, we  depend on thousands of suppliers to support IKEA  operations around the world.  When our supplier code of conduct, IWAY, was first  introduced, the main focus was on home furnishing  suppliers. Over the past few years, IKEA has gradu ally increased its efforts to also support developments  within the vast range of other suppliers and service  providers. Improved IWAY approval rate for central customer delivery  carriers  In FY10, IWAY was introduced at centrally procured customer deliv ery carriers transporting goods from IKEA customer distribution cen tres directly to customers with the ambition to reach full compliance  in FY12. The approval rate in this category improved substantially  from 21 percent in FY10 to 53 percent in FY11, and we will continue  to put high focus on central customer delivery carriers.  However, it is unrealistic to believe we can reach full compliance  within a year. The current goal is that 75 percent of these carriers,  based on the total IKEA expenditure, comply with all IWAY require ments in FY12. IWAY approval rates for land and ocean carriers remain stable,  and we continue to be committed to our goal of reaching full compli ance in these categories by the end of FY12. IWAY audits to be conducted at national food suppliers Suppliers of food for our global range have shown a high level of  compliance with our social and environmental requirements since  IWAY audits were first introduced in this supplier category three  years ago, and IKEA expects to reach full compliance by the end   of FY12. In FY10, we took the first step towards implementing the IKEA  supplier code of conduct at more than 1,000 national food suppliers.  The first IWAY audits will be conducted during 2012.  Mixed results from the first audits at IKEA Catalogue  suppliers The first systematic sustainability audits of IKEA Catalogue paper  and print suppliers were conducted in FY11. Five suppliers on two  continents were selected, based on volume, for announced audits  and assessment of previous evaluations of their performance. Audit results confirm that our large, established Catalogue suppli ers generally have welldeveloped routines and environmental man agement systems, but only one supplier was fully compliant with our  requirements at the time of audit. The other four have now imple mented correction plans and are fully compliant.   Our transport service providers are  key to ensuring efficient and sus tainable shipments from suppliers  to IKEA distribution centres and  stores.   IKEA sources packaged food from  44 suppliers to sell in the Swedish  Food Market in our stores. Food  ingredients used in the IKEA store  restaurants are produced by more  than 1,000 suppliers, globally and  nationally.  The IKEA Catalogue 2011 was pro duced by 38 paper and print sup pliers. It was printed in more than  208 million copies in 31 languages  and is read by more than 400 mil lion people in 40 countries.   IKEA has around 40,000 global,  national and local suppliers of indi rect materials and services, provid ing everything from cleaning to  software and store equipment.  Suppliers Other IKEA suppliers Read more in   The IKEA approach   to sustainability DID YOU KNOW  40 Implementing IWAY at suppliers of indirect materials and  services IKEA has a dedicated purchasing function for indirect materials and  services that are not used for IKEA products – such as IT systems  support and cleaning services. IKEA Indirect Material & Services  (IKEA IMS) works with around 750 key suppliers and provides sup port to the IKEA units that handle decentralised purchases made  from many thousands of national and local suppliers. We have taken a stepped approach to implementing IWAY in this  category due to the large number of suppliers and their diverse  characteristics. Audits are based on risk assessment and focus  mainly on companies that are unlikely to have their own wellfunc tioning code of conducts and that operate in areas where challenges  related to working conditions or the environment are common, or  whose products are sensitive from a health and safety perspective. Since the start of implementation in 2007, 133 IWAY audits have  been conducted at suppliers managed centrally by IKEA IMS, includ ing several unannounced thirdparty audits. Audited suppliers that  are currently contracted by IKEA have an average fulfilment rate of  94 percent. In FY12, all IKEA retail countries will start to implement IWAY at  national and local providers of cleaning, waste management and  security services used in IKEA stores and distribution centres. Local  auditors are now being trained, and the first audits will be conducted  in the beginning of 2012. Suppliers:   Transport service  providers Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 The share of IWAY approved Land and Ocean carriers remained  steady in FY11, and IKEA expects to reach full compliance by the  end of FY12.  During the past year, much focus was placed on increased com pliance among the centrally procured Customer Delivery carriers.  The share of fully compliant carriers jumped to 53 percent land and  we believe it is realistic to increase this share to 75 percent over   the next year. Modes of transport (% goods volume) 74 % Road 2 % Rail 16 % Ocean 8 % Intermodal transport KPI – SUPPLIERS: Transport service providers FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 IWAY approved transport service providers*, % Land 48.0 81.7 83 82 100 Ocean 38.0 41.8 96 95 100 Customer Delivery** – – 21 53 75 *    Approval rates are calculated on the total IKEA expenditure in each category, and carriers  are rated as approved only if they fulfil both IWAY and industry specific requirements. ** Excludes locally and nationally procured Customer Delivery carriers. Suppliers Other IKEA suppliers  41 Suppliers:   Food suppliers Suppliers:   IMS suppliers  Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 All global food suppliers are now IWAY approved. IKEA expect to  introduce audits also at the many national food suppliers in FY12,  with the aim to reach full compliance by the end of FY15. Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 The share of IWAY approved suppliers of indirect materials and serv ices increased in FY11. Available figures are based on a limited  number of audited suppliers, selected based on risk assessment. Other figures table FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 IWAY approved IKEA Indirect Material & Services suppliers, % Indirekt Materials & Services   suppliers* – – 20 27 Average IWAY fulfilment rate* – – 91 94 *  Figures based on a limited number of audited suppliers, selected based on   risk assessments. Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 The IKEA Catalogue 2012 (produced in FY11) involved a total of 38  paper and print suppliers. Approval rates reflect the share of suppli ers that comply with all the sustainability requirements according to  selfassessments. Five Catalogue suppliers have been audited so far.  Environmental data has been provided by all suppliers. The goal  to have 30 percent FSCcertified virgin fibre used in the Catalogue  was reached in FY11, while the share of recycled paper decreased for  quality and availability reasons.  Emissions of volatile organic compounds (vOC) increased some what while CO2 emissions continued to decrease. For the first time  ever, all paper suppliers are certified against ISO14001. Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 IKEA Catalogue Requirements approved suppliers, % IKEA Catalogue Sustainability   Requirements, approved suppliers 71 73 86 90 Industryspecific requirements,  approved suppliers  53 50 65 72 Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Environmental key performance indicators, Catalogue totals Printed number of Catalogues  (millions) 198 198 197 208 ISO 14001 certified   paper suppliers (%) 61 94 89 100 Catalogue paper (tonnes) 113,099 103,784 102,476 108,450 FSC Certified ChainofCustody  fibre (%) 5.0 19.0 21.0 30.0 Recycled fibre content (%) 6.0 6.0 11.0 3.6 Share of renewable energy (%) 40 51 50 48 Environmental data per Catalogue copy Water consumption (litres) 17.92 14.96 14.26 13.55 Energy consumption (kWh) 3.11 3.04 2.96 2.72 Fossil carbon dioxide (kg CO2) 0.69 0.61 0.49 0.43 Emissions to air (gr vOC,   volatile organic compounds) 1.01 0.75 1.12 1.15 Emissions to wastewater (gr COD,  Chemical Oxygen Demand)  3.88 3.83 3.49 3.47 KPI – SUPPLIERS: Food suppliers FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 IWAY approved food suppliers, % Global food suppliers 13 41 67 100 100 National food suppliers – – – – 100 Average IWAY fulfilment  rate global suppliers >90 100 Suppliers Other IKEA suppliers Suppliers:   Catalogue  suppliers   Share of men/women in management positions. 60/39 Co-workers  Coworkers Our most valuable  resource Read more in   The IKEA approach   to sustainability DID YOU KNOW 43 IKEA co-workers are  our most valuable  resource IKEA coworkers are essential to our success. We want  to be an attractive and competitive employer that offers  equal treatment and opportunities for a fulfilling career  in a safe and healthy environment. We give downto earth, straightforward people the opportunity to grow  with us, both professionally and personally.  A strong and living culture encourages coworkers   to question accepted solutions and test new ideas, and  to see mistakes as an opportunity to learn. Shared   values such as respect, simplicity and costconscious ness help us all develop together and contribute to a  better everyday life for ourselves and our customers. New global guidelines for compensation and benefits IKEA wants to be the employer of choice, and aims to offer compen sation and benefits that ensure that we attract, motivate and retain  coworkers that contribute to our ambition to become the leader in life  at home and grow with sustained longterm profitability. In FY11, a  set of key principles for compensation and benefits were developed  for all of IKEA, along with detailed guidelines outlining areas such as  salaries, job satisfaction and a healthy working environment. The  principles will be implemented on all IKEA markets. Updated VOICE survey shows significant improvements An updated vOICE coworker survey was introduced in February  2011, and so far 33,500 coworkers in 13 retail countries have com pleted the new survey. The new vOICE survey has been updated to reflect our fiveyear  strategy, Growing IKEA together. It also contains more and refined  questions relating to how coworkers rate IKEA managers leadership  capabilities, which is translated into the Leadership Index, and has a  strong focus on IKEA values. Since many vOICE questions have been altered and only a minority  of coworkers have used the new version of the survey this year, the  FY11 global average index result of 716 is not fully comparable with  previous years. However, we can see that results have improved. For  example, questions relating to coworker engagement have not been  altered, and the share of positive replies increased from 58 percent in  FY10 to 63 percent. The FY15 goal of a global average index figure of 700 out of a  maximum possible 1,000 remains unchanged, while national and local  goals may be higher.  There are 131,000 IKEA cowork ers in 41 countries around the  world. We strive for diversity and  recruit coworkers of different  backgrounds and experiences.  We continuously monitor how IKEA  coworkers perceive working at  IKEA through a companywide   survey called vOICE. As a com plement, the IKEA Leadership  Index quantifies how coworkers  view their managers.  IKEA embraces universal human  rights and respect for the individ ual. We support every coworkers  right to freedom of association and  respect their right to join, form or  not to join a coworker association  of their choice – the decision lies  with the coworker.  Coworkers Our most valuable  resource 44 Other figures FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Staff turnover Parttime 32 22.4 20.5 22.3 Fulltime 16 11.9 10.6 11.5 All 24 16.4 14.8 16.1 Comments on KPIs and figures 2011 During the year we redesigned our coworker survey vOICE in order  to make it more aligned with our longterm business directive, to  make it simpler and at the same keep the strong focus on the IKEA  values. This means that the index figure for FY11 is not fully compa rable with previous years. With global goals as a base, national and  local improvement targets are developed from local survey results  and the priorities that are the most important for that particular  organisation. There are more women than men working on the IKEA sales  floors, and while the share of women is slowly increasing in some  management categories, the goal to reach full gender balance is still  a challenge. When the percentage of male/female managers does not  add up to 100, it is due to vacancies.  106,500 Europe 8,000 Asia & Australia 16,500 North America Co-workers by region KPI – CO-WORKERS: VOICE FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 VOICE and Leadership index (IKEA total) Overall   vOICE index 646 663 659 716 700 Leadership Index 72 73 73 74 75 KPI – CO-WORKERS: Male/female management FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 Management – share of male/female Stores 64/36 65/34 60/38 58/42 50/50 Retail management 64/36 60/39 58/42 59/39 50/50 Distribution 67/33 69/31 58/40 57/43 50/50 Trading 64/36 65/35 61/39 59/41 50/50 Others 74/26 68/32 62/38 63/37 50/50 TOTAL management – – 60/39 59/40 50/50  Donation to charity partners by the IKEA Foundation. 45 MEUR Communities  Communities Community involvement Read more in   The IKEA approach   to sustainability DID YOU KNOW 46 Reaching out to  developing countries and  the local community IKEA believes that home is the most important place in  the world, and children are the most important people  in the world. The IKEA Foundation aims to improve  opportunities for children and youth in developing  countries by funding holistic, longterm programmes  that can create substantial, lasting change.   We also want to be a good neighbour in our local  communities. This means that stores and other IKEA  units engage in local social and environmental issues,  and lend a helping hand in times of need. Expanded scope for UNDP project to empower women in India The IKEA Foundation has increased funding and support for a wom ens empowerment project run by the United Nations Development  Programme (UNDP) in India since 2009. Initially aimed at reaching  50,000 women in 500 villages in Uttar Pradesh, the programme is  now expected to reach 2.2 million women and their families in 16,300  rural villages in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh by  the end of FY15. Funding has increased from 5.5 million euro to 30  million. The programme initiates a variety of community activities to  empower village women socially, economically and politically, so that  they can create a better future for themselves, their communities and  their children.  In 2005, only five women stood for local selfgovernance elections  in the project villages in Uttar Pradesh. In 2010, 764 stood for elec tion and 278 elected women representatives are now bringing change  to their communities.  For the first time in this region, 35,000 women have been organ ised and trained to establish and manage their own equity sharehold ing companies.   Major donation to support relief efforts in the Horn of Africa Drought in the Horn of Africa, coupled with conflicts in Somalia, has  affected more than 13 million people in five African countries, forcing  250,000 children into refugee camps in the Dadaab region. This is why the IKEA Foundation committed 43.4 million euro to  the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) in 2011 –  the largest corporate donation the UNHCR has ever received. The  donation benefits about 120,000 refugee families in Dadaab Kambioos  refugee camp in Kenya that have fled from drought, famine and con flict. It also funds a threeyear partnership aimed at creating and  implementing innovative new ways to provide refugees with tempo rary accommodation, life skills and economic empowerment. In addition, the IKEA Foundation has donated one million euro to  support UNICEF efforts to provide immediate therapeutic and supple mentary foods to 130,000 critically malnourished children in Somalia. Product donations benefit Libyan refugees in Tunisia The conflict in Libya has resulted in several hundred thousand people  fleeing their homes to bordering countries. To alleviate the situation in  refugee camps, the IKEA Foundation donated 50,000 IKEA mattresses,  50,000 quilt covers and 50,000 quilts to UNHCR in Tunisia.  The IKEA Foundation is a regis tered Dutch charity foundation. It  aims to improve the opportunities  for children and youth in develop ing countries by funding holistic,  longterm programmes that can  create substantial, lasting change,  and enable them to take charge of  their own future. Total donations  reached 65 million euro in 2011,  and currently funded programmes  benefit an estimated 100 million  children.  Emergency relief in developing  countries is funded and organised  by the IKEA Foundation, while  IKEA retail countries manage  emergency support when needed  in their countries and local commu nities.  IKEA stores are actively involved in  their local communities in partner ship with carefully selected organi sations such as WWF, Save the  Children and UNICEF. Examples of  national and local activities can be  found on national IKEA websites.  Read more about the IKEA  Foundation at  www.ikeafoundation.org  Communities Community involvement 47 The donated products filled 28 containers transported by sea and  land, while UPS donated the airlift of 10,000 mattresses to save  essential time. IKEA Japan supports earthquake victims  The earthquake off the Pacific coast of Tohoku and the subsequent   tsunami devastated large areas in Eastern Japan in March 2011,   killing thousands of people and leaving around 125,000 buildings   damaged or destroyed. IKEA Japan provided immediate relief in the form of water and  food as well as IKEA products such as blankets and soft toys, and  later donated home furnishings for some 7,000 temporary houses.  We also donated startup sets containing a wide range of products  needed to set up a new home, including furniture, kitchen utensils  and bathroom products. IKEA has also opened up a 1,500 square metre ministore in Sendai  to bring affordable home furnishings to the people of Tohoku and help  restart economic activity in the region by generating local employment.  IKEA China helps children affected by earthquake IKEA China supports Save the Children relief efforts in villages in poor  and remote parts of the Qinghai province following the earthquake in  April 2010. IKEA China funds a threeyear project run by Save the Children to  improve the accessibility and quality of primary education for 24,000  children in the Yushu and Chengduo counties. In addition,   a childrens centre run by Save the Children to provide children with  psychosocial support through group activities has been equipped  with materials donated by IKEA. New research centre opened to support Sow a Seed in borneo IKEA supports the Sow a Seed foundation, which aims to reforest and  maintain 18,500 hectares of lowland forest in Sabah in Malaysian Bor neo, and to protect the area from logging for a period of 50 years.  The project has contributed to funding of research facilities in  Sabah, the Maliau Basin Study Centre, to enable scientists and  researchers to study the rainforests biodiversity and ecosystem.  The Sow a Seed foundation is a partnership between IKEA, the  Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, the Yayasan Sabah Group  and the Malaysian forestry company, RbJ. Since the start in 1998,  more than 10,000 hectares of forest have been replanted with native  The IKEA Foundation The IKEA Foundation works in four dimensions to turn the cycle of  poverty into a cycle of prosperity: A place to call home – Where a better  life begins. Shelter and safety, along  with love and nutrition, all nurture  children so they can not only survive,  but thrive. A quality education – When children  go to school and stay there, they get a  huge step up in life and are much less  vulnerable to the dangers of child  labour or falling prey to exploitation. A healthy start in life – Helping chil dren get a good start, avert disease,  survive illnesses and grow up stronger.  Clean water, a place to go to the bath room, and simply learning to wash  hands, all help save lives. A sustainable family income –  When parents have a regular income,  their children can go to school instead  of to work. Helping mothers learn a  skill or start a business can help break  the cycle of poverty for them, their  children, and for generations to come. tree species, and the area remains protected. Planting is expected to  be completed in 2013, and funds have been set aside for maintenance  until 2023.  Renewable energy used to power  IKEA buildings (% of total consumption). 47 % Metrics & References  Metrics & References  KPIs 49 Customers KPI – CUSTOMERS: More sustainable products FY11 Goal FY15 IKEA home furnishing products classified as  more sustainable*, % sales value 2 90 Renewable, recyclable, recycled materials % 88 100 Improved efficiency, % Improved efficiency of energy consuming  products (compared to the average installed  on the market 2008) 31 50 Improved efficiency water consuming prod ucts (compared to the average installed on  the market 2008) n/a 50 *According to criteria in the IKEA Sustainability Product Score Card Measuring progress  with Key Performance  Indicators (KPIs)  Metrics & References  KPIs 50 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Transport of products FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal  Filling rate, % Inbound (supplier   to warehouse) 62 63 64 63  70 Outbound (warehouse  to store) 58 60 60 61  70 Direct (supplier to store) 57 60 62 63 70 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Transport of products FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY16 CO2 emissions reduction per cubic metre  transported goods  (% change compared to FY10) Compared to FY10 – – – –4.9 –20 Environment KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Renewable energy FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Direction Renewable energy IKEA buildings, % total consumption Stores  37 38 34 40 100 Distribution 37 41 34 39 100 Swedwood 60 63 59 61 100 Swedspan – – 62 62 100 Total 47 50 47 51 100 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Energy efficiency FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Direction Improved energy efficiency, % compared to 2005, kWh/m3 sold goods Stores  7 5 7 10 25 Distribution 21 21 22 33 25 Swedwood 28 23 32 36 25 Swedspan – – – –5* 25 *Compared to FY10, which was Swedspans first year of operations. KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Cotton FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 Share of more sustain able cotton used   in IKEA products, % – 6.2 13.4 23.8 100 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Waste FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 Waste recycled or used in energy production, % Stores 85 86 84 86 100 Distribution 90 90 91 90 100 Swedwood 72 74 95 98 100 Swedspan – – 86 64 100 KPI – ENVIRONMENT: Forestry FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 Responsible forest management, % Wood used in IKEA prod ucts coming from preferred  sources, % total   15.8 16.2 FY17: 50% Wood used in IKEA prod ucts coming from preferred  sources, m3  1,988,110 2,230,625 10,000,000 Solid wood used in IKEA  products coming from pre ferred sources, % total 7% 16% 23.6% 22.9 FY12: 35% Audited wood volumes that  comply with IKEA minimum  forestry requirements, %   80% 92% 97% 94% Includes solid wood and board materials.  FSC certified.  FSC certified or recycled.  Metrics & References  KPIs 51 KPI – SUPPLIERS: Transport service providers FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 IWAY approved transport service providers*, % Land 48.0 81.7 83 82 100 Ocean 38.0 41.8 96 95 100 Customer Delivery** – – 21 53 75 *    Approval rates are calculated on the total IKEA expenditure in each category, and carriers  are rated as approved only if they fulfil both IWAY and industry specific requirements. ** Excludes locally and nationally procured Customer Delivery carriers. Suppliers Co-workers KPI – SUPPLIERS: Food suppliers FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 IWAY approved food suppliers, % Global food suppliers 13 41 67 100 100 National food suppliers – – – – 100 Average IWAY fulfilment  rate global suppliers >90 100 KPI – CO-WORKERS: VOICE FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 VOICE and Leadership index (IKEA total) Overall   vOICE index 646 663 659 716 700 Leadership Index 72 73 73 74 75 KPI – CO-WORKERS: Male/female management FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY15 Management – share of male/female Stores 64/36 65/34 60/38 58/42 50/50 Retail management 64/36 60/39 58/42 59/39 50/50 Distribution 67/33 69/31 58/40 57/43 50/50 Trading 64/36 65/35 61/39 59/41 50/50 Others 74/26 68/32 62/38 63/37 50/50 TOTAL management – – 60/39 59/40 50/50 KPI – SUPPLIERS: Home furnishing suppliers FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 Goal FY12 IWAY approved home furnishing suppliers, % Europe 80 79 89 90 100 Americas 91 83 85 94 100 Asia, total 21 22 26 41 100  China 7 7 7 11 (30*) 100*  South Asia 34 41 62 65 100  South East Asia 63 65 68 65 100 All regions 54 52 57 60 (67*) 100 *Approved with maximum 60hour working week.  Metrics & References  Cross reference table 52 Communication on   UN Global Compact  progress IKEA is committed to the ten principles of the UN Global  Compact. As a signatory to the initiative,   we communicate how our work in the areas of   human rights, labour standards, environment and   anticorruption is progressing.   The table indicates where progress related   to the respective principles can be found in   the IKEA Sustainability Report 2011 and   the report supplement The IKEA Group approach   to sustainability – How we manage sustainability   in our business. Cross-reference table (Global Compact) Page IKEA SR IKEA Approach Human Rights Principle 1:  Businesses should support and respect the protec tion of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 9–11, 35–41 12–19 Principle 2:  make sure that they are not complicit in   human rights abuses.  9–11, 35–41 12–19 Labour Standards Principle 3:  Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa tion and the effective recognition of the right to   collective bargaining; 35–41 13, 15, 17–18 Principle 4:  the elimination of all forms of forced and   compulsory labour;  35–41 13–15 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  34–41, 46–47 13–15 Principle 6:  the elimination of discrimination in respect of   employment and occupation.  36, 43–44 13–15, 17–18 Environment Principle 7:  Businesses should support a precautionary approach  to environmental challenges;  20–33 4–12 Principle 8:  undertake initiatives to promote greater environ mental responsibility; and  20–33 4–12 Principle 9:  encourage the development and diffusion of envi ronmentally friendly technologies.  13–15,   20–25, 31–33 4–8 Anti-corruption Principle 10:  Businesses should work against corruption in all   its forms, including extortion and bribery. 11 15 IKEA SR = IKEA Sustainability Report 2011  IKEA Approach = The IKEA Group approach to sustainability