Registration Document Schneider Electric SA Registration Document 2011 Financial and Sustainable Development Annual Report In Bangladesh, in the village of Saharial, 40 kilometers away  from the capital city Dhaka, Schneider Electric is partnering  with Grameen Shakti to provide families with reliable,  affordable, and clean energy. It is part of our worldwide effort to help people make the most of their energy.  Message from Jean-PascalTricoire  2 Message from HenriLachmann  4 Interview with Emmanuel Babeau  5 Leadership team  6 Key figures 2011  8 2011 in brief  11 Description oftheGroup,  anditsstrategy, markets  andbusinesses  15 1.  Global specialist in energy management  16 2. Leader in an industry of the future  21 3. R&D Strategy  26 4. Organisational simplicity andefficiency  31 5. Risk factors  34 Sustainable development  43 1.  Sustainable development at the heart of our strategy 44 2. Green and responsible growth driving economic  performance  52 3. Schneider Electrics Commitment  toEnvironmentalPerformance  60 4. Committed to and on behalf ofemployees  70 5. Schneider Electric, a responsible corporate citizen  81 6. Methodology andaudit ofindicators  90 7.  Indicators  98 Corporate governance  107 1.  Supervisory Board**  108 2. Organisational and operating procedures  oftheSupervisoryBoard**  116 3. Supervisory Board meetings**  117 4. Supervisory Board committees  (members,operatingprocedures andmeetings)** 119 5. Management Board members  121 6. Organisational and operating procedures  oftheManagementBoard  123 7.  Declarations concerning thesituation of  the members ofthe Supervisory Board  andManagement Board  123 8. Management interests andcompensation  124 9. Regulated Agreements  132 10. Internal control and risk management**  133 11. Application of the AFEP/MEDEF  corporategovernanceguidelines**  141 Business review  143 1.  Trends in Schneider Electrics core markets  144 2. Review of the consolidated financial statements  146 3. Review of the parent company financial statements 150 4. Review of subsidiaries  150 5. Outlook  150 Consolidated financial statements 151 1.  Consolidated statement of income  152 2. Consolidated statement ofcashflows  154 3. Consolidated balance sheet  156 4. Consolidated statement ofchanges in equity  158 5. Notes to the consolidated financial statements  159 6. Statutory Auditors report on theconsolidated  financialstatements  217 Company financial statements 219 1.  Balance sheet  220 2. Statement of income  222 3. Notes to the financial statements  223 4. Statutory Auditors report on the financial  statements  234 5. List of securities held atDecember31, 2011  235 6. Subsidiaries and affiliates  236 7.  The Companys financial results  overthelastfiveyears  238 General presentation  ofSchneiderElectricSA  239 1.  General information on the Company  240 2. Shareholders rights andobligations  241 3. Capital  243 4. Ownership structure  247 5. Employee profit-sharing, stock ownership  248 6. Performance share grants andstock option plans  249 7. Disclosure of information required in  accordance with articleL.225- 100-3  oftheFrench Commercial Code**  255 8. Stock market data  255 9. Investor relations  257 Annual and Extraordinary  Shareholders Meeting  259 1.  Management Board report  260 2. Supervisory Boards comments  ontheManagement Boards report,  mode in accordance with articleL . 225- 68  oftheFrenchCommercialCode  264 3. Auditors special reports  264 4. Resolutions  268 Persons responsible for the Registration Document  273 4 5 6 7 8 1 2 3  1   2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC Financial and Sustainable Develo pement Annual Report  Registration  Document This Registration Document was  led with the Autorit des Marchs Financiers on March 22 , 2012 ,  incompliance with article 212-13 of the AMFs general regulations. The issuer prepared this document and  the signatories are responsible for the information herein. It may not be used in connection with any  nancial transactions unless it is accompanied by an Offering  Circular approved by the AMF. All of Schneider Electrics regulated information is available on the corporate website at  www. schneider-electric.com, Finance section. The Business and Sustainable Development Report is available at  www. schneider- electric. com, Sustainable Development and Foundation section. 2011  2 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC MESSAGE FROM JEAN-PASCALTRICOIRE PRESIDENT AND CEO   > Message from  Jean- Pascal Tricoire PRESIDENT AND CEO  2011 was a de ning year for Schneider Electric, a year characterised  by strong growth, reactivity to many unexpected external events, an  intense deployment of our strategy and the successful closing of the  One company programme. First of all, 2011 was an incredibly busy and meaningful year from  an operational point of view. We generated robust organic growth,  at 8.3%, reported 14% total growth and changed size.  For the  rst  time, our sales exceeded the EUR 22 billion mark.  This translated  into record pro ts and strong cash generation, particularly in the  second half, achieved despite unprecedented headwind of raw  material in ation, major disruptions of our supply chain following the  tsunami in Japan, the welcomed but faster than expected take-off  of solutions in our business portfolio, and the weakening of Europe.  We reacted to those events swiftly, proved once again our pricing  power, the  exibility and reactivity of our supply chain, the resilience  of our cash generation, while developing our S olution business in  an aggressive but controlled manner. 2011 performance allows  us to propose to our shareholders a dividend of  EUR 1.70, which  represents a payout of 50% of net income. 2011 was also characterized by an intense deployment of our  strategy.  We realized strategic investments for organic growth in new  economies and solutions. As a result, our presence in new  economies grew to about 40% of sales and our solution business  to 37% of sales. These growth engines grew three times faster than  mature countries and two times faster than products respectively.  Our solutions business has been supported by the successful  launch of our integrated hardware and software architecture of  ef ciency, EcoStruxure. In 2012, well leverage this key differentiator  by releasing our associated core software suite, StruxureWare.  This way, we shall provide our customers a radical innovation in  the way they design, commission and operate their business while  addressing their ef ciency issues. In new economies, the success  re ects our continuous effort to grow our commercial presence  everywhere, to go deeper into the countries, to nurture partnerships  and develop offerings totally adapted to the needs of local markets.  We also accelerated the deployment of our strategy by making  targeted acquisitions in line with our strategic priorities: develop  solutions, grow in new economies and secure market leadership. We  completed a few strategic acquisitions in new economies, allowing  us to double our size in India, gain signi cant presence in Brazil  and expand our coverage in China. By business , we boosted our  expertise in solutions and services, especially with the acquisition of  Telvent. We have put in place dedicated teams to execute integration  with discipline, building on our proven capabilities to welcome new  people & technologies in our Group. We  nalized the construction of a new world leading business in  our portfolio, Infrastructure, by integrating the Distribution branch  of Areva into Schneider Electric medium voltage division and by  acquiring Telvent. Telvent marks a major step of our development  in energy management and brings needed capabilities in the  eld of  smart cities, smart grid, critical infrastructure and software. Our new  infrastructure business is already a world leader in its  eld, delivering  high synergies and very promising operating results in its  rst year of  integration in Schneider Electric.  We also kept progressing on the development of solutions to  save energy and carbon, and to reinforce our Corporate Social  Responsibility commitment. We continued to promote the  principles of the UN Global Compact within our company and with  our suppliers. Our Planet & Society Barometer performance has  exceeded its three- year  target. Our BipBop programme towards  access to energy has enabled us to connect a million households  to electricity and train 12,000 underprivileged people in energy  management related trades. In the frame of BipBop, we have also  launched an impact-investment fund to support local entrepreneurs  around energy activities. Our commitment has been recognised by  many awards and presence in large sustainability rankings. We were  honoured to receive such prestigious awards as the Gigaton Award,  the Zayed Future Energy Prize and the Human Capital Trophy. We  were also very pleased to be part of the Dow Jones Sustainability  Index World, the Carbon Disclosure Project and the Top 100 most  sustainable companies in the world. We are very proud of these   3 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC MESSAGE FROM JEAN-PASCALTRICOIRE PRESIDENT AND CEO distinctions that are both an achievement and an encouragement  to keep on doing better. 2011 was also the year we ended our three-year company  programme One. One has been an unprecedented transformation  for Schneider Electric and has laid extremely solid foundations for  our future development. In three years, we changed size, we built  our identity around one brand, we organized our company around  customer segments and, we organized our Group as one integrated  team where our employees can develop on a larger scale. We  also reached our targets of ef ciency improvement compared to  2008. One has been the enabler of the acceleration of our strategy  execution and the catalyser of robust  nancial performance through  a historical economic downturn. Beginning 2012, we launched our new company programme,  Connect, which de nes our key action plans for the next three  years. Connect builds on the fundamentals and successes of One.  This programme covers four major initiatives, which will allow the  Group to attain new levels of performance. Connect to Customers  will improve the performance of our business models to become  a leader in Products and Solutions. Connect Everywhere will push  our advantage in new economies and create new opportunities  in mature markets. Connect People will create a culture and an  environment of development and performance through training,  diversity, cross-business mobility, empowerment and increased  engagement in corporate social responsibility. Connect for Ef ciency  aims at extracting  superior ef ciency from the transformation to One  Schneider Electric. Schneider Electric is well geared to face the uncertainties  surrounding the global economy in 2012.  We can rely on our  strong growth engines and strong fundamentals to develop and  go further: an undisputed leadership in our partner business, our  fast growing solution business, our well-balanced geographical  exposure, our diversi ed end-market coverage using the same set  of integrated technologies and systems. We shall bene t from all  the work we made on our organization to integrate  our teams and  focus  on customer segments. We shall also bene t from the  new  level of operational ef ciency we reached. Schneider Electric is in an  exceptional position to keep exploring the new frontiers of energy  management technologies; seize new business opportunities  offered by energy ef ciency, smart grid and smart cities; and offer  the most advanced technologies of ef ciency for the sustainability  of our planet development.    4 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC MESSAGE FROM HENRILACHMANN CHAIRMAN OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD     >  Message from   HenriLachmann CHAIRMAN OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD   In 2011, we completed One, our three-year Company program.  One achieved all of its objectives and was a great success for our  Company. The Supervisory Board wants to take this opportunity  to thank the Management Board and all of Schneider Electrics  teams for this tremendous accomplishment. One has transformed  Schneider Electric and put us in a position to reap the full bene ts  of globalization, growth in new economies and the enormous need  for energy ef ciency solutions. The energy that costs and pollutes the least is the energy we save.  SchneiderElectric helps its customers use less energy. We have  the good fortune and foresight to be very well positioned in energy  ef ciency markets all around the world. Our products, equipment  and solutions are on the leading-edge of technology and our R&D  investments illustrate our strategy of continuing to offer to our  customers the best-in-class lineup to meet their needs. Our good  short-term business performance allows us to implement a long- term strategy. Your Supervisory Board will continue to advise and supervise  the Management Board. The Supervisory Board operates in a  completely transparent manner, in a friendly atmosphere where  discussion and the confrontation of ideas are welcomed. In measuring team performance  and related bonuses, business and   nancial criteria are not the only factor. Sustainable development  and corporate social responsibility are also taken into account using  a dedicated resource known as the Planet & Society Barometer.  This tool helps our people to feel responsible of this part of our  performance: measurement drives behaviour. Meeting targets in  these non- nancial areas are part of the bonus system for both  employees and senior executives. After implementing a successful succession at the Chief Executive  level, your Supervisory Board is now working on the succession of  its Chairman and on an appropriate governance. The Supervisory Board would like to once again express its  con dence in the teams that are responsible for the implementation  of our new Company program, Connect. We fully support this  program, which should be another major milestone in Schneider  Electrics development.  5 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC INTERVIEW WITH EMMANUEL BABEAU EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT FINANCE,  MEMBER OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD  Schneider Electric reached a new record in sales in  2011. How was this performance achieved? Indeed, we generated record high sales of EUR22.4 billion in 2011,  in comparison with less than EUR14 billion  ve years ago. This is  the result of a successful long term strategy built upon balancing  organic growth and acquisitions, and on our leading position in high  growth geographies as well as in energy management solutions. Schneider Electric has  rst of all delivered solid organic growth  at +8.3%: growth in new economies reached +15%, as in 2010,  and solutions growth accelerated to +12%. These trends were  seen across the Groups businesses, with growth around +10%  for Industry and IT, and between +7% and +8% for Power and  Infrastructure. Finally, the deployment of our strategy has been reinforced by  acquisitions such as Telvent for real-time critical infrastructure  management, but also with Luminous, Steck, or Leader & Harvest  in new economies. Acquisitions brought additional growth of 7%  this year. Is your growth strategy comforted by the  nancial  results? Yes, because Schneider Electric also achieved record high results.  Our EBITA* before acquisition and integration costs reached  EUR3.2 billion, up 7%. However we faced a dif cult environment, notably with political  instability in Africa and the Middle East, and above all with the  natural disaster in Japan in March and its terrible consequences.  We always privileged our employees security but our local  operations were disrupted and our electronic purchases impacted.  The steep raw material in ation entailed additional costs of over  EUR400million. These dif culties penalized our margin evolution.  We have nevertheless put in place strong actions to offset these  headwinds by raising the sales prices and controlling our costs. Our  free cash  ow generation amounting to EUR1.7billion in the second  half was a record. Over the full year, our Group share net income was up 6% at  EUR1,820million, the highest ever achieved by Schneider Electric.  We will therefore offer a dividend of EUR1.70  per share to our  shareholders, fully paid in cash. Our net  nancial debt amounts to EUR5.3billion, up mainly due  to the dividend pay-out of EUR0.9billion and to acquisitions for  EUR2.9billion. Our balance sheet is particularly strong, with a solid  net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at 1.4x and a free cash  ow  generation capacity maintained at a very high level.  How do you consider the Groups outlook for 2012? The uncertainty surrounding the global economy limits our visibility.  We see continued strength in new economies and opportunities  from a recovering North America, while Western Europe is expected  to weigh on growth. In this context we foresee  at to slightly positive organic growth  for sales and an adjusted EBITA margin between 14% and 15%.  But the Group enters 2012 with the strength of its well diversi ed  geographic and end-market exposure, leadership position across  its businesses that will continue to be very promising in the years  to come, and a clear advantage of its unique organization model  built for excellence in our commercial ef ciency and  nancial  performance. What are your ambitions for Connect, the new  company program? We have just launched Connect which was successively presented  to our teams, our shareholders and investors and to our stakeholders  generally. This company program will obviously be key to accelerate  the development of SchneiderElectric by2014, on all dimensions  including customers, markets and development of our teams. We  have also expressed our ambition to drive the improvement of our   nancial results. We therefore reiterate our target of an average  organic growth at world GDP + 3 points across the economic  cycle. This growth should allow us to generate an adjusted EBITA  margin between 13% and 17%, depending on the global economic  conditions and our ef ciency initiatives. Additionally, the quality of  our cash generation and our discipline in terms of industrial and   nancial investments should allow us to generate a Return on  Capital Employed (ROCE) between 11% and 15%. Our ambition  is therefore to put Schneider Electric in a dynamic of continuous  pro table growth, consistent with our commitment to sustainable  development. *EBITA: EBIT before amortization and impairment of purchase accounting intangibles and impairment of goodwill   >  Interview with  Emmanuel Babeau EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT FINANCE,  MEMBER OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD   6 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC LEADERSHIP TEAM   > Leadership team Executive Committee  (as of February 21, 2012 ) Global  functions   1  Jean-Pascal Tricoire  President and CEO* Businesses 1 2 5 6 7 9 10 11 12 13 14 8 4 3 2  Emmanuel Babeau  Executive Vice- President, Finance * 3  Annette Clayton Executive Vice- President,  GlobalSupplyChain  4  Herv Coureil  Executive Vice- President, Information Systems  5  Aaron Davis  Executive Vice- President, Marketing  6  Philippe Delorme  Executive Vice- President, Strategy & Innovation 7  Karen Ferguson  Executive  Vice-President, Global Human Resources  *  Member of the Management Board. ** President and CEO, Custom Sensors & Technologies Inc. *** Europe, Middle East, Africa and South America. 8  Clemens Blum  Executive Vice- President,  Industry 9  Michel Crochon  Executive Vice- President,  Infrastructure  10 Chris Curtis  Executive Vice- President,  PowerNorth America & Buildings 11  ric Pilaud  Executive Vice- President, CST**  12 Julio Rodriguez  Executive Vice- President, Power  Global and EMEAS*** 13 ric Rondolat  Executive Vice- President,  PowerAsia Paci c 14 Laurent Vernerey  Executive Vice- President, IT  7 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC LEADERSHIP TEAM Supervisory Board (as of February 21,2012) Remuneration, Appointments and  Human Resources Committee Henri Lachmann Chairman Claude Bbar Lo Apotheker* Willy R. Kissling* Serge Weinberg* Henri Lachmann Chairman of the Supervisory Board Lo Apotheker* Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board Betsy Atkins* Corporate Director Claude Briquet Member of the Supervisory Board for the Schneider France- Germany Mutual Fund Xavier Fontanet* Corporate Director Nol Forgeard* Senior partner at Arjil SAS Jrme Gallot* Executive Vice-President of Veolia Transdev Jeong Kim* President of Bell - Alcatel-Lucent Laboratories Willy R. Kissling* Corporate Director Cathy Kopp* Corporate Director Grard de La Martinire* Corporate Director Dominique Snquier* President and CEO of AXA Private Equity G. Richard Thoman* Managing Partner of Corporate Perspectives and University  Professor Serge Weinberg* Chairman of the Board of Directors for Sano   Non-voting member Claude Bbar Corporate Director Secretary for the Board Philippe Bougon *  Independent member of the Supervisory Board as de ned in the AFEP/MEDEF Corporate Governance Guidelines for listed companies. Audit Committee Grard de La Martinire* Chairman Nol Forgeard* Jrme Gallot* Management Board Jean-Pascal Tricoire President and CEO  Emmanuel Babeau Member of Management Board, Executive Vice-President Finance Statutory Auditors Principal auditors Ernst & Young et Autres Mazars Alternate auditors Socit Auditex Mr  Thierry Blanchetier  8 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC KEY FIGURES 2011   > Key figures 2011 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC   Solid organic growth at +8.3%   New economies and Solutions at 39% and 37% of sales respectively   Acquisition integration progressed well and synergies on track   EBITA before acquisition and integration costs up 7% and margin at 14.2%   Robust pricing and free cash flow generation in H2 Consolidated sales (in billions of euros) 07 17.3 11 22.4 08 18.3 09 15.8 10 19.6 Schneider Electric achieved record high sales despite a dif cult  economic environment in 2011. Sales were up 8.3% on a like-for- like basis and up 14% on a current structure and exchange rate  basis. All the Groups businesses contributed to growth, driven in  particular by IT and Industry. From a geographic standpoint, Asia  Paci c, North America and Rest of World experienced double digit  growth. Europe, on the other hand, was impacted by the debt  crisis in a number of countries. The Group bene ted from its strong  presence in new economies and from robust Solutions growth, at  respectively 39% and 37% of 2011 sales. Adjusted EBITA (1) (in millions of euros and as a % of sales) (1) Adjusted EBITA : EBITA before restructuring costs and other operating income and expenses (one-time items such as capital gains/losses,  pension gains/losses, acquisition costs, impairment). 15.6% 2,704 15.9% 2,912 13.0% 2,048 15.4% 3,019 14.4% 3,232 07 11 08 09 10 EBITA before acquisition and integration costs reached EUR3,178  million , or 14.2% of sales. Adjusted EBITA will be the new Group  measure for operational pro tability. It provides better visibility  and predictability of the underlying performance of the Group  than EBITA, which includes a number of non-recurring items and  restructuring charges that have become more volatile since 2009.  Adjusted EBITA amounted to EUR3,232 million  in 2011, or 14.4%  of Group sales, up 7%. Performance was driven by strong topline  growth, price increase step-up in the second half of the year and  signi cant operational ef ciency, despite record high raw material  cost in ation. Industrial productivity remains strong primarily due  to purchasing savings, lean manufacturing, continued rebalancing  to new economies and  xed costs absorption. In parallel, the  Group continued investing for future growth: broader geographical  coverage in new economies, faster deployment of solutions and  increased R&D spendings.  9 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC KEY FIGURES 2011 Sales by geography 18% Rest of the world 23% North America 32% Western Europe 27% Asia-Pacific 2011 Headcount 16% Rest of the world 31% Asia-Pacific 32% Western Europe 21% North America * Spot headcount, including employees under xed-term    and open-ended contracts, at December 31, 2011 137,535 employees* Net income attributable to owners of the parent (in millions of euros) 07 1,583 11 1,820 08 1,682 09 824 10 1,720 Net income reached a record high of EUR1,820 million , up 6%  year-on-year. It bene ted from the improvement of EBITA but  was impacted by the increase in  nancial expenses, mainly due  to negative currency impact. Net income per share amounted to  3.39 euros. Operating cash flow (in millions of euros and as a % of sales) 07 11 08 09 10 2,211 12.8% 2,500 13.7% 1,708 10.8% 2,534 12.9% 2,579 11.5 % Operating cash  ow was up 2% year-on-year and rose to  EUR2,579 million . Free cash  ow in the second half was at an all- time high, reaching EUR1,665 million , achieved by a strict working  capital control, in particular a full re-absorption of the excess safety  stock built up in the  rst half due to the supply chain disruption post  the natural disaster in Japan. Full year free cash  ow ended up at  EUR1,506 million . Free cash  ow included capital expenditures of EUR746 million ,  returning to a more normal level after two consecutive years of  subdued investment.    10 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC KEY FIGURES 2011 Earnings per share* (in euros) 07 3.39 11 3.39 08 3.51 09 1.66 10 3.30 Dividend per share* (in euros) 07 1.65 11 1.70** 08 1.725 09 1.025 10 1.60 *  Adjusted to re ect two-for-one share split (September 2, 2011). ** Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual Meeting of May 3, 2012, for payment on May 16, 2012. Ownership structure on December 31, 2011 9.4% Capital Research  & Management Compagny (1) 80.6% Public 1.7% Treasury shares 3.7% CDC Group 4.6% Employees (1) To the best knowledge of the Company. Share price against CAC 40 index over five years 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2008 Dec. 31, 2007 Dec. 31, 2006 Dec. 31, 2011 31/01/2012 Dec. 31, 2009 Share price in euros Schneider Electric share CAC 40 index 40.68 47.48 46.34 26.50 40.89 56.00 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Schneider Electric share CAC 40 index 42.05 (Source: Thomson  Reuters)  11 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 2011 IN BRIEF   > 2011 in brief Growth and acquisitions Acquisition of Telvent On June 1, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signing of a  de nitive agreement related to the acquisition, through a public  offer of Telvent GIT SA (Telvent), a leading solution provider  specializing in high value-added IT software and solutions for real-  time management of mission critical infrastructure in the  elds of  electricity, oil & gas, water and transportation. By acquiring Telvent,  Schneider Electric integrates a high value-added software platform  that presents a good  t with its own range in  eld device control  and operation management software for the smart grid and  ef cient infrastructures. The Group also doubles its overall software  development competencies and enhances its IT integration and  software service capability, including weather services. Schneider  Electric made a cash tender offer for all of Telvents shares at a  price of USD40 per share, which represents a premium of 36% to  Telvents average share price over the last three months. This offer  has successfully been completed on August 30, 2011 . Automation and Control On June 9, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature  of an agreement to acquire Leader Harvest Power Technologies  Holdings Limited (Leader & Harvest), one of the leading  players in the fast-growing medium voltage drives market in  China. Headquartered in Beijing, Leader & Harvest develops,  manufactures and commercialises medium voltage (MV) variable  speed drives. The company employs over 750 people and has an  extensive inhouse nationwide sales and service support network  across 30 provinces. With an annual growth rate in excess of 20%  in the past few years, the company is expected to generate sales  of approximately USD150 million (approx. EUR100 million) for  2011. Leader&Harvests range represents an excellent addition  to Schneider Electrics industrial automation range of products and  solutions. Medium voltage drives are a key element of energy ef cient  solutions to our key target segments of mining, minerals&metals  and water & waste water. Low voltage On July21, 2011, Schneider Electric announced it has entered into  a partnership with NVC Lighting Holding Limited (NVC Lighting) to  speed up its market penetration in smaller cities in China via NVC  Lightings well established diffused channels. The partnership will  give Schneider Electric an exclusive access to diffused channels  and bring forth strong revenue synergies. NVC Lighting has a solid  presence in China with broad diffused channels and extensive retail  management experience. It has the access to over 3,000 retail  outlets, half of which are located in smaller cities and townships. On July22, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature of  an agreement to acquire the bresilian group Steck Da Amazonia  Industria Electrica Ltd. and af liates (Steck Group), a key player  (950 employees, about BRL180 million (approx. EUR80 million)  in 2011) in the fast growing  nal low voltage segment serving the  residential and commercial buildings and industries in Brazil. The  transaction will enable Schneider Electric to broaden its product  portfolio and market access and hence provide an opportunity to  expand its presence in new economies, particularly in Latin America. Critical Power & Cooling On January7, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature  of an agreement to acquire a majority of the shares in APW  President Systems Ltd. which designs and manufactures standard  and customized racks and enclosure systems in India, serving  in particular information technology and telecom end-users.  APW President Systems Ltd. has approximately 380 employees  and generated sales of INR1.08 billion (approx. EUR17 million)  for the twelve months ending September 30, 2010. With APW  President Systems Ltd., Schneider Electric is well positioned to  capture opportunities in the fast growing Indian IT infrastructure  market as well as in international markets, particularly in Asia Paci c  and Middle East. The Group will also be able to tap the talent pool  and increase its solutions execution capabilities from server rooms  to extra large data centres. On March31, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature of  an agreement to acquire from Smartlink Network Systems Ltd. the  assets of the Indian company Digilink business, one of the leading  structured cabling systems providers in India. Headquartered in  Mumbai, the Digilink business has 92 employees and generated  sales of about INR1.55billion (approx. EUR25million) in calendar year  2010. With this acquisition the Group will be able to gain access to  Digilinks well-established distribution network in the retail sector which  complements its presence in enterprise segments and will generate  signi cant cross-selling opportunities for its Power and IT products. On April4, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature of  an agreement to acquire in the United States Lee Technologies, a  leading service provider for the data centres of the North American  market. Headquartered in Fairfax, Virginia, Lee Technologies has  over 300 employees and generated sales of about USD140million  (approx. EUR104 million) in 2010. Lee Technologies brings to  Schneider Electric capabilities ranging from consulting, site  assessment, design, equipment speci cation and selection to  integration, commissioning, facility operations staf ng, maintenance  and proactive 24x7 remote monitoring. This full repertoire of  services will reinforce Schneider Electrics IT business skills in data  centre management and its ability to provide data centres, one  of the worlds fastest growing end-users of energy, with the best  standards in energy conservation and reliability. On May30, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature of  an agreement to acquire 74% of Luminous Power Technologies  Pvt. Ltd., a market leader in India that provides inverters, UPS and  power storage systems to help homes and small and medium sized  businesses face frequent power cuts. Luminous is a leading player  in the around EUR800million Indian inverter and power storage  market that is growing at more than 20% a year. Luminous has  a strong presence in India and employs approx. 3,000 people in  8 different industrial sites in India and 1 in China. It has generated  revenues of INR11.0billion (approx. EUR170million) for the  scal  year ending March 2011.With Luminous, Schneider Electric will  become the leader in the Indian inverters and secured power  market and gain access to a complementary retail network.  12 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 2011 IN BRIEF Energy efficiency On March24, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature  of an agreement to acquire Summit Energy Services Inc., an  American company leader in outsourced energy procurement and  sustainability services to industrial, commercial and institutional  enterprises. It is employing more than 350 individuals based  in 11 international of ces across North America and Europe  and serves client facilities in more than 90 countries. Summit  Energy is a fast-growing business, expected to generate sales of  approximately USD65million for the current year. The acquisition  of Summit Energy allows Schneider Electric to broaden its energy  management services and solution portfolio, offering customers the  ability to manage and optimize their energy consumption from the  supply side through the demand side, while also growing Schneider  Electrics energy and environmental online reporting capabilities. Venture capital On February 23, 2011, Aster Capital announced Rhodias  acquisition of an interest in Aster II, the venture capital fund targeting  innovative technology start-ups. This fund, speci cally focused  on energy, advanced materials and environment sectors, should  eventually raise EUR120 to 150million. Joining forces in this novel  multi-corporate venture capital fund, the three sponsors–Alstom,  Rhodia and Schneider Electric – will actively promote the  development of young and innovative companies. By fostering  cooperation and partnerships, it will guarantee the relevance of  technologies and markets assessed to investors. Companies in the  funds portfolio will also have access to the global network of each  of the threepartners. Bond issues and sale of treasury stock On June30, 2011, Schneider Electric re nanced part of its debt  and just closed a USD300 million private placement (approx.  EUR210 million). This transaction made under the Schneider  Electric EMTN programme has a  oating coupon (3-month LIBOR  +0.49%) and matures in July2014. On July1st, 2011, Schneider Electric launched a EUR750million  EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note) issue maturing in July 2018.  Thecoupon rate for this bond is 3.75percent. On September 15, 2011, Schneider Electric launched a  EUR500million EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note) issue maturing in  January2019. The coupon rate for this bond is 3.50percent. Division of the nominal values of the shares At the Annual Shareholders  Meeting held on April 21, 2011,  Schneider Electric shareholders approved the division of the  nominal value of the shares by two. The Management Board  decided that the share par value split takes effect on September2,  2011. The operation makes the shares more accessible particularly  to individual shareholders and also improves the share liquidity.  Effective on September2, 2011, instead of every EUR8 nominal  value share held on that date, shareholders receive two shares of  EUR4 nominal value. The division of the nominal value of the share  does not have an impact on the tax situation or the rights of the  shareholders. It is carried out at no expense or formalities for them. Innovation, partnerships and major contracts On March 15, 2011, Schneider Electric and the City of  Rueil- Malmaison signed the  rst agreement to trial an energy  ef ciency programme  in France. The  rst of its kind involving a  municipality, the energy ef ciency programme  will initially be trialled  at the city library and the Claude Monet middle school in Rueil- Malmaison. Over eight years, the programme  is expected to reduce  energy use at the sites concerned by 20%, thereby trimming the  citys energy bill and shrinking its environmental footprint.  On April19, 2011, Schneider Electric is awarded a turnkey contract  to supply the electrical installation for the future Queensland  Curtis lique ed natural gas  LNG  Project being built by US-based  construction contractor Bechtel. On April 27, 2011, Schneider Electric announced a project with  North Carolina State University (USA) to improve energy ef ciency  and drive sustainable, clean energy projects in 1.6million square  feet of building space across 13 campus facilities. As part of a  USD20 million performance contracting project, the university  will implement facility improvements, equipment upgrades and  energy- ef cient techniques to impact energy use, operations,  reliability and comfort. On May17, 2011, Schneider Electric, in association with Derceto,  Echologics (a division of Mueller Water), i2O Water, TaKaDu and  Telvent, announced the creation of Smart Water Networks (SWAN),  a global industrial alliance formed to promote the development  and adoption of data-driven systems for better water network  management and operation. On May 31, 2011, The City of Issy-les-Moulineaux, Schneider  Electric, Alstom, Bouygues Immobilier, Bouygues Telecom, ERDF,  ETDE, Microsoft, Steria and Total created IssyGrid. This  rst  district smart grid in France will be built in the Seine Ouest business  district in Issy-les-Moulineaux with the goal of enabling energy  optimization at the neighborhood level. On June15, 2011, Soitec and Schneider Electric announced that  they have signed a memorandum of understanding with Masen  (Moroccan Agency for Solar Energy) on an integrated partnership  on CPV technology. The memorandum of understanding between  Soitec, Schneider Electric and Masen is part of the Moroccan Solar  Plan. It is supported jointly by the Moroccan and French governments.  It has four key components: Research&Development; Industrial  integration; Training; Pilot projects. On June 15, 2011, in a world  rst, Schneider Electrics head  of ce (known has the Hive) has been certi ed as complying with  the new ISO 50001 standard for energy management systems.  Schneider Electric is pursuing its commitment to continuously  improving the energy ef ciency of its buildings, reducing their  environmental footprint and enhancing user comfort. On July 13, 2011, Schneider Electric announced that it has  teamed with Cisco to provide an innovative comprehensive  energy management solution that monitors and manages energy  consumption across all building domains. With this combined  solution, building owners and managers, architects, contractors,   13 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 2011 IN BRIEF and IT managers will now be able to optimize energy ef ciencies  and business operations to save energy. On October 5, 2011, Schneider Electric became the  rst  manufacturer worldwide to obtain ZE Ready certi cation from  Renault for its EVlink electric vehicle charging infrastructure range.  ZE Ready is a comprehensive compatibility testing protocol  designed to guarantee that internationally accepted standards will  be implemented consistently among electric vehicles and charging  infrastructure. On November 8 , 2011, Schneider Electric presented Villasol,  a solution for village electri cation. The Villasol solution is a  solar- powered micro off-grid facility for decentralised rural  electri cation. This standardised solution consists in photovoltaic  panels, a battery bank and a battery charging station that enable a  communal recharge system. Governance On July28, 2011, the Supervisory Board recorded the resignation of  Mr  Anand Mahindra from his of ce as a member of the Supervisory  Board, due to potential con icts of interest between Schneider  Electric and the MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA group liable to arise due  to the two groups developing their distribution business in India. The Supervisory Board, which met on December 15th, 2011,  has decided to co-opt Mr  Xavier Fontanet as a member of the  Supervisory Board.  Xavier Fontanet, 63 years old and of French  nationality, is Chairman of the Board of Essilor International. On July1st, 2011, Mrs Annette Clayton is appointed as Executive  Vice President of Global Supply Chain and Member of the Executive  Committee of Schneider Electric. Annette Clayton comes from Dell,  where she was Vice President of Global Operations and Supply  Chain. Annette Clayton is American, and has an impressive career  in supply chain, which she developed initially in General Motors. Employees  On March31, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the launch of a  capital increase reserved for employees under the Group employee  savings plan (plan dpargne salariale). This offering, which is in  line with the Groups policy to develop employee shareholding,  is proposed to Group employees in fourteen countries, including  France. This plan covers around 80% of the employees of the  Group. This offering reinforces the link between the Group and its  employees by giving them the opportunity to be more involved in  the developments and future performance of the Group. Corporate Social Responsibility On February11, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the launch  of Go Green in the City, a new type of creative case competition  involving students of eight countries across the world. Finals of  the challenge were held in Paris on June23-24, 2011. More than  500 teams representing 1000 candidates from eight countries  participated in this challenge. On May6, 2011, the City of Rueil-Malmaison west of Paris decided  to take part in the 100 chances  – 100 emploi s  campaign proposed  by Schneider Electric and Saint-Gobain. The 100 chances  – 100  emploi s  programme  created by Schneider Electric is designed  to meet a communitys economic needs while helping to restore  equal opportunity for young people age 18-30 who come from  disadvantaged neighborhoods. It offers individualized solutions to  ease the way into long-term employment for young people with few  or no credentials, as well as for young graduates who are victims  of discrimination. Targeted exclusively to young people from dif cult  neighborhoods, the programme  federates and engages local  stakeholders. On July 1st, 2011, one year after the start of Haitis rebuilding  effort agreement, the Schneider Electric Foundation celebrates  the inauguration two professional training workshops dedicated to  building industry skills. On July4, 2011, Danone, Crdit Agricole, Schneider Electric and  CDC Climat announced the creation of L ivelihoods, an innovative  carbon-offset fund serving rural communities. Livelihoods is a  unique new investment fund that gives fund partners access to  carbon credits with strong social impact. It does this by seeking  the best balance between value generated for local communities  and the value of carbon credits returned to investors. On July26, 2011, Schneider Electric announced that it is expanding  its sponsorship of the Solar Decathlon through at least 2013,  including Solar Decathlon US in September2011, Solar Decathlon  Europe in 2012 and Solar Decathlon China in 2013. Created in  2002 by the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE), the Solar Decathlon  competition challenges students from leading universities worldwide  to design, build and operate energy-ef cient solar-powered houses. On December7, 2011, Schneider Electric triumphed at Gigaton  Awards ceremony during UN climate change talks in Durban, South  Africa. The 2011 Gigaton Awards were powered by Carbon War  Room, The Carbon Disclosure Project and Greenstar; presented by  The Gigaton Throwdown, The World Climate Summit and Greenbiz.  The Gigaton Awards are designed to inspire and challenge  businesses to run their business in the most carbon ef cient  waypossible.  15 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC Description  oftheGroup,  anditsstrategy,  markets  andbusinesses 1. Global specialist in energy management  16 2. Leader in an industry of the future  21 3. R&D Strategy  26 4. Organisational simplicity andefficiency  31 5. Risk factors  34 1  16 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 1 GLOBAL SPECIALIST IN ENERGY MANAGEMENT DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES   > 1. Global specialist in energy  management Schneider Electric offers integrated products, systems, services, software and solutions in order to make energy safe,  reliable, ef cient, productive and green. As a global specialist in energy management, with operations in over 100countries, the Group enjoys leadership  positions in Utilities and Infrastructure, Machine Industry and Manufacturers, Non-residential Buildings, Data Centres  and Networks, and Residential.. 1.1  Effective management of energy resources, a global challenge With economic, industrial and urban growth and the increase in the  worlds population, the need for energy is rising exponentially, along  with CO2 emissions. Today, out of the worlds 7billions inhabitants, only 2billions have  access to adequate energy infrastructure and 2billions will attain  middle class status in around ten years, while 1.3billion people –  300million homes – still have no access to electricity. In addition,  the planet could have 2 billions additional inhabitants by 2030.  The increase in the global demand for energy seems set to carry  onrising. At the same time, renewable energy sources are still insuf cient and  the energy mix is unlikely to change much over the next 25years:  unless radical changes are made much faster than expected,  two- thirds of energy will continue to be produced from fossil fuels. By 2050, the energy equation will therefore be: a doubling of  worldwide energy demand, and at the same time, a need to  halve CO2 emissions at the global level in order to combat climate  change. Under these conditions, economic development requires  more effective management of our resources and especially energy.  This is the business of Schneider Electric. 1.2  Towards smart energy management The electricity grid is becoming smarter, and users need to be  connected simply and safely. From mobile telephones to the internet to home automation,  technology is constantly making communication easier and faster.  This trend towards connectivity is growing throughout the world.  But no matter how technical products or solutions may be, users  want them to be easy to install, use and maintain. They want to  have access to reliable and safe energy that keeps their installations,  infrastructure and equipment operating at an optimal level. A new, more intelligent electricity grid is emerging: the smart grid.  The traditional grid, which was simple and linear, with centralised  energy output and passive consumers is now changing into a more  complex, interconnected and active model. With renewable energies each consumer can produce his or her  own energy, but the various and irregular sources now have to be  connected to the central grid. Demand response makes energy visible and offers everyone the  chance to affect their own consumption. Electric vehicles are revolutionising the perception of mobility, both  in terms of access to energy, and its use and storage. Real-time grid management allows consumption levels to be  anticipated and supply to be adapted accordingly. To meet regulatory, environmental and pro tability requirements,  energy must be safe, reliable, ef cient, productive and green.  Thiswill require integration: an entire system, not just the individual  components have to be taken into account. The era of intelligent  energy management has dawned, and Schneider Electric has the  vision, products and services and ambition necessary to play a  major role in this energy revolution.  17 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 GLOBAL SPECIALIST IN ENERGY MANAGEMENT 1.3  The emergence of sustainable cities The energy challenge becomes clear in cities, which now contain  50% of the worlds population, responsible for 75% of global energy  consumption and 80% CO2 emissions. These cities are still growing: by 2050, 70% of the worlds  population will live in an urban environment. Taking into account  demographic growth, over the next 40years urban capacity will  have to undergo a development equivalent to that experienced over  the last 4,000years. With growth come constraints: infrastructures that lack capacity,  congestion, increased consumption, competition for jobs and skills,  economic dif culties and ecological ambitions. To withstand, survive and develop, the cities must become more  sustainable: more intelligent, more ef cient, more liveable. This will be one of the major challenges over the coming years. 1.4  A new geographical balance The new economies now represent 50% of global GDP and may  reach 65% by 2015. They account for 90% of the growth in energy needs over the  next 40years, combining demographic pressure, industrialisation,  urbanisation, and increase in wealth. Millions of men, woman and  children will see their living standards rise. The driver of global growth is now the new economies – and should  continue to be for years to come. In order to guarantee its sustainable growth strategy, Schneider  Electric already has a signi cant presence in these new economies,  holding strong positions in Asia (ex Japan), Africa, the Middle East,  Latin America and Mexico, Eastern Europe and Russia. The Groups organisation re ects this new economic balance, since  the Schneider Electric regional of ces are found in North America,  Europe and Asia. 1.5  A company focussed on growth From steel to electricity and onto energy management, the Company  created 175 years ago has experienced signi cant changes in its  activities in order to position itself for growth. 1836-1980: The family SME becomes a major  player 1836: Adolphe and Joseph-Eugne Schneider move their foundries  to Creusot and create Schneider& Cie two years later. The company  experiences continued development in heavy machinery and  transportation equipment, and becomes an extremely diversi ed  conglomerate. 1975: Merlin Gerin, one of the top manufacturers of electrical  distribution equipment in France, joins the Group, already present in  the electricity sector since the late 19thcentury. 1981-2001: The Group refocuses on the  electricity sector 1988: acquisition of Frances Telemecanique, a pioneer in remote  control systems for electric motors. 1991: a major acquisition in the US with the takeover of Square D,  leader in the North American electrical equipment sector. 1997: sale of building and public works company Spie Batignolles.  The Groups refocusing on the electricity sector is now complete. 1999: the name Schneider Electric represents the Groups new  direction and provides a clear indication of its expertise in the  electricity sector. The Group acquires Lexel, Europes second  largest supplier of installation systems and control solutions. 2000: acquisition of Crouzet Automatismes, a French leader in  electronic control, small automation devices and customised  sensors, and Positec, a European leader in motion control. Creation  of a joint venture with Toshiba called Schneider Toshiba Inverters  (STI) to develop, manufacture and market both partners industrial  speed drives. STI, of which Schneider Electric holds a 60% stake,  leads the global industrial speed drive sector. Launch of Schneider  Electric Ventures fund with capital of EUR50 million, to acquire  interests in innovative start-ups with technologies that can enhance  the Groups offering. 2001: acquisition of Legrand, a leader in installation systems and  control solutions. The European Commission vetoes the merger,  obliging Schneider Electric to sell its stake in Legrand. The Court  of First Instance of the European Communities will overrule the  Commissions decision in October2002. 2002-2011: Strategic transformation At the turn of the 2000s, Schneider Electric radically rethinks its  growth strategy, setting itself three goals:   to ensure a more balanced exposure to its strategic end markets;   to enhance its portfolio of traditional activities (electricity  distribution, automation and industrial control); and   to anticipate the future energy requirements of companies and  individuals.  18 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 GLOBAL SPECIALIST IN ENERGY MANAGEMENT A new dimension The Group doubles in size between 2002 and 2008, through  organic growth and by making a number of acquisitions. Revenue  jumps from EUR9 billion in 2002 to EUR18.3 billion in 2008,  re ecting average annual growth of 12%. Its headcount increases  from 70,000 to 114,000 over the same period. Thanks to a loosely  integrated business model, the Group can act quickly to keep pace  with economic and environmental changes in its markets. Following several acquisitions, notably of TAC in 2003, Schneider  Electric becomes a major player in building automation. The Group  becomes global leader in critical power and video security systems  in 2007, with the acquisition of APC and Pelco respectively. The  acquisitions in 2009 of energy ef ciency leader Conzerv in India  and UPS manufacturer Microsol Tecnologia in Brazil increase the  Groups exposure to new economies, as well as to the growing  energy ef ciency and critical power sectors. Schneider Electric  reinforces this new geographical positioning in 2010 with the  acquisition of Cimac (leader in industrial systems integration in the  Persian Gulf), Zicom Electronic Security Systems Ltds activities  (electronic security systems integration, India) and the 50% takeover  of Electroshield – TM Samara (medium voltage, Russia). Schneider  Electric  nalises the acquisition of Areva T&D Distribution division  in June2010, thus becoming one of the world leaders in medium  voltage and automation for electrical distribution. Schneider  Electrics medium voltage operations are therefore strengthened by  Areva T&Ds distribution activities to create a new activity: Energy. At the same time, Schneider Electric was developing its operations  in mature countries, notably with the acquisition in December2010  of two pioneering French companies working in the area of building  management software: Vizelia, a provider of software that monitors  the energy consumption of buildings in real time, and D5X, a  specialist in solutions for optimising the use of commercial buildings. Schneider Electric continues its policy of target acquisitions in 2011,  both small and medium sized, to accompany its growth in the area  of solutions, such as in the new economies. Solutions March2011: acquisition of Summit Energy, a leader in outsourced  energy services, in the area of provision and sustainable development  for industrial and commercial enterprises and institutions. August 2011: acquisition of Telvent, a leading provider of software  and IT solutions with high added value for real-time management  of critical infrastructures in the electrical, oil and gas, and water  treatment sectors, as well as for transport. This acquisition allows  Schneider Electric to propose a high added value software platform  supplementary to its offer of equipment control and software  management via a smart grid and ef cient infrastructures. New economies January2011: acquisition of the majority of the share capital of  APW President Systems Limited, a company specialising in the  design and manufacture of standard or custom-built electric bays  and cabinets for use by telecom and information technology end  customers in India. March 2011: signing of a contract to acquire the assets of the  company DIGILINK, a leader in structured cabling system supply in  India, from Smartlink Network Systems Ltd. April 2011: acquisition of Lee Technologies, a leading service  provider for the data centres of the North American market. June 2011: acquisition of Leader & Harvest, one of the leading  suppliers of medium voltage variable-speed drives in the rapidly  growing Chinese market. July2011: partnership with the Chinese company NVC Lighting  to hasten Schneider Electrics presence in small towns in China,  with the bene t of NVC Lightings well established and wide spread  distribution channels. Acquisition of the Brasilian group S teck  Group, a key player in the fast growing  nal low voltage segment  serving the residential and commercial buildings and industries in  Brazil. An eco-citizen approach Schneider Electric works actively to reduce its environmental  footprint, while making energy safer, more reliable, sustainable and  accessible by optimising its use. 2002: the Group con rms its commitment to responsible  management  by  creating  a  Sustainable  Development  Department, which now forms an integral part of the Strategy &  InnovationDepartment. 2005: the quarterly Planet & Society Barometer is set up to measure  and report on the Groups sustainable development performance.  Schneider Electric is the  rst manufacturer to sign French  environmentalist Nicolas Hulots pact for the environment and the  sixth global enterprise to join the Clinton Climate Initiative (CCI).  Change management 2001-2008: launch of change management programme NEW2004,  followed by new2 in 2005, with the aim of formalising consistent and  coordinated objectives for all employees. 2009-2011: a new company programme called One introduced  to support Schneider Electrics strategic goals. One, the successor  to new2 , continues the focus on customer satisfaction (Customer1)  and staff development (1 Team). The programme also includes  strategic initiatives to strengthen Schneider Electrics leading  position on its market:   becoming solutions provider (1 Solution Provider);   giving priority to new economies (1 Leader in New Economies);   simplifying processes in order to act as a single, uni ed entity  (1Company).  19 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 GLOBAL SPECIALIST IN ENERGY MANAGEMENT   Connect, Schneider Electrics new company programme  (2012-2014) The new 3-year plan covering 2012 - 2014 includes four  majorinitiatives: Connect for Efficency Connect Everywhere Connect to Customers Connect People  Connect to Customers: this initiative aims at further improving the  performance of its business models in order to be a leader in products  and in solutions, and to adapt the different dimensions of the customers  and partners experience with Schneider Electric when they interact  with the Group:  – Partner excellence: continue to grow in products in a win- win relationship with partners by creating new opportunities  for Distributors and Partners, leveraging the strength of  One   Schneider Electric and leading product innovation. This  initiative will further reinforce the Groups leadership position  in the Product Business.  – Solution excellence: leverage the Groups unique value  proposition with its solution capabilities, improve equipment  cost competitiveness, reinforce execution while being more  selective on projects, and boost service sales. This initiative will  temporarily impact the Solution Businesss growth but will raise  signi cantly its profitability and return pro le.  – Tailored supply chain: bring the supply chain to a new level  of excellence by aligning organis ation to customer needs and  providing differentiated manufacturing and delivery models for  each customer segment. This initiative should lead to higher  customer satisfaction and inventory efficiency.  Connect Everywhere: this initiative is designed to identify key  investment areas in new economies and create new opportunities in  mature countries to be a leader in both types of geographic areas.  – Grow in new economies: expand geographical coverage by  increasing the Groups presence in the fast-growing second- tier cities and further penetrate these markets with mid-market  segment offerings supported by strong brands with wide local  coverage. The initiative will continue to support the long term  growth potential of new economies in Schneider Electrics  portfolio.  – Grow in mature countries: grow activities that develop  independently from traditional capex trends with a focus  on opex-driven opportunities and new businesses. This  includes developing installed base and energy management  services, capturing the smart grid opportunity while investing  in new businesses in areas such as electric vehicle charging  infrastructure, home automation and carbon management.  With this initiative, the Group aims to create its own growth  momentum in the mature countries.  Connect People: the target of this transformation is to create a culture  and an environment for the Groups employees development and  performance.  – Engaging leaders: train leaders with Schneider Electric  University and promote Diversity  – Engaged individuals: support employee development via  training, empowerment and cross-business mobility  – Engaging workplace: step-up collaboration & communities,  regroup locations, ensure safety at work, develop the  Schneider Way  Connect for Ef ciency: this initiative includes the actions aiming  at writing a new chapter in the Groups history of pro table and  responsible growth.  – Industrial Productivity: raise the bar with tailored supply  chain and drive signi cant industrial productivity through  purchasing, footprint optimis ation, supply chain  ow re-design  and transportation rationalis ation. This will be supported by a  best-in-class planning process by customer segment and an  IT system aligned with supply chain segmentation.  – Support Functions Efficiency: leverage scale to drive  savings on support functions, through non-production  purchases rationalis ation, more globalis ation of corporate  functions, simpli cation of business and country level set-up,  and implementation of acquisition synergies. At the same time,  the company will continue to invest in commercial presence  and research and development to support future growth. Total  R&D expenses to sales ratio is expected to move towards 5%  of sales going forward.  – Planet & Society Barometer: maintain best-in-class  standard  in  environmental  sustainability  and  social  responsibility. Management compensation is partly tied to  barometer performance. Connect, Schneider Electrics company programme for the 2012-2014 period, is another major  step in the consistent deployment of the Groups strategy. With Connect, the Group will extend  the strong foundation of One to all its strategic levers: products and solutions, mature and new  economies, people, while continuing to drive efficiency at all levels.  20 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 GLOBAL SPECIALIST IN ENERGY MANAGEMENT Connect: Key financial benefits for 2012-2014 With Connect, Schneider Electric expects Group performance to reach a new level of excellence by 2014.     By 2014 Services growth Outgrow the rest of Group by more than 5 points (on organic basis) Solutions pro tability At least 2 points improvement on the adjusted EBITA margin Industrial productivity 0.9bn to 1.1bn of cumulated gross productivity Support functions ef ciency At least 1 point decrease of support functions costs/sales ratio*  (excl.scopeandcurrency,net of investments) Inventory ef ciency Inventory to sales ratio reduced by ~2 points * Assuming no severe disruption of the global economy. Ambitious long term financial targets for  attractive shareholder returns Over the long term, the key company priorities remain  focused on pro table growth, cash conversion and capital  ef ciency. The management views the Connect program as  another opportunity to improve the Groups through cycle  performance on those metrics. Across the business cycle performance targets:  sales: average organic growth of GDP +3 points. By offer types, sales growth will be driven by Solutions with  a targeted pro le at GDP +3 to 5 points. The Group intends  to maintain solid Products growth, at a rate of GDP +1 to  3points. By geographies, growth will continue to be driven by New  Economies with a targeted growth pro le at GDP + 6 to  8points. For each of these indicators, the reference basis is world GDP  growth on a real basis and at market foreign exchange rates.  adjusted EBITA: margin between 13% and 17% of sales;  cash conversion: ~100% of net pro t converted into free cash   ow. Across the business cycle capital ef ciency targets:  ROCE**: between 11% and 15%;  dividend: 50% payout of net income;  capital structure: retain a strong investment grade credit rating. ** ROCE is de ned as: ajusted EBITA after tax/Average Capital Employed. Capital Employed is defined as: shareholders equity + Net financial debt+Adjustment for associates and financial arrets. Closing of the One company programme (2009-2011) One, the company programme  that covered the period 2009- 2011 was a big step forward in the Groups transformation. With  One, Schneider Electric was re-organis ed into 5 customer-focused  businesses and strengthened its integrated portfolio to establish itself  as the global reference in energy management. The Group became  a leading provider of high value-added solutions. During the course  of the programme , solutions have gone from 30% in 2008 to 37%  of Group sales in 2011. The companys positions in new economies  were also signi cantly reinforced. New economies represented 39%  of 2011 sales (32% in 2008) and about 46% of production costs (41%  in 2008). The Group emerged from One leaner, simpler and more  agile. Under One , it simpli ed its supply chain, reduced the number of  its brands (10 active(1) brands versus 120 in 2008), generated about  1 billion of productivity and drove operational ef ciency by reducing  support functions costs to sales ratio by 1.5 points. Our company programme  One was a success and a big step  forward in the transformation of the Groups pro le. It also laid a  very solid foundation for our future: One brand, One company for  our customers and employees, One organis ation everywhere, and  a far higher ef ciency than in 2008, said Jean-Pascal Tricoire,  President and CEO.  Three  transformations  customer 1  1  team solution provider leader in new economies company 1 1 1 Two  fondamentals The One programme  leant on two fundamentals as cornerstones of  Schneider Electrics strategic transformation:  Customer 1: focus on customers, develop customer delight;  1 Team: focus on people development, determination to become an  employer of choice and to increase collaboration between the different  regions and business groups. In addition, One targeted three transformation priorities:   1 Solution Provider;   1 Leader in New Economies;   1 Company. (1) Excluding brands from recent acquisitions and in the mid-market.   21 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 LEADER IN AN INDUSTRY OF THE FUTURE   > 2. Leader in an industry of the future Schneider Electric is perfectly positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities linked to the energy challenges  facing our planet and to the development of emerging economies. The activities in which the Group occupies a number-one or number-two position globally accounted for more  than 90% of its revenue in 2011, compared with 50% in 2000. Today, Schneider Electric operates in  ve major sectors – Utilities and Infrastructures, Industries and Machine  Manufacturers, Data Centres and IT Networks, Non-residential Buildings  and Residential. The Group has a presence  on every continent, with a range of products and services designed to meet the speci c needs of local markets. 2.1  Helping our customers make the most of their energy Schneider Electric is continually strengthening its portfolio of  products, services and solutions, in order to provide an integrated  energy management offering  and to help its customers make  theirenergy:   safe, by protecting people and assets;   reliable, by guaranteeing ultra-secure, ultra-pure and uninterrupted  power especially for critical applications;   efficient, by delivering energy ef ciency solutions adapted to the  needs of each market;   productive, by expanding the use of automation and connectivity  and offering services throughout an installations life cycle;   and green, by offering solutions that are environmentally friendly. 2.2  Seizing opportunities in five growth markets Schneider Electric serves customers in  ve major growth markets:   Non-residential buildings;   Utilities and Infrastructures;   Industries and Machine manufacturers;    Data Centres and Networks;   Residential;  Meeting their energy challenges is a key growth lever for the Group. Non-residential buildings: reducing  investment and operating costs while  offeringgreater comfort and safety The non-residential buildings market includes all public, commercial  and industrial buildings: of ces, hotels, hospitals, shopping centres,  schools,  sports and cultural centres. This sector has a high energy  consumption; energy ef ciency is therefore essential and is the  object of new and demanding regulations. User requirements  have to be met in terms of comfort,  security and environmental  friendliness, as do the needs of owners and building managers  seeking to reduce investment costs and optimise maintenance and  operating costs. Schneider Electrics customers in this sector include users, property  developers, design  rms, systems integrators, panel builders  and installers, electrical equipment distributors and building  management companies. The Groups  products and solutions  cover:   utility management (electricity, gas, district heating,.. .);   management of technical systems (HVAC, lighting, security,.. .);   voice-data-image networks;   measure and control of energy use and quality; integrated and decentralised management and control of one  orseveral sites.  Utilities and Infrastructures: ensuring  efficiency , reliability and responsiveness Schneider Electrics main customers in this market are energy  operators, water utilities, oil, gas and transportation infrastructures,  as well as municipalities. The global challenges these customers face represent long- term growth prospects for Schneider Electric, and include  booming energy demand, the need for increased ef ciency to  reduce environmental impact, expansion of renewable energies,  the evolution of energy market regulations and in particular the   22 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 LEADER IN AN INDUSTRY OF THE FUTURE emergence of demand response, and the growing need for real- time control of installations security and reliability. The Groups  products and solutions  cover:   electrical distribution;   measure and control of energy use and quality;   utility management (access control, lighting, HVAC.. .);   control and supervision of industrial processes;   installation and real-time management of smart electricity grids;   systems facilitating access to electricity (our BipBop programme).  Industries and Machine manufacturers:  enhancing productivity, flexibility and  efficiency Schneider Electric provides energy solutions for all segments of this  market:  mines, cement plants, food-processing industry , material  handling and packaging machines. Its customers are end users and  companies, engineering  rms, systems integrators, OEMs (original  equipment manufacturers), electro-intensive industries , panel  builders, and electrical equipment distributors. Energy ef ciency is at the heart of the challenges facing industry,  which are  to reduce production costs, comply with new regulations,  and  reduce the environmental impact of industrial activity. In  addition, rapid industrialisation in  new economies and the need to  modernise  required in industrial installations in mature economies  both create signi cant opportunities for growth. The Groups  products and solutions  cover:   automation and supervision of industrial processes;   equipment control and supervision;   measure and control of energy use and quality;   utility management (access control, lighting, HVAC  .. .);   integrated and decentralised supervision and control of energy   ows for one or several sites;   tools and services allowing control and optimis ation of  industrialoperations.   Data centres and Networks: guaranteed  reliability, availability and efficiency Data centres are sites  lled with servers that process and  store billions of digital data in secure, air conditioned rooms.  They constitute the central nervous systems of businesses and  public departments, and represent a high-potential market thanks  to the growing digitalisation of professional and personal activities.  The expansion of data centres implies a signi cant increase in  electricity requirements for servers operation and cooling, and the  cost of energy needed to cool server rooms should shortly exceed  that for the servers . The Group offers a complete line up to meet the energy ef ciency  requirements of data centres and IT networks. Its products and  solutions  cover:   energy management and control;   architecture design and installation audit;   critical power systems with UPS and generators;   cooling with a unique hot air containment system;   monitoring and analysis of online data;   training;   maintenance;   monitoring and security. Residential services: provide single solutions  for comfort and efficiency  Schneider Electrics main customers on this market include  electricians, architects and decorators, domotics, lighting or  security  rms, construction  rms, contractors, electrical equipment  distributors and large DIY stores, as well as end customers and  home owners. The market for single-family homes and apartment buildings  is driven by  renovation and refurbishment, especially in mature  countries, as well as construction and upgrades, especially  in new  economies. Whether for renovation or construction, the challenge is to  combine technical constraints, local standards and regulations, as  well as users preferences. Users require comfort and aesthetics,  but increasingly energy performance, connectivity, security and  surveillance too. The Groups products and solutions  cover:   electrical distribution and data connection panels, and their  installation systems;   L ifeS pace control (of energy, heating, lighting, shutters);   energy performance (measuring and  optimizing usage,  alert  systems);   secure energy:     access control and security systems;   electric vehicles charging infrastructures.  23 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 LEADER IN AN INDUSTRY OF THE FUTURE 2.3  Unrivalled leadership in our five businesses Schneider Electric is leveraging its broad and consistent portfolio  of innovative products, integrated and intelligent solutions and its  competitive services  to meet the requirements of its customers.  Since 2011, the Groups activities have been organised into  ve  businesses that meet the speci c needs of their customers:    Power, which covers all low voltage equipment (electrical panels,  circuit breakers) as well as  installation and control systems  (LifeSpace), renewable energies integration, residential market  offering and electric vehicles charging infrastructure;   Infrastructure  (previously called Energy), which specialises  in medium voltage applications, especially for infrastructure and  electrical utilities:  disconnectors , circuit breakers, transformers,  medium voltage cells and SCADA  (SupervisionControl And Data  Acquisition) management systems, software for the integrated  management of mission critical infrastructure;   Industry, which provides comprehensive solutions for industrial  automation and control: advanced  HMI (human-machine  interface) terminals, power supply, push buttons and indicator  lights, optimum temperature control, customised sensors;   IT, which specialises in critical power for data centres: monophase  and three-phase UPS, server cabinets, network power control,  InRow Cooling Systems;   Building , which facilitates energy ef ciency in industrial or  commercial buildings through automation and security systems:  programmable regulators, centralised building management  systems, camera sensors, security monitoring equipment. All these businesses have signi cant levers for growth, linked to  the growth in energy requirements, to the necessity of developing  energy ef ciency, to the evolution of electricity grids and of cities  throughout the world and particularly in new economies. The Power business Number1 worldwide in low voltage  The Power business is at the heart  of the Groups activities and  helps meet  the worlds energy challenges: increase of needs,  growing environmental concerns, evolution in regulations, pressure  on investment and operating costs, development of renewable  sources of energy and, in the near future, of electric vehicles,  emergence of smart grids and sustainable cities. This business represents the backbone of all the Groups activities:  its energy management offering is  found in almost all the integrated  solutions provided by the Groups other businesses to their  customers, especially in the residential and non-residential buildings  sectors.  In particular:   f or industrial and of ce buildings, the Power business offers  a very wide range of electrical equipment, circuit breakers,  transformers, meters as well as monitoring and control systems.     f or the residential market, Power offers electrical distribution  equipment and L ifeS pace control systems for energy, heating,  lighting, shutters, access control,  re alarms,etc.    the Group ensures i ntegration of renewable energy sources in the  electricity grid thanks to our expertise in low- and medium-voltage  electrical di stribution, conversion and energy management.    P ower also offers a complete range of electric vehicles charging  infrastructures, that are both safe (for users, cars, buildings and  the grid) and smart thanks to energy management systems that  allow in particular to optimis e charging time, as well as supporting  information and payment services.  The Infrastructure business Number1 worldwide in medium voltage and  automation In June2010, the acquisition of Areva T&Ds electrical distribution  business completed Schneider Electrics medium voltage portfolio  and in particular, strengthened its position in medium voltage  network automation for electro-intensive customers and electrical  utilities. The agreement signed in October 2010 for the acquisition of  50% of Electroshield-TM Samara further strengthened Schneider  Electrics offering and position in the medium voltage market, as  well as signi cantly extending its presence in Russia. Finally, the acquisition of Telvent in 2011, a specialist in integrated  management software for electrical, urban and industrial  infrastructures, positions the Group on  the whole value chain  by  completing its range of high added value integrated services and  solutions and strengthening its presence in many geographies  (USA, Brazil). These acquisitions have brought Schneider Electric global leadership  in medium voltage, allowing the Group to fully leverage the growth  opportunities stemming from the emergence of the smart grid  as well as from the extension or modernisation of electrical and  industrial infrastructures throughout the world. The Industry business Number2 worldwide in automation and industrial  control  Thanks to an active policy of  partnerships and  acquisitions,  Schneider Electric has  continually strengthened its presence in  automation and industrial control. For its industrial customers and OEMs, Schneider Electric offers  programmable logic controllers and automation platforms,   specialised con guration, programming, operating assistance and  supervision software,  as well as a wide range of industrial control  products, such as  contactors, overload relays and motor circuit  breakers, speed drives, motion controllers, sensors, control units  and operator terminals.  Lastly, the customised sensors that were previously provided by the  CST business  (Custom Sensors &Technologies) became part of the  Industry business at the start of 2011, bringing with it the biggest  range of sensors on the market, and global leadership positions in   24 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 LEADER IN AN INDUSTRY OF THE FUTURE angular speed sensors and in position and pressure sensors for the  automobile, aeronautics and manufacturing industries. The Industry business accompanies its customers development:  development of economic and industrial activity in the new  economies, optimisation of industrial processes, costs and  environmental impact worldwide. The IT business Number1 worldwide in critical power and cooling  services A growing number of industries – notably those involved in  information technology and  nance – require a reliable energy  supply and impeccable quality at all times. A combination of the products of American Power Conversion  (APC) and of MGE UPS Systems has allowed Schneider Electric  to become the world leader in this market. The Group maintains it  leadership by offering a full and competitive portfolio of products,  solutions and services, worldwide geographic coverage and  distribution channels, and of course, by its permanent commitment  to innovation.  The IT business  bene ts from the growing digitalisation of data,  its continual increase in volume and the ever-increasing speed of  dissemination. The Buildings business Number4 worldwide in building automation  andvideo security systems In the last few years Schneider Electric has become one of the  worlds leading players in technical building management. The Group offers a comprehensive, innovative range of automation  solutions backed by design and supervision software to manage  building utilities, based on open and integrated systems.  Thesesolutions make it possible to reduce energy consumption,  optimise installations, modernise them cost effectively, and reduce  maintenance costs. They also enhance comfort and security, an  area in which the Group has continually strengthened its activities  since the acquisition in 2007 of Pelco, a worldwide leader in the  design, development and manufacture of video security systems. Growth in this business is linked to the expansion of urban and  industrial areas, the need to renovate buildings, compliance with  new energy regulations and implementation of new building  energy standards, the development of energy ef ciency and the  improvement of operating cost control. 2.4  Proximity to each of our markets Schneider Electric chose to increase its access to different markets  and a large portion of its sales is  made through intermediaries  such as distributors, systems integrators, installers and purchasing  advisors, who all bring their own added value and know-how.  Excellent relationships and customer  satisfaction are key priorities Customer satisfaction is an integral part of Schneider Electrics  growth strategy. Every contact with Schneider Electric should be a  positive experience that makes  all customers, no matter who they  are or where they are located, feel , understood and satis ed. This  commitment is an important differentiating factor, and customer  satisfaction surveys are regularly carried out in all countries in  which the Group operates, and  employees attend related training  programs. Customers also have access to online diagnostics and support  services, an e-catalogue, downloadable software and online  information and training. Distributors: a daily partnership Distributors account for approximatly  50%  of the Groups total  revenue s through an extensive network  in 190countries all over  the world. Schneider Electric works with  many different types of distributor:  local distributors, wholesalers and non-specialised professional  distributors, large international groups such as Rexel, Sonepar,  Graybar and Grainger, IT specialists such as Tech Data and  Ingram Micro in the United States. In the residential renovation  sector, Schneider Electric also sells products through large home  improvement chains such as Home Depot and Lowes in the US,  King sher in the UK and Saint Gobain Distribution in France. In  addition, the Group uses specialist distribution channels for highly  technical products such as automation solutions and industrial  software, as well as for Pelco-brand access control and security  products.  Schneider Electric assists its distributors in advising their customers  and helping them to bene t from technical innovations. To maintain  a high performance network, the Group works hand in hand with  distributors on supply chain issues, technical training and marketing.  Internet tools now occupy a dominant position for sales, and above  all, up-to-date information. Through the eShop, distributors can link  Schneider Electrics product database to their e-commerce sites so  that customers have reliable 24/7 access to information. As part of a  programme to develop energy ef ciency solutions with distributors,  the Group has published a catalogue of energy ef ciency solutions  that suit the needs of different markets and customer segments.  25 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 LEADER IN AN INDUSTRY OF THE FUTURE Specifiers: in search of efficient solutions To meet their customers  growing demands for comfort, ergonomics  and design, speci ers (engineers, architects and design  rms) are  constantly looking for more ef cient and better integrated solutions  for energy management, as well as for access control, security, and  buildingautomation. They are therefore essential partners for Schneider Electrics growth,  notably in the high-potential buildings and residential markets, which  include the construction and  renovation of  single-family homes and  apartment buildings. Schneider Electric uses many  information and training tools for  speci ers, such as reserved exhibits, electrical installation guides,  installation design software and training methods. Panel builders and systems integrators –  asource of solutions The main objective  for Schneider Electric is to help these  professionals to extend their competencies by giving them the best  level of service available anywhere in the world. Panel builders, of which there are more than 20,000 throughout  the world, make and sell electrical distribution or control/monitoring  switchboards, primarily for the buildings, energy and electricity  infrastructure markets. Their main customers are contractors.  Panel builders mostly buy low and medium voltage devices, such  as circuit breakers and contactors, and increasingly, prefabricated  systems. Systems integrators design, develop and support automation  systems to meet their customers needs for  the performance,  reliability, precision and ef ciency of their operations. By providing  global coverage and local contacts, they offer their clients a high  degree of  exibility. Schneider Electric has considerably expanded its automation  line up, giving systems integrators access to a powerful platform  covering all areas of automation from  eld control to Manufacturing  Execution Systems (MES). Contractors – towards a revolution in  theresidential market To devise solutions tailored to end-users speci c needs, Schneider  Electric works closely with contractors, small specialist or generalist  electricians, large companies that install equipment and systems  and integrators . These partners bring  value for end customers,  rst by advising them  about the choice of solutions that best suits  their needs, and then by  installing ef cient systems. The main objective  for SchneiderElectric  is to support them in the rapid development of solutions and  technologies for the residential market: lighting, temperature and  door management systems, recharging equipment for electric  vehicles and renewable energy solutions. In order to strengthen a relationship based on mutual trust and  added value , Schneider Electric partners  actively with contractors,  providing technical training and support . As much , the EcoXpert programme aims to secure special  partnerships with certain installers, with whom Schneider Electric  shares all its expertise on renewable energy and energy ef ciency  solutions. The EcoXpert network is being developed in many  countries throughout the world. OEMs: partners in performance Original Equipment Manufacturers (O EMs) continuously seek to  improve machine performance and optimise maintenance in areas  ranging from packaging to textiles, elevators to conveyors , and  materials handling and hoisting to HVAC. Schneider Electric works closely with almost 30,000 OEMs.  TheGroup leverages its expertise and know-how to nurture these   special partnerships. This is mainly achieved through:   an extensive knowledge of OEMs applications;   dedicated centres of excellence that offer the most competitive  solutions  for  new  machines,  in  particular,  pre-tested,  pre- developed and personalised solutions;   an international customer support to deliver high-performance  after-sales service worldwide;   a dedicated programme for multi-site and/or global OEMs  that enhances their ability to offer superior solutions on an  internationallevel. Utilit ies – meeting the new challenges  of changing electrical networks There are some 11,000 electricity companies around the world.  They use Schneider Electric products, systems and services in  power generation (electricity for renewable energy production,  power plant equipment, automation and control), transmission  (quality control and metering), distribution (medium and low voltage  networks) and management  (pre-payment meters, related services,  peak management). The Group responds effectively to their expectations with  applications support and innovative products that help them meet  important challenges linked to changes in energy market regulation  and the development of renewable energies. Global strategic accounts – our solutions  champions Schneider Electric has established  an organisation which is  dedicated to global  companies, with a view to developing privileged  relationships with them. To meet these customer  expectations,  the Group offers preferred supplier contracts to ensure that they  receive services of the highest quality.  26 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 R&D STRATEGY This organisation is based on short lines of communication and  decision-making, rapid mobilisation of Group resources throughout  the world, and dedicated teams in which management is  directlyinvolved. Some 87global customers bene t from this organisation, including  Air Liquide, GlaxoSmithKline, IBM, Lafarge, Marriott, Nestl, Procter  & Gamble, Total, Toyota, Veolia Environnement and Walmart. 2.5  Competitors and participants with varied profiles One can classify Schneider Electrics traditional competitors into  two categories:   large  non-specialist  manufacturers  with  diversified  businesses: ABB, Eaton, Emerson, General Electric, Johnson  Controls, Honeywell, Mitsubishi Electric, Panasonic (formerly  Matsushita), Siemens;   multinational specialist manufacturers: Cooper, Hager,  Legrand, Omron, Rockwell Automation .  Other competitors are appearing:   low-price products, manufacturers notably in low voltage  and for indirect markets: Chint, Legend, Larsen&Toubro .   >  3. R&D Strategy Among the R&D investments of the last three years, such as the EcoStuxure programme, and the structural  acquisitions, such as Areva T&D distribution or Telvent, Schneider Electric has built an exceptional R&D capacity  portfolio, combining its acquired knowledge with new expertise, notably in terms of software and engineering systems. Schneider Electrics R&D strategy aims to fully exploit this capacity for generating growth and pro tability by continuing  to give priority to innovation, both in terms of technology and solutions. 3.1  Finalisation of EcoStruxure The EcoStruxure programme moved from the research to the  development phase in 2010 and was completed at the end of  2011 with the launch of StruxureWare, an integrated software  suite covering all the energy management, process optimisation  and environmental reporting needs of companies (shop  oor to  top oor). StruxureWare combines Schneider Electrics traditional control  solutions with complementary solutions coming from recent  acquisitions for energy optimisation and resources and new  developments management. The relevance of the main choices  for EcoStruxure, such as convergence towards IP networks and  web services integration is shown by the  exibility of the whole  programme, which Schneider Electric can easily adapt to speci c  needs of different target market segments. This  exibility is a strategic advantage for integrating acquisitions.  So, just nine months after acquiring Summit Energy, its Dashboard  View solution was expanded into a resource management solution  that is perfectly integrated into the StruxureWare suite. The original  Telvent components have also been integrated into StruxureWare,  six months after the acquisition was  nalised. All the StruxureWare components have likewise been designed  for many platforms to allow their use to be extended to meet new  needs. For example, the Remote Services Platform made it possible  to develop monitoring services and remote control of equipment in  a few weeks, allowing the service strategy for the installed base to  be accelerated. With StruxureWare, Schneider Electric is in a position to fully  pro t from the market maturity and from the anticipated market  consolidation in energy management to thus reinforce its leadership.  27 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 R&D STRATEGY 3.2  A platforms strategy The growing digitalisation of products, which provides for more   exibility and the growing share of software within solutions, open new  perspectives on the development of shared technological platforms  for different businesses. This possibility, already demonstrated by  the new components of StruxureWare, can be extended to other  Schneider Electric product/solution portfoliodomains. Ambitious programmes were initiated in 2011 to create shared  platforms in the embedded control domain and the SCADA (control  and monitoring systems) or in the user interface domain, with major  innovations such as augmented reality. In addition to ef ciency gains, the platform strategy has major  advantages:   faster integration of acquisitions, as demonstrated by  StuxureWare;   increased  ease  of  integrating  outside  products  into  Schneider Electric  solutions  due  to  the  de nition  of  interoperabilitystandards;   and therefore, faster innovation. The Innovation and Technology Board, which was created  in 2009 and has strongly contributed to the success of the  EcoStruxure programme, is behind this strategy and responsible  for its management. 3.3  Projects with significant impact Parallel to the cross-cutting programmes such as EcoStruxure and  long-term investments such as the platforms, Schneider Electrics  R&D still strongly contributes to the success of the Groups products  and solutions. Large scale collaborative programmes HOMES is Europes most important innovation programme for  the energy ef ciency of buildings. Led by Schneider Electric and  supported by OSEO, an agency that supports entrepreneurship  and innovation; it involves a total of 13 companies and research  laboratories. The aim of HOMES is to  nd a number of coherent solutions to  improve energy management for buildings without reducing  comfort. Covering both new and existing residential and commercial  buildings, the programs goal is to produce prototypes ready for  manufacture. In addition, testing has been carried out under the programme at   ve pilot sites since February2010, in conjunction with the FFIE  (French Federation of Electrical Engineers). The aim is to devise a  method for effectively measuring performance for existing buildings,  to enable ways of reducing energy consumption to be identi ed in  each case. At the end of 2011 the programme was used to assess a potential  gain of around 20% to 50% on the pilot buildings by using the  building energy simulation tool of the CSTB (Building Scienti c and  Technical Centre). These remarkable results are accompanied by a  description of a control functions library to be implemented in order  to achieve these gains; this library will be gradually integrated into  the Schneider Electric solutions. The programme has also shown the ability to move directly from the  CAD drawings of a building to the simulation of the buildings energy  performance, thus providing a view of an uninterrupted chain from  conception to control. Finally, one of the major results from the HOMES programme is  the completion of a new type of wireless comfort sensor with an  autonomous energy supply. The  rst prototypes for tertiary sector  and residential buildings have been completed; they measure  temperature, humidity, luminosity and carbon dioxide. This result  allows a measurable understanding of the dynamic compromise  between energy ef ciency and comfort. MIRTIC is an ENIAC European cooperative programme launched  in 2011 with the company Ulis. It responds to a need highlighted  by the results of the HOMES programme: the need for a presence  sensor (not a movement sensor) for the best possible adaptation of  the building control for work, or even for the activity in the different  zones. The aim of the programme is to supply a new type of sensor  that will use affordable, low resolution infrared technology. SCUBA is an FP7 European cooperative programme launched in  2011 with the Universities of Cork and Dresden, Philips and the  CEA. The SCUBA project aims to de ne the tools for conception,  con guration and the associated integration technologies in order  to guarantee interoperability and  exibility of the building control  systems. It will use a test platform and a pilot site of the HOMES  programme. MIND aims to improve the productivity of embedded software  developments and critical components of intelligent products.  The component assembly construction technology allows for  effective development of reliable and  exible products. Schneider Electric complements the results of this project with its  own research into combining within the same product certi ed  embedded software, which ensures safe operation, and open  software enabling related, evolving functions to be developed  morerapidly. The MIND programme also passed from concept to rollout in 2011  with an initial prototype phase underway through the ADN4SE  project before a larger rollout of this technology in the embedded  control platform mentioned below. Projects around Smart Grids  2011 saw the start of two major projects involving the smart grids  Greenlys and Millener. GREENLYS: the  rst large scale demonstrator offering a global  vision  (www.greenlys.fr).  The four-year project will test and rollout  innovative solutions for the whole electrical system: decentralised  electricity production, communicating meters, distribution network  management, new demand reduction programmes, in-home  energy management solutions,etc.  28 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 R&D STRATEGY  The project will form a showcase of technology from 2015 with the  development of two platforms in Lyon and Grenoble. This experiment will involve nearly 1,000residential customers and  40tertiary sites in urban areas. MILLENER: the MILLENER research project (One Thousand Energy  Management Installations on the Islands) aims to help reduce user  energy consumption and to integrate the intermittent renewable  energies more effectively into the distribution networks so as to  guarantee the real-time balance between electricity demand and  production. It takes account of the particularities of a non-interconnected isolated  network, like that of the islands, and the need to make users aware  of how to manage their consumption. These experiments will also  include installation of photovoltaic panels, energy storage systems  and management of electrical equipment. The experiments will take  place in Corsica, Guadeloupe and Reunion. Co-innovation around electrical vehicle  Ease of charging will be one of the key factors in public acceptance  of electric vehicles and is therefore an important line of research for  Schneider Electric and its partners. A  close partnership was established with Renault regarding  induction charging, dispensing with the need for cable connection.  The theoretical studies and the  rst prototypes showed that the  system performance achieved over 90%, meaning a system rollout  can be planned and the project has entered the development  phase. Contribution to standards Effective energy management uses a measure and control that is  always more precise, resulting in effective and less expensive means  of communication. This is why Schneider Electric is one of the  most active members of the ZigBee consortium and is particularly  involved in the proposal for a protocol called Green Power, a radio  communication with extremely low energy consumption which can  be used in self-powered devices (e.g. by solar power). 2011 saw the acceptance of the Green Power standard by the  ZigBee consortium, opening the way to applying it industry-wide. Energy ef ciency in buildings is regulated by a European Commission  framework directive: the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive  (EPBD), rewritten in 2010, de nes the requirements for technical  systems, their on-site inspection and in particular for the active  control systems such as the automation, control and monitoring  systems. Within the context of this directive, a European  standardisation committee proposed a standard regarding the  impact of these systems on building performance: EN15232. This  standard proposes classifying systems into performance classes in  the same way as for electrical domestic appliances but with only  four levels A, B, C and D – classA having the highest performance  (26% - 52% reduction in energy consumption according to building  type), while class D identi es the lack of automation and/or inef cient  systems and requires improvement. In the same spirit, the European association eu.bac (European  Building Automation Controls Association), with presidency held  by Schneider Electric, in 2009 launched a programme to promote  standard EN15232 consisting of the implementation of periodic  inspections on the systems site to check certi cation as well as to  monitor performance over time: EEBACS, for energy ef ciency of  automation systems. Schneider Electric is the leader of this initiative. Supporting Sustainable Development In line with Schneider Electrics commitment to sustainable  development within the framework of the BipBop programme,  the Company has worked for two years on a project involving a  concentrated solar power plant adapted for communities that are  not connected to the electrical grid. Compared to photovoltaics,  the concentrated solar power process has many advantages in this  type of application:   energy storage capacity, in the form of heat, that is economic,  safe and environmentally friendly compared to batteries that can  be stolen and need to be recycled at the end of their working life;   use of residual heat for associated activities, such as crop drying  or water puri cation;   simple maintenance and ability to build the heaviest and bulkiest  components locally. The project, which brings together Schneider Electric and  ve smaller  companies, has obtained  nancing from ADEME (Environment  and Energy Management Agency) to start on the prototype and  to con rm the business model. The project has also received  money from the MEDEF (Movement for French Companies) for  collaboration between startups (STIRAL) and large companies. 3.4  Human capital The main force behind Schneider Electric R&D is its global network  of 11 ,000 employees who are directly involved in research and  development or technical engineering activities in 26 countries and  over more than 70sites. In order to pro t fully from this collective expertise, an ambitious  programme was launched to support the networks of expertise  in key domains formally identi ed according to the Companys  strategy. For each of these domains, a formal strategy is de ned  an implemented by a dedicated network of experts, both internal  and external:   identi cation of trends and signs of weakness in the domain;   participation in structured research projects and partnerships;   structuring of critical domain expertise;   and implementation in the Groups R&D programmes. A supplementary network of R&D centres In addition to ensuring Schneider Electrics presence in the main  areas of expertise and innovation, the role of R&D centres is to  develop the critical expertise given above for the whole of the  Group. It is an additional area of collaboration between members  of the Innovation and Technology Board to organise R&D in the  centres of excellence located within the Groups  ve R&D hubs.  29 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 R&D STRATEGY Diversified partnerships In addition to its innovation and R&D initiatives, Schneider Electric  pursues an active R&D partnership policy with universities and  prestigious institutions, notably Shanghai Jiao Tong University in  China; the MIT Media Lab and Georgia Tech in the United States;  the CEA (Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission),  INRIA (National Institute for IT and Automation Research), cole  des Mines ParisTech, Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble  and Universit Joseph Fourier in France; and Monterrey Institute of  Technology in Mexico. The Group is also involved in numerous collaborative projects  with academic and industrial partners in France and the  rest of Europe, notably in the areas of energy ef ciency and  environmentalprotection. These partnerships are also made by bilateral agreements or  support for chairs, notably the Chair in Modelling for Sustainable  Development with ParisTech, the Chair in Bioplastics with the  CEMEF Mines ParisTech. Efficient processes The design of complex products and solutions requires perfect  control of all the tools and methods that have become extremely  complex, from mechatronics to software. Schneider Electric  therefore relentlessly invests in these design processes, methods  and tools for greater reliability and speed within projects. Spectacular results were obtained by systemising the simulation  at initial stages of the design and now products are mechanically,  electrically and thermally simulated before the  rst prototype is  constructed. This approach is progressively being extended to  complete systems. As far as software is concerned, iterative development is becoming  the norm. This means customers can comment on the increasing  complete versions of a product. Compared to the classic approach,  these methods reduce development delays by a factor of two or  three and produce products of a much higher quality. For example,  the latest version of the energy monitoring solution integrated in  StruxureWare was developed three times quicker and with a team  of half the size of the previous version. Finally, the industrialisation processes are accelerated and made  more reliable by developing standards for the latest components  at a Group level. In addition to the purchasing savings of tens  ofmillions of euros, this programme allowed Schneider Electric to  weather Japans  nancial crisis with a limited impact on its delivery. 3.5  A source of partnerships and innovation By studying emerging markets and technological trends, Schneider  Electric is able to identify potential growth and innovation  opportunities at a very early stage. In 2000 Schneider Electric  created an investment structure called Schneider Electric Ventures  to invest in high-tech startups whose innovations  t with the Groups  future development. Focus areas include energy, communication,  automation and the use of advanced materials and electronics. This  investment vehicle constitutes a source of particularly productive  partnerships and has forges contacts with more than a thousand  small and mid-sized businesses around the world each year. In 2010 Schneider Electric Ventures became Aster Capital Partners  with the launch of a new capital investment fund to  nance innovative  startups operating in the areas of energy and the environment. The  fund is based in Paris and has received capital subscription of  EUR85million from Schneider Electric (EUR40million) and Alstom  (EUR30million), joined in 2011 by Solvay-Rhodia (EUR15million).  Other industrial or  nancial partners may be invited to join this  initiative to create the European benchmark fund specialising in  energy and environment. Aster Capital bene ts from the capital investment expertise acquired  by the Schneider Electric Ventures team which has since been  strengthened by the appointed experts from Alstom and Solvay- Rhodia. The mission of Aster Capital is to take minority interests  in innovative startups based in Europe, Israel, North America  and Asia, developing new technologies that could lead to major  breakthroughs in the  elds of energy and the environment. There  were two new investments in 2011. Ioxus– Investment made in April2011 The American company Ioxus specialises in the production of  ultracapacitors which are used notably in the hybrid buses and  start-stop car engines. These high power density products have  the advantage of capturing and releasing energy in a few seconds  with a quicker recharge time than lithium-ion batteries, providing  nearly 20,000 charging cycles. Ultracapacitors are less bulky than traditional batteries and can be  used for a wide range of applications: hybrid vehicles, wind turbines,  UPS, machine tools,etc. More generally, Ioxus products form high  added value elements within the domain of energy storage and  solution optimisation, a fast-growing market that could reach nearly  1,000million dollars in 2015. Aster Capital invested USD3 million in Ioxus, supported by the  interest in UPS and Energy Metering divisions for products under  development. Avantium– Investment made in June2011 The expertise of the Dutch company Avantium lies in transforming  biomass into biopolymers (designed under the name Furanics) used  as base elements for generating bioplastics or bio-fuels. The YXY  technology developed by the company allowed them, for example,  to develop a PEF plastic bottle from products of 100% plant origin  in partnership with The Coca-Cola Company to replace the current  PET plastic made from petroleum with competitive performance   30 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 R&D STRATEGY and price level. The available markets are vast with noteworthy  potential applications in sectors such as carpeting, car equipment  and electronics. Production will begin shortly with the start of the Avantium pilot  plant. This equipment – with a 40 tonne annual capacity – was  opened in Decemberand  nanced with money from a consortium  of investors, including EUR2.5million from Aster Capital, convinced  of the value of the Companys proposed advances in relation to  green plastics. A deep commitment within the R&D  community Schneider Electric plays an active role in the French and international  R&D community, notably in de ning strategic R&D programmes  and in evaluating projects currently under way or submitted to  Frances business clusters, Frances national research agency  or European organisations such as FP7, ITEA (Information  Technology for European Advancement), KIC (Knowledge  Innovation Community), InnoEnergy and PPP E2B (Public-Private  Partnership on Energy-Ef cient Buildings). The two main business  clusters include Minalogic, specialised in microtechnologies,  nanotechnologies and embedded software and Tenerrdis, which  focuses on new energy technologies and renewable energies. Schneider Electric is involved in the main skills network, the Organic  Electronic Association, and is a promoter of green electronics in  relation to its WG-Green working group. It heads up the Intelligent  Product unit for the Plastipolis business cluster, and participates  in discussions with the French scienti c community in the context  of the Organic electronics research group. Large area electronics  also provide an opportunity for innovation for Group products:  this technology is likely to bring greater  exibility in design, as well  as space gains and new functions on the surface of electronic  products: printed buttons, autonomous screens,etc. Schneider Electric is also a member of the EMMI (European  Multifunctional Materials Institute) support group, whose main  objective is to serve as a common platform for its 15 academic  members in seven European countries to de ne and execute  research or educational projects in the area of multifunctional  materials. EMMI enables different communities to share views about  functional ceramics and organic-inorganic hybrid materials, etc.  Environmental issues play a key role in much of the members  resulting work: examples include projects to design new materials  or systems to reduce electrical consumption, projects to replace  toxic components and a project to develop hypersensitive gas  sensors. In this context, Schneider Electric is supporting a thesis  begun in 2009, and is backing two thesis subjects for 2011.  31 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 ORGANISATIONAL SIMPLICITY ANDEFFICIENCY   > 4. Organisational simplicity  andefficiency The reorganisation of the Group has naturally led Schneider Electric to adapt its organisation so as to have a focus in  line with its strategic importance at any time, in any country and in any business. The implementation of the new organisation was  ne-tuned in early 2011, and was accompanied by a wide-ranging  corporate culture initiative. Designed for introduction alongside the reorganisation, the One company programme has, in particular, facilitated  the rapid integration of acquisitions, notably that of Arevas distribution arm, which led to the creation of the Groups  Energy business (renamed Infrastructure end of 2011). It is also contributing to the establishment of a common  corporate culture within the Group. 4.1  An organisation focused on end markets The year 2011 was dedicated to optimising the operation of the  organisational model rolled-out the previous year, the objective  being to pursue the advances of the three major changes from the  Companys One programme:   within the scope of the 1 Solution Provider change, the  ve  business lines continued to adapt their organisation to reinforce  the closeness of their relationship with the strategic customer  segments related to the lines, whether on the level of different  countries where the Group is present or at a central level. In the  same way, they pursued the development of speci c offers for  these various end customer segments with priority attention  given to the development of integrated solutions, systems and  services offer types;   within the scope of the 1 Leader in New Economies change, the  efforts for rollout of functions and resources, with a key role in the  design of speci c offers for the new economies, were pursued and  emphasised. The role and the scope of responsibility for Global  Functions continued to be strengthen, conforming to the road  map de ned within the framework of the Companyprogramme;   streamlining back of ce functions and standardisation of  information system platforms were pursued within the scope of  the 1 Company change. Dual responsibility – products and customers Schneider Electric is structured into  ve businesses. Each of the  businesses has a dual responsibility in terms of its product lines and  end-customer segments. This dual responsibility for each business responds to the need  to be able to excel simultaneously in two areas: selling products,  which requires clear technological leadership, and selling solutions,  which means building close customer relationships and acquiring a  detailed understanding of end users needs. This shift towards solutions is a major focus of the One company  program. Each of the  ve businesses manages its R&D, Marketing and Sales  teams and has responsibility for its global results. A number of back-of ce functions such as  nance, human  resources, IT systems and marketing are handled by the Global  Functions, which have a governance role and provide services  internally. These  ve activities cover the following business areas:   Power, which includes the activities of Low Voltage (electrical  distribution), LifeSpace (wiring devices and associated interface  devices) and Renewables (conversion and connection to the grid)  further to the transfer of Medium Voltage to the Energy business in  2011 (see below); the business is in charge of the end-customer  segments Residential and Marine when it relates to solutions  integrating the offers of several activities from the Group;    Infrastructure, created in 2011 and previously named Energy,  combines all Medium Voltage activities including those from  Areva Distribution, as well as Telvent; the business is in charge  of the end-customer segments Oil and Gaz and Utilities when it  relates to solutions integrating the offers of several activities from  the Group;    Industry, which includes Automation & Control and three end- customer segments: OEMs, Water Treatment and Mining,  Minerals & Metals when it relates to solutions integrating the offers  of several activities from the Group, as well as Custom Sensors &  Technologies business (Sensors & Automatives), grouped under  Industry from 2011;   32 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 ORGANISATIONAL SIMPLICITY ANDEFFICIENCY   IT, which covers Critical Power & Cooling Services and two  end- customer segments: Data Centres and Financial Services  when it relates to solutions integrating the offers of several  activities from the Group;   Buildings, which includes Building Automation and Security and  four end-customer segments: Hotels, Hospitals, Of ce Buildings  and Retail Buildings.  Rationalisation and optimisation of synergies The organisation is deployed in accordance with three key concepts:  specialisation, mutualisation and globalisation. Specialisation mainly  concerns sales and front-of ce operations. Mutualisation covers  local back-of ce operations at the country and regional level.  Globalisation concerns the six support functions, now known as  Global Functions:   Finance;   Marketing;   Supply chain;   Human resources;   Strategy & Innovation;   Information systems. A substantial portion of the Global Functions costs is re-allocated  to the businesses using distribution keys or application bases that  are generally de ned annually.   Specialisation: in each country, each business has its own sales  force and local leader as soon as it reaches critical mass. It also  has a specialised front of ce in each host country to respond  more effectively to customer demand for speci c expertise.  Each business is also responsible for its overall results, both  for product sales (in its business lines) and the implementation  of solutions (especially for end-customer segments within its  scope). Over the course of 2011, the main efforts in this area  focused on strengthening, and in certain cases, implementing  teams dedicated to meeting the speci c needs of strategic  customer segments with a strong focus on the collaboration  between the business lines, in order to ensure these customers  needs are met as fully as possible. In addition, the 2011 rollout  of a common Customer Relation Management (CRM) tool for all  the businesses, for use from the end of 2011 by 17,000 front  of ce equipment users, represented an important improvement  for better sharing of sales opportunities between the various  business lines.   Mutualisation: a country President is appointed in each country  to oversee the Power business (and therefore, of its income  statement), deployment of Schneider Electrics strategy in the  country (including all local cross-functional issues such as  increasing cross-selling among businesses) and pooling of local  back-of ce resources. These resources are gradually brought  together in each country or region under the country Presidents  supervision and can include multiple local support functions  ranging from administration to project execution, depending  on the situation. In addition, the country President serves as  Schneider Electrics main representative in the country, notably  in dealings with employees and local of cials. The signi cant  advances to note for 2011 in terms of this objective lie in the  alignment between the information systems development plan  in the different regions and the back of ce integration projects  resulting from the creation or acquisition of various entities in  different countries.   Globalisation: major support functions that are not speci c to  a given country or business are gradually globalised to increase  experience and leverage a signi cant scale effect. Manufacturing  and supply chain operations, areas of shared services or expertise  (such as  nance or human resources), information systems and  certain marketing functions (e.g. web services) are now included  within the Groups Global Functions. Over the course of 2011,  these various Global Functions have followed their structuring  and rollout approach at a global level. In particular, the volume of  operations dealt with by the service centres shared by the Finance  and Human Resources functions (Finance shared services and  HR shared services) has been a signi cant development. Geographic dimension and legal structure The Groups goal is to establish, and where possible, a single legal  structure in each country. Schneider Electrics simpli ed legal organisation chart is as follows: Schneider Electric Industries SAS Boissire Finance Operational companies Schneider Electric SA The list of consolidated companies is provided in note32 to the consolidated  nancial statements (see pages 205  and following ). Boissire Finance is the Groups centralised cash-management structure; it also centralises hedging operations for all subsidiaries.  33 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 ORGANISATIONAL SIMPLICITY ANDEFFICIENCY 4.2  A more modular approach to information systems In 2011 Schneider Electric continued with the redesign of its  ITstrategy, in order to gradually roll out a common model aimed at  simplifying and standardising operations. This model is developing  towards a more open architecture, capable of deploying faster and  less inter-dependent IT platforms to allow for easier upgrades at a  lower cost. Four platforms are being rolled out for employee management,  customer relations, back-of ce functions and R&D support systems. The gradual roll out of an SAP-based information system known  as bridge is now focused on back-of ce functions. After pilot  testing in India, Hungary, Austria, Croatia, Romania, Slovakia and  Slovenia, in 2011 the bridge core system has continued to be rolled  out various countries and entities. The roll out will continue in 2012. This thinking at Group level was facilitated by the globalisation of  information systems within a single IT function created in 2009 that  has a governance role and provides services internally. This move  towards globalisation mainly involved:   gradually deploying a single IT Department that serves all  businesses and users within Schneider Electric in a uniform  manner. To achieve this, the most quali ed and competitive  providers – both internal and external – will be used as needed;   gradually setting up a global IT infrastructure (networks, data  centres, distributed computing and help desk) that is independent  of the various managerial lines and that makes the most of the  Groups critical size and accumulated experience. 4.3  Worldwide redeployment of production and supply chain resources Schneider Electric has more than 260 production sites and  110 distribution centres around the world for whom customer  satisfaction is the top priority. While working constantly to improve occupational health and safety  and environmental protection, the Groups manufacturing policy  aims to ful l four key objectives (listed in order of importance): 1. deliver a level of quality and service that meets or exceeds  customer expectations; 2. achieve competitive product costs and keep increasing  productivity; 3. develop the speed and ef ciency of the system and limit  production sites risk exposure (currency parity, geopolitical risks  and changes in cost factors); 4. optimise capital employed in manufacturing operations. A number of the production facilities and distribution centres are  dedicated to the global market. The other units are located as  close as possible to their end markets. Although design and/or  aesthetic features may be adapted to meet local requirements,  Schneider Electric standardises key components as much as  possible. This global/local approach helps Schneider Electric  maximise economies of scale and optimise pro tability and  servicequality. Drawing on its global scope, the Group has re-balanced and  optimised its manufacturing and supply chain resources. The Group  launched a new stage in its industrial deployment in 2010. As part  of the Groups new organisation, the Power business production  and supply chain resources have been globalised and combined  under a single organisation, with global operating responsibility.  Previously, these resources were organised by region and reported  to the various Operating Divisions. In Western Europe, the United States, Japan and Australia,  rightsizing plans continued to be deployed with a focus on  specialising production and supply chain units and reducing the  number of sites. Continuous improvement on a global scale At the same time, an industrial excellence programme called  Schneider Production System (SPS) has been rolled out in all  plants to substantially and continuously improve service quality  and productivity. The programme also takes environmental criteria  into account. Based on a lean manufacturing approach, SPS is  supported by the extension of Six Sigma and Quality and Value  Analysis programmes across the Group. By deploying these  optimisation methods globally and sharing best practices, the  Group intends to lift the operational performance of all its plants to  the same high standard. Schneider Electrics plants and products comply with increasingly  extensive and stringent European regulations and with international  standards governing environmental protection in all host countries.  In many cases, the Group anticipates future standards. In 1992,  Schneider Electric de ned a formal environmental policy, which was  revised in 2004 to take account of changes both inside and outside  the Group. This policy is designed to improve production processes,  promote eco-design, integrate customer expectations into the  Groups environmental protection approach and raise awareness  among all employees and partners about environmental protection  and energy ef ciency. In order to limit risks related to the environment  generally, the Group has implemented an ISO 14001-compliant  process to continuously improve the environmental performance of  its plants and supply chain centres. External environmental audits were implemented in 2011 that were  responsible for validating this process as well as for the consistency  of assessments. The segmented response to customers needs Since 2011, a new approach to progress was initiated in terms  of the search for responses that were better adapted to industrial  operation for each customer segment (distributers, partners, panel  builders,etc.).  34 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 RISK FACTORS This change will be based on six major areas:   the functionality of the industrial and logistic process;   industrial planning;   reinforcement of skills in the target jobs;   optimisation of the industrial operation (suppliers, factories,  distribution);   alignment of the information systems strategy with this  segmentation;   adaptation of the performance measurement. Schneider Electrics plants and products comply with increasingly  extensive and stringent European regulations and with international  standards governing environmental protection in all host countries.  In many cases, the Group anticipates future standards. In 1992,  Schneider Electric de ned a formal environmental policy, which was  revised in 2004 to take account of changes both inside and outside  the Group. This policy is designed to improve production processes,  promote eco-design, integrate customer expectations into the  Groups environmental protection approach and raise awareness  among all employees and partners about environmental protection  and energy ef ciency. In order to limit risks related to the environment  generally, the Group has implemented an ISO 14001-compliant  process to continuously improve the environmental performance of  its plants and supply chain centres. 4.4  Global, selective purchasing Purchases correspond to around 50% of consolidated revenue  and play a crucial role in the Groups technical and business  performance. The Group has globalised 70% of purchases from  strategic suppliers and aims to increase local sourcing in emerging  markets to more than 50% as part of its programme to re-balance  costs and revenue. Schneider Electric primarily purchases raw materials such as silver,  copper, aluminium, steel and plastics, as well as components,  electronic products and services. The supplier list includes  international  rms, as well as many small and medium-sized  companies. Suppliers are selected for their know-how, the quality  of their products and services, their competitiveness, their ability to  support the Groups globalisation approach and their compliance  with environmental and human rights requirements. As a supporter  of the United Nations Global Compact, the Group encourages  suppliers to join as well. A sustainable development agreement sets  out each partys speci c commitments.   > 5. Risk factors The Group operates worldwide, in competitive  and cyclical sectors The worldwide markets for the Groups products are competitive  in terms of pricing, product and service quality, development and  introduction time and customer service. The Group faces strong  competitors, some of whom are larger or developing in certain  lower cost countries. It is exposed to  uctuations in the economic  growth cycle and to the respective levels of investments of the  different countries in which it is present. The Groups widespread  geographic coverage and diversi ed end markets enable it to ride  downturns on speci c markets. As the Group records 39%  of its revenue in emerging or developing  countries, it is exposed to the risks associated with those markets. The Groups wide international presence exposes it to many  economic, legal and political risks in its host countries.  These include risks arising from social unrest (particularly, strikes  and walk- outs), political instability, unforeseen regulatory changes,  restrictions on capital transfers and other obstacles to free trade,  and local tax laws, all of which may have an adverse effect on the  Groups business, results of operations or  nancial position. Schneider Electric has implemented procedures designed to  protect it as far as possible from these risks, which are generally  beyond its control, and to manage them as effectively as possible.  As described in Chapter 3.10 Corporate Governance, Schneider  Electric regularly analyses the risks and threats it faces, which has  revealed six major risk categories as follows:    operating risks that also include the  solution  business, supplier  risks and competitive threats;   industrial and environmental risks that also include risks such as  natural catastrophes and political disturbances;   computer risks and internet-security threats;   market risks covering currency risks and commodity price   uctuation risks;   legal risks that also cover intellectual property;   litigation and related risks.  The Groups main risks and threats are summaris ed in a chart of  overall risks based on their impact and probability.  Risk factors related to the Companys business  35 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 RISK FACTORS These procedures include quarterly business reviews in which  performance and projections are monitored, in terms of activity,  action plans, results to date and forecasts, at all organisational levels  of the Group (see the section entitled Internal Control and Risk  Management). The Group also has the necessary competencies  to manage these risks, mainly through its central functions ( nance,  legal, tax and customs). The protection provided by these measures may nevertheless  prove to be inadequate. The growth and success of the Groups  products depend on its ability to develop new  products and services and adapt to market and  customer needs The sectors in which the Group operates experience rapid  and signi cant changes due to the introduction of innovative  technologies. Introducing new technology products and innovative  services, which Schneider Electric must do on an ongoing basis  to meet customers needs, requires a signi cant commitment to  research and development, which may not result in success. The  Groups revenue and margins may suffer if it invests in technologies  that do not function as expected or are not accepted in the  marketplace or if its products, systems or service offers are not  brought to market in a timely manner, become obsolete or are not  responsive to our customers requirements. To meet these challenges, the Group has an R&D budget which,  at 4 to 5% of revenue, is among the highest in the industry. R&D  and forward-looking engineering involves some 11 ,0 00employees  around the world, a number of them in development centres located  in over 26 countries. This ongoing commitment has allowed the  Group to accelerate time to market and leverage the technology of  strategic partners with whom it has also forged alliances to expand  its line up or geographic coverage. The Group has brought together  all of its electrotechnical, electronic, electromechanical, software  and other technical competencies by creating technology parks in  China, the US, France and Japan. Support centres have also been established in Mexico, India and  China to provide the technology parks with additional skills and  development capacity at a very competitive cost. The Groups business growth depends on its ability to develop,  deepen and enhance customer relationships. The Group must  constantly offer customers innovative solutions built around  high-quality products and services incorporating leading-edge  technologies that are closely tailored to customer needs and  expectations. However, the Group does not have any exposure to  a particular customer. Its ten largest customers represent less than  25% of total revenue. Increasing customer satisfaction rates represents an important  source of competitive advantage for the Group. It closely tracks the  results of the quarterly surveys conducted in more than 80countries  among all types of customers. Improvement targets are set for each  country as part of the One company program, backed by speci c  action plans and progress monitoring procedures. Schneider Electrics strategy involves growth  through acquisitions, joint ventures and  mergers that may be difficult to  execute The Groups strategy involves strengthening its capabilities through  acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and mergers.  Changes in the scope of consolidation during 2011 are described  in note2 to the consolidated  nancial statements (Chapter5). External growth projects are examined in detail by the businesses  and corporate functions (strategy,  nance, legal affairs, tax and  human resources) concerned, under a rigorous internal process  developed and led at Group level. A launch committee is  responsible for initiating the review process to identify the risks and  opportunities associated with each external growth project, while a  number of validation committees review the results on an ongoing  basis. Projects that successfully come through the review process  are submitted for approval to the Group Acquisitions Committee  made up of the main members of senior management. The largest  projects require the prior approval of the Management Board and,  in some cases, the Supervisory Board. External growth transactions are inherently risky because of  the dif culties that may arise in integrating people, operations,  technologies  and  products,  and  the  related  acquisition,  administrative and other costs. This is why an integration procedure for new acquisitions has  been drawn up. The integration of newly acquired businesses is a  process that extends over a period of six to 24months depending  on the type and size of the newly acquired unit. The integration  scenario for each acquisition varies depending on whether the  business was acquired to strengthen or extend the Groups existing  line-up or enter a new segment. There are a number of different  integration scenarios, ranging from total integration to separate  organisation. An integration plan is drawn up for each acquisition  and submitted to the Acquisitions Committee for approval. The  plan is implemented by an integration manager who reports to a  Steering Committee that initially meets at monthly intervals and then  on a quarterly basis. The unit that presents the external growth project is accountable to  the Groups senior management for meeting clearly de ned business  plan targets covering the performance of the new business and  expected synergies with existing businesses. Actual performance is  measured against business plan targets during quarterly business  reviews and, for the largest acquisitions, by the Management Board  and Supervisory Board. Value in use is determined by discounting estimated future cash   ows that will be generated by the tested assets, generally over a  period of not more than  ve years. These future cash  ows are based  on Group managements economic assumptions and operating  forecasts. The discount rate corresponds to Schneider Electrics  weighted average cost of capital (WACC) at the measurement  date plus a risk premium depending on the region in question  (local risk- free rate), the nature of the targets business (appropriate  beta), and the structure of the  nancing (taking into account the  debt to equity ratio and risk premium on the debt). TheGroups  WACC stood at 8.1% at December31, 2011, slightly down on the  2010  gure. The perpetuity growth rate was 2%, unchanged on the  previous  nancial year. Goodwill is allocated to a Cash Generating Unit (CGU) when initially  recognised. The CGU allocation is done on the same basis as used  by Group management to monitor operations and assess synergies  deriving from acquisitions. Impairment tests are performed at the  level of the cash generating unit in 2011 (CGU), i.e. the Power,   36 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 RISK FACTORS Infrastructure, Industry, IT, Buildings and CST businesses. Details  on asset impairment are provided in note1.11 to the consolidated   nancial statements (Chapter5). Where the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is lower than  its book value, an impairment loss is recognised. Where the  tested CGU comprises goodwill, any impairment losses are  rstly  deducted therefrom. The Group is dependent upon hiring and  retaining highly qualified management and  technical personnel Competition for highly quali ed management and technical  personnel is intense in the Groups industry. Future success  depends in part on the Groups ability to hire, assimilate and retain  engineers, salespeople and other quali ed personnel, especially in  the area of energy ef ciency solutions. The Group put in place a Workforce strategic planning process  in 2011 in order to more effectively face this challenge. It allows  managers to anticipate their needs for certain key competences  and to implement HR solutions to recruit or improve these  competences. Group employees will also be able to bene t from  this process by acquiring new knowledge, vital for the Companys  success. The Groups success also rests on a policy of actively promoting  diversity, in terms of both gender and nationality. The Groups human resources strategy is designed to create  a motivating working environment. Speci c policies have been  developed covering international mobility, career development,  training, compensation and managing talent. The Groups  expatriates help prepare the future of its business, build local teams  and assemble the necessary skill sets in targeted regions. They are  tasked with identifying and preparing local successors. The Group  places considerable emphasis on training to expanding its skills  base and retaining employees, thanks to the Schneider Electric  University, its business academies and its leadership programs. Industrial and environmental risks The Group may be the subject of product  liability claims and other adverse effects due  to defective products, design faults or harm  caused to persons and property Despite its testing and quality procedures, the Groups products  might not operate properly or might contain design faults or defects,  which could give rise to disputes in respect of its liability as seller or  manufacturer, notably in Europe, where liability related to defective  products could lead to a loss of revenue, claims under warranty and  legal proceedings. Such disputes could result in a fall-off in demand  or harm Schneider Electrics reputation for safety and quality.  Toprevent or limit these risks, the Group recalls products if there  are any doubts whatsoever that a product or one of its components  is not 100% safe in respect of people and/or equipment. At the end  of 2009, the Group launched a broad recall campaign concerning a  range of low voltage capacitors produced between 2004 and 2008.  This campaign continued in 2010 and 2011 and will be concluded  in this  rst quarter of 2012. Another broad recall campaign concerns  a global campaign to recall Vigi Compact NS/NSX circuit breakers  produced from 2009 to 2011, which started in 2011 and must be  continued in 2012 and 2013. Other product recall operations have  been started in 2011 and are mentioned for the record because,  due to their local nature, the type of risks caused, or the number of  products involved, they have a lesser impact on the Group. Some of the expenses incurred by Schneider Electric in the context  of its product recall are covered by the liability insurance program  described in the Insurance section below. The Group recorded a provision for product risk in an amount  of EUR420 million in the  nancial statements for the year  ended December 31, 2011 (see note 23 to the consolidated   nancialstatements). The Groups plants and products are subject to  environmental regulations The Groups plants and products are subject to extensive and  increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of  its host countries. To limit risks related to the environment in general, the Group is  involved in a process to continuously improve the environmental  performance of its plants and products. In 1992, the Group published  a formal environmental policy designed to improve manufacturing  processes, promote eco-design and integrate customer concerns  in the area of environmental protection. This policy also aims  to identify, assess and prevent environmental risks, in order to  guarantee full compliance with all environmental laws and regulations  applicable to the Groups businesses, particularly those in force in  the European Union and considered more rigorous (notably the  WEEE, RoHS directives and REACH programme). Environmental  provisions are booked when the risks can be reliably measured or  it is probable that clean-up work will be performed and the related  cost can be reasonably estimated. Provisions for environmental  risks totalled EUR57million for the year ended December31, 2011.  If no risk has been identi ed, Schneider Electric will not estimate  the  nancial cost of environmental risks. The Group expects its  spending on environmental compliance programs to increase as  a result of changes to existing environmental regulations and the  introduction of new regulations. There can be no guarantee that the Group will not be required to  pay signi cant  nes or compensation as a result of past, current  or future breaches of environmental laws and regulations by  companies that are currently or were previously members of the  Group. This exposure exists even if the Group is not responsible  for the breaches, in cases where they were committed in the past  by companies or businesses that were not part of the Group at  thetime.  37 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 RISK FACTORS The Group may be exposed to the risk of claims for breaches of  environmental laws and regulations. Such claims could adversely  affect the Groups  nancial position and reputation, despite  the efforts and investments made to comply at all times with all  applicable environmental laws and regulations. If the Group fails to conduct its businesses in full compliance with  the applicable environmental laws and regulations, the judicial  or regulatory authorities could require the Group to conduct  investigations and/or implement costly clean-up measures to deal  with the current or past contamination of current or former facilities  or off-site waste disposal facilities, and to scale back or temporarily  or permanently close facilities in accordance with the applicable  environmental laws and regulations. Information systems risk The Group operates, either directly or through service providers,  a wide range of highly complex information systems (servers,  networks, applications, databases,etc.) that are essential to the  ef ciency of its sales and manufacturing processes. Failure of any of  these hardware or software systems, a ful lment failure by a service  provider, human error or computer viruses could adversely affect  the quality of service offered by the Group. The Group regularly examines alternative solutions to protect  against this type of risk and has developed contingency plans to  mitigate the effects of any information system failure. Dedicated  governance structures have been set up to manage relations with  service providers responsible for outsourced IT systems operations. Problems may also be encountered during the deployment of new  applications or software. In particular, in the last few years, the  Group has developed an information system under SAP (bridge),  which it started to roll out in 2008. This roll-out process was  carried out fully or partially in 17 countries in 2009 and 2010, and  will continue in 2012 and over several more years, depending on  strategic, technical and economic priorities. In view of the projects complexity, extensive functionalities and its  worldwide deployment, a dedicated governance and cost control  structure has been set up to track attainment of project milestones  and limit the related risks. However, despite the Groups policy of establishing governance  structures and contingency plans, there can be no assurance  that information systems projects will not be subject to technical  problems or execution delays. While it is dif cult to accurately  quantify the impact of any such problems or delays, they could  have an adverse effect on inventory levels, service quality and,  consequently, the Groups  nancial results. Market risks Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to risks associated with the effect of changing  interest rates. Interest rate risk on borrowings is managed at  Group level, based on consolidated debt and according to market  conditions. The core aim of interest rate management policies is  to optimise overall borrowing costs. Most bond debt is  xed rate.  AtDecember31, 2011, 81% of the Groups gross debt was  xed rate. Maturities of  nancial assets and liabilities are presented in note26.4   to the consolidated  nancial statements. A 1% change in interest rates would have an impact of around  EUR12million on the Groups net  nancial expense. The  nancial instruments used to hedge the exposure of the  Group to  uctuations in interest rates are described in note 26  to the consolidated  nancial statements for the year ended  December31,2011. The Groups international operations expose it  to the risk of fluctuations in foreign exchange  rates Due to the fact that a signi cant proportion of transactions of  Schneider Electric are denominated in currencies other than the  euro, the Group is exposed to currency risk. If the Group is not able  to hedge them,  uctuations in exchange rates between the euro  and these currencies can have a signi cant impact on its results  of operations and distort year-on-year performance comparisons. The Group actively manages its exposure to currency risk to reduce  the sensitivity of earnings to changes in exchange rates. Hedging  programs mainly concern foreign currency receivables, payables  and operating cash  ows, which are generally hedged by means of  forward purchases and sales. Depending on market conditions, risks in the main currencies may  be hedged based on cash  ow forecasting using contracts that  expire in 12months or less. The Groups currency hedging policy is to protect subsidiaries against  risks on all transactions denominated in a currency other than their  functional currency. More than twenty currencies are involved, with   38 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 RISK FACTORS the US dollar, Hong Kong dollar and UK pound representing the  most signi cant sources of risk. The  nancial instruments used to  hedge the exposure of the Group to  uctuations in exchange rates  are described in note26 to the consolidated  nancial statements for  the year ended December31, 2011 (Chapter5). In 2011, revenue in foreign currencies amounted to EUR16.1billion,  including around USD5.7billion and 2.6billion in Chinese yuans. The main exposure of the Group in terms of currency exchange  risks is related to the US dollar and to currencies in uenced by the  US dollar. The Group estimates that in the current structure of its  operations, a 5% increase of the euro compared to the US dollar  would have a negligible impact on operating margin (translation  effect of EUR30million on EBITA). Equity risk Exposure to equity risk primarily relates to treasury stock and shares  in AXA. These positions are not hedged. At December31, 2011,  the market value of AXA shares were slightly below  their acquisition  cost. An increase in raw material prices could have  negative consequences The Group is exposed to  uctuations in energy and raw material  prices (in particular steel, copper, aluminium, silver, lead, nickel, zinc  and plastics). If the Group is not able to hedge, compensate or pass  on our increased costs to customers, this could have an adverse  impact on its  nancial results. The Group has, however, implemented certain procedures to  limit its exposure to rising non-ferrous and precious raw material  prices. The purchasing departments of the operating units report  their purchasing forecasts to the Corporate Finance and Treasury  Department. Purchase commitments are hedged using forward  contracts, swaps and, to a lesser extent, options. The  nancial instruments used to hedge the exposure of the Group  to  uctuations in raw material prices are described in note26 to the  consolidated  nancial statements for the year ended December31,  2011. In  2011,  purchases  of  raw  materials  totalled  around  EUR1,800 million, including around EUR1,100 million for non- ferrous and precious metals, of which roughly 55% was for copper.  The Group enters into swap and options agreements in order to  hedge all or part of its non-ferrous and precious metals purchases.  Decisions to hedge such purchases depend on Group forecasts of  changes in market prices. At December31, 2011, the Group had  hedged positions with a nominal value of EUR171million on these  transactions. Counterparty risk Financial transactions are entered into with carefully selected  counterparties. Banking counterparties are chosen according  to the customary criteria, including the credit rating issued by an  independent rating agency. Group policy consists of diversifying counterparty risks and periodic  controls are performed to check compliance with the related rules. In addition, the Group takes out substantial credit insurance and  uses other types of guarantees to limit the risk of losses on trade  accounts receivable. Liquidity risk Liquidity is provided by the Groups cash and cash equivalents  and commercial paper programs. These programs are backed by  undrawn con rmed lines of credit. At December31, 2011, the Group  had access to cash and cash equivalents totalling EUR2.8billion. As  of December31, 2011, the Group had EUR2.8billion in undrawn  con rmed lines of credit, of which EUR2.3 billion matures after  December2012. The Groups credit rating enables it to raise signi cant long-term   nancing and attract a diverse investor base. The Group currently  has an A- credit rating from Standard & Poors and an A3 credit  rating from Moodys. The Groups liabilities and their terms and  conditions are described in note24 of Chapter5. In line with the Groups overall policy of conservatively managing  liquidity risk and protecting its  nancial position, when negotiating  new liquidity facilities the Group resists the inclusion of clauses that  would have the effect of restricting the availability of credit lines,  such as covenants requiring compliance with certain  nancial ratios  and material adverse change clauses. As of December31, 2011,  no  nancing or con rmed lines of credit were subject to covenants  requiring compliance with  nancial ratios. The loan agreements or lines of credit for some of the Groups  liquidity facilities include cross default clauses. If the Group were to  default on any of its liquidity facilities, it could be required to repay  the sums due on some of these facilities. Moreover, anticipated reimbursement provisions exist for certain   nancing and lines of credit in case of change of control. Under  these provisions, the debt holders may demand repayment if a  shareholder or shareholders acting together hold more than 50% of  the Companys shares, for the majority of contracts, and this event  triggers a downgrading of the Companys rating. At December31,  2011, the amount of  nancing and lines of credit with these types of  provisions came to EUR5.5billion.  39 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 RISK FACTORS Legal risks Disputes, claims, litigation and other risks Following public offers launched in 1993 by SPEP (the Group  holding company at the time) for its Belgian subsidiaries Co bel and  Co mines, Belgium initiated proceedings against former Schneider  Electric executives in connection with the former Empain-Schneider  Groups management of its Belgian subsidiaries, notably the  Tramico sub-group. At the end of March2006, the Brussels criminal  court ruled that some of the defendants were responsible for certain  of the alleged offenses and that certain of the plaintiffs claims were  admissible. The plaintiffs claim losses of EUR5.3million stemming  from management that reduced the value of or undervalued assets  presented in the prospectus, as well as losses of EUR4.9million  concerning transactions carried out by PB Finance, a company in  which Co bel and Co mines had a minority interest. In its ruling,  the court also appointed an expert to assess the loss suffered by  those plaintiffs whose claims were ruled admissible. The experts  report was submitted in 2008. The defendants and the companies  held civilly liable contest the amounts provided by the legal expert  in their entirety on the basis of such reports drawn up by Deloitte.  Schneider Electric and its Belgian subsidiaries Co bel and Co mines  were held civilly liable for the actions of their senior executives who  were found liable. Schneider Electric is paying the legal expenses  not covered by insurance of the former executives involved. Aftera  settlement agreement was signed with a group of plaintiffs, the case  is pending before the Brussels Appeals Court, as there has been  an appeal against parts of the March2006 ruling or a ruling given  in 2011 by the Court of First Instance on the admissibility of the  plaintiffs claims. In addition, the new owners of the Tramico sub-group, to which  a Co mines subsidiary had advanced funds during the sub- groups liquidation, refused to pay back the funds and asked for  the cancellation of disposal agreements and agreements granting  advances for wilful misrepresentation, also claiming compensation  for having been implicated in the Belgian legal proceedings.  The parties took the matter to a court of arbitration but at the  end of June2011 the court gave a ruling that refused to grant the  application. Relations between the parties then improved and they  signed a settlement agreement putting an end to their dispute.  Based on this agreement, the new owners are paid a settlement  representing the main part of the advances on the principle amount  and have given up the guarantees that were awarded to them. In connection with the divestment of Spie Batignolles, Schneider  Electric booked provisions to cover the risks associated with certain  major contracts and projects. Most of the risks were closed during  1997. Provisions were booked for the remaining risks, based on  managements best estimate of the expected  nancial impact.  Nevertheless, certain new  les implicating the Group for Spie  Batignolles past activities could still arise and result in costs. Schneider Electric, in addition to other sector companies, has  been involved in legal proceedings initiated by the European  Commission with regard to an alleged agreement concerning gas  insulated switchgears (GIS), and this was because of two former  subsidiaries operating in the high voltage segment that were sold in  2001. Schneider Electric did not appeal the decision made by the  Commission with regard to this matter on January24, 2007 and was   ned EUR8.1million of which it claimed two-thirds reimbursement  from its two former subsidiaries. In the same context, EDF Energy UK launched a claim for damages  of GBP15million at the High Court in London on May21, 2010.  This claim is currently being investigated. The Groups products are subject to varying  national and international standards and  regulations The Groups products, which are sold in national markets  worldwide, are subject to regulations in each of those markets,  as well as to various supranational regulations. Those regulations  include trade restrictions, tariffs, tax regimes and product safety  standards. Changes to any of these regulations or standards or  their applicability to the Groups business could lead to lower sales  or increased operating costs, which would result in lower pro tability  and earnings. The Groups products are also subject to multiple quality and safety  controls and regulations, and are governed by both national and  supranational standards, though the majority of products comply  with world-recognised International Electrotechnical Commission  (IEC) standards. Costs of compliance with new or more stringent  standards and regulations could affect its business if the Group is  required to make capital expenditures or implement other measures. The development and success of the Groups  products depends on its ability to protect its  intellectual property rights The Groups future success depends to a signi cant extent on the  development and maintenance of its intellectual property rights.  Third parties may infringe the Groups intellectual property rights,  and the Group may expend signi cant resources monitoring,  protecting and enforcing its rights. If the Group fails to protect or  enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could  suffer, which could have an adverse effect on its business. To mitigate this risk, the patents developed or purchased by the  Group are tracked by the Industrial Property team within the Finance  & Control – Legal Affairs Department. All intellectual property  queries are centralised and managed by this team for the whole  Group and in coordination with the other Finance & Control Legal  Affairs departments it ensures the Groups interests are defended  throughout the world. The same approach and organisation applies  for the Groups brand portfolio,  40 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 RISK FACTORS Schneider Electric was also among 2,000 companies based all  over the world that were mentioned in the Volcker report on the  Oil for Food programme published by the UN in October 2005.  It was investigated by the French judicial system in 2010 with  regard to this report, which stated that the Group had entered into  agreements with Iraqi government between 2000 and 2004, under  which surcharge payments are alleged to have been made to the  Iraqi government of around USD450,000, violating the provisions of  the embargo in force at that time. Various other claims, administrative notices and legal proceedings  have been  led against the Group concerning such issues as  contractual demands, counterfeiting, risk of bodily harm linked to  asbestos in certain products and work contracts. Although it is impossible to forecast the results and/or costs of  these proceedings with certainty, Schneider Electric considers that  they will not, by their nature, have signi cant effects on the Groups  business, assets,  nancial position or pro tability. The Company  is not aware of any other governmental, court or arbitration  proceedings, which are pending or which threaten the Company,  that are liable to have or, during the last 12 months have had, a  material effect on the  nancial position or earnings of the Company  and/or the Group.  Insurance Schneider Electrics strategy for managing insurable risks is  designed to defend the interests of employees and customers and  to protect the Companys assets, the environment, employees,  customers and its shareholders investment. This strategy entails:   identifying and quantifying the main areas of risk;   preventing risks and protecting industrial equipment; having  audits carried out at critical industrial sites by an independent  prevention company, self-evaluation of risks for the other  Groupsites;   organising and deploying business continuity plans and crisis  management resources, notably for health risks such as  pandemics, technical and political risks and natural disasters;   carrying out hazard and vulnerability studies and safety  management for people and equipment;   maintaining the necessary insurance cover for the main risks  facing Group companies under global programs. The Group  carefully screens insurance and reinsurance companies and  evaluates their solvency. In addition, the Group has taken out speci c cover in response to  certain local conditions, regulations or the requirements of certain  risks, projects and businesses. To extend guarantees and reduce  budgets, the Group coordinates purchasing of local cover. Liability insurance The integrated global liability insurance plan set up in 2007 was  continued until December 31, 2011. A new insurance plan was  put in place on January1, 2012 with a new lead insurer providing  suitable terms and limits for the current size of the Group and the  changes in its risks and agreements. Certain speci c risks, such as aeronautic or environmental risk, are  covered by speci c programs. Property damage and business interruption  insurance The global insurance plan put in place on July1, 2010 for an initial  duration of two years has been extended until June30, 2013. This  is an all risks except contract which covers events that could  affect Schneider Electrics property (notably  re, explosion, natural  disaster, machinery breakdown) as well as operating losses resulting  from the risks. Settlements under the global plan are capped at  EUR350million per claim and speci c limits apply to certain risks,  such as natural disasters and machinery breakdown. These limits  were determined on the basis of scenarios of loss established by  specialists and available capacity in the insurance sector. Assets are insured at replacement value. Shipping and transport insurance On January 1, 2009, Schneider Electric implemented a new  global shipping/transport insurance program that covers all goods  shipments, including between Group facilities, by all means of  transport, with a maximum insured value of EUR15.2 million  per convoy. This plan was continued in 2011 was renewed on  January1, 2012. Erection all risk insurance An erection all risk insurance plan was set up on April 1, 2011  in order to cover the development of our services and solutions.  Thisplan aims to provide cover for damages to work and equipment  for projects taking place at our clients premises. Self insurance To optimise costs, Schneider Electric self-insures certain frequent  risks through two captive insurance companies:   outside North America, a captive reinsurance company based in  Luxembourg offers damage and civil liability coverage capped at  EUR10million per year;  41 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 RISK FACTORS   in North America, a captive insurance company based in the US  (Vermont) is used to standardise deductibles for Civil Liability and  Road Accident primary policies. Self-insured retentions range  from USD1million to USD5million per claim, depending on the  risk. The maximum annual retention is USD15 million for Civil  Liability risk. An actuary validates the provisions recorded by the  captive reinsurance company each year. The cost of self-insured claims is not material at the Group level. Cost of insurance programs The cost of the Groups main insurance plans, excluding captive  reinsurance, totalled around EUR21million in 2011.  42 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC DESCRIPTION OFTHEGROUP, ANDITSSTRATEGY, MARKETS ANDBUSINESSES 1 RISK FACTORS  DOCUMENT DE RFRENCE 2011 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 43 Sustainable  development 2  1. Sustainable development at the heart of our strategy  44 2. Green and responsible growth driving economic  performance  52 3. Schneider Electrics Commitment  toEnvironmentalPerformance  60 4. Committed to and on behalf ofemployees  70 5. Schneider Electric, a responsible corporate citizen  81 6. Methodology andaudit ofindicators  90 7. Indicators  98   REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 44 2 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT   > 1. Sustainable development at the  heart of our strategy Social and environmental commitments, governance, reducing  CO2 emissions, launching serious solutions that respect the planet,  social changes, local and regional footing, civic attitude, ethics,  business and poverty – the challenges of sustainable development  have never been as signi cant to Schneider Electrics customers  and stakeholders as they are today. The Group is committed to meeting energy challenges while  acting civically and responsibly in all its locations, with measured  improvement plans, based on international corporate social  responsibility, whose results are audited and shared openly internally  and externally. 1.1  Schneider Electrics approach to sustainable development A concrete, innovative, human commitment Responsibility has always been a part of Schneider Electrics culture.  Since the Sustainable Development Department was founded  10years ago, this commitment has evolved in line with the Groups  continuing innovation. The Groups sustainable development policy  initially focused on internal issues, plus initiatives for the professional  integration of French youth; today, it also accounts for solutions  that help meet the energy challenges of our time (energy ef ciency  and access to energy) as well as worldwide environmental and  societalresponsibility. Schneider Electrics commitment to offering sustainable and  responsible solutions for its customers aims to:   bring products and solutions to the market that waste less  energy and promote environmentally sound production  andconsumption;   bring energy to the 1.3billion(1) people who have no access to  electricity and provide sustainable economic development. Besides, Schneider Electrics corporate commitment means  dynamic societal and environmental responsibility, based on the  Groups employees:   responsible, ethical governance;   sites and products which respect the environment;   fostering employee well-being;   a policy that supports and develops the communities where  Schneider Electric operates. A commitment to action Schneider Electric has set out four principles to put its commitment  into actions (details on following pages):   a continuous improvement process driven by the dynamic Planet  & Society Barometer;   regular and transparent communication (quarterly   Planet&SocietyBarometer newsletter);   open dialogue with stakeholders;   an approach based on international standards, codes and  globalpolicies. Schneider Electric uses its global human resources policies (see  pages   70-80 ), external commitments (see pages   47-48 ), ethical  code of conduct and the associated professional alert program  (see pages 57-58 )   to especially strive for respect of human rights  in all its aspects: non-discrimination, abolition of forced labour,  prohibition of child labour, freedom of association and the right  to collective bargaining, health and safety, training, remuneration,  social coverage, etc. The Company extends this commitment to civil society through its  community support and development program (see pages 81-89 ):  the right to decent living standards (access to energy program,  Foundation emergency relief programs), the right to education and  training (training program for the poorest populations, integration  program in France), local economic development (social investment  funds, entrepreneurship support). Schneider Electric works to share this vision with its partners  (see pages  56-57 ), starting with its suppliers  by encouraging  as many of them as possible to sign the United Nations Global  Compact. (1) Source: International Energy Agency  – World energy poverty 2010.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 45 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY Open dialogue with stakeholders Stakeholder Dialogue Department  Customers   Quarterly customer satisfaction surveys   Online publication of environmental  information on products   EcoXperts Program Quality, Customer Satisfaction, Eco-design,  Energy Ef ciency & Solutions Shareholders and investors   Quarterly telephone conferences to  present results, meetings and plenary  meetings   Regular meetings with individual  shareholders   Quarterly newsletters to shareholders Investor relations Suppliers   Purchaser/supplier meetings   Suppliers day   Supplier quali cation process   Awareness raising on Global Compact  challenges Purchases Employees   Quarterly employee satisfaction surveys   Labour-management relations with  personnel representation bodies Human resources ESG    analysts and investors(1)   Response to ratings questionnaires   Individual meetings   Response to questions Sustainable development Research centres and businesses   Collaborative approach, creation and  participation in competitiveness cluster  initiatives, R&D programs, university  chairs and professional associations R&D and Activities Communities, NGOs   Community programs   Partnerships with local NGOs BipBop Foundation and Program Civil society   Participation in working groups and  local and international organisations on  challenges within our industry According to subject and audience All   Quarterly Planet & Society Barometer  newsletter Sustainable development (1) Environment, Social and Governance  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 46 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY 1.2  Planet & Society Barometer, a regular and objective measure  oftheGroupsactions Planet & Society Barometer   Planet 1.  30,000 tons annual reduction of our CO2 equivalent emissions 2. 2/3 of our products revenues achieved with Green Premium products 3. 2/3 of our employees work on ISO 14001 certified sites Carbon Eco-design Certification Green growth Eco-services Acess to  energy Suppliers Ratings Safety Engagement Training Access   to energy Local   development Profit 4. 7 points above the Groups organic growth gained by our            energy  efficiency activities 5. 10 countries set up a recovery process for SF6 gas 6. 1,000,000 households at the Base of the Pyramid have access to            energy thanks to Schneider Electric solutions 7. 60% of our purchases from suppliers who support the Global Compact 8. 4 major ethical stock indexes select Schneider Electric  People 9. 10% annual decrease in the frequency rate of occupational accidents 10. 14 points increase in the company's employee recommendation score 11. 2,000 employees trained on energy management solutions 12. 10,000 young people at the Base of the Pyramid trained in the energy            management   13. 500 entrepreneurs at the Base of the Pyramid set up their activities             in the field of energy management  Overall Performance in the Barometer (grade out of 10) Stakes Progress plans and targets at year-end 2011 2011 2010 2008 9.38 7.62 3.00 -161,933 -110,156 - 63.7% 26.1% 0 70.4% 69% 58.8%  14.2 8.3 NS 8 3 0 1,291,768 891,058 0 50.4% 42% 30% 3 2 3  -54% -44% -  +32 +16 239 -    1,621  4,742 0 12,318 209 0 391 0    NS =Indicator not monitored  2011 Audited Indicators The 2008 performance serves as a starting value for the Planet & Society Barometer of the One company program between 2009 and  2011.    The arrow indicates if the indicator has increased, remained idle, or decreased in 2011 compared to 2010. The colour indicates if the  indicator is above or below the goal. Priority objectives in response to sustainable  development challenges Schneider Electric has used the Planet & Society Barometer as its  sustainable development dashboard since 2005. The Barometer  outlines the Groups sustainable development objectives for a  three-year period and shows progress made in achieving targets  for the 2009-2011 period on a quarterly basis. There are no recognised standards that de ne an organisations  sustainable development performance. The Planet & Society  Barometer is Schneider Electrics response to this matter. There  are also three-year progress plans for the Groups key sustainable  development challenges. The aim of the Planet & Society Barometer is to:   mobilise  the  corporate  community  around  sustainable  development objectives;   share the Groups improvement plans with stakeholders. The Planet & Society Barometer is part of the One company program  and is administered and promoted by the Sustainable Development  Department. It comprises 13 key performance indicators  scored out of 10. The average of the scores provides the global  performance of the barometer. Departments directly concerned by  the improvement plans (Human Resources, Environment, Access  to Energy, etc.), each represented by a project leader, implement  measures to achieve the objectives of the plans. This project leader  works directly with local managers in their respective areas. With the introduction of the new One company program in 2009,  Schneider Electric de ned new ambitions for its sustainable  development approach, following up on its ten targets for 2005-2008  with 13 environmental, economic and social improvementplans. The table above shows Schneider Electrics sustainable  development performance in 2011. When the barometer was  launched on January1, 2009 the global score was 3.00/10. At the  end of 2011, the Company had exceeded its target of 8/10 and  had attained 9.38.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 47 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY For the  rst time since the barometer was created in 2005, all  the indicators achieved their target of 8/10. Seven indicators had  even achieved 10/10 (CO2 emissions, ISO 14001 certi cation,  energy ef ciency, access to energy, accident rate, company  recommendation, energy management training). Communicating the results of the Planet  &Society Barometer Since 2009, the Planet & Society Barometer has been published  through the following channels:   the website www.barometre.schneider-electric.com, expanded  in 2011 to include an interactive tool;   the quarterly Planet & Society Barometer newsletter informs  the main Schneider Electric stakeholders about the previous  quarters performance and achievements; the newsletter sent by  e-mailed to a list updated continuously;   on the Groups Intranet, the performance of the Planet & Society  Barometer, which re ects value creation for stakeholders, is listed  next to the Schneider Electric share price, which re ects value  creation for shareholders; In 2012, quarterly conference calls have been set with concerned  investors to present the results of the Planet & Society Barometer. For more information: www.schneider-electric.com/baromet er. Sustainable development criteria in  performance incentives Sustainable development components were added to the personal  performance incentives of all members of the Executive Committee  in 2011. These components are directly linked to the Planet  &Society Barometer targets. They are personalised according to  the areas of involvement for each (e.g. Green Premium: production  of Environmental Product Pro les for the members of the Executive  Committee in charge of the activities). Since 2010, the CO2 reduction target has been taken into  account for the performance incentives of all Global Supply Chain  Management personnel who receive a bonus. The reduction in the occupational accidents Severity Rate and in  the Medical Incident Rate is taken into account for the performance  incentives of all managers at industrial sites and logistics centres  who receive a bonus. In December2011, the annual long term incentive plan for  2012  was put in place granting 2,637 people performance shares on the  condition that they belong to the Group on the day at the end of the  acquisition period and that performance targets are met. For the   rst time de nitive attribution of a part of the shares is conditional  on meeting a sustainable development target which is de ned  as the Planet & Society Barometer score at the end of 2013. We  remind that barometer is published externally and its components  are audited. 1.3  External and internal bases of preparation for a solid framework Our external bases of preparation The United Nations Global Compact The Global Compact was launched in 1999 by UN Secretary- General Ko  Annan. It brings companies and non-governmental  organisations together under the aegis of the United Nations to  unite the power of markets with the authority of universal ideals. Parties signing the Global Compact commit to 10 fundamental  principles in four areas: human rights, labour, the environment and  anti-corruption. In signing the Global Compact in December 2002, Schneider  Electric made a public commitment to these universal values. The  Group has primarily worked to share this commitment with its  partners since 2003 (see page56  Relations with sub-contractors  and suppliers). In line with the Global Compact requirements, Schneider Electric  publishes an annual progress report. This publication reports on the  Groups action plans and monitoring indicators for the 10principles  of the Global Compact. Last year, Schneider Electric worked on  meeting the Advanced level criteria of the Global Compact. The  reference table is available on the Global Compact website (COP  2011). With this report, the Group meets the Advanced level again  this year. ISO26000 In 2010, the ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation)  published guidelines on organisations societal responsibility (ISO  standard 26000). ISO26000 is a compromise that gets different  players from the public, private and non-pro t sectors, from around  100 countries, involved, and a vision of how an organisation should  view societal responsibility. Schneider Electrics actions towards  sustainable development are completely in line with ISO 26000.  This standard legitimises the sustainable development actions  undertaken by the Group since the early 2000s and provides an  educational support and framework for its actions in the  eld. The Global Reporting Initiative The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) was established in 1997 as  a mission to develop globally applicable directives to report on  economic, environmental and social performance; initially intended  for companies and subsequently for any governmental or non- governmental organisation. Brought about by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible  Economies (CERES) in association with the United Nations  Environmental Program, the GRI integrates the active participation  of companies, NGOs, accounting bodies, business associations,  and other stakeholders from across the globe.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 48 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY By aligning itself with the GRI in 2010 and obtaining a score of  B, Schneider Electric reinforced its extra- nancial reporting. A  reference table with these indicators and the indicators proposed  by the GRI is provided on the website: Company >Sustainability  >Sustainable governance. Our internal basis of preparation: the  Responsibility & Ethics Dynamics  (R&ED)  program and Our Principles of Responsibility  The challenges As a global corporation, Schneider Electric continuously interacts  with local and international partners. The Groups borders are  expanding, its environment is constantly changing, and its societal  responsibilities and activities are growing. In this international  context, reprehensible behaviour may be seen when the ethics  inspection and prevention processes are fragile. The Group is  responsible for implementing its resources to support employees in  the event of an ethical dilemma. The aim of the program In 2002, Schneider Electric published a set of guidelines entitled Our  Principles of Responsibility to give all team members a common  reference point. The document outlines the Groups commitments  to each of its stakeholder groups: the Companys employees, its  economic partners (mainly clients and suppliers), shareholders, the  community and the planet.   In 2009, the Group updated Our Principles of Responsibility to set  out standards on ethics. This document incorporates updated  Group and employee commitments on the following:   the respect of law, the limits established by each employee to  ensure he or she entirely respects the laws of all the countries in  which Schneider Electric works;   the deontology that all employees must follow in line with the laws  in force in countries where Schneider Electric works;   Group societal responsibility, which all employees must respect  to act responsibly towards society and the planet. In 2010, the Responsibility & Ethics Dynamics program put these  ambitions into practice by setting up an organisation, procedures  and tools for the Group, so that its employees could:   provide team members with effective support in their daily actions  and decision-making, primarily through access to the necessary  resources (policies, procedures, tools & best practices);   help team members identify the appropriate individuals to guide  them in their responsible approach and in each of the areas  covered by the principles;   know how to notify the authorities of breaches of ethics, with  respect for current laws and regulations. For more information: see Our Principles of Responsibility  page57 . 1.4  Global policies Reference documents are distributed throughout the Group so that  all team members can embrace Schneider Electrics responsibility  approach and apply it in line with local culture and legislation. Ethics The Our Principles of Responsibility document is not only Schneider  Electrics ethics charter; it also constitutes a code of conduct. All of  the Groups policies stem from it (environment, quality, purchases  and the different social policies). The document is available in 30  languages and is distributed to all employees. Environment The  rst version of Schneider Electrics environmental policy was  published in 1992, changed in 2004 and con rmed in October2007.  It aims to improve industrial processes, reinforce product ecodesign  and incorporate Group customers concerns for environmental  protection, while providing product and service solutions. It applies  to the Group and is accompanied by global action plans. Social The Groups Human Resources policies cover the following:  diversity, hiring, recruiting, international mobility, training, human  capital development, talent identi cation, total remuneration, social  bene ts and health and safety. These apply to the Group and are  accompanied by global processes.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 49 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY 1.5  An organisation structured through networks Overall operation The Sustainable Development Department The Sustainable Development Department, created in 2002, is part  of the Strategy & Innovation Department since 2008. It has the  following responsibilities:   de ning Schneider Electrics sustainable development strategy  and rolling out action plans at Group level with the concerned  entities;   conceiving  and  steering  Schneider  Electrics  innovative  community projects to ensure continuing improvements in the  Groups performance in this area. In 2010, the Sustainable Development Department was adapted  to better meet the Companys present and future challenges, as  well as the requirements of stakeholders. It is organised around four  areas:   ethics, steering the Responsibility & Ethics Dynamics program  (see page57 );   societal responsibility, with the Schneider Electric Foundation as  well as insertion and expansion programs (see pages85  to 89 );   access to energy, responsible for the BipBop program  (seepages81  to 85 );   supporting and developing the Groups performance, in particular  by steering the Planet & Society Barometer and the strategy and  sustainable development report (see pages46  to 47 ). Supervisory Board Following James Ross, Cathy Kopp has been responsible for  of cially presenting the sustainable development issues to the  Supervisory Board since 2010. She also plays the part of internal  advisor for sustainable development: Cathy Kopp analysed the  Groups sustainable development policies and programs in 2011,  interviewing various managers. A restitution  to the Supervisory  Board is expected in 2012. SEREorganisation – Safety, Environment &Real Estate (see page61 ). Human Resources organisation (see page70 ). Energy Efficiency and Solutions Experts  (fortheoffer) Within the Strategy and Innovation Department, the Energy  Ef ciency and Solutions team rolls out and supports the Companys  and its employeestransition from a product-based approach to a  solution-based approach. To achieve this, Schneider Electric works with a network of 15,000  employees, comprised of certi ed solution sales and marketing  teams and supported by technical experts and over 60 Solution  Centres aligned to supporting customers in local geographies and  key global end user segments, where our solution architects are  developing the solutions its customers want today and designing  the solutions of tomorrow Cross-functional committees There are three bodies made up of members from the Groups  entities who work on sustainable development directly or remotely.  These speci c committees guide and monitor the action plans for  their area of expertise. The  Executive Sustainability Committee Since 2010, the three members of the Executive Committee  in charge of global Human Resources, Global Supply Chain  Management and Strategy and Innovation, meet every quarter with  the Sustainable Development Director to monitor and steer the  Groups action plans in this area. The Strategic Sustainability Committee It was created in 2008 and is chaired by the Sustainable  Development Director. Its representatives are from the following  programs and functions: health and safety, diversity, societal  innovation, environmental management, sustainable RoHS and  REACH programs, purchasing, supply chain, ethics, access to  energy program, communication and relations with stakeholders. The Ethics Committees (See page58 ).  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 50 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY 1.6  Global and local external commitments to move forward collectively Highlights of 2011 Livelihoods: Carbon offset fund for rural  communities Livelihoods is an investment fund to provide investment partners  with carbon credits that have a high societal value, seeking the best  balance between the value of these credits and the value created in  local communities. In Senegal, for example, 450 villages are already  replanting 7,000 hectares of mangroves, thereby rebuilding their  food-producing ecosystem ( sh breeding and crop protection).  This project allows 900,000 tonnes of carbon to be stored in  20years. With a provision of EUR30 to 50million, Livelihoods will  invest mainly in 3 program types: restoration and preservation of  natural ecosystems, agroforestry and soil restoration for sustainable  agricultural practises and rural energy access projects that avoid  deforestation. Schneider Electric, CDC Climat and Le Crdit  Agricole are the main investors joining Danone to create this fund. Business solutions for energy access: White paper  for the WBCSD At the end of 2011 Jean-Pascal Tricoire, with the Chairmen of ERM  and GDFSUEZ, co-signed a white paper for the WBCSD (World  Business Council for Sustainable Development) on the business  solutions to enable energy access for all. This white paper is the   rst signi cant publication from the WBCSD and coincides with  the launch of the International Year of Sustainable Energy for all in  January2012 by the United Nations. Participation in the 17th Conference of the Parties  (COP17) During the COP17, at the end of 2011 in Durban, South Africa,  Schneider Electric took part in many conferences, notably on  access to energy, energy ef ciency of buildings and on Smart Cities,  in collaboration with the United Nations Environmental Program  and the WBCSD. List of the Groups primary sustainable development commitments Schneider Electric works with different local and international organisations on economic, social and environmental issues to foster sustainable  development in cooperation with various actors from society. In 2011, Schneider Electric con rmed its commitment and its participation in  discussions on issues related to climate change. Theme Commitment Sustainable governance International: World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), United Nations Global  Compact. France: member of the Board of Directors of ORSE (French study centre for corporate social responsibility)  and of the French Global Compact network. Energy/Energy  ef ciency International: Alliance to Save Energy (Energy ef ciency), Clinton Climate Initiative (Buildings), Green Grid  (Information Technology), The 2C Challenge Communiqu (Corporate Leaders Network for Climate Action, CLN).  France: EpE (Entreprises pour lEnvironnement), IFPEB (Institut Franais pour la Performance Energtique du  Btiment), Pacte cologique de Nicolas Hulot, Grenelle de lEnvironnement. Diversity France: see page76 . Social policy Observatoire Social International Standardisation With more than 20experts actively participating in international standardisation bodies, Schneider Electric is  making a decisive contribution to the elaboration of standards that ensure the reliability and transparency of  the work on environmental issues of its offers (UTE, Union technique de llectricit et de la communication;  CENELEC, European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardisation; IEC, International Electrotechnical  Commission; ISO, International Organisation for Standardisation) . Schneider Electric plays an active role within AFNOR (French Standards Organisation). It participates in the  working group on sustainable development. Since February2007, Schneider Electric has represented France on the IECs Advisory Committee for  Environmental Aspects (ACEA). The ACEA works to advise and coordinate the IECs efforts to tackle  environmental issues. Miscellaneous For many years, the Group has also actively supported Association pour le dveloppement du mcnat  industriel et commercial (ADMICAL), a French not-for-pro t organisation involved in corporate sponsorship  issues, and IMS-Entreprendre pour la cit, an association that helps companies implement their corporate  social responsibility policies. Lastly, the Group participates in work conducted by CSR Europe, notably in the  area of occupational health.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 51 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY 1.7  Ratings and awards The evaluations by the leading specialist ratings agencies  and by a number of ethical fund managers indicate the  Companys performance in its sector. The evaluations and  awards underline external recognition of the Groups sustainable  developmentprograms. Ethical stock market indices A key performance indicator was set in the Planet & Society  Barometer for the duration of the 2009-2011 One program: to  ensure Schneider Electrics presence in the four major SRI (Socially  Responsible Investing) indices – the DJSI World, the DJSI Europe,  the ASPI Eurozone and the FTSE4Good. At year-end 2011, Schneider Electric was included in three of the  leading ethical investment indices, compared with two in 2010. In  fact, the Group was con rmed in the DJSI Europe index and the ASPI  Eurozone index, rejoined the DJSI World index, and was excluded  from the FTSE4Good index because part of its activity is within the  military sector (1%, mainly in electrical distribution). Thislast index is  therefore not a priority target for the 2012-2014period. Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) indices Schneider Electric is part of the 2011 DJSI World and DJSI Europe  Evaluation for this family of indices is provided by Sustainable Asset  Management (SAM), an independent asset manager headquartered  in Switzerland. Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Schneider Electric was among the 52 companies of the CDLI in  2011; companies chosen for their understanding of climate change  challenges in business. Carbon Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) Schneider Electric was selected in the CPLI in 2011 as one of  29companies chosen for their commitment and action plans to   ght climate change. ASPI Eurozone Index The ASPI Eurozone (Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices)  listing tracks the  nancial performance of 120 leading euro zone  sustainability performers from the DJ Euro Stoxx benchmark   nancial universe. Vigeo ratings are used to select the listed stocks,  in keeping with ASPI Eurozone guidelines. Ethibel Sustainability Indices In 2011, Schneider Electric was included in the Ethibel Sustainability  Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI)  Excellence Global indices. FTSE4Good Indices The evaluation allowing inclusion into the FTSE4Good was carried  out by the British agency EIRIS. Schneider Electric does not  ful l the inclusion criteria because part of its activity is within the  militarysector. Awards 2011 Among the recognitions for sustainable development received in  2011, the Group highlights the following:   Gigaton Award: the Carbon War Room awarded Schneider  Electric the Gigaton Prize for its leadership in energy ef ciency  and the development of the smart grid to effectively  ght global  warming.   Global 100 most sustainable corporations: Schneider Electric  reached 26th place in the ranking by Corporate Knights Inc.   Ethisphere: Schneider Electric was one of the 100most ethical  companies following ranking by Ethisphere.   Zayed Future Energy prize: Schneider Electric received the  Zayed Future Energy prize in the Large Businesses category  in recognition of its contribution to renewable energies and  sustainable development.   Green Cross for Safety: the United States National Safety  Council awarded the Green Cross for Safety medal to Schneider  Electric North America.   Human Capital Trophy: Michael Page International and Le  Monde awarded Schneider Electric this trophy in the category  of Management Internationalisation from among CAC 40  companies.   Best workplace in Brazil and China: Schneider Electric was  recognised in the 150 Best companies to work for in Brazil  (byVoce S/A) and the 50 Best workplaces in China (by Staffers  magazine and the China Business newspaper).   Annual General Meeting Award: Schneider Electric was  recognised by Capitalcom from among the CAC 40 companies  on more than 80 criteria of readability, transparency and provision  of relevant information announced at the Annual General Meeting.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 52 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 GREEN AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH DRIVING ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE   > 2. Green and responsible growth  driving economic performance This chapter covers two subjects:   Products and solutions for fighting climate change: energy  ef ciency, renewable energies, electric vehicles, smart grid,  product end-of-life recovery services , etc.   Business ethics: Group responsibility principles,  ght against  corruption, relations with suppliers and subcontractors. Corporate governance is discussed in chapter 3 Corporate  Governance page 107 : working of the Supervisory Board,  Management Board, Internal Control & Audit, shareholders rights,  remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board, Management  Board and Executive Committee. Context and aims Climate change is one of the main challenges of the 21stcentury.  Schneider Electric works for sectors that account for the majority  of global energy consumption. Energy consumption is not always  optimised, which makes it one of the largest sources of CO2  emissions. As a global specialist in energy management, Schneider Electrics  products and solutions help reduce energy use and CO2 emissions.  The Group is therefore developing energy ef ciency solutions to  reduce energy bills by up to 30% for every type of building. The  Groups solutions also target other areas related to intelligent  electricity networks (Smart Grids): generation and connection to the  renewable energies grid; electric vehicles; and demand-response. Moreover, the Groups products and solutions are sold worldwide,  either directly to end customers or through networks of partners,  therefore without any control over their  nal destination and end- of-life processing. To limit the impact of its end-of-life products,  Schneider Electric has established a system to recover equipment  containing SF6, a powerful greenhouse gas. The Group works in more than 100 countries, with uniform practices,  standards and values. Schneider Electric is also committed to act  responsibly towards all of its stakeholders. Therefore, the Company  has de ned its Principles of Responsibility that apply to the whole  Group and are based on dedicated organisation and processes.  Schneider Electric has also been involved in the United Nations  Global Compact since 2002, which it wishes to encourage a larger  number of its suppliers to sign. 2.1  Overview Four key performance indicators were set in Schneider Electrics Planet & Society Barometer over the duration of the One program  (2009- 2011): Objectives for Year-End-2011 2011 2010 2009 2008 1. Exceeding the Groups growth by 7points per year  with our energy ef ciency activities 14.2   8.3 5.3 NM 2. Implement a recovery process for SF6 gas  in10countries 8 3 3 0 3. Make 60% of our purchases from suppliers who  support the Global Compact 50.4%  42% 33% 30% 4. Ensure that 4 major ethical stock indices select  Schneider Electric 3  2 3 3 NM = Indicator not monitored The 2008 performance serves as a starting value for the Planet & Society Barometer of the One program between 2009 and 2011.  2011 Audited Indicators Please refer to pages 90  to 92  for the methodological presentation of indicators and the following pages for the analysis of the results  (pages 53-54  for indicator 1, 55-56  for indicator 2, 56-57  for indicator 3, 51  for indicator 4 ).  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 53 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 GREEN AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH DRIVING ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Highlights of 2011   Indexation of the performance incentives for the Executive  Committee members to one of more components of the Planet &  Society Barometer, chosen according to their  eld.   Above-target performance in energy ef ciency activities, re ecting  the Groups commitment to this area in its different markets.   Reaching the target for the SF6 gas recovery system as a result of  restructuring the offer in place in various countries.   Return of Schneider Electric to the DJSI World (Dow Jones  Sustainability Index). Revenue breakdown Every year for the last 6 years, Schneider Electric has published a  diagram showing its revenue distribution for its various stakeholders.  This exercise allows the importance of each stakeholder to be  highlighted from the point of view of  nancial  ows and shows their  share in this  ow.        Employees & wages 5,493 million Non-governmental Organisations & Donations 12.4 million Purchases & others 13,440 million Dividends Paid to Shareholders Operatin Cash Flow After Dividend Payment Debt Repayment Net Financial Investments Banl, Loans & Cash 925 1,654 500 2,873 1,216 million million million million million Share Issues & Sale of Treasury Stock Investments &  Development 215* million 2011 Total Revenue 22,387 million Government & Taxes 562 million Net interest Expenses to Bank 301 million * 178 million comes from the employee shareholding plan and 37 million from  long-term incentives exercised? No sales of treasury stock were made in 2011. 732 million Cash ows from external sources Operating costs Cash ow after operating expenses 2.2  Smart energy management products and solutions to help  thefightagainst climate change Our planet is facing an unprecedented energy challenge. By 2035,  energy needs could have increased by 30% to accompany global  demographic, economic, industrial and urban development. At  the same time, carbon gas emissions could increase by 20% -  although experts agree that to prevent dramatic consequences due  to climate change emissions should be halved. Contributing to resolving this challenge lies at the heart of Schneider  Electrics development strategy. The expectations of the Groups customers are also moving in  that direction. They want to reduce energy costs and reduce their  environmental impact by constantly improving reliability, safety and  performance of sites and equipment. Schneider Electric presents an innovative and competitive portfolio  of products, systems, services and software in order to assist  customers further in optimising their energy management.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 54 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 GREEN AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH DRIVING ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Energy efficiency Context Energy ef ciency means using less energy for equivalent  performance or service. Energy ef ciency is the fastest, most economical and most effective  way for governments, businesses and individuals to reduce CO2  emissions. According to the International Energy Agency (World  Energy Outlook 2011), energy ef ciency represents nearly 50% of  the reduction in CO2 emissions required to save the planet. Schneider Electric is one of the  rst companies to have taken a  strong position in support of energy ef ciency by developing  ef cient and competitive offers for all the large market segments. Thus, the growth rate for energy ef ciency activities in 2011  exceeded the Groups revenue growth by over 14points. Offers Schneider Electric promotes active energy ef ciency, which  consists in optimising the entire energy cycle through several steps:   initiate an energy audit that will result in a series of quick win  actions to quickly make substantial savings, as well as an action  plan;   then, automating the systems to maintain these savings;   and  nally, monitoring, controlling and adjusting to make  sustainable savings on energy. To do this, the Group offers a range of products, systems, services  and software:   Products: dimmer switches, timers, heating and air-conditioning  control, variable speed drives, etc;   Systems: building management systems, lighting control,  process supervision;   Services: energy audits, optimisation of energy purchases,  participation in demand reduction programs, etc;   Software:  data  analysis,  remote  monitoring,  integrated  management of energy  ows over several sites, etc. These solutions respond to the standards and regulations in force in  each country where they are marketed. Schneider Electric is continually developing new offers to better  respond to the needs of its customers, notably in the area of  services and integrated management, as well as developing new  distribution channels. Schneider Electrics energy services activity is experiencing strong  growth. The Groups large customers want to manage their energy better  and therefore must better understand their energy  ows. This  involves energy ef ciency audits, metering, monitoring and analysis  services. They then want to optimise these  ows, done using the best  purchasing policies, in order to participate in demand reduction  programs, implement energy performance contracts, and obtain  certi cations (e.g. the new ISO 50001 international standard).  These are energy management services. Finally, this energy management allows customers to reduce the  environmental impact of their activities and to improve their carbon  audit. This involves evaluation and carbon footprint management  services, closely linked to energy management services. The Companys integrated energy management solution is also  experiencing strong growth. It involves achieving a consolidated view of energy  ows over  various activity zones of a single site, several sites, or the whole  of a company. Understanding the  ows means they can be  monitored and then optimised, thus improving the long-term energy  performance of the site or company. Schneider Electric has developed an integrated offer called  EcoStruxure, combining products, systems, services and software  within a single energy management architecture. Schneider Electric has competitive offers for energy ef ciency, as  well as for energy  ow management of industrial processes, security  systems, data centres, and of course buildings. EcoStruxure  combines these various offers to provide the customer with a single  vision – complete supervision of their sites or their company. Finally, Schneider Electric is rolling out an EcoXperts Network in  many countries to provide its smaller customers with simple and  competitive solutions for energy ef ciency and energy source  integration. These are specialised external partnerships trained and  supported by the Group to develop closer working relationships  with their customers at a local level. This network is already in place in the United States, France, Spain  and Italy and currently is being developed in about ten countries,  mainly in Europe and Latin America. Renewable Energy Context Renewable energy is one of the key principles of Schneider Electrics  development, societal responsibility and environmental goals. According to the International Energy Agencys forecast (World  Energy Outlook 2010), renewable energy sources, in particular  solar, wind and hydraulic, should account for more than half of  new energy capacity installed globally by 2035, making it strongest  growing energy mix. Renewable energies allow for growing energy needs to be met  while limiting environmental impact. Ever more ef cient integration in  electrical transmission and distribution networks means that these  renewable energies are also contributing to the advent of smart  grids. Offers Schneider Electric offers a full range of products, systems and  services for solar, wind and hydroelectric energy. Group teams ensure that these are well-integrated into the  electricity grid thanks to our expertise in electrical distribution (low  and medium voltage), conversion and energy management. Schneider Electric serves and connects power plants and large  buildings to the electricity grid, provides equipment to turbine  manufacturers and supplies the residential market through its  network of partners and distributors.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 55 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 GREEN AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH DRIVING ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE   > PARTNERSHIPS WITH START-UPS Aster Capital, the joint Schneider Electric, Alstom  and Rhodia risk-capital fund, endowed with  EUR 100 million, focuses on identifying new  opportunities for growth and innovation in the areas  of energy and the environment. It detects emerging  market and technology trends ahead of the curve  and develops partnerships with promising start-up Electric vehicle Context Fully electric or hybrid vehicles are likely to undergo rapid  development over the next few years and could represent 10% of  vehicles sold worldwide by 2020. They are quieter and cause less pollution than petrol vehicles  and are part of the solution to the energy challenge, as well as  to urban policies that aim to reduce congestion and pollution in  cities. Development of the electric vehicle mainly depends on the  re-charging infrastructure, which must combine safety (for users,  the vehicles, buildings, and the electricity grid), facility (availability  of charging terminals at all times, in every location, and for all  requirements), and the effective integration of the electricity grid  ( rstmobile charge in history). Schneider Electric contributes to electric vehicle development  through recharging infrastructures. Offers Schneider Electrics offers include safe recharging infrastructures,  ef cient energy management systems and high added value  accompanying services. The recharging infrastructure must be completely safe,  rstly for the  user but also for the vehicle, building and electricity grid. Schneider  Electric has developed a full range of solutions for residential or co- owned garages, public and private car parks or roadside parking  and for rapid recharging during a journey. However, for an electric vehicle to be green, the electricity used  for charging must also be green. Priority for charging must therefore  be given to the periods in which energy sources with low CO2  emissions are available. Peak periods must also be avoided as  the electricity grid is already experiencing very high demand for  all other uses. This is why Schneider Electric is developing energy  management solutions adapted to grid cycles. Finally, the variety of charging environments, whether public or  private, single or collective, requires information and invoicing  systems to be put in place for businesses and car service providers. Smart grid - Intelligent networks Context The electricity grid faces several constraints. Demand for  energy continues to increase, electric infrastructures are old  or lacking suf cient capacity, installations need to be more  environment- friendly, and renewable energy sources are increasing  but remain intermittent and dispersed. The grid must therefore be developed into an effective electric  infrastructure combined with an intelligent IT infrastructure: the  smart grid, ensuring continued balance between energy production  and consumption. Citizens and companies are increasingly energy ef cient in terms  of energy use; in terms of production, grid operators (transmission  and distribution) are developing automation and control systems;  and between the two, new mechanisms are being implemented:  load shedding, optimal management of renewable energy sources,  reduction of carbon peak,  nancial valuation of changes in use  behaviour, etc. Offers Schneider Electric offers products and solutions in all the main  elds  relating to the smart grid:   buildings, industrial sites, and residential buildings: energy  ef ciency products and solutions, complex solutions for  integrated energy management, operational and  nancial project  management, electric vehicle charging systems;   production of renewable energy: installation and equipping  of solar, wind or hydroelectric plants, automation and control  systems, SCADA (Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition),  engineering and maintenance;   distribution: control and automation of sub-stations (between  high and medium voltage and medium and low voltage networks),  SCADA, protection and metering systems, outage devices;   demand-response: consultancy and implementation of software  platforms to share data and for load shedding aimed at energy  operators. Recovery service for equipment containing SF6 In the framework of its Planet & Society Barometer, Schneider  Electric looks to create SF6 gas recovery processes, for end-of- life  products in 10 countries, in Europe and in China. SF6 is a gas  used as an insulator in medium voltage devices. It has an elevated  heat capacity and therefore requires special treatment to prevent it  leaking into the atmosphere. The  rst devices containing SF6 gas sold by Schneider Electric  reached their end-of-life at the start of 2000. The objective is to  develop commercial offers that allow customers to dispose of their  end-of-life, SF6 containing devices, in order to completely extract  the gas and recycle it.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 56 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 GREEN AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH DRIVING ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE At the end of 2011, 8 countries had implemented a recovery  process with a local service manager, a recovery solution  (Schneider Electric or partner), customer communication and  effective recovery: Australia and France (since 2009), Sweden  (since 2010), Germany, Austria, Belgium, Spain and the United  Kingdom (since 2011). A considerable effort was made during the  second half of 2011 to restructure the recovery offer already in place  within the countries and to report the information and evidence to  the Companyexecutives. In several other countries, speci c recovery actions have been  implemented: Hungary, Israel, Switzerland, Italy, Japan, Colombia,  Costa Rica, Estonia, Ukraine, Ireland, South Africa, Turkey, Vietnam,  Saudi Arabia, etc. However, these countries do not have a dedicated  local system. In Norway, a recovery process was implemented by the country. SF6   recycling is a legal obligation and Schneider Electrics customers  work with the  organisations in charge of electrical and electronic  waste recycling . This country is not included in the indicator. 2.3  Relations with subcontractors and suppliers Approach As a Global Compact signatory, Schneider Electric has been  involved in an ambitious approach to include sustainable  development challenges in the supplier selection and working  processes. This approach is all the more important as Schneider  Electrics purchases  volume exceeds  EUR11  billion. Schneider Electric has published a charter for its suppliers,  called the Supplier Guide Book, which includes a large section  on expectations with regard to sustainable development in the  following four areas: health and safety, human rights, ethics and  the environment. Since 2004, the Group has been supporting its suppliers so that they  can publically commit and directly adhere to the Global Compact.  This initiative is part of the foundation of Schneider Electrics  approach. A key performance indicator was de ned in the Planet  & Society Barometer regarding the duration of the 2009-2011 One  program: at the end of 2011, more than 50% of Schneider Electric  purchases were from suppliers who had signed the 10 Principles  of the Global Compact or the EICC. This represents an increase of  8 points in 2011. Action plans Schneider Electrics approach to its suppliers in the area of  sustainable development centres around three main action plans. 1. Integration of the sustainable purchases approach into the  selection of new suppliers Schneider Electric uses a quali cation process called Schneider  Supplier Quality Management to select new suppliers. It is based  on an evaluation questionnaire combined with on-site audits by  Schneider Electric quality specialists. This process includes a speci c section on the environment and  sustainable development and aims to assess supplier suitability  with regard to the Groups aims in 3 areas:   social responsibility linked to the Global Compact principles;   environment: ISO 14001, ISO 14062 on eco-design, REACH and  RoHS;   safety: health, safety standards, accidents and severity rate. Sustainable development criteria account for nearly 15% of supplier  evaluation. In addition, all these criteria have a minimum level, below  which a supplier will not be retained to work with Schneider Electric.  Schneider Electric carried out more than 260audits of this type  in2011. This quali cation process applies to all new suppliers and to  existing suppliers in certain cases. It is strengthened by the General  Purchasing Conditions to which all suppliers must conform: OECD  directives on sustainable development, ten principles of the United  Nations Global Compact and regulations de ned in the ISO 14001  standard. Suppliers also commit to respect all national legislation  and regulations, the REACH regulation and the RoHS directives,  and, more generally, the laws and regulations relating to prohibition  or restriction of use of certain products or substances. 2. Support for suppliers adhering to the Global Compact A statement on the importance of joining the Global Compact  is made by the Group purchasing pilot to each major supplier  of Schneider Electric after the supplier has been trained in  the approach. The purchasing pilot also helps the supplier by  supporting them in this approach and giving them the bene t of  Schneider Electrics experience. The sustainable development goals have become one of the  7 pillars used to measure supplier performance since 2011; this  has the particular advantage of allowing the highest-performing  suppliers to become a Preferred Group supplier. Adhesion to the  Global Compact is a key point in this evaluation. 3. Rollout of eco-responsible initiatives Schneider Electric is rolling out several eco-responsible initiatives  with its suppliers. For example, Schneider Electric has chosen to go further than the  European REACH and RoHS regulations. The approach is therefore  rolled out in the Group over the whole product portfolio and all  suppliers, regardless of their geographic origin. Furthermore, Schneider Electric launched an update in 2011 to  the carbon impact analysis of company purchases in terms of its  carbon footprint. Schneider Electric has used this approach to raise  awareness of the importance of this subject among purchasers and  certain suppliers in the most relevant purchasing sectors.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 57 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 GREEN AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH DRIVING ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Finally, by the very nature of its activity, the Group continually  encourages its ecosystem (including customers and suppliers) to  implement energy ef cient solutions. Outlook for 2012-2014 Within the framework of its business program 2012-2014,  Schneider Electric wants to go even further in its work with suppliers  in the areas of sustainable development and social responsibility. One line of action will be to motivate Group suppliers to roll out and  monitor progress plans conforming to the ISO 26000 standard. The  action will be supported by placing the sustainable development  dimension at the heart of the activity and on an external evaluation  process for suppliers performance. The Group will also now work on another plan to develop its capacity  for innovation with its suppliers and especially in eco-design areas. Examples A global workshop organised in 2011 for Preferred suppliers  emphasised the importance that Schneider Electric places on  aspects linked to sustainable development. During this workshop,  Schneider Electric wanted to reward the highest-performing  suppliers, particularly in the Planet and Societal Responsibility  category for which a trophy was awarded. Another example is Schneider Electrics commitment to support  the small and medium enterprises network. This support is given  through an approach to work adapted with certain suppliers. In  France, Schneider Electric is a major player of the International SME  Pact. Schneider Electric is also a committed to employing people with  disabilities. The Company was presented an award by the French  Paralysis Association in 2010 and went on to sponsor their 2011  award ceremony. Schneider Electric continues to place great  emphasis on its commitment in this area through its purchasing and  subcontracting with sheltered-employment workshops or Centres  for Adaptation to Work (CAT). 2.4  Our Principles of Responsibility The Company is constantly interacting with all the stakeholders  throughout the world: its borders are expanding, its environment is  changing ever faster, its activities are becoming globalised and its  social responsibilities are growing. Schneider Electric wants to reaf rm its desire to respect the laws  and regulations in all the countries in which it works. The challenge is to gain and maintain the highest con dence of  its customers and – in a wider sense – of its stakeholders. To  support each employee in this approach, the Group emphasises  the importance of placing responsibility at the heart of its corporate  governance. The Group currently has around 140,000 employees worldwide.  Following the Groups various acquisitions, it has been able to  integrate this exceptional professional and cultural diversity to its  advantage. Driven by Group values, the Responsibility & Ethics  Dynamics program forms the basis of common references.  Schneider Electrics mission therefore takes its meaning from  engaging with individuals and organisations in order to help them  get the most from their energy. A common frame of reference: our Principles  of Responsibility Our Principles of Responsibility is a 15-page document that is as  pragmatic and realistic as possible, a synthesis of the Groups  common commitments to employees, partners, shareholders,  the planet & society. Our Principles of Responsibility does not  claim to cover all ethical dilemmas, but rather serves as a general  guideline. They are adapted locally to meet local practices or legal  requirements. Our Principles of Responsibility were prepared in compliance with  the 10 principles of the Global Compact, the corporate governance  principles, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the  International Labour Standards. As a result, these principles comply  with international standards such as the anti-corruption principles. Today, Our Principles of Responsibility document has been  translated into 30languages and sent to all Group employees. A clause was added to all employment contracts, specifying that  new arrivals had read Our Principles of Responsibility when they  joined Schneider Electric. Adapted processes The Responsibility & Ethics Dynamics program provides each  employee with a method for asking the right questions and seeking  out the right people according to two approaches:   a detailed questioning process to take the right steps in delicate  situations. This may be broken down into three stages: 1. consulting the programs Intranet site, 2.  contacting ones manager and/or a member of the concerned  department  (legal,   nancial,  human  resources  (HR),  environment, etc.), 3. contacting the entitys Principles of Responsibility advisor.   an alert process to guide employees step-by-step towards the  right bodies: 1. contact their N +1 N +X managers, 2.  use existing in-house outlets (legal,  nancial, HR, environment,  etc.), 3. contact the Group Compliance Committee. Three tools accessible to all employees   an Intranet site accessible to all employees from the global  Intranet home page, providing all information on the program and  Our Principles of Responsibility, as well as news and progress in  the  eld;   frequently Asked Questions – FAQs. This tool which is continually  powered was introduced following a collection of reports written  by the managers after the program and Our Principles of  Responsibility were presented to their teams;  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 58 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 GREEN AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH DRIVING ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE   an online e-learning module. The aim is that, at the end of the  session, the trainee is familiar with Our Principles of Responsibility  and more comfortable using them in his or her job. At the end of  2011, more than 21,000employees participated in the module:  94% rated the module as good or excellent. A professional alert system To allow each employee to exercise their right to report a problem,  aprofessional alert system is currently being deployed. In compliance with local legislations, this market solution is provided  by an independent company and proposes alert categories, a  questionnaire, and information exchange protocol between the  person issuing the alert and the person responsible for investigating  it. The main players in this process are the Compliance Of cers (see  Dedicated teams and organisation). The system is currently in place on the American continent and  implementation is planned for the whole Group, accompanied by an  internal communication plan that identi es the persons responsible  for investigating alerts received. Dedicated teams and organisation The program requires implementation of an organisation including  the following:   a Governance Committee and a network of Principles of  Responsibility Advisors. They are responsible for the implementation and roll out the  Responsibility & Ethics Dynamics program.   a Compliance Committee and a network of Compliance Of cers. They are responsible for detecting and managing cases of non- compliance with the processes de ned, in line with local laws and  regulations and Our Principles of Responsibility. Stakeholders and committees exercise their authority within  activities of in uence and control. In particular, the Governance Committee must ensure coherence  with the Groups strategic plans. It provides Executive Committee  members with information on trends that, for example, implement  the company change program. Governance Committee Compliance Committee Executive Committee One a year Twice a year Upon Request Define, Explain & Spread the Rules Detect & Manage Non Compliance PoR Advisers (1 per Entity) Compliance Officers (1 per geograph. area) Measuring rollout and effectiveness The Responsibility & Ethics Dynamics program is primarily the  subject of regular internal communication. The objective is to inform  all the employees and remind the management teams of the priority  actions that they must drive forward, dependent on the risks to  which they are exposed in their countries of operation. Two particular actions were undertaken in 2011:   one for the Country Presidents during the year to reemphasize  the importance of their role as sponsor for their countries, the  expectations at the end of 2011 and to respond to their questions;   and another addressed to the 500 main Group managers to  inform them of the developments brought by the program  and to raise their awareness once more on the importance of  communication within their teams. In addition and since the program was launched in 2010, it has  been the subject of an assessment conducted by Internal Audit. Our Principles of Responsibility were rolled out in all the Groups  entities in 2010. The results of the Internal Audit, including the   ndings of a survey of 10,000employees and an audit that includes  Argentina, China, the United Arab Emirates, the United States,  France, India, Indonesia, Italy, and Russia were:   73% of employees questioned said they were familiar with Our  Principles of Responsibility;   84% of survey participants stated that the information given was  useful and comprehensive. In 2011, the assessment of the Responsibility & Ethics Dynamics  program as a whole, with a particular focus on the 19 most exposed  countries in which the Group works, according to the corruption  perception index of Transparency International. The audit shows the level of knowledge of Our Principles of  Responsibility stands at 75% (83% if a recently acquired entity is  excluded). Beyond the  gures, the audit makes two very important  points clear to us:   on the one hand, regarding the means of communication judged  the most effective;   and on the other, on the level of perception of Our Principles of  Responsibility by position within the company. For 2012, these lessons are driving us to integrate communication  into the Schneider Electric University programs and to use  supplementary action for the job posts where the result is weakest.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 59 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 GREEN AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH DRIVING ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2.5  Fight against corruption Approach and action plans Schneider Electric must complete surveys, controlled by rating  agencies and investors on sustainable development practices,  which often include questions on very speci c subjects such as our  anti-corruption policies. The Group makes an effort to respond to all  questions with full transparency. The Governance Committee, presided over by the Executive Vice  President for Strategy & Innovation, applies a seven-point progress  plan based on the Responsibility &Ethics Dynamicsprogram: 1. identify high level employees to monitor the rollout of the  Responsibility & Ethics Dynamics program; 2. de ne best practices to prevent illegal actions, strengthen  managements major role and promote use of the professional  alert system; 3. ensure that all policies comply with Our Principles of Responsibility; 4. inform employees of standards and procedures; 5. implement monitoring, audit, and reporting systems; 6. establish a discipline for the practical implementation of standards  and procedures; 7. in the event of a breach of the ethics principles, take the corrective  measures necessary, including the consolidation of procedures. Examples In full coordination with the Responsibility & Ethics Dynamics  program, the awareness-raising actions, linking the Sustainable  Development, Legal, Security and Internal Audit functions have  been led by the line managers in 2011. Various other anti-corruption initiatives have been implemented, at  the national or regional level:   in France, Schneider Electric is involved in de ning ethical  standards as part of the Business Ethics Commission of the  GIMELEC, a grouping of electrical equipment manufacturers;   in Russia, Schneider Electric signed an ethics charter with the  Association of European Businesses;   Schneider Electric Egypt obtained speci c anti-corruption  certi cation for its work with the National Electricity Corporation  in Sudan. Award for excellence 2011 The Group is also proud of having been included once again in The  Ethisphere Institutes Worlds Most Ethical Companies indicator. Schneider Electric is among 100 international companies  recognised for their ethical commitment and behaviour. The  performance measures looks at the existence and consistency  of governance, the reputation and in uence of the company, the  quality of actions promoting citizenship and social responsibility,  and the culture and actions promoting ethics. This recognition  is reassuring for the Group as it implements the Responsibility  &Ethics Dynamicsprogram. Outlook for 2012 Program rollout will continue in 2012 along various axes:   implementation of the recommendations given during the internal  audit in late 2011, primarily continuing communication actions  and training for employees in countries most susceptible to  breaches of ethics;   continuation of implementing simple measures to enable  employees to understand ethical dilemmas in an operational  context and to help them place themselves above the risk level  to which they may be exposed;   working with the Principles of Responsibility Advisors to  forge closer ties between the principles and the operational  procedures and directives that should be readily available to all  Groupemployees.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 60 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE   > 3. Schneider Electrics Commitment  toEnvironmentalPerformance This chapter deals with the environmental impact of the Groups industrial activities. The products and solutions offered by Schneider Electric  which help reduce the environmental impacts of our customers activities are described in part 2, (page52 ). 3.1  Overview Context and aims Schneider Electric does not produce or distribute energy. It  conceives and builds electrical products and proposes integral  solutions for a number of market segments. The great majority of  these products are installation components for energy management.  They consume little energy compared with the devices they control,  and the losses through dissipation are negligible compared with  the energy in transit. Production activities, for their part, mainly call  on assembly and control techniques and only minimally integrate  procedures with a signi cant environmental impact, such as the  transformation and treatment of metals. With a company presence in more than 100 countries resulting  from a continual rhythm of acquisitions, Schneider Electric applies  a common environmental policy to all its entities and rolls out  the same programs for certi cation, reporting and performance  objective throughout all its geographical locations. Schneider Electric commits to protecting the environment and health  through the following objectives contained in the One company  program:   to roll out ISO14001 certi cation and the Groups environmental  reporting to 100% of the industrial sites and logistics centres  (more than 50 people ) within  two years after their creation or  acquisition, and to  the large tertiary sites (more than 300 people );   to roll out energy ef ciency monitoring solutions to 100 sites  covering 75% of the Groups total consumption (Energy Ef ciency  Monitoring program);   to reduce energy consumption of sites by 4% per year, to limit  SF6 emissions to 1% of consumption (1.2% target revised to  1%) and to reduce the air freight portion to 20% of long distance  freight;   to monitor water consumption for all ISO 14001 sites and control  deviations (+/- 10%);   to monitor VOC emissions (Volatile Organic Compounds) for all  ISO 14001 sites holding emissions permits or emitting more than  one tonne per year;   to achieve 2/3 of product revenue with products that have a life  cycle analysis and chemical substance usage that is controlled  and limited (Green Premium). Three performance indicators were set in the Planet and Society Barometer for the duration of the One program (2009-2011): Objectives for Year-End-2011 2011 2010 2009 2008 1.  30,000 tonnes annual reduction of CO2 emissions - 161,933 -110,156 -44,089 - 2.  2/3 of products revenues gained with Green  Premium products  63.7%   26.1% 2.6% 0 3.   2/3 of employees  work in ISO14001 certi ed sites  70.4%   69.0% 63.7% 58.8%  NM  =indicator not monitored. The 2008 performance serves as a starting value for the Planet & Society Barometer of the One program between 2009 and 2011.   2011 Audited Indicators Please refer to pages 90  to 92  for the methodological presentation of indicators and the following pages for the analysis of the results  (pages61-64  for indicator 1, 64-67  for indicator 2 and 67  for indicator 3).  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 61 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE Organisation At the corporate level, the Sustainable Development Department  establishes the Groups environmental strategy and leads the  corporate environmental actors, jointly with the Global Supply Chain  Management. The Director of Sustainable Development is ranked  below the Executive Vice President of Strategy and Innovation  (member of the Groups Executive Committee). The Environment Director, ranked below the Senior Vice President  of the Global Supply Chain Management (member of the Groups  Executive Committee), de nes and rolls out the environmental  policies and programs; he reports the results and leads the  environmental manager network comprising:   for product management: environmental managers in each  business who are responsible for integrating environmental  concerns in line-up management, environmental representatives  who are responsible for assessing the impact on marketing,  and environmental specialists with expertise in integrating  environmental aspects into product design;   for site management: environmental managers in each major  region, environmental managers in each large region with  signi cant business volume, and environmental managers in  each plant or supply chain centre. In 2010, the organisation within Global Supply Chain Management  changed from a corporate only leadership to a regional organisation  (North America, Asia-Paci c, Europe-Middle East, Africa and South  America). Three SERE (Safety, Environment, Real Estate) directors  were appointed: each one is responsible for implementing the  Groups policies in these  elds for all sites within their geographical  area and for reporting on progress plans. There is a meeting of the  three directors every quarter to ensure coherence in the Security,  Environment and Real-Estate policies for the entire Group. To  implement this policy, the SERE directors lead a network of more  than 200 managers responsible for the environmental management  of industrial, logistic, and administrative sites. These networks have access to a wide range of management  and experience sharing resources including directives, application  guides, an intranet site, and databases. The Transport Director, within Global Supply Chain Management,  is in charge of measuring and reducing freight CO2 emissions at  Group level. Highlights of 2011   indexation of the performance incentives for the Executive  Committee members to one of more components of the Planet  & Society Barometer, chosen according to their  eld: particularly  Green Premium for Global Supply Chain Management and  Activities, CO2 reductions, ISO 14001 and Energy Ef ciency  Monitoring for the Global Supply Chain Management;   a very steep rise in the Green Premium indicator, particularly  as a result of the Environment Director rejoining the Executive  Committee Management  in charge of Global Supply Chain  as  well as because of the indexation of a portion of the  performance  incentives of the Activity directors of progress plans linked to  Green Premium;   sustained reduction in CO2 emissions due to the efforts to reduce  the SF6 leakage rate in industrial processes (0.94% leakage at  the end of 2011). 3.2  Reduction of CO2 Emissions Approach Schneider Electric is not subject to European quotas on carbon  emissions since it is an industrial business that globally produces  few emissions in comparison to energy intensive industries.  Schneider Electric is therefore classi ed in the low emissions sector  by the Carbon Disclosure Project(1). However, the Group has de ned  measures to reduce its carbon emissions. With the support of the Carbon 4 consultancy  rm, Schneider  Electric in 2011 updated the carbon footprint  performed in 2007  (from 2006 data), from its upstream suppliers to its downstream  distribution chain. The main sources of emissions remain the same:  purchase of raw materials (steel, plastic, metal) and equipments  represents around 70% of the total. The logistics involving  upstream and downstream supply from and to suppliers and  rst  tier customers represents 15%, of which the main part comes from  road freight. Schneider Electric is aiming to reduce these emissions  by 10% over the next three years. Direct emissions (scope 1 and  2) in Group buildings represent around 9%. More modest sources,  employees travels and waste represent 5% and 1% respectively. This emissions split is representative of a second transformation   activity. Compared to emissions evaluated in 2006, carbon intensity of the  Group fell and certain sources were the subject of speci c work in  which the results are very visible: SF6 emissions for example were  signi cantly reduced. Finally, the structure of emissions has changed: freight emissions as  a percentage have decreased following a correction of the method  used for 2006  gures. 9%  Site energy consumption (and SF6) 15% Logistics transportation (from upstream to customer delivery) 1% Others (including waste) 5% Employee travel (daily commute  and business trips) 70% Purchases of raw material and equipment (1) Source: Carbon Disclosure Project 2008, Survey of the SBF120 French companies.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 62 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE In the Planet & Society Barometer, Schneider Electric has set the  following objectives for 2009-2011:   to reduce the CO2 equivalent emissions by 30,000 tonnes per  year over the total of scope1 and2 for the GHG Protocol (1) (SF6 gas emissions in the industrial sites concerned, and energy  consumption of industrial and supply chain sites and of some  tertiary sites) as well as for a part of scope 3 for the GHG  Protocol(1) (air freight in the long distance freight transport mix(2)).  The objective is to reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 15%  over three years on a constant basis compared to 2008. These  reductions are avoided emissions due to optimisation efforts,  see calculation methodology on page90 ;   implement a recovery process for SF6 gas in 10 countries.  The  rst devices containing SF6 gas sold by Schneider Electric  reached their end-of-life at the start of 2000. The objective is to  develop commercial offers that allow customers to dispose of  their end-of-life, SF6 containing devices, in order to completely  extract the gas and recycle it (see pages55-56 ). During the period of the One program (2009 -2011), Schneider  Electric saved nearly 162,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. the Group  exceeded the reduction target of 30,000 tonnes per year (i.e.  90,000 tonnes over the three-year period of the program). The following actions were undertaken to achieve the target:   the carbon footprint of scopes1 and2, as de ned in the GHG  Protocol, is calculated monthly, as is the performance of each  site concerned;   since 2010, the carbon performance has been presented  monthly to the Management Committee of the Global Supply  Chain Management by the Groups Environmental Director and  the three SERE Directors (SERE – Safety, Environment, Real  Estate);   since 2010, the CO2 reduction target has been taken into  account for the performance incentives  of all Global Supply Chain  Management personnel who receive a bonus;   in 2011, the reduction of the carbon footprint and the rollout of  Energy Ef ciency Monitoring (see page63 ) were included in the  performance incentives of the Executive Committee member in  charge of Global Supply Chain . In 2011, Schneider Electric worked on de ning its new carbon  emission reduction targets for the 2012-2014 period within the  scope of the next Company Program. The Groups approach is  based on measuring, controlling and reducing CO2 emissions,  starting with the most direct ones upon which the Group has most  impact and greater reliability in terms of metering (these correspond  to scopes 1 and 2 de ned in the GHG Protocol) followed by  more  indirect emissions (corresponding to scope 3 of the GHG Protocol).  Thus, Schneider Electric maintained the target cap of 0.95% of SF6  leakage for the 2012-2014 period and included the new targets in  the Planet & Society Barometer:   10% savings in energy consumption;   10% CO2 savings in transport. Action plans Actions to reduce SF6 emissions The performance of the Planet & Society Barometer in CO2 savings  is mainly due to the reduction of SF6 leaks in the production  processes, resulting from:   mandatory monthly reporting since 2010 rather than twice yearly  in 2009;   a Failure Modes, Effects and Criticality Analysis (FMECA) deployed  for manufacturing processes that involve SF6gas since2010;   improvements in processes and measurement on certain high  emission sites, particularly the SCFME Libourne site (France), the  largest European site, and the SBLMV Peking site (China), the  Asian site with the highest SF6 consumption. Note that the emissions reductions for SF6, and therefore of CO2  equivalent, are normalised, i.e. they are calculated at a production  level equivalent to the period from one year to the next. To obtain the target for the Planet and Society Barometer, industrial  leakage of SF6 gas had to be reduced from  a rate of 4% at  the end  of 2008 to a rate of 1.2% by the end of 2011 for gas consumed  during production. The target for 2011 went even further, aiming for 1%. This target  was exceeded with an effective leakage rate of 0.94%. Energy Savings In general, Schneider Electric sites are low consumers of energy,  compared with more energy intensive industries. However,  Schneider Electric wishes to set an example in the reduction of  energy consumption by applying its own solutions. Energy Action program Approach Energy Action is a program for the continual reduction in energy  consumption in all of the Groups sites. The objectives are:   cutting out waste of electricity, natural gas and oil, and thereby  reducing costs;   deploying Schneider Electrics energy ef ciency solutions at its  own sites;   raising employees awareness about new energy ef ciency  solutions and their own contribution to product development. Around 9% of total Group emissions come from energy  consumption at  its sites (according to the carbon   footprint of 2012).  Energy ef ciency in  the sites, with an objective of a 4% decrease in  2010 compared to 2009 and a 4% decrease in 2011 compared to  2010, helps  ful l  the objective for the reduction of CO2 emissions for  the Planet & Society Barometer. Since 2005, Schneider Electric has  xed annual objectives for  reduction and publishes (internally) the energy consumption of each  of its production and logistics sites each year, as part of the Energy  (1) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) is the most widely-used international accounting tool for CO2-equivalent emissions. Scope 1  corresponds to greenhouse gas emissions from sources held or controlled by the company. Scope 2 corresponds to emissions for the genera- tion of electricity consumed by the company. Scope 3 corresponds to all other indirect emissions of the company from sources that it does not  hold or control (transport, use of products and services, etc.). (2) Long-distance freight includes air freight and maritime freight.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 63 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE Action program. The Group met and in some cases exceeded  its objective of reducing energy consumption per production site  employee by 10% between 2005 and 2008. The Planet & Society Barometer for the One program (2009-2011)  extended the monitoring of consumption to tertiary sites with  more than 300employees, including these into the objectives for  ISO14001 certi cation of sites. The Groups head of ce in France  was therefore certi ed according to the ISO14001 environmental  management standard, the EN 16001 energy management  standard in 2010 and the new ISO 50001 certi cation in 2011. The  sites energy consumption is monitored on a monthly basis by the  Management Board of Global Supply Chain Management since  2010. Global Supply Chain Management is responsible for all of  the Groups sites. Action plans The Energy Action program uses Schneider Electric energy  service activities to identify opportunities in key areas as HVAC,  certain equipment (such as air compressors), lighting and speci c  industrialprocesses. Many initiatives and awareness campaigns are implemented  internally to improve understanding of the short and long term  bene ts of energy ef ciency. There is also a dedicated Intranet site  that provides information on progress and the results obtained as  part of Energy Action. Events and symposiums have been organised  in France, the UK, Korea, Turkey, South Africa, Singapore, and the  US for Group customers and, more widely, partners. The program resulted in the following achievements in 2011:   155 sites conducted formal internal audits of their energy  consumption over the last 3 years;   around EUR3million were invested in energy ef ciency projects,  generally with a return on investment of less than three years;   100,000 lights were replaced, 500 speed drives were used,  1,900 meters were placed in 160 sites, hundreds of sensors,  regulators, and building management systems were installed. The business program 2012-2014 with its target of achieving an  extra 10% energy ef ciency over three years compared to 2011,  includes the following targets:   installation of remote control tools for energy consumption and  of the Summit dashboardDView by Summit Energy for all sites  above 5,000m2;   implementation of ISO 50001 standard for energy management  in 20 sites;   identi cation of opportunities to reduce energy consumption over  all sites as a result of the Energy Action audits. Examples Equipping buildings:   the Hyderabad site in India has implemented an extended range  of Schneider Electric energy management solutions, installing  movement and light sensors, variable speed drives in the  hydropneumatic system, and a building management system  to control the plant temperature. All these efforts have led to  a saving of 39% on the total energy consumption of the site,  resulting in an award of  rst prize in the General Category of the  National Energy Conservation Awards in 2011 (from the Indian  Of ce of Energy Ef ciency);   in Germany, 12,500 m solar panels were installed in 2011 on the  roof of the Ratisbonne factory, representing the largest installation  of this type in the Ratisbonne region. In Carros (France), energy ef ciency was considered during the  architectural design of the new building:   the architect was able to commit to an annual energy consumption  limited to 40kW/m2;   the photovoltaic panels were installed on the roof to cover almost  all the energy needs and a green roof was placed over the  connection area;   the twin skin metal cladding was placed on the west face of the  building to reduce thermal  ows and avoid their absorption by  the building;   the coloured metal plates were incorporated within the walls of  the building to allow natural cooling at certain times of the night;   water is pumped and used by the natural cooling system. Processes: the LifeSpace Department succeeded in increasing  from 20 to 30% the reduction in its energy consumption by installing  several variable speed drives in its injection casting machines and a  cooling tower on 5 production sites in the Asia-Paci c zone (China,  Malaysia, Vietnam, India and UAE). The Malaysian site (CMK) alone  made total savings of EUR 17,000between April and August2011. Energy Action in North America: the Smyrna site (Tennessee), which  manufactures medium voltage switchgears and is the technical  design centre for electrical distribution equipment, installed a  1 MW solar photovoltaic energy generating system. This dual  voltage photovoltaic installation, among the  rst in the world, will  be used as a source of green energy and as a test laboratory for  Schneider Electric technologies. The electricity produced by the  system powers more than half the site by using sunlight as the only  energysource. The Energy Ef ciency Monitoring (EEM) program Energy Ef ciency Monitoring is a centralised energy performance  monitoring program (excluding changes in temperature and  production). The objective is to provide the various levels of  management with a single scorecard that displays the energy  performance of all sites in the scope of environmental reporting to:   accurately manage energy costs;   compare site performance to identify inef ciency;   help ful l the Groups environmental objectives. At the end of 2010, close to 60 of the most energy intensive  factories in North America and Europe deployed EEM to accurately  measure their energy consumption. Schneider Electric continued to roll out the EEM program during  2011 in its most energy intensive sites to ensure accurate  measurement of the actual reduction in energy consumption,  eliminating the effects of changes in climate and activity level from  one year to the next.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 64 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE The objective for 2011 was to roll out EEM in 100 factories covering  at least 75% of the Groups total energy consumption. At the end  of 2011, the target had been exceeded as 160 sites had energy  consumption remote control tools, representing around 90% of  total consumptions. The Green IT program Green IT is a program to reduce the energy consumption of  Schneider Electrics IT infrastructure (data centres, servers, and IT  devices). It also aims to use IT technologies to reduce business  travel using telepresence/HD videoconferencing systems. The main objectives are:   optimise the number of data centres and their energy ef ciency  using Schneider Electric products and solutions;   train all IT employees on best ef ciency and carbon practices;   ensure that more than 80% of the equipment bought is Energy  Star quali ed. The following measures were implemented in 2011:   consolidation of three of the main data centres operating the  Groups SAP platform on a single site with optimised energy  ef ciency (PUE <1.2), thus saving 240MWh;   roll out of a Green IT electronic training module to all IT personnel;   continuation of a global server virtualization plan, resulting in an  average cut of 40% in electrical consumption. Actions to reduce emissions linked to freight Long distance freight In 2011, the mobilisation of major players in the supply chain and  logistics allow efforts to reduce air freight to be continued in favour  of sea transport for long distance freight. The CO2 savings made  by these actions are included in the carbon indicator of the Planet  & Society Barometer 2009-2011. In 2011, air freight tonnage  represented 17% of joint air and sea tonnage, as against 20% in  2010. Working on the structure of international  ows – by making use  of the growing importance of European and Singaporean hubs  –has meant that the number of network point-to-point  ows has  been halved. This has resulted in a mass use of  ows on maritime  routes that link Europe to Asia and a reduction in greenhouse  gasemissions. Short distance freight Continual streamlining of the supply chain has allowed important   ows in Europe from France to Russia to be transferred from a road  route to a short sea route that is more reliable in terms of delays,  less expensive and more environmentally friendly. Schneider Electric has taken an active role in the Smartway Europe  initiative concerning road transport, which produces the most  signi cant portion of the Groups emissions. Around thirty supply  chain and some shipping multinationals are involved in this initiative  that aims to promote a European framework to address the issue of  CO2 transport emissions. Schneider Electric is particularly involved  in the thought process surrounding the development of a tool for  reporting carbon dioxide emissions on a simple shared basis.  The Company is also a stakeholder in the extension of Smartway  Europe launched in Asia under the name Green Freight Asia.  Smartway Europe and Green Freight Asia also allow for promoting  good practise in terms of sustainable development in transport and  for advocating the implementation of supranational rules regarding  standardisation of emission measurement methods. Emission reduction target A new carbon audit was launched in 2011 at Group level that aimed  to recover – on 70% of our transport costs at a global level – the  greenhouse gas emissions generated by transport. This summary  is based on the information provided by approximately 60 of the  largest transport providers of the Group. The exercise has resulted in  speci c collaborative meetings with the transporters to understand  better their calculation hypotheses and to start to plan the actions  required to reduce their carbon footprint. More generally, a working framework was de ned to detail the  attributes of Preferred Suppliers with whom Schneider Electric  wants to develop the volume of activity. In order to become a  Preferred Supplier, the transporter must be able to measure and  provide information their carbon footprint. In 2011, training dedicated to greenhouse gas emissions in  transport was implemented in order to emphasise the importance  of this subject in the Groups strategy, to explain to the teams how  to measure and consolidate the quarterly CO2 emissions level to  the network at a global level and  nally, how to indicate the ways of  reducing CO2 emissions that are available to the supply chainteams. A result of this work, 2011 ended with the decision to include a  freight-linked CO2 emissions reduction target of 10% within the new  Company Program for the period 2012-2014. 3.3  Eco-Design Approach If there is no general legal obligation on eco-design, the pressure  on the use of natural resources, climate change and respect for  biodiversity must encourage the public and private actors to  mobilise around these questions. It is unusual for customers to explicitly specify environmental  criteria for a product but having a green supplier is becoming a  prerequisite. Global customers, particularly in the green construction or transport  sectors or the authorities, need support to implement their  environmental policies, especially to:   calculate and reduce their carbon footprint;  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 65 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE   anticipate and ensure conformity with statutory provisions,  especially with regard to chemical products;   facilitate eco-design of their products and services by supplying  all the appropriate information;   reduce end of working-life installation costs for the customer by  optimisation of recycling. In order to be the  rst to supply its customers with all the  environmental information that they need, Schneider Electric  developed Green Premium - a unique eco-brand based on clearly  de ned criteria - including ad hoc environmental information on  itsproducts. A solution falls under the Green Premium branding if it satis es the  four following criteria:   complies with the RoHS European directive, i.e. it does not  include one of the six substances stated in this directive;   contains information relating to the presence of Substances of Very  High Concern (SVHC) within the scope of the REACHEuropean  regulation;   has a Product Environmental Pro le (PEP) providing a list  of materials, a recycling rate and a calculation of eleven  environmental impacts such as raw material and energy  consumption, carbon footprint and damage to the ozone layer.  This environmental pro le is established over the whole product  life cycle, from manufacture to end of working life;   contains a guide identifying and locating the subsets or  components required for a particular recycling process, called  the End-of-Life Instruction guide (EoLI). With an end-of-year target for 2011 of two thirds of global product  sales made up of Green Premium offers (based on 2008 sales),  Schneider Electric is clearly positioning itself as a sector leader and  occupies a unique role based on:   its green solutions;   its evaluation of environmental impacts, especially in terms of  substances contained and of end-of-life;   its transparency through information available on its web portal;   the reliability of its information with systematic reference to  international standards available. Green Premium is an integral part of the creation and development  process for Schneider Electrics offers as a critical deliverable for  marketing product offers. All the information is made available to Schneider Electric  customers on the Groups web portal. The conformity information  for RoHS and SVHC is available on the Check a Product website  dedicated to environmental information. The Product Environmental  Pro le information and End-of-Life Instruction are available on the  Products and Services website. Action plans Substance Management Schneider Electric is subject to European environmental regulation,  with particular emphasis on the use of toxic substances. The REACH regulation requires traceability of dangerous substances  and the RoHS directive requires elimination of six substances  (lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated  biphenyls (PBBs) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE). Schneider Electric has implemented the RoHS and REACH  programs by applying these European regulations. The RoHS program, started in 2006, aims to eliminate the six  substances from all products. By deciding to eliminate these  substances from all its products, whether or not affected by the  directive or sold on the European market or worldwide, Schneider  Electric has gone far beyond the directives requirements. Efforts to bring products into compliance continued in 2011,  particularly for the new entities to have recently joined Schneider  Electric. However, for certain offers that have little to do with  the scope of the RoHS directive, such as the medium voltage  equipment of AREVA Distribution activities, the RoHS compliance  decision has been deferred. A new RoHS directive 2011/65/EU  came into force on July,21,  2011. The earlier directive, RoHS 2002/95/EC, will be repealed  on January3, 2003, the date by which Member States must have  transposed this directive into national regulations. This new directive has two important developments: the extension  of the scope to all electrical and electronic equipment until 2019  and the CE mark, but no new substance is added to the existing list  of six substances stated in the  rst directive. As a result of the implemented RoHS program, Schneider Electric  is a very good position to ensure conformity with this new directive  because most of the work regarding product conformity has already  been undertaken. Directives similar to the RoHS European directive are now in force or  being discussed in several countries. Schneider Electrics decision  to generalise the application of the RoHS to all its products has  helped anticipate developments in regulations all over the world and  Schneider Electric is able to offer products which comply with the  RoHS directives on all its markets (China, South Korea, Japan, etc.). The REACH program, started in 2008, aims to:   ensure that substances used by Schneider Electric and its  subsidiaries are registered and authorised for the applications in  question, in accordance with REACH requirements;   formalise the information to be provided to customers about  the presence and level of hazardous substances in Schneider  Electric products;   anticipate the substitutes that will certainly be needed for certain  chemical substances, avoiding any impact on Schneider Electric  product performance. In 2011, the REACH program was mainly strengthened in the  following areas:   consideration of the updates to the substance list published by  the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA);   the replacement project for SVHC phthalate substances in  cables;   preparation of noti cation for the European Chemicals Agency  (ECHA) about SVHC substances used in our products;  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 66 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE   the launch of the project aims to integrate substance management  within our information systems in order to anticipate the impact of  obsolescence on our offers and to automate the REACH reports  for our products, as well as to circulate information more quickly  to our customers. Environmental information The Green Premium eco-brand guarantees customers the  availability of environmental information relating to Schneider  Electric product offers such as the Product Environmental Pro le  (PEP) or the End-of-Life Instruction (EoLI). As an integral part of the eco-design approach, the PEP program  provides customers with the environmental impact of products  during their life cycle according to the ISO14040 standard. This  program applies to all offers developed by Schneider Electric. The analysis of each products environmental characteristics  looksat:   the materials used;   the presence of hazardous substances as de ned by the RoHS  directive;   the environmental certi cation statute of the production site;   the products recycling potential;   11 environmental impacts of the product, such as the  consumption of raw materials and energy, the carbon footprint,  the damage to the ozone layer, the production of photochemical  ozone, the acidi cation of the air, the production of dangerous  waste, the eutrophication of the water, and the toxicity of the air. The majority of the Product Environmental Pro le (PEP) documents  in 2011 were established or made to conform to the requirements  of the PEPecopassport program, with reference to the ISO  14025 standard. Schneider Electric has actively participated in  the launch of this independent program that brings together the  professional unions of manufacturers in the electrical, electronic and  environmental engineering sectors. The PEPecopassport program  is a measure of rigour, reliability and transparency. Schneider Electric also integrates product recycling into the design  of its products in order to promote recovery of end-of-life materials.  Schneider Electric has developed a design rules guide in order  to optimise end-of-life costs and the potential recycling rate of  itsproducts. These practices led to the publication of a product recycling rate  and to recommendations to ensure end-of-life treatment that is  environmentally friendly. This information is available to clients in the  Product Environmental Pro le (PEP) documents. These practices are equally applicable to the publication of  information and recommendations to facilitate recycling of subsets  or components stated in the WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic  Equipment) European directive. In effect, even though the vast  majority of Schneider Electric product offers do not fall under this  directive, Schneider Electric makes the End-Of-Life Instructions  information sheets available to its customers. This allows  customers to identify and locate the subsets or components so  that they are able to recycle them using suitable processes that are  environmentally friendly. Compliance with WEEE and equivalent legislation A number of political commitments and regulations address  the issue of waste from electrical products. One example is the  European Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive  (WEEE), which has been transposed in each Member State. Similar  regulations have been adopted or initiated in Japan, China, India,  and the United States. The WEEE directives main objective is to increase the recovery  rate for the largest types of electrical waste, such as televisions,  refrigerators and lighting systems, as well as for short-lived IT and  telecommunication equipment. Industrial electrical and electronic  devices and electrical distribution equipment is only very marginally  concerned. Under the directive, the equipment manufacturer  is responsible for setting up and  nancing dedicated solutions  to collect and process discarded equipment. The directive sets  minimum rates for recovery and recycling. Schneider Electric is actively involved in a responsible approach even  though virtually none of its products are covered by thedirective. As a responsible company, Schneider Electric must be able to  prove the existence of established end-of-life solutions. These must  be  nanced and certi ed for collecting, processing, and recycling  end-of-life products in a way that respects both human health and  the environment. Carried out in close cooperation with all Group partners, the  approach is deployed at the national level in each host country.  This involves identifying, certifying, and in some cases organising  solutions for processing waste from electrical equipment, with the  application of the appropriate indicators. Green Premium Eco-brand More than 400 Product Environmental Pro le (PEP) documents  and more than 200 End-Of-Life Instructions (EoLI) were generated  in2011. Linked to more than 75% of revenue taken for the RoHS compliant  offers and with the REACH information available, Schneider  Electrics target was to consolidate this in 2011 with almost 64% of  global product sales made through Green Premium offers, based  on 2008 sales. The Check a Product website was checked worldwide on  average 3,500 times per month and more than 6,000 reference  products were checked monthly for their RoHS and REACH  environmentalstatus. The Schneider Electric Environment Marketing campaign will be  rolled out during 2012, promoting the Green Premium eco-brand  through the Schneider Electric electronic catalogue and through a  unique web portal Check a Product Green Premium for RoHS,  REACH, PEP, EoLI, and Battery Directive environmental information.  The reference year for the Green Premium indicator calculation will  be updated. Green Plastic Program This technologically innovative program aims to make plastic parts  healthier and more environmentally friendly throughout the product  life-cycle. In effect, plastic is present in almost all Schneider Electric  products and the amount of CO2 equivalents needed to produce  the plastic is estimated at 550,000 tonnes per year.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 67 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE The Green Plastic program is carried out in collaboration with the  activities, the teams in charge of material purchasing and design  and is included in the Group actions for sustainable development. The program follows a unique strategy for each type of plastic  focusing around three successive progress plans. A green plastic  must therefore: 1. be exempt from potentially toxic substances and have an end-of- life evaluation scenario (material or energy); 2. come from a production sector that has low CO2 use (recycled  plastic or plastic from renewable sources); 3. come from a resource that does not compete with the food  sector either directly or indirectly, in the case that the Green  Plastic solution makes good use of a raw material from a  renewablesource. The added value that customers expect from green plastics lies  in two major areas:   residential applications exempt from substances of very high  concern, particularly including non-PVC and non-halogen  ame  retardant product ranges;   new energy ef cient offers, such as Ef cient Home, which use  plastics with a very low CO2 impact. Schneider Electric uses a partnership approach in order to make  progress in research in this area. The Group therefore participates  in collaborative platforms such as the Paristech Mines Bioplastics  Chair or the Axelera competitive clusters initiative (in sustainable  chemistry) and Plastipolis (in plastics engineering). Approach Schneider Electric has extended its environmental system rollout  program beyond only the industrial sites to tertiary sites throughout  the 2009-2011 period. All these sites contribute to reporting, and  therefore to the Group targets. Priority objectives for 2009-2011 to  increase the number of employees working in ISO14001 certi ed  sites and to reduce its energy consumption were set within the  framework of the Planet & Society Barometer for the entire Group.  The certi cation objective helps focus continuous efforts to reduce  the main environmental impacts of the sites, shown in the table on  pages 98-99 :   energy consumption;   CO2 emissions;   amount of waste produced;   percentage of waste recovered;   consumption of water;   VOC emissions (Volatile Organic Compounds). Action plans ISO14001 certification of Group sites As soon as the ISO14001 environmental management standard  was published in 1996, Schneider Electric decided to certify its  sites. For several years the Group has demanded that all industrial  and logistic sites with more than 50 people be ISO14001 certi ed  within two years of their acquisition or creation. The extension of this internal directive to all tertiary sites with more  than 300 people was enacted in the One program from 2009  and actually launched in 2010. The headquarters of the Group in  France, in Rueil-Malmaison, was thus certi ed in 2010. The Groups priority objective, as set out in the Planet & Society  Barometer, is to enable two thirds of employees to work in  ISO14001 certi ed sites. When the One program came to an end  in December2011, the target had been exceeded with more than  70% of employees working on ISO 14001 sites. The challenge for the coming years is to maintain this performance  level by certifying all the new industrial sites within two years of their  acquisition or creation and to continue the new certi cations of  large tertiary sites. NB: This has already been achieved, ahead of the two year deadline,  for 26 industrial sites from the Areva D acquisition. Management of industrial consumption Water consumption The Group provides a detailed breakdown of water consumption  that takes into account groundwater and water from the public  network. Water used solely for cooling and then immediately  released without any change is also included in the statistics. Schneider Electric reports on the quantities of water consumed  by its sites on a six-monthly basis and monitors the per capita  consumption of water on a like-for-like basis in order to evaluate its  performance from one year to the next. During the period of the One company program, the overall eco- production approach allowed the Group to reduce its per capita  consumption of water by 6.8% by the end of 2011 in relation to  2010 on a like-for-like basis. Water is not generally a critical resource in Schneider Electrics  industrial processes. Water is essentially used for sanitary purposes, sometimes for  cooling and in certain sites for surface treatment. In the latter case,  industrial water discharge is subject to treatment that is suitable  in terms of its pollutant potential and discharge into the natural  environment or in a plant subject to a monitoring plan. As Schneider Electric industrial production is mainly based on  manual assembly processes or automatic processes for electrical  components and subsets, it has low water consumption and a  negligible impact on water quality. Nevertheless, in 2011 the group initiated an analysis of industrial  site positions relative to water stress in different regions throughout  the world using the WBCSD tool (World Business Council for  Sustainable Development). 3.4  Eco-Production  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 68 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE In the future, sites with the highest water consumption and the most  exposed sites will be the focus of particular attention and of speci c  action plans, after the implementation of pilot sites in the major  world regions (America, Europe & Africa, Asia & Paci c). Energy consumption See the Groups energy consumption action plans pages62-64 . Raw material consumption Schneider Electric focuses on making its devices more compact  to conserve natural resources so that customers have more  environmentally friendly products to choose from. The Group  has developed design tools for managing thermal and electrical  constraints so that it can optimise the amount of materials required  in production. Each devices Product Environmental Pro le  (PEP) lists the materials used. To facilitate end-of-life processing,  Schneider Electric chooses materials that are easy to recycle and  clip-together components that are easy to disassemble. Life cycle  analyses and recyclability assessments also help the Group identify  areas for improvement. For more information on the Schneider Electric global action plan  relating to PEP and to end-of-life instructions, see the Green  Premium chapter on page64 . Also see the Green Plastic program  on page64 . Schneider Electrics desire to reduce its environmental impact  has driven its focus towards the use of recycled raw materials.  Forexample, 85% of cardboard used in Europe and 100% in Asia  comes from recycled material. North America is less advanced with  about 50%. With regard to metals that Schneider Electric purchases  on global markets, these include recycled material from recovered  waste. The UNEP (United Nations Environment Program) report  was published in 2011 addressing the situation with regard to metal  recycling rate. On a global level, 18 metals have a recycling rate of  over 50%, among which are lead, gold, silver, aluminium, tin, nickel,  zinc, copper and iron and 34 elements have a recovery rate below  1%, including rare earth elements. The UNEP recommends that  priority be given to product design in order to facilitate disassembly  and recovery of metals at end of life and to emphasise recycling  electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE). Schneider Electric  participates in the recycling systems via the recovery of its own  waste, with a target of 85%, and the End-of-Life Instructions for  its products. Management of waste, emissions and industrial  pollution Waste Because waste is a major source of pollution but also a potential  source of raw materials, waste management is a priority in  environmental protection. Most of the Groups waste is solid waste. Continuous improvement  plans have been deployed to manage this waste. This approach   ts in fully with the ISO14001 approach that all Schneider Electric  production and logistics sites worldwide are required to follow. The target of the One program 2009-2011 was to recover 85% of  hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Because classi cation systems vary widely from country to country,  the Group does not consolidate global data by category (hazardous  and non-hazardous). Data is processed to ensure local traceability.  In France, for example, hazardous industrial waste accounts for  around 14% of total waste. All waste is channelled to the appropriate  treatment facility. Schneider Electric notes the quantities of waste produced and  recycled on a six monthly basis and monitors this production per  capita, on a like-for-like basis in order to evaluate its performance  from one year to the next. The overall eco-production approach helped reduce our production  of waste by 7.1% per capita in 2011 compared with 2010 on a  comparable basis and to increase the proportion of waste recycled  from 82% at the end of 2010 to 84% at the end of 2011 on a  comparable basis. Conditions of use and contamination of soils Virtually all Schneider Electric sites are located in urban or industrial  areas and do not affect any notable biotopes. None of the Groups  businesses involve extraction or land farming. No substances are purposely released into the soil in the course of  site operation. Workshop  ooring at risk is given a waterproof seal  using a suitable treatment (resin retention). Hazardous substances  are systematically stored and handled in areas equipped with  retention tanks in compliance with regulations. As a result of  developments in legislation, retention systems are being designed  more and more to compensate in the event of malfunctions or  emergencies, such as  res. In 2011 Schneider Electric conducted its annual review of pollution  risks at all manufacturing sites as part of ISO14001 tracking. No  major incidents were reported in 2011. Discharge into the water and air Because Schneider Electric is mainly an assembler, its discharge  into the air and water is very limited. Mechanical component  production workshops are carefully monitored, in keeping with  their ISO14001 certi cation. Their releases are tracked locally as  required by current legislation. No major spills or discharges were  reported in 2011. Emissions of NOx and SOx and particles into the air are monitored  site by site according to their heating activity; monitoring of these  emissions is veri ed via ISO 14001 audits. Emissions are then  monitored by the site managers with respect to the thresholds  de ned in local legislation and monitored by the heads of the  geographical areas (see SERE organisation page 61 ). These  emissions are not subject to consolidation at Group level. The COV emissions have been identi ed as representative of Group  levels and are therefore included in Group reporting. Finally, the CFC and HCFC emissions are monitored through our air  conditioners in accordance with legislation. They are not linked to  our industrial activities.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 69 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS COMMITMENT TOENVIRONMENTALPERFORMANCE Noise and odours All Schneider Electric sites comply with noise and odour limits. Environmental risk management and prevention The ISO 14001 environmental management system covers  management of environmental risks. No Schneider Electric sites are  Seveso classi ed. Aside from the voluntary prevention measures  discussed above for sites with a soil contamination history, no  signi cant amounts have been paid out in connection with a legal  ruling. In 2011, a particular effort was dedicated to an independent  ground analysis of our oldest industrialised sites; the analysis was  completed at the end of 2012. All of the Groups industrial sites, which are ISO14001 certi ed,  have procedures in place to prevent emergencies and respond  effectively if necessary. Preventive and corrective action plans are  based on an analysis of non-standard situations and their potential  impact. This analysis draws in part on hazard reviews for classi ed  installations. In France, for example, certain sites that handle large amounts of  chemical compounds, such as Le Vaudreuil, MGA and 38TEC,  are equipped with balloon-type containment systems to avoid any  pollution through the water systems. Others, located next to a river,  have  oating beams. Drills are held regularly throughout the year to ensure that supporting  procedures are ready and effective. A national organisation has been set up to track sensitive sites.  Their managers systematically receive training in environmental  crisis management. Directives, procedures and national guidelines  concerning environmental crisis management, historical and  current operations management, pollution risk prevention and other  topics are available on the intranet. Internal audits verify that these  procedures are applied correctly.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 70 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES   > 4. Committed to and on behalf  ofemployees 4.1  Overview Context and aims Schneider Electrics people are critical to its success. The Group  motivates its employees and promotes involvement by making  the most of diversity, supporting professional development, and  ensuring safe, healthy working conditions. Human Resources play a key role to support the development of  Schneider Electric in the changing context of its activity. This growth  is characterised by a sustained internationalisation, numerous  acquisitions, the increase of headcounts dedicated to selling  solutions and services, while maintaining a share of blue collars  close to 45%. Schneider Electrics HR policy is founded on a strong sense of  commitment and shared services:   all of the Group entities participate in the drawing up of HR policies  and in their application. This guarantees coherence and facilitates  consideration for local economic, legislative and cultural realities;   all employees are treated equally on the basis of their skills,  notably with regard to employment, recruitment, talent  identi cation, mobility, training, remuneration, health and safety  (common processes and policies);   particular emphasis is placed on communicating the Groups  broad strategic plans to the employees in order to enhance  individual participation;   training is also a priority so that employees have the opportunity  to adapt to developments within the Company. Schneider Electric encourages each employee to actively manage  their own career in collaboration with their line manager, their HR  manager and using the tools provided, particularly on the Groups  intranet. This allows each employee to play a key role in their own  performance and in their advancement. Three key performance indicators were set in the Planet and Society Barometer for the duration of the One program (2009-2011): Objectives for Year-End-2011 2011 2010 2009 2008 1.  10% annual decrease in the frequency rate of  occupational accidents - 54%  - 44% - 32% - 2.  14points increase in the Companys employee  recommendation score + 32  +16 0 - 3.  2,000employees trained on energy management  solutions 1,621  239 40* 0 The 2008 performance serves as a starting value for the Planet & Society Barometer One program between 2009 and 2011.  Audited 2011 indicators. * In the 2009 Annual Report, the indicator measured the people having attended energy management solution courses (2,655 at the  end of 2009). Since the beginning of 2010, only the people having completed the entire educational course of cially recognised by a  certi cation are accounted for by the indicator. Please refer to pages 90  to 92  for the methodological presentation of indicators and the following pages for the analysis of the results  (pages71-72  for indicator 1, 73  for indicator 2 and 74  for indicator 3). Organisation Since 2009, the Human Resources department has been structured  around three principal roles to better respond to their missions:   HR Business Partner assists managers on a day-to-day basis in  setting out their business strategies and in assessing the human  resource requirements needed to meet their business targets.  HR Business Partner also plays a pivotal role in anticipating  skill requirements and employee development, and in the  management of employee relations;   HR Solutions creates and develops comprehensive solutions  to the organisations strategic challenges in key areas, such as  compensation, bene ts, human capital development, training  and performance management. Regional teams are leveraged to  effectively shadow the Groups globalised operations;   HR Operations handles the logistics and administrative  responsibilities relating to payroll, sourcing, mobility and training  programs, mainly through shared service centres designed to  optimise ef ciency and costs.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 71 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES Highlights of 2011   indexation of the performance incentives for Executive Committee  members to sustainable development targets, chosen according  to their  eld of work, particularly the implementation of social  policies by Human Resources;   continued reduction in the frequency of accidents at work, mainly  due to more training and protection measures;   a strong improvement in the recommendation rate for Schneider  Electric as an employer, due to the continual dialogue between  managers and their teams and to the action plan from the One  Voice quarterly surveys;   a sharp increase in number of employees trained in energy  management solutions due to training duration (from 12 to 18  months) resulting in the pass rate of many certi ed employees at  the end of the year. 4.2  Employee health and safety Approach Schneider Electric values the health and safety of all employees.  The company-wide policy on health and safety states All our  employees and contractors must bene t from the highest possible  standards of Health & Safety in our work activities and sets the  same standards in all its locations. Schneider Electric goals in this  area include the following:   promote good physical and mental health throughout the  professional career of each employee;   improve the quality of life in the workplace;   anticipate events that could have an impact on the health and  safety of the employees;   and apply controls to minimize the potential for harm from  hazards. This policy takes into account the Health & Safety risks identi ed  in the Group: slips and falls, material handling, machine hazards,  electrical hazards, ergonomics, chemical hazards, driving (for  trucks and automobiles), as well as psychosocial risks. Fire and  explosions prevention is operated by the Emergency Plan and  Business Continuity Plan of the Group, in which it has been  included also a Health section in order to ensure the highest degree  of responsiveness (for example during the H1N1 crisis). One way that Schneider Electric ensures the best physical and  mental health of its employees is through the prevention of illnesses  that could hamper their ef ciency, creativity and well being.  Increasingly ergonomic work stations within its production system,  for example, are an ongoing measure to prevent muscular and  bone problems. Action plans Schneider Electric promotes health and safety to its employees  through the implementation of a comprehensive set of actions.  These actions include:   the implementation of Schneider Production Systemguidelines(1),  continuously evaluated and improved.   the implementation of occupational health and safety  management systems and certi cations (see below).   the sharing and standardisation of best practices for hazard  identi cation and risk assessment, management and employee  involvement within the program, and program assessment. New organisation In 2010, Schneider Electric set up three regional organisations  which report to the Global Supply Chain central function. Each  regional organisation supports the Groups plans across of the  BUs in three areas: Safety, Environment and Real Estate (SERE).  One SERE leader is appointed for each region: North America,  Asia-Paci c and EMEAS. In 2010, the Group focused on building  the new organisation. In 2011, the scope has increased to include  global standardisation of best practices. Objectives With this view to share best practices worlwide, the  rst action  of the new SERE organisation has been to implement a new  key performance indicator focused on measuring work-related  incidents requiring medical treatment. This new KPI, the MIR  (Medical Incident Rate) sets the foundation for deeper incident  investigation into workplace hazards and the prevention of injury.  It measures the number of medical cases per million of hours  worked, in order to have a clear and comprehensive vision of the  impact of the employees work activity on their health, taking into  account the events or exposures in the work environment which  had consequences on the health, or signi cantly deteriorated  a pre- existing condition. The MIR started to be tracked in North  America before 2000 and worldwide in 2010 with the target to  reduce it by 10% every year. Schneider Electric also commits to reduce the Severity Rate of  accidents (SR). The MIR and SR reductions are taken into account  in all plant managers performance incentives (combined goal of  -10% annually, up to -20% for speci c BUs). As part of the Planet & Society Barometer, Schneider Electric set a  goal for 2009-2011 to reduce the annual rate of lost-time accidents,  calculated as the Frequency Rate (FR), in the workplace by 10%  each year (consequently 27% over 3 years). In 2011, this KPI  was part of the performance incentives of Executive Committee  members in charge of the Businesses. As of the end of 2011, the  FR fell by 18% as compared to the end of 2010 and by 54% as  compared to the end of 2008 (see page103 ). This performance is due to efforts made to reduce workplace  hazards, improve training, enforce the use of personal protective  equipment, increase employee awareness on safety and, in  particular, implement health and safety management systems  (1) The Schneider Production System (SPS) is the companys primary strategy for improving quality and productivity in manufacturing and in the  extended value stream. SPS is based on 40 principles organised into three domains that assure quality and customer service. These three  domains are People commitment, Product-process engineering, and Management of industrial and logistic processes. Within these 40 prin- ciples, is a strong commitment to adhere to ergonomic, safety and environmental rules and standards. The SPS process is managed through  an extensive audit process used to assess conformance with best practices in many areas, including ergonomics, safety and environmental.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 72 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES which imply safety assessments, prevention campaigns, speci c  trainings and e-learning on safety aspects. Certifications In 2009, Schneider Electric started to implement occupational  health and safety management systems that meet or exceed the  requirements of ILSO/OHSAS 18001 standards. The deployment  of these management systems is over 83% complete. In 2011, the Group started to run a global program to certify OHSAS  18001 (or equivalent) 100% of its manufacturing and logistics sites  by end of 2012 (sites with more than 50 people and within two  years of creation or acquisition). The deployment of this program is  tracked at regional level through the SERE organisation and is 50%  complete at end of 2011. Training Training and communication are key in Schneider Electric Health &  Safety program. This includes a strong commitment to employee  training on both the awareness level and on task speci c training,  ensuring that its employees and contractors have the knowledge  base to work safely. Schneider Electric also communicates  workplace hazards, practices to protect employees from hazards,  best practices found in various locations globally, progress on health  and safety goals and objectives, and management commitment to  employee safety. The process of standardising safety training on a global basis was  initiated in 2011. The regional organisations began the development  and implementation of global safety training program, with the  rst  offering focused on general safety awareness and the expectations  for improving occupational health and safety within the organisation.  Several additional courses have been added in 2011 and the  process will continue into 2012. Additional actions for 2011 included: the development of the  Annual Safety and Environmental Assessment (ASEA) shared  across each region; the standardisation and improvement of global  safety KPI reporting; and a strong focus on the communication of  serious work-related injuries, along with action plans to prevent  reoccurrence, to the Executive Management team. Focus on stress management Stress at work is managed by the Human Resources organisation  within the Group. Effective measures are in place locally to address  stress reduction in the workplace. In North America for example,  Human Resources promote stress reduction via incentives and  communications on the healthy lifestyle program in place (exercise,  proper diet, smoking cessation, stress management, preventative  medicine, etc.) which is encouraged both on and off the job. In  Asia Paci c, Human Resources promote stress reduction via health  lecture, yoga class, sport club, stretching program and annual  health welfare. In France, a special program is in place regarding psychosocial  risks induced by stress at work, with the identi cation and the  address of risk factors. Schneider Electric has developed and  deployed a management tool to prevent psychosocial risks. It  includes a training module, a collection of indicator and a reading  guide to identify factors contributing to psychosocial risks in a work  organisation. So far, 22 sites have received training, six are under  diagnoses, and 10 are implementing corrective action plans. A  second management tool is deployed to maintain employment for  people with occupational health problems and prevent the sources  of work stress that may impact physical and mental health. Examples Schneider Electric has received several recognitions for its safety  program in 2011, including:   the Green Cross Award, presented by the National Safety Council  to the North America region;   208 safety awards from the National Safety Council for several  Schneider Electric sites in the North America and Asia-Paci c  regions. They reward the practices of the Group in such  elds  as health management, weak occupational accidents frequency  rate, prevention of risks related to trucks driving, etc. Teams across the globe celebrated their safety successes by  submitting entries for consideration to the 2011 Schneider Electric  One Trophy Award campaign. The One Trophy Award is an internal  award program designed to recognise team actions for activities  that contribute to the One company program priorities. In 2011,  there were 40 entries for safety related projects, with heavy  emphasis in the EMEAS region. To recognise the good efforts of the  employees who participated actively in these safety projects, the  EMEAS region created a special Safety Award category in addition  to the EMEAS regional Trophy Awards.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 73 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES Approach Schneider Electric is working to become the best company to  work for, as rated by its employees, and conducts a survey of  employee satisfaction every quarter. The Group also is looking to establish a strong name as an employer  and is communicating around its Employer Value Proposition, which  are closely aligned with the values of the Schneider Electric brand. Action plans Employee satisfaction Set up in 2009, the One Voice internal satisfaction survey is carried  out on a quarterly basis to take the organisations pulse worldwide.  The survey methodology used is similar to that used to measure the  Groups customer satisfaction. Speci cally, all employees are asked to  ll out a short  questionnaire  evaluating their engagement and their willingness to recommend  Schneider Electric as a model employer. This process helps  the Group identify key avenues for improving major employee  engagement factors. Analysed by country and by unit, the survey results help to steadily  improve employees commitment to processes and projects, whose  proper execution is crucial to both successfully implementing the  Groups strategy and satisfying its customers. A key performance indicator for the Group, registered in the Planet  & Society Barometer, was to increase by 14 points the Companys  employee recommendation score between 2009 and 2011. At the  end of 2011, the goal was exceeded with 32 points of increase. In 2011, 146,049 cumulated employees answered to the One  Voice survey by email and 35,959 employees in plants worldwide  answered by paper or kiosk in 51 different languages (53% global  participation). This re ects a very high level of engagement (87%  indicated they were willing to give extra effort to help the Company  meet its targets). In 2011, the Group introduced further improvements to the  reporting of One Voice. Since Q1 2011, managers with a minimum  of 20 employees in their reporting organisation receive a One  Voice result speci cally for their team through a dedicated on-line  results dashboard. Two questions of the survey focus on team  communication regarding One Voice results and ensuing action  plans. This encourages and helps drive detailed action planning at  all levels of the organisation. In 2012, new questions will be added to the survey that will give  the Group a detailed Employee Engagement Index. This will allow  Schneider Electric to benchmark its employee engagement level  against other companies in its Industry. Employer Value Proposition After launch in 2008 as part of the One program, the drive to deploy  a strong employer brand was stepped up in 2009, 2010 and 2011.  Schneider Electric becomes a distinctive employer of choice. It is  recognised as a highly attractive global company offering a friendly,   exible, creative and dynamic work environment, ensuring the  development of its people and the sustainable development of the  Planet and Society. Schneider Electrics Employer Value Proposition  creates the emotional link with Schneider brand value which enables  to attract diverse young potentials and professionals. Universum rankings Universum is a research company that helps global corporations  understand their employer branding positioning in each country  they are operating. Universum annually surveys over 300,000  students regarding their career preferences, career goals and  image perception of their ideal employers. The study is conducted  in 27 countries and involves more than 1,500 universities. In 2011,  Schneider Electric participated for the  rst time in Universum  ranking survey in business and engineering schools. Universum Country Ranking at targeted schools has been a major  achievement: France, China, Russia and Turkey are targeting to be  positioned in Top 25; USA, Brazil, India, Germany, Mexico, Poland  and Golf countries are targeting in Top 50 in engineering rankings  by 2014. Universum Business rankings show a positive trend. In the  meantime, Brazil has won the best employer of choice. Partnerships with universities Multiple partnerships have been set up with the worlds largest  universities, including Moscow Power Engineering University,  Cairo University, INSEAD, HEC, ParisTech, Supelec, BMS College  of Engineering (Bangalore), Shanghai JiaoTong University, Peking  TsingHua University, University of Toronto, University of California  Berkeley and Northwestern University Kellogg. In 2011, global  target universities were identi ed by business units and HR leaders  to better re ect the Groups geographical locations and the new  skills that it needs to develop in the area of energy management.  Partnerships with prestigious laboratories such as MIT were signed. Go Green in the City Launched in 2011 by Schneider Electric, Go Green in the City is an  international case challenge for university business and engineering  students around the world to  nd clever solutions for energy  management. It is well-recognised as a global employer branding  initiative to attract female graduates for internship or recruitment  in 8 strategic countries: Brazil, Russia, India, China, France, USA,  Germany, and Turkey; and in more than 80 targeted schools.  Thesecond edition was launched in January2012 and is open to  more than 90 selected universities in 9 countries (with Poland). As in its  rst year, candidates are asked to present a case study  on the subject of energy solutions in the city. In pairs, with at  least one woman, students must propose viable solutions of  energy management in  ve key areas of a city: residential areas,  universities, trade, water and hospitals. The best proposals will  reconcile increased demand for energy, social progress and  environmentalprotection. 4.3  Employee engagement and talent attraction  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 74 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES Schneider Electric Career Portal As part of the project to centralise the Groups existing websites,  Schneider Electric Career Portal has been created to more  effectively attract all categories of potential candidates. Video  employee testimonies have been associated. Particular emphasis  is placed on the Groups specialisation in energy management.  Promoting a strong employer brand in this way has helped to  position Schneider Electric as a globally recognised benchmark  employer, capable of both attracting the best talent and mobilising  all employees around a set of shared values that are aligned with the  Groups strategicdevelopment. 4.4  Fostering talent and competence One company program initiatives such as the evolution from  products to solutions, growing internationalisation or employee  engagement demand ongoing adaptation and skill enhancement.  Training, therefore, is at the heart of Schneider Electrics Human  Resources policy. Approach Schneider Electric global Talent Acceleration program is designed  to increase the Groups talent pool and develop diversity, in  accordance with the One company program. In 2011, this program continued to focus primarily on new  economies but also on enhancing managerial ability to identify and  mentor employees that show exceptional potential. To this end, performance management tools were deployed at  all levels of the Groups organisation. These include individual  skill reviews, annual performance appraisals, mid-year reviews  to assess progress and adjust targets, and people reviews.  All of these resources help the Group continuously monitor and  accurately evaluate individual as well as collective performance, and  identify high potentials. The use of these tools has made for more  objective and individualised decision-making in the area of career  management, remuneration and recognition. Action plans 3E Program In 2009, Schneider Electric implemented the 3E program to foster  optimal skills development. It involves relevant work experience  (Experience), managerial coaching and feedback structures  (Exposure) and appropriate training investment (Education). The Groups aim is to give all employees the opportunity to draw up  a personalised skills and career development plan in collaboration  with their managers with career and competencies reviews. Schneider Electric University Schneider Electric University offers courses that build knowledge  and skills across the organisation in technical, solutions, supply  chain, and leadership competencies. All of this training is offered  through a blended learning of class room and e-learning facilities. All  training modules are assessed by the participants on the quality of  the content, the teachers, the format and related logistics. In 2011, eight Group campuses worldwide are dedicated  to employee training: the US (Chicago and Boston), France  (Rueil- Malmaison and Grenoble), China (Beijing), India (Bangalore),  Brazil (Sao Paulo), and the eighth campus was created in  November2011 in Russia (Moscow). One Champion e-learning portal The One Champion e-learning portal was launched in 2009 to  ensure that all Schneider Electric employees have access to the  same training programs. In 2011, 68,275 employees have developed their knowledge thanks  to the 52 customised modules available on this on-line learning  platform, a 25% increase compared to 2010 (55,000). The  most selected modules are: Our Values, Energy Ef ciency, Our  Principles of Responsibility, E-mail ef ciency and Safety awareness. New modules such as Why Solutions, Discovering EcoStruxure,  Energy Technical Institute, Global Supply Chain and Marketing  Academy have been added during the year. A speci c chapter,  Welcome to Schneider Electric, is also available and dedicated  to newcomers in the company. A Gender Diversity module is  alsoavailable. Energy & Solutions University As part of the Planet & Society Barometer, Schneider Electric  set a target for 2009-2011 to train 2,000 employees in energy  management solutions. The HR organisation in charge of Learning  & Development partnered with the Solutions & Energy Ef ciency  Department (within Strategy & Innovation) and the business  leaders to develop the Energy & Solution University, in order to  accelerate the development of strategic skills in solutions and  services. Certifying career paths are offered to employees (account  managers, sales representatives, solutions architects, projects and  services teams, etc.). At end of 2011, 1,621 people in 55 countries  have received certi cation and more than 8,500 people are enrolled  in the certi cation path. Leadership Development One leadership, a suite of programs addressing the learning  needs of managers and regional talent, was deployed on a global  level by the Leadership Academy. By the end of 2011, about 3,800  managers from all countries had participated in the different offers  for manager and senior managers. LEAP, the entity and regional high potential program of One  Leadership, has received great feedback from participants and   REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 75 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES business leaders, in particular on the 3E approach (Experience,  Exposure and Education) and on the real business problem solving.  About 300 participants joined these regional cross-entity programs. Leadership Roundtable, an innovative learning approach of  leaders developing leaders, has been led by many countries with  the involvement of leaders at every level of the Group (country,  regional, corporate) and in all functions including our CEO, and  other members of the Executive Committee. Using a book-sharing  approach, these leaders have addressed a wide range of topics  from Trust to Entrepreneurship, to an audience of sometimes as  large as 500 managers, through a combination of face-to-face  sessions and video links. Asia Paci c alone delivered a total of 48  such sessions with over 2,000 managers participation. Other functional skills development In addition to Solutions & Leadership skills development, Schneider  Electric has initiatives in key functional areas such as:   Global Supply Chain: The Global Supply Chain Academy was  set up to provide every supply chain professional the opportunity  to learn and develop their functional knowledge, capability and  competencies in the six domains of Customer Satisfaction  & Quality, Manufacturing, Purchasing, Logistics, Safety,  Environment, and Industrialisation. In 2011, more than 2,500  people have been trained on 60 learning modules of the Global  Supply Chain Academy.   Research & Development: The Offer Creation Academy  addresses the competency needs of the Offer Creation Process  (OCP) to ensure the right competency levels of R&D employees  globally. Our range of learning offers cover the entire OCP  lifecycle, addressing skills such as project management, design  & testing, R&D processes, software tools, etc. The Group is also  increasingly focusing on building learning offers around software  development competencies. More than 3,000 R&D employees  have been trained in 2011 on the 130 training offers structured  around 5 pillars of this Academy.   Transactional Sales: The Sales Excellence Academy focuses  on the sales competencies needed to support transactional  business, which is also undergoing transformational changes  driven for example by EcoStruxure. In addition, the Group  developed and piloted in 2011 an offer targeting more than 2,000  sales managers addressing their roles as Strategist, Coach, and  Communicator. This offer is ready for deployment in 2012. Access to learning Schneider Electric made available to all employees its Leadership  & Desktop Library, which comprises a collection of 400 different  e-learning courses. In 2011, around 14,000 employees consulted  these courses. More than 80 learning paths have been created from  these courses to develop soft skills in different  elds. In 2011, Schneider Electric also completed the speci cations,  call for proposal, and subsequent evaluation and selection of a  Global Learning Management System. This is targeted for phased  deployment globally beginning 2012, taking the Group another step  closer towards its ambition of making learning readily available to  every employee: in the 2012-2014 Planet & Society Barometer,  Schneider Electric set the target to achieve at least one day of  training for every employee each year. Innovation in training   Collaborative Learning: A number of pilots were launched in 2011  utilising web social media tools to build collaborative learning  groups as part of a Learning program. These groups were  centred on communities such as New Hires, Action Learning  Project Teams, etc. The learning the Group has derived will be  used to build upon further iterations in 2012.   Technology: Pilot projects, for example Schneider Electric  Kindle e-book learning application, aims to make learning more  accessible. The Group also used media such as e-mail or SMS to  deliver Bite-sized learning to employees. Webinars are another  fast growing method that has been used in 2011 to deliver  training in topics ranging from leadership to technical skills. 4.5  Anticipating workforce needs The business growth of Schneider Electric, its ever expending  locations, and the shortage of critical skills available on the market  inspired the Group to create a small team dedicated to Strategic  Workforce Planning in 2011. This teams mission is to create a  practical framework which  ows from the organisational strategy  and links operational HR execution to the medium and long term  business needs. The aim is to enhance management practices so that leaders have  a practice of anticipating their workforce needs and develop their  employees to address the future business challenges. The solution transformation and geographic expansion created a  sense of urgency around creating an HR practice comfortable with  anticipating the future competency and headcount gaps needed  to capture the market of tomorrow. With that in mind, the Strategic  Workforce Planning team has a responsibility to build skills and  con dence in this methodology with strategic planners, business  leaders,  nancial controllers and HR staff. Approach The changing economic conditions around the world have caused  Schneider Electric to develop a workforce planning methodology  which is agile enough to adjust based on todays results while  maintaining alignment with the organisations long-term strategic  direction. Strategic Workforce Planning provides a framework to help the  Businesses manage change and risk through simulating factors out  of their control and developing strategies and responses to mitigate  that risk. It helps the leaders deal with the unknown and rehearse  how they might adapt to future events through decisions they make  today. The availability of talent globally is vital to the execution of the Groups  medium and long term strategy. As the business of Schneider  Electric evolves, the talent needs become increasingly complex.  With workforce planning, Schneider Electric is able to segment   REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 76 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES talents and focus on the building of new, critical competencies  which will be the core competencies of tomorrow. Schneider  Electric is also able to focus on critical roles for the medium and  long term and ensure that it has a process to develop, hire and  retain talent in those key areas. The stakes for new and mature economies are different, but the  approach to strategic workforce planning is dynamic enough to  handle both situations. In mature economies, the strategic workforce planning challenges  come in different forms: ageing workforce, need for new  competencies in renewable energy, energy management services  These challenges give Schneider Electric the opportunity to deliver  on strategic moves by building the key competencies to anticipate  the workforce of tomorrow. In new economies, rapid in ation means Schneider Electric has to  be deliberate about how much space it makes available for hiring  and it has to be agile enough to develop new talents.  The Group also zooms on key competencies and new regions  which are requiring fast development. Action plans The Strategic Workforce Planning approach is based on the  principle that Schneider Electric must translate various  nancial,  strategic and human capital factors into a coherent and sustainable  workforce plan. To accomplish this goal, business leader,  nancial  and HR partners have to work together. The starting point for workforce planning is the business strategic  plan. Strategic Workforce Planning identi es the key elements of the  business plan which impact the workforce in the medium and long  term. It analyses planned strategic initiatives and makes scenarios  based on the expected revenue changes. Finally, it looks at  nancial  constraints. In 2011, Strategic Workforce Planning has developed a robust  method and tools that have been well received from business units  managers,  nance as well as HR. It also launched pilots around  the world. 4.6  Diversity Approach Since 2002, diversity and equal employment opportunity have  been  an integral part of Our Principles  of Responsibility,  and have been  inspired by the companys vision:   talented and diverse workforce is a key competitive advantage;   the wide array of perspectives that results from such diversity  promotes innovation and business success;   in treating all people with respect and dignity, we strive to create  and foster a supportive and understanding environment in which  all individuals realise their maximum potential within the company,  regardless of their differences. By promoting the integration of new talents and a wide range of  skills, diversity represents a source of innovation, performance  and competitiveness: over and above this observation, Schneider  Electric intends to move beyond its simple promotion to take a  pragmatic approach to the management of diversity day by day. Diversity and equal employment opportunity are enshrined in the  One company program, with two primary objectives:   strengthen the role of managers in rolling out the Groups diversity  strategy;   consolidate the place of equal employment opportunity in HR  management practices. Agreements in France In 2004, Schneider Electric France formalised its commitments  to equal employment opportunity in a  rst company agreement  and signed the Diversity Charter. In 2007, Schneider Electric was  awarded Frances Equality Label and signed the Parenthood  Charter the following year. Gender diversity:   Equal Employment Opportunity Agreement (since 2004);   Equality Label (since 2007 and renewed in 2010);   Parenthood Charter (launched in 2008). Disability:   Disability Agreement (eighthagreement signed in 2010 for the  2010-2012 period). Age diversity:   Senior Agreement (since 2010);   Apprenticeship Agreement;   Training Agreement. Diversity of origin (social, cultural, nationality, backgrounds,  etc.):   Espoir banlieue plan (promotion of employment opportunities for  young people from underprivileged areas);   partnership with the Nos Quartiers ont du Talent association  (Our neighbourhoods have talent);   100 chances – 100 emplois program for professionnal integration  of youth suffering from discrimination (see page89 ). Action plans Several global processes have been developed to support  Schneider Electrics diversity policy:   People Review process to detect talent and promote equality and  diversity at all levels of the company, ensuring that professional  development is based on equality. In 2011, the people review  process was extended to all Schneider Electric entities, including  latest acquisitions, enabling the company to use a single process  and ensuring, by this way, that all employees have the same  means to manage their development and career;  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 77 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES   talent Pool to foster talent development throughout the world and  the access of women to key positions;   recruitment policies, succession planning, access to training,  talent and promotion management, which pay particular attention  to gender balance and new economies representation;   trainings leading to diplomas and quali cations for OATAM  employee  categories  (Manual  Workers,  Administrative  Employees, Technicians and Foremen), which impact is major  on promotion and remuneration of women, particularly manual  workers and assistants;   working session trainings on diversity for members of the  Executive Committee and their management teams;   On-line training program dedicated to the promotion of diversity,  launched globally in 2009. Gender balance In its diversity policy, Schneider Electric lays particular emphasis on  equal career management for men and women as the best means  to develop the values and skills required to meet the economic and  societal challenges of the 21st Century. Schneider Electric shares  the conviction that gender differences in the workplace (leadership  style and personality among others) complement each other, foster  innovation and provide a wealth of bene ts to its customers. From an operational point of view, the strategy consists of:   promoting women in the talent pool and in positions of key  responsibility;   ensuring equal access to training and developing the conditions  for genuine diversity in the workplace;   curtailing average wage differentials by allocating a speci c  annual budget (in France – see below);   creating favourable working conditions for both men and women  by adopting measures designed to enhance work-life balance. For example, succession planning for key positions in the company  must include at least one woman. Along the same line, the promotion  of women is monitored, as is their participation in leadership  development programs. Go Green in the City international case  challenge for students (see page73 ) is a Schneider Electric initiative  that helps attract female graduates for internship or recruitment. Gender balance Executive Workshops (half day seminars focusing  on gender balance) were deployed in the leadership teams of main  entities. At end of 2011, 120 top managers have been involved. In 2011, within the 2,500 talented employees identi ed across the  Group, 25% are women ( up 4 points compared to 2010). In the new company program, through 2012-2014, the percentages  of women in key positions and in the talent pool are key performance  indicators. The Planet & Society Barometer sets to have 30% of  women in the talent pool by the end of 2014. Equal pay for women (France) Salary equality is fundamental to the equality of treatment  that Schneider Electric is committed to guaranteeing for all its  employees, both male and female. In France, this commitment has been put into action each year since  2006 by allocating a budget (0.1% of the salary total) dedicated to  reducing male/female salary inequality. In 2011, Schneider Electric  decided to strengthen this and launched a large campaign with two  objectives:   to give meaning to the idea of salary equity even though salary  individualisation leads to differences in remuneration;   to analyse all remuneration by looking at competencies,  responsibilities and the professional pathway of each male and  female employee. Nationalities Schneider Electric has always promoted change, adhering to an  international, innovative and responsible strategy. With 137,000  employees in more than 100 countries, Schneider Electric  transforms the diversity of its employees into a means to understand  its customers and the world in which we live. In 2011:    ve nationalities are represented within the Executive Committee  (French, American, German, British, Spanish);   17% of Country Presidents are French, against 50% in 2003;   20% of Country Presidents based in Asia are French, against  60% in 2003;   the number of French expatriates is not currently more than 25%,  in 2003 it was 55%;   the number of nationalities has increased considerably, from 48  in 2003 to 70 in 2011. These developments are a result of the Groups careful and  committed policy. In addition, Schneider Electric received the  Human Capital Award in 2011 within the Internationalisation of  Management category, from among the CAC 40 companies. Emphasis is also placed on representation of new economies  with it in the Groups talent pool: among the 2,500 high potential  employees identi ed at the end of 2011, 36% are located within  the new economies (up 6 points compared to 2010). The share  of talent coming from the new economies is a key performance  indicator established in the new Business Program for the 2012- 2014 period. Disability Schneider Electric focuses on training and adapting workstations to  foster the independence of employees with a disability and to ensure  that all are accorded the same opportunities to succeed. Schneider  Electric is committed to ensuring maximum independence for  employees by adapting the organisation and workstations and  providing access to the best technologies available to compensate  for their disabilities. Schneider Electric also works on preventing  disabling situations. All its teams cooperate to change behaviour, improve practices,  and involve all personnel in actively providing equal opportunities  for the disabled:   the Recruitment and Mobility unit utilises partner  rms and  monitors compliance with equal treatment at all stages of the  recruitment process;   the Occupational Health Department is responsible for  preventing individual and group disabling situations (ergonomics,  desktop adaptation, musculoskeletal risks), retaining disabled  employees and disability compensation;   the Purchasing Department speci es its requirements to  temporary employment agencies and ensures compliance  with commitments in terms of subcontracting to the protected  employment sector.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 78 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES Schneider Electric subcontracts to the tablissements et Services  dAide par le Travail (ESAT – Assistance through Employment  Entities and Services) for industrial work, landscaping services,  catering and seminars. In Europe, the amount subcontracted to  the protected employment sector represents EUR 43 million in  2011, including: EUR18million in France, EUR12million in Spain,  EUR4million in other Western Europe countries and EUR9million  in Eastern Europe (Czech Republic and Hungary). Schneider Electric signed its eighth Disability Agreement in  France in January2010. The three-year Agreement (2010, 2011  and 2012) is directed and promoted globally and throughout  the country through a network of internal and external members  (Purchasing Department, Employment Management Department,  Occupational Health Department, Communication Department,  corporate partners and specialist agencies) with local rollout by  DisabilityOf cers. In France, Schneider Electric recruits through work-study  programs for positions that are predominantly technical, and also  for service sector positions ranging from the Certi cat dAptitude  Professionnelle (skills training certi cate) to engineering degree level.  The company is committed to recruiting 20 persons with disabilities  each year: 15 on work-study contracts (learning and/or professional  development) and 5persons on a  xed-term contract. In 2011, 8 people with disabilities were recruited on work-study  contracts and 6 on permanent contracts. In all, employees  with disabilities accounted for 6.19% of employment at  Schneider Electric in France in 2011, 3% of these in indirect  employment (subcontracting to the protected sector) and 3.19%  in direct employment. The mobilisation of internal actors and the  creation of a network of responsible persons for disability in 2010  led to an improvement of practices; thus, the objective of 6% set by  the law was reached for the second year in a raw. Schneider Electric in 2011 committed to a voluntary approach within  the scope of the disability agreement to improve all of its industrial  and tertiary establishments in France and make them accessible. In  compliance with the French law of 2005 promoting the principal of  equal access to all and for all, the program anticipates:   carrying out an assessment of the situation on existing sites;   ensuring compliance with legislation and going beyond;   anticipating future construction and renovation projects;   making expert occupations more professional in terms of  disability access;   constantly working for improvement using a measurement  indicator: the accessibility index. This project covers 30 establishments in 2011 and around 40 in  2012. Generational diversity (France) Within the scope of the agreement on seniors, SchneiderElectric  has implemented an interview for the second half of a career called:  The Outlook Meeting. This is a voluntary meeting for employees on their 45th birthday. The Outlook Meeting takes place in two stages:   an outlook stage with an Apec consultant (Management  Employment Agency) that aims to help the employee to plan for  the second half of their career;   a consolidation stage with their manager to validate the  professional development pathways they have taken and to  implement an individual action plan. More than 300 employees have had an Outlook Meeting, 74%  would recommend the meeting to their colleagues. 4.7  Employee share ownership Schneider Electric is convinced that employee share ownership is  instrumental in strengthening companies capital (both  nancial and  human), and that employee shareholders are long-term partners. Approach The Group has been building an international employee shareholder  base since 1995 that is representative of the Groups diversity.  Employees should hold around 5% of the capital in 2015. Action plans Employee share ownership plan 2011 Schneider Electric has ramped up its in-house communication to  employees to ensure that they have a clear understanding of the  challenges facing the company, its policy and its  nancial results.  T he 2011 Plan was very well received, with 24,400 employees in  14 countries subscribing shares for a total of EUR178million. The employee shareholding at December31, 2011 represented:   4.55% of Schneider Electric SAs capital and 7.06% of the voting  rights;   Over 30% of the employees worldwide. In 2012, the Group is already expected to launch a new global Plan.  This 2012 Plan  will cover 103,000employees in 26 countries. Socially responsible investment fund In November2009, Schneider Electric created the Fund Schneider  nergie Solidaire (a dedicated mutual fund). A number of information  sessions were held on this special purpose fund providing the  opportunity for employees in France to share in the ideas and  actions of Schneider Electric outlined in its access to energy  program called BipBop (see pages81-85 ). Investment in this fund totalled in excess of EUR3.3million as of  December31, 2011, thus enabling 2,137 of the employees to take  part in social welfare projects in France and abroad developed  as part of the BipBop program (EUR2million in 2010 and 1,500  employees).   REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 79 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES Approach Schneider Electric considers that freedom of association and  collective bargaining are fundamental rights and must be respected  everywhere. For many years, social dialogue has been taken into  consideration by our social reporting system: each year, local HR  report the presence of trade unions, works councils and health  & safety committees (see page 103 ). In 2011, 85% of Schneider  Electric entities have at least one representative organization ( gure  based on more than 80% of the overall headcount). Social dialogue is managed at European level through the European  Works Council and at Country level by the HR leaders. Schneider  Electric applies in all countries the same HR policies and processes  regarding career management, training, diversity, health & safety  as well as the Responsibility and Ethics Dynamics program and the  R&ED line (under deployment, see pages57-58 ). Action plans in major localisations European Works Council (EWC) Schneider Electric senior management and the employee  representatives of the European countries decided to set up the  Schneider Electric European Committee (renamed European  Works Council) under the terms of a collective agreement signed  on January28, 1998. This European channel for dialogue has enabled the management  to make more ef cient decisions by giving employee representatives  the opportunity to be informed of such decisions and to understand  their reasons, as well as to put forward proposals to supplement or  improve them. It has also fostered the emergence of a strong identity, combining  different cultures and having the common aim of working towards  social and economic progress within the companies in the Group  at European level. Buoyed by this encouraging result, the signatory parties agreed  in 2011 to revise the existing agreement by pursuing the following  objectives:   take into account recent acquisitions in Europe;   incorporate the provisions of the European Directive 2009/38/EC  of 6May 2009, which supplements the Directive of 22September  1994 by specifying dialogue and consultation methods between  Management and employee representatives at European level. This amendment clari es the role of the EWC and its Bureau in the  consultation process and re-de nes the geographical scope of the  Committee offering one seat to Switzerland and Turkey. The amendment number3 of the collective agreement has been  signed by all members of the EWC at end of 2011. In 2011, the European Works Council met six times in three different  locations in Europe:  ve restricted committees (including negotiation  meetings for the amendment) and one plenary session. In March 2011, the members of the EWC received a two-day  training conducted by both external trainers and internal specialists. The restricted committee, during its last session of the year,  reviewed two European agreements signed with the European  Metal Workers Federation:   the European Agreement on the anticipation of changes signed  in 2007,   the European Agreement on the integration of Areva D company  signed in 2010. Also, the so-called Temporary Instance, to follow the integration  of the Areva D employees into Schneider Electric and gathering  representatives from both Alstom and Schneider Electric, held its  last meeting in May2011. Indeed, the participants considered that  this original body, created during the acquisition phase, reached the  objectives that the different parties agreed on in 2010. Group Works Council, France The Schneider Electric Group Works Council France is a forum  for economic,  nancial and social dialogue between senior  management and the representatives of the employees from all  French subsidiaries. This body currently gathers 30 members. In 2011, two sessions of training gathering all members have  beenorganised. In order to better understand the evolution of the business of  Schneider Electric for the future, the Group Works Council France  visited a solar farm. To discuss in depth important topics like the integration of Areva D  activities in Infrastructure Business unit, some additional meetings  have been organised during 2011. In total, the Committee had  three meetings of one or two days in 2011. Social dialogue in the United States In the United States, regular communication takes place with both  union and non-union employees on key business topics and trends  affecting their jobs. Company of cials meet on a semi-annual basis  with key international union leaders to inform them of competitive  issues impacting the companys business, and to ensure alignment  with the companys business strategies and challenges, on a local,  regional and global basis. In 2011, Schneider Electric successfully negotiated new collective  bargaining agreements with the three international unions in the  United States - the International Association of Machinists (IAM),  the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) and the  International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT). A new three- year  labour agreement was rati ed at six manufacturing facilities  represented by the three unions. Also, a new three-year agreement  was rati ed by the employees represented by the Chicago and  4.8  Social Dialogue and relations  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 80 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 COMMITTED TO AND ON BEHALF OFEMPLOYEES Midwest Regional Joint Board, Workers United which manufactures  the Juno Lighting brand. Social dialogue in Mexico In Mexico, Schneider Electric leaders have regular communication  with the employees on topics related to their jobs: this communication  takes place in different ways, including large communication  meetings and small group conversations. There is also continuous  communication with the Union leaders and delegates of three  national Unions which represent unionized employees. Schneider  Electric keeps them informed of internal and external issues  impacting the companys results, listen to their concerns and look  for alignment with the company strategy and challenges. Schneider Electric and the Unions have negotiations regarding  salaries and every two years the contracts are reviewed. In  2011, Schneider Electric negotiated salary agreements in all the  manufacturing and distribution facilities as well as bene ts in  ve  manufacturing plants. Social dialogue in China In China, new labour laws, which refer to several important work- related issues, came into force in 2008. Schneider Electric fully  complies with the new Chinese law:   Schneider Electric union is established and is functioning in  China, it is engaged with city trade union;   the Group is under discussion with city trade union on how to  deal with collective contract, which is new in China. Social dialogue in India In India, social dialogue is traditionally restricted primarily to blue  collars working in factories. Schneider Electric has 31 factories  across India. Only 3 factories have Registered Trade Union, namely  Infrastructure Business at Naini, Global Suply Chain factories  at Chennai and Nasik. In these factories, social dialogue is done  through involving Unions. In all other factories, social dialogue is  organised either through Works Councils/Committees or through  direct dialogue with employees. Schneider Electric India has a strong social dialogue culture with  both unionized and non-unionized employees (Work Committees/ Councils). These representatives periodically meet and discuss  the issues on grievances, productivity and growth. Apart from the  regular meetings, management representatives also meet with  Union or Works Council representatives based on the need. The  Unions are af liated to the external bodies and registered under the  Trade Union Act, 1926. The majority of Schneider Electric employees are non-unionized  (28 factories out of 31). These employees are represented  through various employee committees and councils (such as  Welfare Committee, Womens Committee, Transport Committee,  Canteen Committee, Sports & Recreation Committee, Safety &  Health Committee, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Complaints  Committee, etc.). These committees provide a platform for  employees to represent their concerns, collective grievances  and workplace-related issues to the management. All employee  engagement programs are run through these committees with the  active participation of every employee. To maintain cordial employee  relations in the organisation and create an atmosphere of trust and  motivation, we sign every year a single or bipartite agreement on  salary and bene ts as per the provisions of local laws for a year. In 2011, Schneider Electric Global Supply Chain India successfully  negotiated an agreement through collective bargaining with two  Unions (Nashik and Chennai). Thereby, Schneider Electric agreed  to  x all the terms on wages and bene ts for next four years.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 81 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN   > 5. Schneider Electric, a responsible  corporate citizen Schneider Electric has consistently been committed to playing an  active role in the economic development of the communities in which  it has a presence. This is re ected in the substantial involvement of  the Group and its employees in supporting communities, particularly  by helping people to enter the workforce, and through its access to  energy program. 5.1  The BipBop energy access program P I B BOP P BO P I OP BOP I B BOP The "BipBop"program    Business Create an investment fund for business  development in  the electricity sector. People Help provide electrical training for young  people looking to enter the workforce. Innovation Conceive and provide electrical distribution solutions for disadvantaged populations. Context and aims In todays world, 1.3 billion(1)  people, approximately 300 million  households, do not have access to electricity; 585 million of  these live in Sub-Saharan Africa, 404million in India, 100million in  Indonesia and in Bangladesh. In general, these disadvantaged groups live on less than US$ 2  per day. While their families energy costs may run to more than US$15  a month. Improved access to energy not only improves quality  of life, but also facilitates access to healthcare, education and  development for those who need it most. Through its energy access BipBop program, Schneider Electric  wants to play a major role in helping people at the base of the  Pyramid to gain access to electricity. Schneider Electric is involved in three speci c areas:   Business (Investment) – manage an investment fund for  business development in the electricity sector;   Innovation (Economic and Offers and Models) – build and  deliver electricity distribution solutions for disadvantaged groups;   People (Training) – help provide electrical training for young  adults looking to enter the workforce. The Schneider Electric  Foundation and Schneider Electrics team members support this  focus through their collective and individual commitment. Created in 2008 and launched in 2009, the BipBop (Business,  Innovation, People at the Base of the Pyramid) internal energy access  program illustrates Schneider Electrics desire to create a virtuous  circle combining business, innovation and socialresponsibility. (1) Source: International Energy Agency  – World energy poverty 2010.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 82 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN   > WHO IS A PERSON AT THE BASE  OFTHEPYRAMID? Base of the pyramid is a term widely used today  to refer to those with the lowest income either in  the world or in a given country. Whether seen in  absolute terms (income of less than US$1.25 per  day in purchasing power parity terms according to  the World Bank) or in relative terms (income of less  than 60% of the average income for the European  Union), poverty affects people in marginalised  situations (infrastructure, isolation, poor access to  banking structures, etc.). Speci c approaches are  required to meet these challenges and to contribute  to reducing poverty. Organisation Management The program is managed by the Sustainable Development Of ce.  The BipBop program management team has been strengthened  in 2010 in line with the ambitious objectives set for it in the One  program. The team is now spread equally between France and  India:   a BipBop solutions Business Development Director;   an Offer Creation Director based in Bangalore (India);   a Welfare Investment Director, who manages the Schneider  Electric Energy Access social welfare fund;   a Training Programs Director;   BipBop correspondents in key countries (India, Senegal, Nigeria,  South Africa, Brazil, etc.). Rollout BipBop operates through its local presence in the countries  concerned by the energy access problem to achieve its goals. With  a few rare exceptions, all projects initiated bene t from monitoring  by employees of Schneider Electric entities operating in the country.  These employees constitute a network of key contact people for  the design, management and monitoring of projects. Their involvement may be part or full time. They contribute their  knowledge of the local context (organisation of civil society, local  authorities, the private sector) and guarantee that the project is  aligned with local needs. Their presence is of crucial importance  for the long-term oversight of projects in which Schneider Electric  is involved.   The main areas targeted by BipBop are India, Bangladesh, China,  South Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa and South America.  Three key performance indicators were set in the Planet & Society Barometer for the duration of the One program (2009-2011): Objectives for Year-End-2011 2011 2010 2009 2008 1.  1,000,000 households at the Base of the Pyramid  have access to energy thanks to Schneider Electric  solutions 1,291,768 891,058 260,000 0  2.  10,000 young adults at the Base of the Pyramid  trained in the energy management professions 12,318 4,742 2,150 0 3.  500  entrepreneurs at the Base of the Pyramid set up  their activities in the energy management  eld 391 209 125 0 NM =indicator not monitored. The 2008 performance serves as a starting value for the Planet & Society Barometer One program between 2009 and 2011. Please refer to pages 90  to 92  for the methodological presentation of indicators, and the following pages for the analysis of the results  (pages 84  for indicator 1,  84-85 for indicator 2 and 88 for indication 3). Highlights of 2011   indexation of the performance incentives for the Executive  Committee members to one of more components of the Planet &  Society Barometer, chosen according to their  eld, for example,  Access to Energy for the Population at the Base of the Pyramid,  for managers in the Asia-Paci c and EMEAS zones;   two out of three BipBop targets were exceeded as a result of  the energy access solutions implemented in the new countries  (Kenya, Burkina Faso and Sierra Leone in particular) and as a  result of the launch of new training programs. Social welfare investment (Business) In July2009, Schneider Electric announced the creation of a global  social welfare investment fund called Schneider Electric Energy  Access (SEEA), with an initial capital of EUR3million. At December31, 2011, the following amounts were managed by  the fund:   EUR 3,000,000 in capital invested by Schneider Electric;   EUR 1,000,000 in capital invested by Schneider Energie Sicav  Solidaire;   EUR 2,000,000 in capital invested by Phitrust Partenaires;  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 83 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN Approach Created with the support of the Crdit Coopratif, the funds  mission is to support the development of entrepreneurial initiatives  worldwide that will help the poorest populations  obtain access to  energy. It will invest in speci c projects:   help jobless individuals create businesses in electricity;   promote the development of businesses that provide access to  energy in rural or suburban areas in developing countries;   support the deployment of innovative energy access solutions  that use renewable energies for people at the Base of the  Pyramid. The SEEA fund brings together different stakeholders by  encouraging Schneider Electrics employees and business partners  around the world to play an active role in this commitment. This  socially welfare investment structure, designed by Schneider Electric  to promote responsible development, constitutes a response to the  new French legislation on employee savings plans. In 2011, 2,137  Groupemployees in France showed their interest in the BipBop  program by investing a little over EUR3.3million (seepage78 ). The aim of the SEEA fund is to promote development while  protecting the assets under management. Accordingly, it has  adopted strict management rules, such as:   always invest in partnerships with recognised players;   never take a majority shareholding;   always ensure sustained company support (help develop a  business plan, technical advice, etc.) to deliver the optimum  social ef cacy while minimising risk.   > SEEA FUND INVESTMENT POLICY France projects  projects  International         Sectorial specialization                  Geographical targets Methodological rules Investment type Action plans Investments in France La Foncire Chenelt is a Chenelt Group employment opportunity  company formed to counter energy precariousness by creating  energy-ef cient social housing. Moreover, construction sites bring  together employment opportunity companies and conventional   rms to promote rehiring of the unemployed. The SIDI (International Solidarity for Development and Investment)  is an investment fund that assigns priority to the impact on  development relative to return. The fund is an important partner of  SEEA and is particularly active in the micro nance sector. Solasyst is a company of La Varappe employment opportunity  group based in Aubagne, France. The company specialises in  renewable energy solutions and has developed speci c skills in  integrated solar panel installation. Backed by SEEAs investment,  Solasyst will open two new branches in the south of France. Partnership with the ADIE Schneider Electric set up a project two years ago in partnership  with the Association pour le Droit  lInitiative conomique (ADIE)  to help entrepreneurs start electricity-related businesses. The goal  is three-fold:   help individuals who have in some cases been out of the workforce  for several years create their own jobs in a promisingindustry;   contribute to the local economy;   promote the electrical profession. The project targets entrepreneurs who do not have access to  bank loans, notably the unemployed and low-income individuals.  Schneider Electric and Schneider Initiatives Emploi, an association  that nurtures spin-offs,  nance part of the microloans granted to   REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 84 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN electrical businesses through ADIE. Schneider Electrics French  sales division has also created a pact with dedicated technical  training resources combined with support from a local sales  representative to help these entrepreneurs. 129businesses received support in 2011. Investments internationally Two transactions were concluded as part of the SEEA international  portfolio in 2011:   Kayer SARL a Senegalese company involved in the distribution  of photovoltaic solar panels in rural areas. Its offering includes  individual systems (SHS) as well as collective systems for  supplying irrigation pumps or agricultural windmills;   Nice International. A company that manages networks of  internet cafes using solar power systems. These internet access  points allow users to access training, communication and  information means. The SEEA investment alongside FMO (Dutch  development aid funds) and Rabobank investments will allow the  company to expand in Tanzania. Finally, discussions are under way for other partnerships in India  and Africa. Offers and economic models for the base of  the pyramid (Innovation) Innovation is re ected in the design and implementation of rural  electricity offers, products and solutions for disadvantaged groups. Approach Innovation for Schneider Electric starts with the local needs and the  socio-economic context of those with little or no access to clean,  healthy and reliable electricity. With this in mind, the chief aims of its  offers and economic models are to:   respond to the energy needs of villages to support sustainable  economic and social activity;   include and involve local populations in projects to guarantee  their sustainability in the long term. Schneider Electric sets out to provide comprehensive energy access  solutions that support revenue-generating entrepreneurial activities,  foster community services or meet domestic needs. Products and  solutions are developed to meet a range of both individual and  community needs across the energy chain, from lighting systems  and battery charging stations to decentralised small power plants  and water pumping systems. Action plans Electri cation of villages in Nigeria and Senegal and a  partnership with Grameen Shakti in Bangladesh In 2011, Schneider Electric established a partnership with the  Grameen Shakti organisation based in Bangladesh. Through the  partnership, Schneider Electric aims to supply lighting products and  power control systems customised to demand for Grameen Shakti. Schneider Electric is currently strengthening this partnership  through the rollout of training programs that are fully integrated into  the BipBop plan. After Vietnam in 2010, four rural electri cation projects were  successfully implemented in 2011. The  rst three projects in Senegal concerned the electri cation of  three eco-villages situated around Dakar. They were implemented  in partnership with the ANEV (National Eco-Villages Agency) and  the company KAYER, a local installer with whom Schneider Electric  signed a partnership agreement in 2010. Another village electri cation was carried out in Nigeria in the Ogun  province. Schneider Electric implemented an off-grid solar power  station that powered community buildings and a battery charging  station. This station is managed by a local entrepreneur who rents  the batteries to individual homes on a daily basis. In India, Schneider Electric rolled out the same entrepreneurial  battery charging business through selected volunteer entrepreneurs  at the start of a basic electrician training program. Launch of a collaborative project The MiCST project consists of designing and manufacturing  an innovative solar plant using sunlight to heat a thermal energy  supply powering a thermodynamic machine coupled with a 10-kW  alternator. The associated offer, named Microsol, will be designed to supply  off-grid areas. MiCST is aimed in particular at developing countries  with strong sunlight. Simple to install and maintain, it can be easily  adopted by local populations. A major technical and technological  challenge, it will take high-strength, low-cost and eco-design criteria  into consideration. The project extends over 42months and coordinates the expertise  of 12 industrial and research partners. It is supported by the French  Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME). Low-consumption lighting system In a program to extend access to energy, lighting is one of the   rst vital needs expressed by population groups denied access or  reliable access to electricity. Lighting makes it possible to study after  the sun has gone down and to extend entrepreneurial activities into  the evening. Schneider Electric developed In-Diya, an innovative  and very low-cost domestic lighting system. With two types of lamp  made up of 90 or 45 low-consumption LEDs (4.5W for 90 LED)  that can be connected to a battery, which is in turn connected to a  photovoltaic panel for charging. This new system is available practically everywhere in the  world. Partnerships have been set up with local institutions and  organisations to optimise deployment of the product and to target  the poorest communities. The lamps are sold through our distribution networks, subsidiaries,  a number of NGOs and businesses in the sector developing access  to electricity. Training (People) Approach The key challenge of training in the electrical sector is to provide  those at the base of the pyramid with the knowledge and skills to  be able to carry out the task given to them in a safe and responsible  way, as well as providing their families with the means for suitable  subsistence.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 85 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN It will also give them the ability, should they wish, to sell and maintain  energy access offers and to create their own small business in time. Furthermore they are a vital and indispensable element for all  responsible and sustainable rural electri cation policies. Schneider Electrics strategy for the training of disadvantaged  groups at the base of the pyramid includes three key priorities:   basic training that is relatively short, free and accessible to a large  number of people; full-time or evening and weekend courses to  be able to better adapt to the local situation;   training leading to quali cations in partnership with local Ministries  of Education, included within the bilateral guidelines;   training for trainers to support effective and quality roll-out of  training down the line, accompanied by  nancing for investments  in materials. These actions are funded by the Schneider Electric Foundation  and are systematically implemented in partnership with local actors  and/or national or international organisations (NGOs, governments,  etc.). Action plans In 2011, Schneider Electric set as a priority the optimisation and  rationalisation of existing projects to prepare to extend them on a  larger scale during the period 2012 to 2014. This was particularly  the case for its three major projects in India, Brazil and Lebanon. Furthermore, this ambition was maintained on its other projects and  at the end of 2011 there were 19 projects that contributed to the  development of knowledge in electricity in 16 countries and opened  the way to employment for billions of people. The new targets had also been explored in 2011 to reinforce the  effectiveness of projects implemented in our partner centres:   direct donation of materials (in Haiti and in Tanzania);   development of low-cost didactics materials adapted to the  technical and economic reality of countries at the base of the  pyramid ( rst prototype in November2011);   support of micro-enterprise creation by young adults coming  from partnership training centres (50 in India in 2011). 2012 will be the year of supporting the growth of existing projects  whilst proving their effectiveness. The target will be to train more  than 10,000 new people during the year. This year will also see the  rst experimentation in transnational  duplication (Lebanon to Morocco/Nigeria, India to sub-Saharan  Africa, Tanzania to the East African Community). Projects started in 2010 will be fully underway in 2012:   launch of a BipBop Education didactic materials range;   implementation of a materials donation process to extend this  action;   support of at least 150 new self-starting entrepreneurs in  India and experimentation with the model in new countries  (Haiti,Cambodia). Due to the fact that the complimentary factor could be an even  more effective factor in helping populations at the base of the  pyramid, research on a more voluntary basis by partnerships with  the companies sharing Schneider Electrics values will be started  in 2012. This may lead to opening our existing projects to new  partners or to co-construction of new projects with them. 5.2  The Schneider Electric Foundation Approach Created in 1998 under the aegis of Fondation de France, the  Schneider Electric Foundation is involved in three main programs:   training and employment opportunities for young adults from the  base of the pyramid trained primarily in the electrical profession;   support for emergency and post-emergency relief efforts after  natural disasters;   raising sustainable development awareness through innovative  projects. The Foundation carries out its work through a network of 120  employee volunteers, known as delegates. These volunteers, who  are located in more than 70 countries, are responsible for identifying  local partnerships, presenting them to employees in their units, and  to the Foundation and tracking projects once they are launched.  Each project is subject to a review process based on administrative  and  nancial data by the Schneider Electric Foundation and by  Fondation de France before funds are released. With an annual budget of EUR4million, the Foundation works to  support its partnerships through Schneider Electric entities in which  employees are also involved. A total of EUR12.4million have been  invested in this way to bene t local communities (see page105 ). Organisation The Foundations network structure is an original and very suitable  means for engaging local, humane, and lasting sponsorship. It  also reinforces the energy of the people involved. In each site, the  choice of delegates is made based on recognised and formalised  participation via a letter of engagement signed by the head of the  site and that of the Foundation for a duration of two years. In 2011,  the Foundation had 120 delegates in 70 countries for a mission,  which includes:   selecting an association dedicated to employing young adults  and supporting this partnership;   organising local events adapted to the countrys culture, to better  boost employee morale;   informing employees of Foundation activities at their site. The delegates also coordinate the organisation of the annual  campaign for international mobilisation called Luli. This week takes  place in June and is an important time in the life of the Foundation  and the company with local partnerships taking centre stage at an  international level.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 86 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN Governance The Schneider Electric Foundation Board of Directors meets two  times per year. It de nes and encourages signi cant strategic  directions for the Foundation. It is composed of Schneider Electric  managers, employee representatives, and important people from  outside of the company. Requests received, responding to the foundations criteria, are  systematically sent to the delegate of the country concerned for  the proposed project. If the project is selected and supported  locally, it can then be studied on the corporate level by the selection  committee if a supplementary budget is necessary. This committee is composed of three members: the Foundation  Managing Director, the Foundation Program Director, and the Access  to Energy Program Training Director. They meet everymonth. Action plans Training and opportunities for young adults To facilitate the integration and professional training of the most  under-privileged young adults, the Schneider Electric Foundation  continually encourages and supports national and international  integration associations or electrical profession educational  organisations. To ful l this mission the Foundation also participates in the Groups  commitment to sustainable development. In particular, it also  contributes to the BipBop energy access program (for Business,  Innovation and People at the Base of the Pyramid) started in 2008.  The Foundation supports the People aspect of the program,  dedicated to training with priority given to the target developing  countries. All of these actions are monitored and measured on a quarterly  basis within the scope of the Planet & Society Barometer through a  key performance indicator: 10,000 young adults at the base of the  pyramid trained in the energy management professions. The target was achieved and exceeded at the end of 2011 with  12,318 young adults trained . The new Connect Business Program includes this training target  once again with an increase: to train 30,000 people at the base  of the pyramid in energy management occupations by the end of  2014. Emergency relief and reconstruction aid Acting as intermediary in rallying its employees, the Schneider  Electric Foundation regularly brings its support during natural  disasters. The Foundation above all wishes to maintain long term  involvement. The aid takes place at two times: during the emergency  the teams mobilise immediately to support the specialised NGOs  and to meet the initial needs of the populations. The second stage  is then implemented, which can take time. This stage aims to  contribute to the reconstruction in the medium term. The actions  supported and developed by local partners focus on construction  projects, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the technical training  centres for energy management professions. This is the part of the  program which mobilises the essential available resources. The  Schneider Electric Foundation considers it fundamental to share its  skills in electrical professions in order to actively contribute to aid in  catastrophe-hit zones so that reconstruction can be sustainable. Two campaigns were launched in 2011 following the earthquakes in  Japan and the  oods in Thailand. Raising Awareness about Sustainable Development Energy and climate change are the heart of the issues facing  our planet. It is now possible to do more with less resources. By  supporting innovative projects, the Schneider Electric Foundation  voluntarily helps raise awareness to different parties participating  in the challenges of climate change. The company invests in  emblematic and international programs by making its knowledge,  notably in energy systems management, available through  donations in resources and/or knowledge. Through its projects  and the commitment of its employees, the Schneider Electric  Foundation wants to emphasise:   the desire to contribute and to provide solutions; Safe, reliable, ef cient, productive and green energy management  solutions are now available and operational, even in the most  extreme conditions. Through its Foundation and alongside the  International Polar Foundation and other partners, Schneider  Electric contributes to implementing innovative and exemplary  smart networks within the environmental domain;   the ability to build together, to break down barriers; By forging links with NGO partners, Schneider Electric aims  to develop solutions that will serve the project by extending its  scope, adapting to needs and to different ways of collaborating  that are new and sometimes unexpected.   setting an example for employees but also for the wider  community; Faced with the issues of our planet and particularly the challenges  posed by energy resources, Schneider Electric always wants to  aim higher through its ambitious initiatives that may sometimes  seem idealistic, these adventurous solutions show that it is  possible to meet the challenges.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 87 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN Examples Highlights of 2011 for the Schneider Electric Foundation March May June July September November Emergency campaign Japan Admical Oscar France Opening of the first centres Haiti International Luli celebrates its  10th anniversary South Africa Signing of a BipBop training agreement India 2,500 young people trained The Schneider Electric Foundation brings home the  Admical Oscar The Oscar awarded by the company Admical was presented  to the Schneider Electric Foundation in 2011. For more than 30  years Admical has organised this initiative that recognises French  companies or companies based in France for their exemplary  and original sponsorship policy in all areas of general interest:  social, education, health, culture, sport, environment, research,  international solidarity, etc. The jury, independent of Admical, is  made up of quali ed persons from the world of business, general  interest, media and communication. This award honours the actions that we are undertaking. It also  gives us the opportunity to af rm our particular vision of sponsorship  and its prominent role within the company, through the involvement  of foundation delegates and Schneider Electric employees, but also  its direct and original contribution to the BipBop energy access  program said Gilles Vermot Desroches, Sustainable Development  Director, General Delegate of the Foundation. In 2003, the Schneider Electric foundation received the Admical  Oscar for company sponsorship. Luli celebrates its 10th anniversary in 2011 Schneider Electric employees, donors and partner organisations  met in 2011 to celebrate the 10th anniversary of Luli, the  international mobilisation campaign co-ordinated by the Schneider  Electric Foundation. As in every year, the Luli campaign is always  a joyful moment when local initiatives to support partnerships and  involvement with local organisations undertaken by Schneider  Electric employees and the 120 Foundation delegates throughout  the world can take centre stage. Luli in 2011 will involve: 28,000 mobilised employees, 150 initiatives,  80 supported organisations and 50 participating countries. Creation of the Schneider Electric Teachers NGO Since the Schneider Electric Foundation was created in 1998, it  has placed Group employee involvement at the heart of its work.  Whether Foundation delegates or employee volunteers, they are  the link between the company, the Foundation and the supported  organisations in more than 70 countries. The creation the Schneider Electric Teachers organisation at the  start of 2012 resulted from the desire of Schneider Electric and  the Foundation to do more to support voluntary work of Schneider  Electric current and retired employees in the teaching and  professional training programs. The main objective was to provide a  new contribution to the BipBop training programs and to undertake  300 missions in three years. This indicator is included in the Planet  &Society Barometer 2012-2014. For more information: www.fondation.schneider-electric.com Initiatives in North America American culture gives a lot of importance to community  involvement. Schneider Electric North America has the following  commitments:   one of the  agship programs of the Schneider Electric Foundation  North America is the matching gift program, through which the  company matches employee donations to the organisations of  their choice. In 2011, the Company matched 2,791 donations  in North America (compared with 2,578 in 2010 and 2,674 in  2009);   Pelco by Schneider Electric, the Group entity specialised in  building security and video surveillance, is developing a program  called Pelco Community Partnership Program which encourages  employees to get involved and volunteer in selected associations  for up to 40 hours per employee per year;  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 88 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN   every year, APC by Schneider Electric implements a program  called Community Impact which gathers employees from  the head of ce and others to support local associations with  community service (donating or recycling computer equipment,  assisting handicapped people, etc.). These initiatives are consolidated at the level of the Schneider  Electric Foundation and are taken into account in the different  reports and indicators. Wherever it operates, Schneider Electric makes a strong  commitment to community partners and civil society through  positioning itself in a way that is indispensable for a global enterprise  that wants to keep in touch with the labour markets local to its  industrial facilities. Numerous projects under way and on the  drawing board demonstrate Schneider Electrics desire to be  engaged, notably in the area of employment, and to contribute fully  to local economic development. Business creation in France – Support for  business creation with Schneider Initiatives  Emploi (SIE) Approach and action plans For more than 15years, Schneider Electric has supported employee  projects in France to create businesses or buy going concerns  through Schneider Initiatives Emploi (SIE), a dedicated structure  demonstrating the Groups commitment to its mobility, employment  and regional economic development responsibilities. SIE also illustrates Schneider Electrics efforts to encourage the  development of entrepreneurial values within its units. The association provides con dential support for Schneider Electric  employees during all stages of business creation, as well as  afterwards, with a follow-up period of three years. SIEs dedicated team of seasoned managers is responsible for  reviewing the  nancial, legal, technical and commercial aspects of  business creation projects to ensure they are viable and sustainable. Speci c support is offered for energy-related projects, which can  bene t in particular from the support of the Sales and Marketing  Department. These accounted for more than 20% of all supported  projects in 2011. The support of the Sales Department is also  provided to electrical designers from EDF. The SIE structure is represented directly or indirectly in local business  networks. To enhance the quality of services offered, it has teamed  up with various local associations involved in job and business  creation such as the EGEE, ECTI, Management Boutiques, ALIZE,  local Undertake networks and other local associations. More than 1,000 project sponsors were supported, including  electrician, baker, consultant, graphic designer, asset manager,   orist, etc. Examples On 16 November 2011 at the fourth Schneider Electric Vivez  laventure ! (Live the Adventure) competition, four young heads  of companies received an award to recognise and highlight their  initiative. An award of the 1,000th project was celebrated during  this competition. Didier Doucet, the 1,000th project designer, said: My business  plan, produced with helpful advice from SIE, was judged to be  very relevant by other bodies including banks and Management  Boutiques.   85%: the success rate after three years for the projects SIE  supports;   2,200 jobs created: each business created or taken over  generates two jobs on average. Economic development of territories Many actions are undertaken to contribute to local economic  development, for example:   speci c missions within the fabric of the local SMEs (small and  medium enterprises) carried out by Schneider Electric senior  experts;   support for organisations that open the way to creation of  activities and companies;    nancial aid for learning within the energy sector. Other organisations such as ADIE (Association for the Right to  Economic Initiative) are also  nancially supported through guarantee  funds, loans, or particular subsidies for electrical project creators. The electrical project creators can also access support for expansion  from the Schneider Electric Sales Department. Revitalisation of local labour markets in France The pilot SIE structure was used to implement the revitalisation  actions put into place during restructuring of certain industrial areas. The involvement of the teams in local economic networks optimises  the allocation of resources where they are needed most under these  agreements de ned in the GPEC, the employment safeguarding  plans (PSE) or the future industrial restructuring plans. Nine local labour markets were involved in 2011. These actions  result in support for employment, implementation of the Groups  involvement policy, SME development aid, support for the energy  sector, learning and other actions desired by the local economic  and political authorities. 5.3  Territorial positioning and impact on economic and social development  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 89 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN Job creation for disadvantaged young adults in  France Schneider Electric has implemented a raft of initiatives such  as training, professional involvement for young adults from  disadvantaged backgrounds, partnerships with schools and  associations,  nancial support for young students, and participation  in technical or general training courses, etc. These actions are  undertaken by partnerships founded within the scope of the  Schneider Electric Foundation. In France, the annual 100 chances - 100 emplois  campaign  targets young adults aged 18 to 30 with a low level of education  or quali cations that are susceptible to discrimination, come from  sensitive urban areas (ZUS) and who are motivated to take part in  a job opportunity program. The objective: to open the door to lasting employment by offering  personalised quali cation pathways with the help of many companies  brought together and led by the pilot companies (SchneiderElectric  in Grenoble, Chambry, Rouen, Rueil-Malmaison, Dijon and  Nord- Isre). The aim: attaining positive outcome target of 60%, meaning that  participants obtain a  xed-term contract of more than six months, a  permanent contract or a skills-quali cation training contract. The French government launched the  rst 100 chances  -  100emplois  campaign in January2005 in ChalonsurSane. At the end of 2011more than 600 young adults had obtained a  permanent contract, a  xed-term contract of more than six months  or a skills-quali cation training contract, equal to over 70% of  participants. More than 1,100 other young adults were supported  by the program. The 100 chances  - 100 emplois  campaign targeted the cities of  Aubervilliers, Saint-Denis, Chalon-sur-Sane, Grenoble, Chambry,  Dieppe, Lyon, Nice, Rouen, Rueil-Malmaison, Dijon and Nord-Isre.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 90 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 METHODOLOGY ANDAUDIT OFINDICATORS   > 6. Methodology andaudit  ofindicators 6.1  Methodology elements on the published indicators In the absence of any recognised and meaningful benchmark for  companies involved in manufacturing and assembling electronic  components, Schneider Electric has drawn up a frame of reference  with reporting methods for the Planet & Society Barometers  indicators and for Human Resources, safety and environment data. This referential includes the boundaries, the collection and  consolidation procedures and the de nitions of this information.  As it is engaged in a process of constant improvement, Schneider  Electric is gradually supplementing this work to adapt its referential  of sustainable development indicators to changes in the Group.  This document is regularly updated and additional information can  be consulted on www.barometer.schneider-electric.com. In keeping with its commitment to continuous improvement,  Schneider Electric asked Ernst & Young to conduct a review in  order to obtain a moderate level of assurance for certain human  resources, safety and environment indicators. The audit work is  entered along with that conducted since 2006 and was broadened  to a larger number of key performance indicators from the Planet &  Society Barometer (See Auditors report page96 ). Human Resources, safety and environment  indicators The Human Resources and safety data comes from several  dedicated reporting tools, available on the Groups Intranet,  including the One reporting tool for the Human Resources and  safety data. Its consolidation is placed respectively under the Global  Human Resources Division and the Groups Global Supply Chain  Management. Data reliability checks are conducted at the time of  consolidation (review of variations, inter-sites comparison). Breakdown of workforce data (by gender,  category, age, and  seniority), sites declaring employee representation, the number of  collective agreements and training programs cover 80% of the total  workforce. Performance or career interviews have taken place with  more than 84% of the workforce. This data is consolidated over all fully integrated companies within  the scope of  nancial consolidation, when the Group has more than  a 50% stake in the subsidiary. Units that belong to Group companies which are fully consolidated  are included on a 100% basis in reporting. Units belonging to  proportionally consolidated companies are also fully integrated.  Companies accounted for by the equity method are not included  in the reporting. All the ISO14001 certi ed entities must report their environmental  data. All production and supply chain sites with 50 or more  employees must obtain ISO 14001 certi cation before the end  of the third full calendar year of operation or membership in the  Group. Administrative, R&D and sales sites with 300employees or  more had to progressively obtain ISO14001 certi cation between  2009 and the end of 2011. Other sites may seek certi cation and/ or report on a voluntary basis. Indicators from the Planet & Society  barometer The following Human Resources, safety and environment data is  used by indicators from the Planet & Society Barometer and veri ed  by Ernst & Young: total workforce, workforce present on the ISO  14001 certi ed sites, ISO 14001 certi ed sites, and the accident  frequency rate. Other data is used and consolidated under departments directly  concerned by the indicators (Human Resources, environment, the  Foundation, etc.) and each represented by a driver. The global performance of the Planet & Society Barometer is  calculated by the Groups Sustainable Development Department.  The indicators from the Planet & Society Barometer have a Group  scope with speci c levels of coverage per indicator. 30,000T annual reduction of our C02 equivalent  emissions This indicator includes:   direct greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. emissions of SF6 in the  industrial sites concerned;   direct and indirect emissions associated with energy use of  industrial and logistics sites and largest tertiary sites (electricity,  gas, fuel, diesel, urban heating);   indirect emissions, related to long distance freight. The emissions associated with these activities are converted into  CO2:   23,900kg of CO2 per 1kg of SF6 (source: International Energy  Agency - IEA);   Energy/CO2 ratios of the IEA. Figures are taken for the One  business program period from 2009 to 2011. These conversion  factors can be global (gas, fuel, diesel) or national (electricity,  urban heating).  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 91 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 METHODOLOGY ANDAUDIT OFINDICATORS In 2011, this scope was extended: the number of sites reporting  their energy use increased from 255  sites in 2010 to 281  in 2011. The indicator compares the equivalent CO2 volume released in  year n with the equivalent CO2 volume that the Group would have  released on a comparable basis without making any effort to cut  its emissions. For instance, the effort made to make the industrial  processes safe that use SF6 enabled the leakage rates of SF6 to  be cut in year n compared with year n-1; without this effort, it is  considered that the leakage rates would have been equivalent in  year n and in year n-1. The two  rst indicator components above were audited by Ernst &  Young. The indicator was not audited because the comparison of  energy use over two years, to calculate a cut in emissions, requires  temperature variations to be neutralised on a comparable basis,  which we are not yet in a position to calculate precisely. A program  to connect Schneider Electrics largest sites to the advanced energy  monitoring solutions is anticipated within the scope of the Company   Program 2012-2014 as a result of the recent acquisitions of Summit  Energy and Vizelia. 2/3 of our products revenues achieved with Green  Premium products A Green Premium product is de ned by the following four criteria:   an Environmental Product Pro le available online;   an end-of-life instruction manual available online;   the list of substances of concern according to the European  Directive REACH available online;   the observance of the thresholds imposed by the RoHS EU  Directive on hazardous substances. In 2009-2011, the indicator measured the share of sales made  with a Green Premium offer from sales  gures for 2008 for Industry,  LifeSpace EMEAS and Power offers. Coverage was around 50% of  product sales (EUR5.3billion). Global and adapted references were  taken into account. From 2012, the indicator will include sales from  Buildings, IT and Life Space APAC and the reference year will be  updated (approximately EUR9billion). This indicator was audited by Ernst & Young. 2/3 of our employees work on ISO14001  certifiedsites ISO14001 is an international standard certifying the environmental  management systems of sites. The sites purchased in 2010 after the purchase of the Areva  Distribution business were not included in 2010. However, Areva  D was able to be included in the indicator calculation for 2011.  The sites purchased in 2011 after the takeovers of Telvent and  Luminous were not included in 2011. The indicators denominator recognises those under contract  with Schneider Electric ( xed-term and permanent contracts) and  temporary staff (all of the Group employees) and its numerator  those under contract with Schneider Electric ( xed-term and  permanent contracts), the temporary staff and subcontractors from  the ISO14001 certi ed sites. The indicator is thus increased. This indicator was audited by Ernst & Young. Exceeding the Groups growth by 7points per year  with our energy efficiency activities The energy ef ciency activities are products, services and solutions  sold by the Group contributing to at least one of the four stages  of active energy ef ciency (measure, optimise, monitor, improve).  Theirchoice in the Groups offer is validated in Executive Committee. The 2011 exchange rate is applied to sales achieved in 2010 to  calculate the growth in sales of the Group and energy ef ciency  activities untouched by exchange rate effect. This method is  also used by Schneider Electric to publish its growth  gures.  Thisrestatement is achieved each year identically over the entire  period of the Companys One program (2009-2011). The turnover achieved by the Areva Distribution business,  purchased by the Group in 2010, was not included in the 2010  result. However, it is included in 2011. Quarterly sales are calculated year to date over the year: the sales  from the  rst quarter of the year are compared with sales from  the  rst quarter of the previous year, then the sales of the  rst two  quarters of the year are compared with the sales of the  rst two  quarters of the previous year, and so on. The sales  gures are reset  to 0 on January1. This indicator was audited by Ernst & Young. Implement a recovery process for SF6 gas  in10countries SF6 is one of the six greenhouse gases targeted by the Kyoto  Protocol. A SF6 recovery process is characterised by:   the existence of a technical recovery solution and disposal or  recycling of SF6;   the existence of a commercial recovery offer for equipment  containing SF6 which are at their end-of-life;   the recovery and processing of equipment. 1,000,000 households at the Base of the Pyramid  have access to energy thanks to Schneider Electric  solutions Households at the base of the pyramid taken into account by this  indicator are those that have incomes under USD3,000 per annum  in purchasing power parity. The indicator measures the sales of prepayment meters sold by  Conlog, a subsidiary of Schneider Electric, to electrical distribution  companies in Africa, enabling households to connect to the grid  who were not able to do so previously. A drop of 20% to this  gure  is applied to remove the new connections due to new housing  constructions for households not belonging to the base of the  pyramid. Make 60% of our purchases from suppliers who  support the Global Compact The Global Compact is a United Nations initiative aimed at involving  businesses in observing the ten universal principles, in the areas of  human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Businesses which support the Global Compact publicly undertake  with the United Nations to constantly improve their actions in favour  of the ten Principles and to annually communicate the efforts made  during the year. This indicator measures the share of the volume of purchases from  suppliers listed by Schneider Electric, along with those who support  the Global Compact or equivalent. For electronic businesses, the  Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC) is considered as  equivalent to the Global Compact and is incorporated as such  into the indicator. Taiwan is not recognised by the United Nations,  Taiwanese businesses must send Schneider Electric a letter of   REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 92 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 METHODOLOGY ANDAUDIT OFINDICATORS commitment signed by their PDG in order to be included in the  indicator. This is the same for companies with less than 10 people  who cannot commit to the Global Compact. The indicator is  calculated on a comparable basis. This indicator was audited by Ernst & Young. Four major ethical stock indexes select Schneider  Electric The indicator measures the presence of Schneider Electric in the  following four ethical stock market indices:   the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World;   the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Europe;   the Advanced Sustainable Performance Index (ASPI) Eurozone;   the FTSE4Good. This indicator was audited by Ernst & Young. Decrease by 10% annually the frequency of accidents  at work The lost time injury frequency rate corresponds to the number of  accidents resulting in more than one day of lost work over a period  of twelve months per millions hours worked. All accidents reported  on Schneider Electric sites are counted (including therefore accident  affecting subcontractors on site and temporary workers). This indicator was audited by Ernst & Young. 14points increase in the Companys employee  recommendation score This indicator measures the results of quarterly surveys from all of  the Groups employees (those on  xed-term contracts – including  work-study participants – and on permanent contracts). The  Employee Net Promoter Score is measured with the question:  To what extent would you recommend Schneider Electric to your  friends as being a business where it is pleasant to work?. Polls are  considered as in favour of, undecided or against, depending  on the rating they select on a scale from0to10 (against from 0 to  6, undecided from 7 to 8, in favour of from 9 to 10). The indicator  measures the difference between those who are for and those who  are against. This methodology is also used for the Customer Net  Promoter Score. This indicator was audited by Ernst & Young. 2,000employees trained on energy management  solutions The indicator counts the employees haven taken one of the internal  or external training courses aimed at training specialists in energy  management:   a generalist training on energy ef ciency (in-class and e-learning).  The CEM certi cation program (Certi ed Energy Manager) issued  by an external certi cation body is accepted as equivalent and  included in the indicator;   a training path including a general phase on energy ef ciency,  then a specialisation phase (marketing, sales, customer projects  management, etc.) requiring functional skills, a knowledge of  solution segments and experience with customers. In 2009, the indicator counted solely employees taking part in the  courses offered. This indicator was audited by Ernst & Young. 10,000 young adults at the base of the pyramid  trained in the energy management professions Young adults from the base of the pyramid taken into account by  this indicator are those that come from a household with an income  under USD 3,000 per annum in purchasing power parity. The indicator counts students undergoing training by Schneider  Electric (supplying equipment or equipment with added technical  and teaching expertise). A student is only counted once in the indicator. This indicator was subject to a dry-run audit by Ernst & Young. 500 entrepreneurs from the Base of the Pyramid  start their own business in the area of energy  management Entrepreneurs from the base of the pyramid are people with no  access to the banking system and traditional credit organisations to   nance the creation of their business. The indicator counts people creating their business in the area  of energy management (electricians, small  tters, etc.) who avail  themselves of microcredit and support in business creation and  management by a specialised association  nanced by Schneider  Electric. Schneider Electric also offers support to its vendors  including in particular equipment and technical and marketing  support. An entrepreneur is only counted once in the indicator.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 93 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 METHODOLOGY ANDAUDIT OFINDICATORS 6.2  Concordance of our indicators with the NRE Act (New Economic  Regulations, France) and article225 of the Grenelle2Act Concordance Table with the NRE Act The new economic regulations act (Article116) requires French listed companies to give an account of the social and environmental  management of their business in their annual report. The table below indicates the numbers of the pages in this report in which the various  indicators are mentioned. Article148-2 of the  implementing order Social information Pages 1.1.a Total staff,  xed-term/permanent contracts, recruitment, layoffs and grounds, overtime, labour  from outside the Company 100  1.1.b Cutting staff and job saving, regarding reorientation efforts, re-employment and supporting  measures 88-89  1.2 Work schedule, total hours for full-time and part-time employees, absenteeism and grounds 1999 ARTT  Agreement 1.3 Remuneration and development, social charges, application of the provisions of Title IV of Book  IV of the French Labour Code, gender equality 76-78, 124-132  1.4 Professional relations and statement of collective agreements 79-80, 103  1.5 Health and safety conditions 71-72, 103  1.6 Training 74-75, 104  1.7 Employment and integration of disabled persons 77-78  1.8 Social works 79-80, 103  1.9 Size of subcontracting 56-57, 100  Article148-3 of the  implementing order Environmental information Pages 2.1 Water, raw materials and energy use. Steps taken to improve energy ef ciency, use of  renewable energy, conditions of land use, airborne, water borne and soil borne releases, noise,  odour and waste pollution 60-69 , 98-99  2.2 Steps taken to restrict harm to biological balance, to natural environments, to protected animal  and plant species 68-69  2.3 Evaluation approaches or company environment certi cation 67, 98  2.4 Steps taken to ensure the Company business conforms to the applicable laws and regulations 36-37, 65-66  2.5 Expenses incurred to prevent the consequences of the Company business on the environment 63  2.6 Internal department for environment management, training and informing employees about  them, the resources devoted to environment risk reduction, organisation and set up to contend  with accidental pollution with an impact beyond the sites 60-69  2.7 Amount of provisions and cover for environmental risks except if this is likely to cause serious  harm to the Company in a pending litigation 37  2.8 Amount of compensation paid out during the  nancial year implementing an environmental court  decision and cases brought for damages caused to the environment 39-40  2.9 All the items on the objectives that the Company assigns to its subsidiaries abroad on points  1–6 above 60-69, 98-99   REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 94 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 METHODOLOGY ANDAUDIT OFINDICATORS Concordance Table Article225 of the Grenelle2Act This article extends the requirement of listed and non-listed French companies to give an account of the social and environmental  management of their business in their annual report. Although its implementing order was not published when this current report was being  drafted, Schneider Electric had prepared a response. The table below indicates the numbers of the pages of the report in which the various  indicators are mentioned. 1 Social information Pages a) Employment   Total workforce and breakdown of employees by sex, age and region 100 -103 Hiring and layoffs 100-102  Remuneration and its development 124-132  b) Organisation of work   Organisation of working time 100  Absenteeism 103  c) Social relations   Organisation of social dialogue – particularly information and personnel consultation procedures and personnel  negotiation procedures 79-80  List of collective agreements 103  d) Health and safety   Health and safety conditions in the workplace 71-72  List of agreements signed with unions or staff representatives regarding health and safety in the workplace 103  Work accidents, particularly their frequency and their seriousness 103  as well as occupational illnesses 103  e) Training   Training policies implemented 74-75  Total number of training hours 104  f) Equality of treatment   Measures taken towards gender equality 76-78, 101  Measures taken towards employment and involvement of persons with disabilities 77-78  Anti-discrimination policy 76-78  g) Promotion and respect of the provisions of the International Work Organisations fundamental  agreements relating to:   Respect of the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, Eradication of discrimination in employment and profession, Eradication of forced or obligatory labour, Effective abolition of child labour. 44, 47   REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 95 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 METHODOLOGY ANDAUDIT OFINDICATORS 2 Environmental information a) General environmental policy   Organisation of the company to take into account environmental questions and, when necessary, environmental  evaluation or certi cation approaches 61-67  Employee training and information actions regarding environmental protection 104, 58, Intranet  Environment  Environmental risk and pollution prevention means 69  Amount of provisions and cover for environmental risks except if this is likely to cause serious harm to the Company  in a pending litigation 37  b) Pollution and waste management   Measures for prevention, reduction or repair of emissions in the air, water and ground with serious environmental  effects 68, 98  Measures for prevention, recycling and removal of waste 68, 98  Consideration of noise pollution and any other form of pollution speci c to an activity 69  c) Sustainable use of resources   Water consumption and supply according to local constraints 67, 98  Raw material consumption and measures taken to improve the ef ciency of their use 68  Energy consumption and the measures taken to improve energy ef ciency and the use of renewable energies 62-64, 98  Land use 68  d) Climate change   Greenhouse gas emissions 61-62, 99  Adaptation to the consequences of climate change 60-64, 67-69, CDP  e) Biodiversity protection   Measures taken to preserve or develop biodiversity 68-69, 65, 50  3 Information relating to societal commitments in sustainable development a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the companys activity   Regarding employment and regional development 82-84, 88-89  On bordering or local populations 81-85, 89  b) Relations with the persons or organisations involved in the companys activity, particularly involvement  organisations, teaching establishments, environmental defence organisations, consumer associations and  bordering populations   Conditions of dialogue with these persons or organisations 45  Partnership or sponsorship actions 85-88  c) Subcontracting and suppliers   Consideration within the companys purchasing policy of social and environmental issues 56-57  The importance of subcontracting and the consideration within relations with subcontractors and suppliers of their  social and environmental responsibility 56-57  d) Loyalty of practices   Anti-corruption actions taken 59  Measures taken towards consumer health and safety 21, 64-67  e) Other actions taken towards human rights, within the scope of this third indicator 44   REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 96 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 METHODOLOGY ANDAUDIT OFINDICATORS 6.3  Statutory Auditors Report Year ended December31, 2011  Statutory auditors  report on a selection of environmental, safety, Human Resources and Planet &  Society Barometer indicators  To the Shareholders, Further to your request and as statutory auditors of Schneider Electric, we have performed a review allowing us to express limited assurance  that the 29 indicators regarding environment, safety, human resources and Planet & Society Barometer for the 2011  scal year, identi ed  with the  symbol in the tables presented on pages 46, 52, 60, 70 et 98 to 105 of the annual report ("the Indicators" ), have been prepared,  in all material respects, in accordance with  Schneider Electric 2011 reporting guidelines ("the Guidelines"), summarized on pages 90 to 92. It is the responsibility of Schneider Electrics management team to prepare the Indicators, draw up the Guidelines and ensure that the  Guidelines are available for consultation at the group s head of ce. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Indicators, based on our review. Our review was carried out in accordance with the  international standard ISAE 3000 (International Standard on Assurance Engagement, December 2003). Our independence is de ned by the  legislative and statutory texts as well as the ethics code of the profession.   The conclusion formulated below concerns only the speci ed Indicators and not the entire sustainability report included in the annual report.  A higher level of assurance would have required more extensive work. Nature and scope of our review In order to be able to express our conclusion on the Indicators, we performed the following review:   We conducted interviews with the persons responsible for the reporting on these Indicators as well as a risk and materiality analysis at  Group level. For EMEAS and North America regions, extended works were performed on safety Indicators.   We also assessed compliance with the Guidelines and performed analytical procedures and consistency checks, as well as veri ed, based  on sample surveys, data processing for the calculation of the Indicators and their aggregation.   We selected a sample of  ve operational sites(1)  according to their activities, their geographic locations, their contribution to the group s  Indicators and the results of prior risk analyses.   The selected sites represent on average 6% of the total value of the Indicators (from 2% to 35% depending on the Indicators(2)). At the  selected sites level, we veri ed the understanding and application of the Guidelines, and veri ed, on a test basis, compliance with the  calculation formula and reconciliation with supporting documents.   We reviewed the presentation of the Indicators in the annual report on pages 46 to 80 and 98 to 105. In view of the work carried out over the last seven years, we consider that our veri cation work concerning the Indicators provide a suf cient  basis on which to formulate our conclusion, presented hereafter. (1) Spain (MESA site, Mungia) ; China (sites of SAS, Suzhou and SBMLV, Beijing) ; Mexico (site of Monterrey 3) ; USA (site of Pelco, Clovis,  California).  (2) 4% of energy consumption, 6% of water consumption, 5% of VOC emissions, 3% of waste production, 2% of recovered waste, 35% of SF6  leaks ; 7% of frequency rate and severity rate, 3% of salaried headcount, 4% of environmental headcount, 5%  of average temporary workers,  3% of training hours.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 97 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 METHODOLOGY ANDAUDIT OFINDICATORS Information and comments  Regarding the reporting Guidelines de ned by Schneider Electric for the selected data, we wish to make the following comments:   Speci c attention has been provided to the traceability of changes in the reporting perimeter of operational units.   Veri cation procedures implemented by the Group have been precised. At Group, sites and operational units levels, the implementation  of controls to be performed could be reinforced on all security data as well as on the SF6 leaks and VOC emissions indicators. Conclusion Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Indicators were not established, in all material  respects, in accordance with the Guidelines. Paris La Dfense, March 20, 2012  French original signed by  The Statutory Auditors Ernst&Young et Autres Ernst&Young Environment and Sustainable Development Yvon SALAN ric DUVAUD  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 98 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 INDICATORS   > 7. Indicators 7.1  Environmental indicators The indicators hereafter  have a Group scope. They  illustrate our  industrial and logistics sites environmental consumption, emission,  and waste in addition to certain major tertiary sites. Schneider Electric provides readers two pieces of information so  that environmental performance can be compared from one year  to another :    one part publishing constant scope indicators;   and another part publishing  indicators per employee to correct the  changes in the companys activities. The sites workforce includes  Schneider Electric employees (Fixed-term, Permanent, Work- study participants), temporary staff, and on-site subcontractors. The table below indicates how the indicators correspond with the  Global Reporting Initiative. Comments on the indicators are included in the corresponding  chapters . ISO 14001 certification of sites   2011 2010 2009 Number of ISO 14001 Certi ed Sites 273  251 244 Industrial and Logistics sites 253 236 233 Tertiary Sites 20 15 11 New Sites Certi ed this Year 36 22 25 Certi ed Sites that have Closed or Consolidated this Year 14 15 8  2011 Audited Indicator. Group sites consumption, emissions, and waste GRI Indicators Current Scope Constant Scope 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010  Number of Participating Sites 281  255 240 244 244  Number of Employees 102,991  87,371 78,078 90,257 86,045 EN22 Amount of Waste Produced (in metric tonnes) 135,392  113,684 101,535 118,427 118,001 EN22 Waste Produced per Employee (in metric  tonnes/p) 1.3  1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 EN22 Recovered Waste (in metric tonnes) 112,611  95,092 80,255 99,561 96,836 EN22 Percentage of Waste Recovered 83%  84% 79% 84% 82% EN8 Water Consumption (m3) 2,863,934   2,664,824 2,493,351 2,603,318 2,659,468 EN8 Water Consumption/employee (m3/p) 27.8  30.5 31.9 28.8 30.9 EN19-20 VOC Emissions (in kg) (estimates) 451,154  461,499 409,219 441,467 530,170 EN19-20 VOC Emissions per Employee (kg/p)  (estimates) 4.4  5.3 5.2 4.6 6.2 EN3 Energy Consumption (MWh equivalent) 1,204,580  1,186,864 1,066,173 1,116,270 1,178,478 EN4 Electricity (indirect consumption) 839,991 790,829 711,815 UP UP EN4 Heating (indirect consumption) 31,074 32,231 27,899 UP UP EN3 Fuel Oil (direct consumption) 21,366 28,128 28,926 UP UP EN3 Gas (direct consumption) 307,705 331,010 292,917 UP UP  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 99 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 INDICATORS GRI Indicators Current Scope Constant Scope 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 EN3 Coal (direct consumption) 4,432 4,641 4,594 UP UP EN3 Renewable Energy (direct consumption) 11 25 22 UP UP EN5 Energy consumption per employee (MWh) 11.7  13.6 13.7 12.4 13.7  EN16 CO2 emissions linked to energy consumption  (in metric tonnes) (estimates)* 430,191  411,177 357,513 400,280 407,224 EN17 Electricity (indirect emission) 348,316 323,429 278,809 UP UP EN17 Heating (indirect emission) 11,728 10,995 9,570 UP UP EN16 Fuel Oil (direct emission) 5,555 7,313 7,520 UP UP EN16 Gas (direct emission) 63,080 67,857 60,048 UP UP EN16 Coal (direct emission) 1,511 1,583 1,566 UP UP EN16 Renewable Energy 0 0 0 UP UP EN16 CO2/Employee (in metric tonnes/person) 4.2  4.7 4.6 4.4 4.7 EN16 SF6 Emissions (in CO2 equivalent  metrictonnes)** 52,542  60,491 135,895 49,661 93,761 EN16 Direct and Indirect CO2 Emissions (SF6energy  consumption and emissions inmetric tonnes) 482,733  471,668 493,408 449,941 500,985  2011 Audited Indicators UP =Unpublished * T he CO2 emissions linked to energy consumption are considered estimates, because the indirect emissions are calculated on the  conversion factors per country. **  9 sites used in 2009 and 2010, 17 sites in 2011 with the acquisition of Areva D, 15 sites for the constant scope calculations.  Constantscope emissions are not corrected from activity level. Intensity indicators The intensity ratios by workforce above only cover the scope of reporting sites. According to the 2012 carbon footprint, on the whole scopes  1 and 2 as per the GHG Protocol, the ratio of CO2 emissions/workforce at the Group level is estimated at 4.6. The ratio of CO2 emissions/million  of euros of turnover is: 29.1.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 100 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 INDICATORS 7.2  Social indicators The indicators below have a Group scope. They cover 100% of  the workforce from integrated companies (see rules page 90 ).  Certain indicators cover 80% of workforce; they are indicated by the  footnotes at the bottom of the page. To respond to the French NRE,  some indicators are given for France only. The precisions on the  variations of scope are contributed at the end of the tables below  and indicated by footer notes. The social indicators count the people with  xed-term contracts, on  work-experience and on permanent contracts. The indicators that  also include temporary workers and/or subcontractors on site are  indicated by footer notes. The comments on the indicators are given in the matching chapters  and indicated in the tables below. The table below indicates the matching of indicators with the Global  Reporting Initiative. Workforce GRI Indicators 2011 2010 2009   Workforce       LA1 Average workforce(4) 140,489 123,482 116,065   Of which production(4) 70,609 61,913 55,125   Of which structure(4) 69,580 61,569 60,940 LA1 Average supplementary workforce 13,924  12,049 8,463 LA1 Fixed-term contract and permanent contract personnel(5) 137,535  118,819 104,853   Of which permanent contract 87.4% 88.4% UA   Of which  xed-term contract 12.7% 11.6% UA LA1 Share of temporary personnel (supplementary and  xed-term  contracts)(5) 20.5% 20.8% 18.9% LA1 Organisation of working time(3)         Full-time 97.9% NP NP   Part-time 2.1% NP NP LA1 Hiring(6) 19,792  17,590 8,977 LA1 Departures(6) 16,362 14,968 17,663   Of which layoffs 3,887  3,976 6,331   Of which resignations 7,558 NP NP   Others (retirement, end of contract, etc.) 4,917 NP NP LA1 Voluntary turnover 6%  7% 5% LA1 Breakdown of workforce by region(5)         Asia-Paci c 31% 27% 25%   Europe 39% 42% 43%   North America 21% 22% 24%   Rest of the world 9% 9% 8% LA1 Breakdown of workforce by country  (themostsigni cantcountries)(5)         France 13% 17% 18%   United States of America 12% 15% 17%   China 10% 10% 10%   India 8% 6% 5%   Mexico 5% 6% 6%   Spain 4% 3% 3%   Germany 3% 4% 3%   Brazil 3% 3% 2%   Australia 3% 3% 3%  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 101 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 INDICATORS GRI Indicators 2011 2010 2009   Indonesia 2% NP NP   United Kingdom 2% 3% 3%   Russia 2% 3% 3% LA1 Annual change in workforce by country (the most signi cant  countries)(5)         France - 2% +9% -6%   United States of America + 9% - 1% -10%   China + 29% +24% -9%   India + 88% + 38% + 2%   Mexico + 5% +14% - 16%   Spain + 74% +6% -20%   Germany + 2% +57% -8%   Brazil + 38% +40% + 16%   Australia + 22% +2% -13%   United Kingdom + 8% +11% -11%   Russia - 1% +6% - 20% LA13 Breakdown of workforce by gender(2)         Men 68%  66% 66%   Women 32%  34% 34% LA13 Breakdown of workforce by gender and by category(2)         White collar 54.5% 53.6% 54.6%   Men 72% 71% 72%   Women 28% 29% 28%   Blue collar 45.5% 46.4% 45.4%   Men** 64% 60% 60%   Women 36% 40% 40% LA13 Breakdown of workforce by age(2)         14/24years 9.7% 8.7% 7.9%   25/34years 32.7% 31.4% 30.7%   35/44years 36.4% 27.5% 27.9%   45/54years 21.2% 22.3% 23.3%   55/64years 9.6% 9.7% 9.8%   > 64years 0.4% 0.4% 0.5% LA1 Breakdown of workforce by seniority(2)         < 5years 44.2% 43.9% 44.7%   5/14years 29.9% 30.4% 29.2%   15/24years 13.8% 13.7% 13.9%   25/34years 8.8% 8.6% 9%   > 34years 3.3% 3.4% 3.2% LA1 Breakdown of workforce by function         Marketing 3.8% 3.8% 3.9%   Sales 12% 14.9% 17.2%   Services and projects** 15% 12.9% 9.5%   Support 19.2% 16.8% 16.3%   Technical 8.4% 7.6% 7.2%   Industrial 6.4% 6.6% 7.6% LA1 Direct variable costs* (cost of employees under production or  business costs) 45.4% 46.4% 45.4%  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 102 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 INDICATORS GRI Indicators 2011 2010 2009   Workforce (France)       LA1 Spot workforce 19,947 20,311 18,698 LA1 Number of hires 1,228 793 379 LA1 Number of departures 1,531 1,228 1,330 LA1 Breakdown by type of contract         Permanent contract 94.7% 95.6% 96.6%   Fixed-term contract 5.3% 4.4% 3.4% LA1 Breakdown by occupational category         Manual workers 28.6% 30.2% 31.1%   Foremen 1.2% 1.3% 1.3%   Administrators and technicians 30.7% 31.9% 32.0%   Engineers and executives 35.1% 32.7% 32.7%   Work experience 4.4% 3.9% 2.9% LA13 Breakdown by gender(7)         Men 68.4% 66.8% 66.2%   Women 31.6% 33.2% 33.8%   Hiring(6)       LA2 Breakdown by type of contract         Permanent contract 61.2% 58.5% 56.6%   Fixed-term contract 38.8% 41.5% 43.4% LA2 Breakdown by category         White collar 51.3% 41.1% 40%   Blue collar 48.7% 58.9% 60% LA2 Breakdown by Region         Asia-Paci c 47% 45% 43%   Europe 23% 20% 20%   North America 17% 12% 13%   Rest of the world 13% 23% 24%   Layoffs(6)       LA2 Breakdown by type of contract         Permanent contract 81% 75% 91%   Fixed-term contract 19% 25% 9% LA2 Breakdown by category         White collar 45% 39% 44%   Blue collar 55% 61% 56% LA2 Breakdown by Region         Asia-Paci c 18% 11% 12%   Europe 33% 31% 37%   North America 27% 42% 40%   Rest of the world 23% 16% 11%   Resignations(6)       LA2 Breakdown by seniority(2)         < 1 year 35.8% 33.8% UA   1/4years 41.5% 45% UA   5/14years 18.7% 18.1% UA   15/24years 2.7% 2.2% UA   25/34years 0.9% 0.7% UA   > 34years 0.4% 0.2% UA  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 103 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 INDICATORS GRI Indicators 2011 2010 2009   Average temporary workforce       LA1 Breakdown by category         White collar 12.7% 12.5% 19.5%   Blue collar 87.3% 87.5% 80.5% LA1 Breakdown by Region         Asia-Paci c 56.9% 59.4% 61%   Europe 32% 29.5% 24.2%   North America 3.8% 7% 6%   Rest of the world 7.3% 4.1% 8.8%   Average temporary workforce (France)       LA1 Total 2,779 2,202 1,190   Breakdown by category         White collar 11% 10% 13%   Blue collar 89% 90% 87% Dialogue and social relations   Dialogue and social relations       LA4-6 Sites stating they bene t from employee representation(2)         Unions 52.4% 60.6% 55.1%   Works Council 56.5% 63.1% 63.5%   Health and Safety Committee 81% 85.9% 83.1% LA7 Number of collective agreements(2) 316 261 UA Health and safety of employees   Health and safety of employees       LA7 Number of accidents(1) 531 612 609   of which Schneider Electric employees 434 507 544   of which subcontractors 96 104 65 LA7 Number of fatal accidents 0 1 2   of which Schneider Electric employees 0 1 UA   of which subcontractors 0 0 UA LA7 Frequency rate(8) 2.06  2.51 3.06   of which Schneider Electric employees 1.95 2.37 2.99   of which subcontractors 2.62 3.50 3.11 LA7 Severity rate(8) 0.06  0.06 0.08   of which Schneider Electric employees 0.06 0.06 0.08   of which subcontractors 0.04 0.05 0.08 LA7 Number of lost days 14,284  14,624 15,678   of which Schneider Electric employees 12,815 13,007 14,574   of which subcontractors 1,491 1,617 1,104 LA7 Number of hours worked 257,313,965  243,999,107 199,050,694   of which Schneider Electric employees 222,211,425 214,588,490 182,034,089   of which subcontractors 35,158,598 29,410,617 17,016,605 LA7 Medical Incident Rate(8) 4.77  7.54 UA   of which Schneider Electric employees 4.41 UA UA   of which subcontractors 7.01 UA UA  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 104 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 INDICATORS Talent development and training GRI Indicators 2011 2010 2009  Talent development and training       LA10 Number of training hours(2) 2,205,713  2,088,144 UA LA10 Average hours of training per person(2) 21.1 22.6 24.3   White collar 27.2 30.8 28.9   Blue collar 15 14.3 19.4 LA10 Breakdown of hours by category (2)         White collar 64.3% 68.6% 61.8%   Blue collar* 35.7% 31.4% 38.2% LA10 Breakdown of hours by training type(2)         Health. safety. environment 14.3% 11.9% 12.5%   Technical 36.8% 32.7% 35.6%   Languages,  IT 16.6% 18.2% 17.7%   Management and Leadership 12.4% 16.7% 15.1%   Other 20% 20.6% 19.1% LA10 Breakdown of costs by training type(2)         Health. safety. environment 10.4% 11.8% 9.9%   Technical 29.4% 43.2% 33.5%   Languages,  IT 15.8% 10.5% 14.9%   Management and Leadership 18.8% 18.4% 26.2%   Other 25.6% 16.1% 15.5% LA10 Breakdown of costs by category(2)         White collar 75.5% 68.0% 75.5%   Blue collar 24.5% 32.0% 24.5%  Talent development and training (France)       LA10 Breakdown of costs by training type         Health. safety. environment 13% 11.8% 11.5%   Technical 42.8% 16.7% 18.1%   Languages,  IT 17.3% 17.8% 7.1%   Management and Leadership 13.7% 14.2% 25.6%   Other 13.2% 9.9% 13.1% LA10 Breakdown of costs by gender         Women 25.2% 27.2% 25.0%   Men 74.8% 72.8% 75.0% LA10 Breakdown of costs by category         Engineers and executives 48.9% 37.7% 45.6%   Administrators,  Technicians and Foremen 39.1% 39.1% 38.4%   Manual workers 11.9% 23.2% 16.0% LA12 Employees having had a performance interview (3) 52% 46.7% UA   Employees having had a career interview(3) 31.3% 32.0% UA (1) Includes business travel, excludes home/workplace travel. (2) The data covers more than 80% of the Group workforce at the end of  October2011 (annual survey); it does not include acquisitions integrated after this date. (3) The data relates to over 84% of the Groups  workforce at December31, 2011. (4) Temporary workforce included. (5) Based on spot workforce year end. (6) Acquisitions/disposals and temporary staff are not taken into account in the calculation. (7) The data relates to over 94% of the Groups workforce on French territory. (8) FR  =Number of accidents with lost days x 1,000,000/Number of hours worked. SR =Number of lost days x 1,000/Number of hours worked. MIR =Number of accidents requiring medical treatment x 1,000,000/Number of hours worked. * Data includes service VDC headcount, or 23% of all VDC in 2011, 19% in 2010, 16% in 2009. ** Part of the VDC services on total workforce: 10.4% in 2011; 8.9%in 2010; 7.1% in 2009. UA =Unavailable/UP =Unpublished Blue collars are Schneider Electric employees whose costs impact directly on the completion of business. The VDC are variable direct  costs.  Audited 2011 indicators.  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 105 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2 INDICATORS 7.3  Societal indicators The  data below was consolidated for the  rst time in 2010.  It is distributed based on declarative information submitted by  Foundation delegates. This information covers 80% of Schneider Electric employees. It highlights the importance of company and employee participation  in the Foundations approach to involvement, as close to the local  communities as possible. Breakdown of the Foundations financial commitments 2011 FOUNDATIONS INTERVENTION BUDGET 4,000,000 Breakdown by program (in%)   Training and opportunities for young adults 49% Emergency and post-emergency 31% (of which 30% post-emergency training/education) Raising awareness about sustainable development 1% Other (mainly involving employee/sponsorship expertise) 19% Breakdown by region (in %)   Africa & Caribbean 30% America 10% Asia 42% Europe 18% Breakdown of contributions from employees and Schneider Electric entities  totheFoundationactions   2011 Total  nancial contribution (in euros)   From employees 1,181,714 Of the Schneider Electric entity 4,037,158 From partners 447,495 TOTAL 5,666,367 Financial contribution per region (in%)   Africa & Caribbean 2 % America 65%* Asia  30% Europe  3 % DONATIONS IN PRODUCTS OR SERVICES FOR A PARTNER/PROJECT OF THE FOUNDATION (IN EUROS) 2,736,243 Number of employees involved in the Foundations actions  28,129 * Of which  S quare D/SchneiderElectric North America Total budget for 2011 for the Foundations actions FOUNDATION BUDGET, FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND DONATIONS IN KIND (IN EUROS) 12,402,610 For more information   www.schneider-electric.com (> sustainability )   www.barometer .schneider-electric.com   www.environ  ment.schneider-electric.com   www.foun dation.schneider-electric.com To contact us Email: fr-developpement-durable@schneider-electric.com Mail: Schneider Electric Sustainable Development address – 35, rue Joseph Monier,  CS30323–92506 Rueil-Malmaison Cedex, France  REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2011  SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 106 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2  107 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC Corporate  governance 3  1. Supervisory Board**  108 2. Organisational and operating procedures  oftheSupervisoryBoard**  116 3. Supervisory Board meetings**  117 4. Supervisory Board committees  (members,operatingprocedures andmeetings)**  119 5. Management Board members  121 6. Organisational and operating procedures  oftheManagementBoard  123 7. Declarations concerning thesituation of the members  ofthe Supervisory Board andManagement Board  123 8. Management interests andcompensation  124 9. Regulated Agreements  132 10. Internal control and risk management**  133 11. Application of the AFEP/MEDEF  corporategovernanceguidelines**  141  108 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This report includes the Chairmans report on the application of the principle of equal representation of women and  men on the Board, and the conditions applicable for the preparation and organisation of the work carried out by the  Supervisory Board, and the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company. The sections below - Management Board/Supervisory Board system, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8 (Remuneration Policy for corporate  of cers and members of the Management Board and Pension Plans), 10 and 11, and Section 2 (Shareholders  Meeting and Voting Rights) and7 of Chapter7 - constitute the Chairman of the Supervisory Boards report provided  for in articleL.225-68 of the French Commercial Code. They are indicated with**. A Management Board/Supervisory Board system** The company applies the AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance guidelines. There are a few exceptions, which are  described below (see Section11). The guidelines are available online at www.medef.fr. At the Annual Shareholders Meeting of May3, 2006, shareholders approved a recommendation to adopt a two-tier  management structure, with a Management Board and a Supervisory Board.   > 1. Supervisory Board** The Supervisory Board must have at least three and up to  18members, all of whom must be natural persons. Throughout their term, Supervisory Board members must hold at  least 250 Schneider ElectricSA shares. Supervisory Board members are elected for a four-year term and  are eligible for re-election. However, the Annual Shareholders   Meeting of April21,2011 removed the age limit of 74 years for  membership and it was decided that members who are 70years  old may be re-elected or appointed for a period of two years. No  more than one third of the members of the Supervisory Board may  be over 70years old. The Supervisory Board has 14members and one  non- votingmember. There are 12 independent members according to the de nition  contained in the AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance guidelines  for listed companies: Mr Lo Apotheker, Mrs Betsy Atkins,  MrGrard de La Martinire, MrXavier Fontanet, MrNolForgeard,  MrJrmeGallot, MrJeong Kim, MrWilly R. Kissling, MrsCathy  Kopp, Mrs Dominique Snquier, Mr G. Richard Thoman  andMrSergeWeinberg. Each year, the Supervisory Board includes  an item on the agenda to review the status of its members, based  on a report from the Remunerations, Appointments and Human  Resources Committee. Members directorships and functions in  other companies that have business relations with Schneider Electric  do not, by their nature, affect the said members independence in  light of the types of transactions involved. These transactions are  carried out on arms-length terms and are not material for either  party. Moreover, as regards Mrde La Martinire, who has been a  Director or member of the Schneider ElectricSA Board for more  than 12years, his seniority is not considered as a hindrance to his  independence due notably to his personality and involvement in the  work and discussions on the operation of the Audit Committees. Five members do not have French nationality: (American MrsAtkins,  Messrs Kim and Richard Thoman; German: Mr Apotheker, and  Swiss: MrKissling). One member, Mr Claude Briquet, represents the employee  shareholders in accordance with article L.225-71 of the French  Commercial Code. He was nominated by the Shareholders  Meeting, on the recommendation of the Supervisory Boards of the  FCPEs. The average age of the Supervisory Board members is 61. The appointments of seven members of the Board are due to  expire. These are the appointments of Messrs Lo Apotheker,  Xavier Fontanet, Jrme Gallot, Willy Kissling, Henri Lachmann  and G. Richard  Thoman as well as the appointment of MrClaude  Briquet who was elected by the Annual Shareholders Meeting  in  accordance with article11-c of the articles of association from a list  of candidates nominated by the employee shareholders. In view of the major changes made in composition of the Board  in 2011 with the addition of Mrs Betsy Atkins, Mr Jeong Kim,  MrsDominique Snquier and MrXavier Fontanet who was co- opted to replace MrAnand Mahindra, the Shareholders Meeting is  asked to renew the appointments of:   MessrsKissling, Lachmann, and Richard Thoman for a two year  period, in view of the new provisions in the articles of association;   MessrsApotheker, Gallot and Fontanet for a four year period.  The Annual Shareholders  Meeting will also have to ratify the co- opting of MrFontanet. With regard to the Board member representing employee  shareholders,  the  Supervisory  Board  recommends  that  shareholders vote for Mrs Magali Herbault whose pro le and  professional career  t the objectives of female quotas, rejuvenation  and internationalisation, as set by the Supervisory Board regarding  its composition.  109 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD Supervisory Board (as of December31, 2011) Chairman of the Supervisory Board MrHenri Lachmann Age: 73 Business address: Schneider Electric 35, rue Joseph Monier – 92500 Rueil-Malmaison - France 60,143(1) Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 1996/Term ends: 2012 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Vivendi; member  of the Supervisory Board of Groupe Norbert Dentressangle;  Director  of  Carmat;  Non-voting  Director  of  Fimalac;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Centre Chirurgical Marie  Lannelongue; Chairman of Fondation pour le Droit Continental;  member of the Steering Committee of Institut de lEntreprise;  Director of Association Nationale des Socits par Actions;  Chairman of Institut Telmaque; Vice-Chairman and Treasurer  of Institut Montaigne; Director of Planet Finance and Fondation  Entreprendre, Chairman of the Advisory Council of Campus  dExcellence au Commissariat Gnral  lInvestissement (Grand  Emprunt).   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Member of the Supervisory Board of AXA and AXA Assurances  IARD Mutuelle; Director of Finaxa; Non-voting member of Tajan;  member of CODICE; Director of Solidarits Actives. Experience and quali cations A graduate of Hautes tudes Commerciales (HEC), Henri  Lachmann began his career in 1963 with Arthur Andersen. In  1970, he joined Compagnie Industrielle et Financire de Pompey.  In 1971 he became Executive Vice-President of Financire Strafor  (later Strafor Facom), where from 1981 to 1997 he served as CEO.  He was elected to the Schneider ElectricSA Board of Directors  in 1996 and was appointed Chairman on February25, 1999. On  May3, 2006, he became Chairman of the Supervisory Board of  SchneiderElectricSA. Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board  MrLo Apotheker* Age: 58 Business address: 72, Ralston Road; Atherton, CA 94027, USA 500 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2007/Term ends: 2012 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schneider  ElectricSA; Director of New E.A (USA); member of the Board and Strategy  Committee of PlanetFinance.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: CEO and President of Hewlett-Packard; member of the Board  of Directors of Hewlett-Packard; CEO of SAP AG; Non-voting  member of Schneider Electric SA; Director of Ginger SA,  GTNexus (USA), SAP AmericaInc. (USA), SAP Global Marketing  Inc. (USA), SAP Asia Pte. Ltd (Singapore), SAP Japan Co.,  Ltd (Japan), SAP France SA, SAP Italia Sistemi, Applicazioni,  Prodotti in Data Processing SpA (Italy), SAP Hellas Systems  Application and Data Processing SA (Greece), SAP (Beijing)  Software System Co., Ltd, (China), SAP Manage Ltd (Israel),  SAPFinland Oy (Finland) and SAP Danemark A/S (Denmark). Experience and quali cations Lo Apotheker began his career in 1978 in management control  after graduating with a degree in international relations and  economics from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. He then  held management and executive responsibilities in several IT  rms  including SAP France and SAP Belgium, where he was CEO  between 1988 and 1991. MrApotheker was founding President  and Chief Operating Of cer of ECsoft. In 1995, he returned to SAP  as Chairman of SAP France. After various appointments within SAP  as Regional Director, he was appointed in 2002 as a member of  the Executive Committee and President of Customer Solutions &  Operations, then in 2007 as President CSO and Deputy CEO of  SAP AG and in 2008 CEO of SAP AG. In 2010, he became CEO  and President of Hewlett-Packard and served until Autumn 2011. Nota: in bold type, those companies are listed on a regulated market. (1) Held directly or through the FCPE. *  An independent member of the Supervisory Board within the meaning of the AFEP/MEDEF code of corporate governance for listed companies.  110 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD Members of the Supervisory Board  MrsBetsy Atkins* Age: 58 Business address: BAJACORP 10 Edgewater Drive, Ste 10A – Coral  Gables, FL 33133 500 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2011/Term ends: 2015 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Member of the Board of Directors of Chicos FAS Inc. (USA),  Polycom Inc. (USA), and SunPowerCorp (USA); President of  Vantrix (Canada); member of the Advisory Committee de SAP  (Germany).   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Director of Towers Watson (USA), Reynolds American (USA),  Vonage (USA); President and CEO of Clear Standards, Inc. (USA). Experience and quali cations After graduating of the University of Massachusetts and Trinity  College Oxford, Betsy Atkins began her career co-founding several  successful high-tech and consumer companies including Ascend  Communications. In addition, she served as CEO and Chairman of  NCI from 1991 to 1993 and as CEO of Key Supercomputer from  1987 to 1989. MrClaude Briquet Age: 51 Business address: Schneider Electric Industries SAS Boulevard Salvador Allende – Zone Industrielle – BP  660 –16340 LIsle dEspagnac - France 4,302(1) Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2008/Term ends: 2012 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Director of European Trading at Schneider Electric; member of  the Supervisory Board of the Schneider France-Germany FCP;  Director of the Sicav Schneider nergie and Sicav solidaire.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  ve years: Executive Vice-President of Alombard. Experience and quali cations An engineering graduate of cole Nationale dIngnieurs in Tarbes  and ENSEEIHT in Toulouse, Claude Briquet joined Schneider  Electric in 1985. He began his career in the areas of development,  quality and production. MrBriquet managed the Pacy I plant from  1992 to 1996 and the Vaudreuil plant from 1996 to 1999. He was  appointed Executive Vice-President of Mafelec in 1999 and of  Alombard in 2001. MrBriquet is currently responsible for trading  in Europe within the Industry Department of Schneider Electrics  European Operating Division. Nota: in bold type, those companies are listed on a regulated market. *  An independent member of the Supervisory Board within the meaning of the AFEP/MEDEF code of corporate governance for listed companies. (1) Held directly or through the FCPE.  111 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD MrGrard de La Martinire* Age: 68 Business address: 18, alle du Clotre – 78170 La Celle-Saint-Cloud - France 6,856 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 1998/Term ends: 2013 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Director of Air Liquide; member of the Supervisory Board  of European Financial Reporting Advisory Group EFRAG  (aBelgian law association); Director of Standard & Poors Credit  Market Services France SAS; Director of Allo Finance; Chairman  of the Managing Committee of Charte du Don en Con ance (a  charity within the meaning of the 1901 French law); member of  the Haut Conseil de la Vie Associative.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Chairman of Fdration Franaise des Socits dAssurances   (FFSA) and Chairman of Comit europen des Assurances  (CEA); Vice-Chairman of Comit europen des Assurances  (CEA); member of the Supervisory Board of Air Liquide; Director  of BanquedOrsay. Experience and quali cations A graduate of cole Polytechnique and cole Nationale  dAdministration, Grard de La Martinire held several positions in  the French Finance Ministry before serving as Secretary General of  Commission des Oprations de Bourse and General Manager of  Socit des Bourses Franaises. In 1989, he joined AXA, where  he was appointed Executive Vice-President for Holding Companies  and Corporate Functions in 1993, member of the Management  Board in 1997 and Executive Vice-President of Finance, Budget  Control and Strategy in 2000. He left the AXA Group in 2003 to  become Chairman of the Fdration Franaise des Socits  dAssurances (FFSA), a post he held until September2008. MrXavier Fontanet* Age: 63 Business address: 3, rue Charles Lamoureux – 75016 Paris - France First appointed: 2011/Term ends: 2016 Directorships and other functions   Currently**: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Director of Essilor, LOral and Crdit Agricole SA.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: CEO of Essilor International; Chairman of the Board of Directors  of Essilor International Director of the Fonds S tratgique  dInvestissement (F S I); President of EOA Holding Co. Inc. (USA),  Nikon and Essilor Joint Research Center Co Ltd (Japan); Director  of Nikon-Essilor Co. Ltd (Japan), Nikon and Essilor Joint Research  Center Co Ltd (Japan), Essilor of America Inc. (USA), Transitions  Optical Inc. (USA), EOA Holding Co, Inc. (USA), Shanghai Essilor  Optical Company Ltd (China), Transitions Optical Holdings B.V.  (Netherlands), Essilor Manufacturing India Private Ltd (India),  Essilor India PVT Ltd (India), Essilor Amico L.L.C. (United Arab  Emirates); Permanent representative of Essilor International on  the Board of Directors of the Association Nationale des Socits  par Actions (Ansa) Experience and quali cations A graduate of the cole Nationale des Ponts et Chausses and  Massachusetts Institute of Technology,  Xavier Fontanet began his  career as a Vice-President at the Boston Consulting Group. Hewas  General Manager forBnteau beginning in 1981. Between 1986  and 1991, he was in charge of central management of catering  for the Wagons-Lits group. In 1991, he joined Essilor as Executive  Vice-President and then served as CEO from 1996 to 2009 and  Chairman of the Board of Directors until the beginning of 2012. Nota: in bold type, those companies are listed on a regulated market. *  An independent member of the Supervisory Board within the meaning of the AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance code for listed companies. ** Situation as of January2, 2012.  112 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD MrNol Forgeard* Age: 65 Business address: 84, avenue dIena – 75016 Paris - France 500 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2005/Term ends: 2014 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Senior Partner at Arjil SAS; member of the Committee of France  Galop; Director of the PMU Economic Interest Group. Experience and quali cations A graduate of cole Polytechnique and cole des Mines, MrNol  Forgeard began his career in the French civil service before joining  Usinors subsidiary Compagnie Franaise des Aciers Spciaux.  In 1986, he served as an advisor on industrial issues in Prime  Minister Jacques Chiracs of ce. In 1987, he joined the Lagardre  Group, where he headed the Defense and Space divisions of Matra.  Five years later, he became CEO of Matra Haute Technologie and  joint Vice-President of the Lagardre Group. In 1998, he was  appointed Director and general manager of GIE Airbus-Industrie,  and in 2000, CEO of Airbus SAS (an Airbus consolidated company).  From July1,2005 to July1, 2006 he was co-Executive Chairman of  EADS. In 2011 he joined Arjil SAS as a Senior Partner. MrJerome Gallot*  Age: 52 Business address: Veolia Transdev 17 bis, rue la Prouse – 75016 Paris - France 500 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2005/Term ends: 2012 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Executive Vice-President of Veolia Transdev; member of the  Management Committee of the CDC Group; Director of Nexans  SA, Caixa Seguros SA (Brazilian subsidiary of CNP), Plastic  Omnium; Non-voting member of NRJ Group SA.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Chairman of CDC Entreprises SAS, CDC Entreprises Elan PME,  FSI PME Porfefeuille, Consolidation et Dveloppement Gestion;  Manager of Caisse des Dpts et Consignations;  Director of  Crdit Foncier de France, Galaxy Fund, Galaxy Management  Services, Caisse Nationale de Prvoyance (CNP Assurances SA);  President of the Austral mutual fund; member of the Supervisory  Board of Compagnie Nationale du Rhne (CNR); Non-voting  director of OSEO (EPIC); member of the Executive Committee of  Fonds Stratgique dInvestissement; Director of Icade SA. Experience and quali cations Jrme Gallot is a graduate of Institut dtudes Politiques in Paris  and cole Nationale dAdministration. After three years with the  Cour des Comptes, he served as an advisor to the Secretary  General of the interministerial committee for European economic  cooperation, from 1989 to 1992, and then moved to the Budget  Department. He was then Chief of Staff in a number of French  ministries, from 1993 to 1997. In 1997, he was appointed Director  of the Competition, Consumer Affairs and Anti-Fraud Division of  the Ministry of Economy and Finance. He left this position in 2003  to become Senior Executive and member of the Management  Board at Caisse des Dpts et Consignations. He was appointed  Chairman of CDC Entreprises and member of the Management  Board of Caisse des Dpts in September2006. In January2009,  he was appointed member of the Executive Committee of Fonds  Stratgique dInvestissement. In March2011 he became Executive  Vice-President of Veolia Transdev. MrJeong H. Kim* Age: 51 Business address: Alcatel-Lucent: 600 Mountain Avenue, Room 6A-509 -  Murray Hill, NJ 07974 – United States 500 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2011 /Term ends: 2015 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; President of Bell Labs Alcatel-Lucent; Professor at the University  of Maryland; member of the Board of Trustees at Johns Hopkins  University; member of the Board of Directors of Georgetown;  member of the Board of Visitors of the Stanford Freeman Spogli  Institute; CEO of Jurie Holdings LLC; member of the Board of  Managers of Applied Physics Lab; and Director of GIV Global  Private Equity.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  ve years: Member of the Board of Trustees at the University of Maryland,  College Park Foundation and Bankinter Foundation of Innovation;  Director of In-Q-Tel; member of the Nasdaq Listing and Review  Council; member of the External Advisory Board of the CIA;  member of the Advisory Board of Royal Oak Capital and Director  of CINTT. Experience and quali cations Jeong H. Kim holds a doctorate in reliability engineering from the  University of Maryland and holds degrees from Johns Hopkins  University in Technical Management, electrical engineering, and  computer sciences. A businessman, professor, and member of the National Academy  of Engineering, Jeong H. Kim joined Lucent Technologies in 1998  when Lucent purchased Yurie Systems, the company he founded in  1992. He supervised the Lucents Optical Network Group. He then  went to work at the University of Maryland, where he taught in both  the Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences Department and  the Mechanical Engineering Department. Before that, Jeong H.Kim  held technical and managerial positions in computers, satellite  Nota: in bold type, those companies are listed on a regulated market. *  An independent member of the Supervisory Board within the meaning of the AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance code for listed companies.  113 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD systems, and data communications, and he spent seven years as  an of cer aboard a US Navy nuclear submarine. In 2005, Jeong H. Kim was appointed Chairman of Bell Laboratories  (Alcatel-Lucent). He is the eleventh Chairman. MrWilly R. Kissling* Age: 67 Business address: Poststrasse n 4 BP – 8808 Pfaef kon - Switzerland 4,000 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2001/Term ends: 2012 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Member of Board of Directors of Cleantech Invest AG.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  ve years: Director of Khne +Nagel International AG (logistics); Director  of Holcim Ltd; Chairman of the Board of Directors of Grand  Resort Bad Ragaz AG; member of the European Advisory Board  of Booz & Co. Experience and quali cations Willy Kissling, a Swiss citizen, holds diplomas from the University  of Bern and Harvard University. He began his career at Amiantus  Corporation and then joined Rigips, a plasterboard manufacturer,  in 1978. He was appointed to the Rigips Executive Committee in  1981 and subsequently became Chairman. From 1987 to 1996,  MrKissling served as Chairman and Executive Vice-President of  Landis & Gyr Corporation, a provider of services, systems and  equipment for building management, electrical contracting and  pay phones. From 1998 to 2005, he was Chairman of the Board  of Directors of Oertikon Bhrle Holding AG (since renamed OC  Oerlikon Corp.). MrsCathy Kopp* Age: 62 Business address: 22, square de lAlboni – 75016 Paris – France 500 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2005/Term ends: 2014 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Director of Dexia; member of the Appointments and  Remuneration Committee of Dexia; member of the Board of the  Fondation SNCF; member of the Haut Conseil  lIntgration.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Member of the Board of cole Normale Suprieure de la rue  dUlm in Paris; General Manager of Human Resources and  member of the Executive Committee of Accor; member of the  Collge de la Haute Autorit de Lutte contre les Discriminations  (Halde). Experience and quali cations After earning a degree in mathematics, Cathy Kopp joined IBM  France in 1973. In 1992, she became Human Resources Director  at IBM France before being appointed Vice-President of Human  Resources in the Storage Systems Division of IBM Corp. In 2000,  Cathy Kopp became Chairman and Executive Vice-President of  IBM France. In 2002 she joined the Accor Group as HR Director  and served until 2009. Cathy Kopp was Chairman of the Social  Committee of the Service Providers Group at MEDEF until 2009.  She headed up the cross sector negotiations on diversity at MEDEF  in 2006, and the negotiations on modernising the labour market  in2007. Nota: in bold type, those companies are listed on a regulated market. *  An independent member of the Supervisory Board within the meaning of the AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance code for listed companies.  114 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD MrsDominique Snquier* Age: 58 Business address: AXA Private Equity 20, place Vendme – 75001 Paris - France 500 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2010/Term ends: 2015 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Chairman of the Management Board of AXA Investment Managers  Private Equity SA France, Private Equity Europe SA; Chairman  of the Supervisory Committee of AXA Private Equity US LLC  (USA); Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AXA Private Equity  Germany GmbH (Germany); Director of AXA Private Equity Asia  PteLtd (Singapore), of Italy S.r.l. (Italy), Chairman of the Board of  Directors of AXA Private Equity UKLtd (UK), and Switzerland AG  (Switzerland), and Switzerland Finance AG (Suisse); Chairman of  the Supervisory Board of AXA Private Equity Eastern Europe GmbH  (Austria); Chairman, member of the Management Committee and  the Investment Committee of Matignon Dveloppement 1 SAS,  Dveloppement 2 SAS,  Dveloppement 3 SAS,  Dveloppement4SAS; Chairman, member of the Management  Committee and Coordination Committee of AXA Infrastructure  InvestissementSAS; Director of the Thtre des Champs lyses  SA; Non-voting member of the Board of Directors of Groupe  Bourbon SA; member of the Board of Directors and the Audit  Committee of Hewlett-Packard Company (USA); member of the  Board of Directors of Compagnie Industriali Riunite S.p.A. (Italy);  Manager of SCI 30rue Jacob; Director of SENEQ SA (Belgium);  President of Escouf Properties Corp. (USA).   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Non-voting Director of Schneider Electric SA; Vice-Chairman  of the Supervisory Board of Linedata Services SA; Chairman of  Pikanter4SAS; Chairman of AXA Chile Private Equity I; Director  of AXA Private Equity Funds of Funds II Manager Ltd; Director of  AXA Private Equity Primary Ltd; Director of AXA Private Equity  Secondaries Ltd; Director of AXA IM Secondaries Associates  Management Ltd; Director of AXA Private Equity SL Management  Ltd; Director of AXA PE Asia Manager Ltd; Director of AXA IM  LBO Management Ltd; Director of AXA IM LBO Management  Ltd III; Director of AXA IM LBO Management Ltd IV; Director of  AXA Alternative Participations SICAV I; Director of AXA Alternative  Participations SICAV II; Director of Groupe Bourbon SA; Non- voting member of the Board of Directors of Nakama SA; Chairman  of Pikanter9SAS; Chairman of Pikanter 10 SASU; Experience and quali cations Mrs Dominique Snquier is a graduate of cole Polytechnique  with a postgraduate diploma in banking and  nance. She joined the  insurance industry supervisory team in 1975. In 1980 she joined GAN  as head of group acquisitions and then in 1987 she founded GAN  Participations and which led up until 1995. In 1996 she joined AXA  group and set up AXA Private Equity for which she is Chairman of the  Management Board. MrG. Richard Thoman* Age: 67 Business address: Corporate Perspectives, LLC 126 East 56th Street, 9th Floor – New York NY 10022 -  United States 500 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2007/Term ends: 2012 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Managing Partner of Corporate Perspectives (an American  strategy consulting  rm); member of the Board of Advisors  of INSEAD, the French American Foundation, the Americas  Society, the Council of the Americas, Committee for Economic  Development, McGill University School of Management, the  Fletcher School and the heritage committee of the Institut  des Hautes tudes Internationales, IHEID (Geneva); Adjunct  Professor at Columbia University and the Fletcher School;  member of the Trilateral Commission, the Council on Foreign  Relations; Business Executives for National Security, New York  Economics Club.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  ve years: Member of the Board of Directors of Union Bancaire Prive  (Geneva). Experience and quali cations Mr G. Richard Thoman has a unique background. He was one  of the top  ve CEOs for four of the top Fortune 75companies, in  three different industries:  nancial services, food and beverage, and  technology. MrThoman began his career at Citibank after receiving his BA from  McGill University in Montreal and MA, MALD and PhD from Fletcher  School of Law and Diplomacy which resulted from a partnership  between Tufts University and Harvard. He also graduated from  Hautes tudes Internationales in Geneva. After working with Exxon  Finance and McKinsey, he became Chairman and co-Executive  Vice-President of American Express Travel Related Services. In  1992, he was appointed Chairman and Executive Vice-President  of Nabisco International. In 1993, he joined IBM as Senior  Vice- President, Personal Systems Group, later becoming Financial  Director. In 1997, he joined Xerox. He served as Chairman and  Executive Vice- President of Xerox from April1999 to May2000.  MrThoman is currently Managing Partner of Corporate Perspectives  and is on the faculty of several US universities. Nota: in bold type, those companies are listed on a regulated market. *  An independent member of the Supervisory Board within the meaning of the AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance code for listed companies.  115 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD Serge Weinberg* Age: 60 Business address: Weinberg Capital Partners 20, rue Quentin Bauchart – 75008 Paris – France 1,000 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2005/Term ends: 2014 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Member of the Supervisory Board of Schneider ElectricSA; Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sanofi ; Chairman of  Weinberg Capital Partners, Financire Piasa and Piasa Holding,  Piasa and VL Holding, Alret and Maremma; member of the  Supervisory Committee of Financire BFSA; Vice-Chairman and  Director of Financire Poinstia and Financire Sasa; member  of the Supervisory Board of Al na; Permanent representative  of Weinberg Capital Partners; Director on the Board of Alliance  Industrie and Sasa Industrie; Chairman of Corum (Switzerland).   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schneider  ElectricSA (from May2006 to May2010); Chairman of the Board  of Directors of Accor (January2006 to February2009); Director  of Alliance Industrie (from October2006 to November2008), of  Road Holding (from March2007 to May2008) and Rasec (from  February2006 to January2010); member of the Management  Board of Pharma Omnium International (from June 2006 to  January2010); Director of FNAC (from July1995 to May2010), of  Rothschild Concordia SAS (from March2008 to October2010),  of Rothschild & Cie (from June2005 to October2010), of the  Gucci Group (from March1999 to April2010). Experience and quali cations After graduating from Frances cole Nationale dAdministration,  Serge Weinberg held several positions in the French civil service  and ministerial of ces. He then served as Deputy Vice-President  of FR3, Executive Vice-President and then Chairman of the  Management Board of Havas Tourisme, Director of Pallas Finance.  And then in 1990 joined what is now the Pinault-Printemps- Redoute Group (PPR) as Executive Vice-Chairman of Compagnie  franaise de lAfrique occidentale (CFAO). Within this group,  he served as Chairman of Rexel (formerly CDME), an electrical  equipment distributor. In 1995, he was appointed Chairman of the  PPR Management Board, a position he held until early 2005. In  March2005 he founded Weinberg Capital Partners, a company that  manages an investment fund specialised in leveraged buyouts and  real estate. From 2006 to 2009, he was Chairman of the Board of  Directors of Accor. He has been Chairman of the Board of Directors  of Sano   since May2010. Non-voting member  MrClaude Bbar  Age: 76 Business address: GIE AXA 25, avenue Matignon – 75008 Paris – France 528 Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2004/Term ends: 2012 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Non-voting member  of Schneider ElectricSA; Director of AXA Assurances Vie Mutuelle, AXA Assurances IARD  Mutuelle and BNP-Paribas; member of the Supervisory Board  of Vivendi.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AXA, Chairman and  Director of various AXA subsidiaries, including AXA Financial;  Chairman and Executive Vice-President of Finaxa. Experience and quali cations A graduate of cole Polytechnique, Claude Bbar joined Groupe  Ancienne Mutuelle in 1958, the mutual insurance company  that would become Mutuelles Unies, then AXA in 1985. He was  appointed Chairman and Executive Vice-President of the Company  in 1975. From late 1996, when AXA merged with UAP, until 2000,  Claude Bbar served as Chairman of AXAs Management  Board and Chairman of its Executive Committee. In 2000 he was  appointed Chairman of the AXA Supervisory Board. Mr Bbar  resigned as Chairman of the Supervisory Board in April2008 to  become Honorary Chairman of AXA. *  An independent member of the Supervisory Board within the meaning of the AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance code for listed companies. Nota: in bold type, those companies are listed on a regulated market.  116 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 ORGANISATIONAL AND OPERATING PROCEDURES OFTHESUPERVISORYBOARD   > 2. Organisational and operating  procedures oftheSupervisoryBoard** The Supervisory Board exercises ongoing control over the  Management Boards management of the Company, in accordance  with French law. To this end, it performs all the checks and controls  that it considers appropriate and obtains copies of any and all  documents that it considers necessary in order to ful l its duties. Speci c powers are vested in the Supervisory Board under French  law and the Companys articles of association. These include the  power to:   appoint the Management Board, designating the number of  members that compose it as well as its Chairman. Establish the  compensation of the members of the Management Board;   if necessary, remove Management Board members from of ce;   authorise  nancing transactions that may have a substantial  effect on the Companys  nancial structure (loans, increase in  share capitaletc.);   authorise material business acquisitions and disposals, meaning  strategic transactions amounting to more than EUR250million, as  well as strategic partnerships;   authorise the creation of stock option plans or stock grant plans,  with or without performance criteria;   authorise the signature of regulated related party agreements;   authorise the issuance of bonds and other guarantees, subject to  compliance with French law. The Supervisory Board also authorises recommendations made at  the Annual Shareholders Meeting  concerning the dividend, Board  membership and changes statutory changes. The Supervisory Board may appoint between one and three   non- voting members and decide to create Board committees. It  draws up internal rules. It determines the allocation of attendance  fees; the total amount is determined by the Annual Shareholders  Meeting . Internal rules and procedures of the Supervisory Board Missions and powers of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Boards internal rules and procedures, adopted  on May3, 2006, include the internal rules and procedures of the  Board committees (the Remunerations and Appointments and  HumanResources Committee and the Audit Committee) as well as  the Directors charter recommended by the AFEP/MEDEF corporate  governance guidelines. It has been amended on several occasions. The internal rules and procedures of the Supervisory Board are  made up of 13articles: Article 1 de nes the role and powers of the Supervisory Board  (see above). It speci es the Management Board decisions that  require the prior approval or consultation of the Supervisory Board.  In particular, acquisitions amounting to more than EUR250million  require the prior approval of the Supervisory Board. Article2 de nes the principles applied by the Supervisory Board  concerning the renewal of its membership. These include assuring  international representation by maintaining a signi cant number  of non-French members, maintaining independence through a  majority of independent members as de ned in the AFEP/MEDEF  corporate governance guidelines, ensuring continuity through  the re-election of a certain proportion of the members at regular  intervals and enabling representation of employee shareholders. Article 3 de nes the procedures for organising and conducting  Supervisory Board meetings (notice of meeting, methods of  participation, minutes,etc.). Article 4 de nes the role and powers of the Chairman of the  Supervisory Board. The Chairman leads the work of the Board.  He is regularly informed by the Management Boards Chairman of  material events and developments in the life of the Group. Article5 concerns information received by the Supervisory Board.  It stipulates that Supervisory Board members shall receive any  information required to enable them to ful l their duties and that  they may request any necessary or relevant documents prior to any  meeting of the Board. The article also describes the content of the  Management Boards quarterly reports to the Supervisory Board,  to be drawn up in accordance with Article L.225-68 of the French  Commercial Code. It stipulates that the Management Board should  present the Supervisory Board with annual targets, strategic and  operational plans. Article6 de nes the status of members of the Supervisory Board.  This is in compliance with the Directors charter contained in the  AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance guidelines. It states that Supervisory Board members must:   represent all shareholders and act in the corporate interest;   resign from the Board when they have not participated in more  than half the Board meetings;   comply with an overall obligation of con dentiality;   report any and all con icts of interest;   hold at least 250shares of Company stock;   abide by strict rules regarding transactions involving Schneider  ElectricSA stock (no trading allowed in the 31 days preceding   117 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD MEETINGS the day following the publication of the annual or interim  nancial  statements and in the sixteen days preceding the day following  publication of quarterly reports,etc.);   attend General Meetings. Article7 states that non-voting members, who attend Supervisory  Board meetings in a consultative capacity, are subject to the same  ethical rules as voting members. Articles 8 to 10 apply to Board committees. The content of these  Articles is provided in the corresponding section below. Articles 11 and 13 de ne the scope of the internal rules and  procedures of the Supervisory Board. Article 12 states that the Management Board may allocate  management tasks among its members, with the Supervisory  Boards approval. Information required by the Supervisory Board and its members Schneider Electric lays down the following rules so as to ensure  the Supervisory Board is properly informed: in principle, members  of the Supervisory Board have available to them a secure website  on which they receive or can peruse, 10days before each Board  meeting, the meeting agenda and the draft minutes of the previous  meeting and, four or  ve days before, documentation for the Board  meeting. The  le includes the Management Boards report, notes  or the text of presentations scheduled on the agenda and, for the  meeting held to approve the annual or interim  nancial statements,  the  nancial statements approved by the Management Board.  Asupplementary  le may also be provided at the meeting. Supervisory Board meetings are attended by the members of the  Management Board. Executive Committee members are invited for  the presentation of major issues within their area of responsibility.  The Statutory Auditors attend the Supervisory Board meetings at  which the annual and interim  nancial statements are reviewed. Between each meeting of the Supervisory Board, aside from  interviews that Supervisory Board members may have with the  Chairman of the Management Board, Supervisory Board members  receive a monthly letter, a weekly press review, all of the Companys  press releases,  nancial analysts reports and other documents. Members also have the opportunity to meet informally with key  Members of Senior Management prior to Supervisory Board  meetings. New members of the Supervisory Board attend training  and information sessions dealing with the Companys strategy  andbusinesses. Schneider Electric has adopted a code of ethics for Supervisory  Board Members and employees of the Group designed to prevent  insider trading. Under the terms of these provisions, both Supervisory  Board Members and employees are barred from trading Company  shares and shares in companies for which they have information  that has not yet been made public. In addition, they may not trade  Schneider ElectricSA shares during the 31 days preceding the day  following publication of the annual and interim  nancial statements,  nor during the 16 days preceding the day following publication of  a quarterly update, nor may they engage in any type of speculative  trading involving Schneider Electric SA shares (including margin  trading, purchasing and re-selling shares in a period of less than  four months,etc.).   > 3. Supervisory Board meetings** Eight meetings were held in 2011. The meetings lasted around  four hours and the average participation rate of Members of  Supervisory Board was 90 %. They were primarily devoted to  discussing the Companys corporate governance and strategy,  reviewing operations and the  nancial statements and preparing  the Annual Shareholders Meeting. Corporate Governance Based on advice from the Remunerations, Appointments and  Human Resources Committee, the Supervisory Board:   discussed the composition of its Membership and that of its  committees and achieving gender balance on the Board. The  Board, having also set a target of internationalisation, a better  gender and age balance within its composition, made a proposal  to the Annual Shareholders Meeting  2011 to ratify the co-opting  of Anand Mahindra and the appointment to the Board of Betsy  Atkins and Dominique Snquier and Jeong Kim. In Decemberit  co-opted Xavier Fontanet to replace Mr Mahindra who had   118 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD MEETINGS resigned for reasons of a possible con ict of interest between  Schneider Electric and Mahindra & Mahindra that could have  arisen out of the development of these two groups distribution  businesses in India;   discussed succession of its Chairman. In fact, after the successful  succession of its CEO, the Board is working on the succession of  its chairman and a suitable governance model.    reviewed the Management Boards operations and evaluated the  members of the Management Board;   examined the Management Boards Members succession plan;   approved the remuneration of members of the Management  Board (appraisal of attainment of their personal targets for 2010  and determination of the rules relating to their remuneration for  2011:  xed element, variable element) as well as the number of  stock grants. The principles and rules applied by the Supervisory  Board in determining remuneration and bene ts for corporate  of cers are presented below (pages 124  and 125 );   authorised the Management Board to set up plans for  performance/bonus shares (plans10bis, 11bis, 12, 13 and14,  see page 249  and following) and to carry out an employee share  issue in 2012;   made a proposal to the Annual Shareholders Meeting  to increase  attendancefees;   decided to review these every three years. This was carried out in  the Autumn of 2011 with the assistance of the Supervisory Board  secretary. This review included the opinions and comments of  Members of the Board based on a questionnaire drawn up  by the Remunerations, Appointments and Human Resources  Committee. This questionnaire covered the membership of the  Board, its missions, the conduct of its meetings and information  as well as the Boards relations with the Management Board and  the organisation and conduct of its Committees. On February21,  2012 the Supervisory Board examined the conclusions of the  report submitted by the Remunerations, Appointments and  Human Resources Committee. This examination concluded  that the Board is exemplary. This appraisal was shared by all  its Members. They feel that the Schneider ElectricSA Board is  amongst the best, if not the best Board on which they sit or have  had occasion to sit. They put this down to the quality and depth  of discussions at Board meetings and the level of con dence that  reigns between Members themselves and between Members  and management. Areas for improvement were identi ed  however. These mainly relate to the development of discussions  of the Board, the situation of Schneider Electric compared to  the competition, R&D and more especially R&D productivity  and the conclusions arising out of the work undertaken by the  Audit Committee on risk. The Board also wishes to receive more  detailed information on Schneider Electrics competitors and  the Groups situation regarding those competitors as well as  information on the work of the Executive Committee. In order  to improve the conduct of its work, the Board intends to extend  the duration of its meetings. It furthermore considers that the  participation of its membres by audio or video conference should  only be a last resort. Furthermore, the Board has accepted to  raise the minimum number of Schneider ElectricSA shares that  Members have to hold from 250 to 1,000. Strategy The Supervisory Board conducted an in-depth review of the  Groups strategy at a one-and-a-half-day meeting devoted entirely  to this topic, as it does each year. In particular, as part of this strategy, the Board authorised acquisition  of Telvent, Leader &Harvest and Luminous. The Board examined the new Company programme Connect  covering the period 2012-2014. Agenda The Supervisory Board was given the Management Boards  quarterly reports. At each meeting, the Board also tracked business  performance. It also examined the Companys  nancial position. The Supervisory Board was informed of the Groups 2011 targets. On February16, 2011, the Supervisory Board reviewed the 2010   nancial statements based on the Audit Committees report  and the Statutory Auditors, who were present at the meeting. It  approved the Management Boards proposal to set the dividend  at EUR3.20 per share. At its meeting on July28, 2011, the Board  reviewed the  nancial statements for the  rst half of 2011 based on  the Audit Committees report and after seeking the opinion of the  StatutoryAuditors. The Audit Committee reported to the Board on the work carried out  by the Groups internal auditors, the deployment of an internal audit  team and the results of the entities internal control self-evaluations.  The Audit Committee also reported on other steps taken with  regard to monitoring risk management, prevention of fraud, the  management process for R&D solutions and projects,  nancial  communication such as investor days, reviewing acquisitions and  the independence of the Statutory Auditors. It ensured consistent compliance with market disclosure  requirements, notably through an analysis of market consensus and  the issuance of press releases. The Supervisory Board carried out the procedures required by law,  which include reviewing budgets and business plans.  119 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES (MEMBERS,OPERATINGPROCEDURES ANDMEETINGS) Shareholders Meeting 2011 The Supervisory Board reviewed the agenda and draft resolutions to  be tabled at the 2011 Annual Shareholders Meeting , and prepared  its report to shareholders. It approved the Chairmans report on the  operations of the Supervisory Board and internal control. Almost all  of the Members of the Board (13/14) were present at the Annual  Shareholders Meeting. The Meeting adopted all the resolutions  tabled.   > 4. Supervisory Board committees  (members,operatingprocedures  andmeetings)** In its internal rules and procedure, the Supervisory Board has set out  the role, responsibilities and competences of its two committees:  the Audit Committee and the Remuneration, Appointments  & Human Resources Committee. Their Members are appointed  by the Supervisory Board, based on recommendations from the  Remuneration, Appointments & Human Resources Committee.  The Committees may commission studies from outside consultants  after having referred to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board.  They may invite anybody they wish to meetings, as necessary. Audit Committee Members The Supervisory Boards internal rules and procedures stipulate that  the Audit Committee must have at least three members. Twothirds  of the Members must be independent and at least one must have  in-depth knowledge of accounting standards combined with  hands-on experience in applying current accounting standards and  producing  nancial statements. The Audit Commitee has three members: Grard de La Martinire,  Chairman, Nol Forgeard and Jrme Gallot. Theyare independent  and have the necessary  nancial or accounting competence. In  addition, Nol Forgeard offers particular expertise on industrial  matters. Operating procedures Meetings are called by the Committee Chairman or at the request of  the Chairman of the Supervisory Board or the President and CEO.  At least  ve meetings are held during the year. It may invite whomever it chooses to its meetings. The Statutory  Auditors attend meetings at which  nancial statements are reviewed  and, depending on the agenda, all or some of the other meetings. It can ask the Management Board to provide it with any  documentation it feels necessary. It may also commission studies  from external consultants. Responsibilities A cornerstone of the Groups internal control system, the Audit  Committee is responsible for preparing the work of the Supervisory  Board, making recommendations to the Board and issuing opinions  on  nancial, accounting and risk management issues. Accordinglyit:   prepares the Supervisory Boards review of the annual and interim   nancial statements, and notably in this respect:  – ensures that accounting policies used to prepare the  consolidated and company  nancial statements are appropriate  and applied consistently, that all signi cant transactions are  properly re ected in the consolidated  nancial statements  and that the rules governing the scope of consolidation are  correctly applied,  – analyses the scope of consolidation, risks, commitments given  – including off-balance sheet commitments –, as well as the   nancial position and the cash position;   reviews the draft Registration Document and takes on Board any  comments by the AMF in this regard, as well as the reports on the  interim  nancial statements;   makes recommendations concerning the appointment or  re- appointment of the Statutory Auditors;   monitors the auditing of the annual and consolidated  nancial  statements, notably by examining the scope of the external  audit schedule and the results of the reviews carried out by the  Statutory Auditors;   veri es the auditors independence, in particular by reviewing  fees paid by the Group to their  rm and network and by giving   120 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES (MEMBERS,OPERATINGPROCEDURES ANDMEETINGS) prior approval for assignments that, strictly speaking, fall outside  the scope of the auditing of the  nancial statements;   monitors the effectiveness of internal control and risk management  systems. In particular, the Committee:  – reviews Internal Audit organisation and resources, as well as  its annual audit schedule. Receives a quarterly summary report  on the  ndings of the audits carried out,  – reviews risk mapping and its year on year evolution,  – reviews risk mitigation on the basis of presentations by the  relevant managers or reports by Internal Audit,  – reviews the rollout of the Companys internal audit system  and the management report on internal control, as well as  the draft report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board on  procedures for internal audits and risk management,  – reviews codes of conduct, notably concerning fair trading and  ethics and examines the measures taken to ensure they are  circulated and applied. The Audit Committee examines proposed dividend payouts and  the amount of  nancial authorisations submitted to the Annual  Shareholders Meeting. The Audit Committee examines all  nancial, accounting and risk  management issues referred to it by the Management Board, the  Supervisory Board or its Chairman. The Audit Committee presents its  ndings and recommendations  to the Board. The Chairman of the Audit Committee immediately  informs the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of any dif culties  encountered. Meetings in 2011 In 2011, the Audit Committee met six times. The average duration  of the meetings was three hours and the average attendance rate  was 94%. Each meeting was attended by the Chief Financial Of cer, members  of the Finance Department, head of Internal Audit and also the  external auditors. Operational management also reported to the  Committee. In line with the provisions of the AFEP/MEDEF Code,  representatives of the Finance Department and Internal Audit were  not present during the Statutory Auditors presentation at meetings  devoted to the  nancial statements. The President and CEO did not  attend any of the Audit Committees meetings. The Committee looked at the following topics: 1) Financial statements and  nancial disclosures:  – review of the annual and interim  nancial statements and of the  reports of the Management Board on the  nancial statements,  – review of goodwill, reserving and pension obligations or  assimilated obligations,  – review of investor relations documents concerning the annual  and interim  nancial statements,  – review of AMF recommendations concerning the 2011  Registration Document,  – review of  nancial communication such as Investor days; 2) Internal audit, internal control and risk management:  – review of the 2012/Q1 2013 Internal Audit schedule drawn up  on the basis of risk mapping,  – review of the main audits carried out by Internal Audit and an  update of the methodology for internal audit,  – review of the current situation regarding organisation and  deployment of Internal Audits and review of the results of  self- evaluation,  – review fraud prevention: methodology and executive summary,  – review of action plans regarding the security of IT systems,  – review of the possible impacts of the  nancial crisis on  management of debt and the Groups conditions for obtaining   nance,  – review of procedures for the approval of projects,  – review of tax risks,  – review of controls on customer risks,  – review of management process for R&D,  – review of business acquisition plans,  – review of Group policy on managing Bene ts and the Pension  Fund,  – review of risk mitigation by means of insurance,  – review of the Chairmans draft report on procedures for internal  audit and risk management; 3) Statutory Auditors:  – review of the 2010/2012 external audit schedule,  – review of the fees paid to the Statutory Auditors and their  networks; 4) corporate governance:  – update the 2010-2013 schedule covering the work of the  Audit Committee and more speci cally its risk review,  – review of the  nancial authorisations presented to the 2011  Annual Shareholders Meeting,  – recommended dividend for 2011. The Audit Committee reported to the Supervisory Board on its work  in 2011 at the February16, June21 and 22, July28, October19  and December15, 2011 meetings. Remunerations, Appointments and Human Resources Committee Members The Supervisory Boards internal rules and procedures stipulate that  the Remuneration, Appointments & Human Resources Committee  must have at least three members. It is chaired by the Chairman of  the Supervisory Board. The Committee members are: Messrs Henri Lachmann –  Chairman–, Claude Bbar, Lo Apotheker, Willy R.Kissling and  Serge Weinberg. Operating procedures Meetings are called by the Committee Chairman. The agenda is  drawn up by the Chairman, after consulting the President and CEO.  It meets at least three times a year. The Committee may seek advice from any person it feels will help  it with its work.  121 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT BOARD MEMBERS Responsibilities The Committee makes recommendations to the Supervisory  Board concerning candidates for appointment to the Management  Board, the Supervisory Board and the Committees. It also makes  recommendations concerning the remuneration of members  of the Management Board and the Chairman of the Supervisory  Board, as well as concerning stock options and stock grants for  members of the Management Board, and all other aspects of their  remunerationpackage. Based on the proposals made by the Management Board, the  Committee makes recommendations concerning the remuneration  of Executive Committee Members, the principles and methods for  determining executive compensation, as well as the creation of  stock option, bonus shares and employee stock ownership plans. It is also responsible for examining succession plan solutions for  members of the Management Board and Executive Committee. It examines Human Resource policies and in particular:   the Human Resource strategy and major action plans, including  those relating to the talent policy and key skills (high potential,  experts, occupations,etc.);   the policy of giving employees a share in the Groups pro ts;   the overall remuneration policy for managers and the remuneration  packages of Executive Committee Members. It recommends the amount for attendance fees, which is  established by the Annual Shareholders Meeting , and the basis for  their allocation. The Committee recommends processes and procedures to  reassure shareholders and the market that the Supervisory Board  carries out its responsibilities objectively and independently. It thus makes recommendations to the Supervisory Board regarding:   the terms of reference of Supervisory Board Committees;   the determination and review of independence criteria applicable  to Supervisory Board Members;   the assessments of the Supervisory Boards organisation and  procedures;   application by the Company of national or international corporate  governance practices. The Remunerations, Appointments and Human Resources  Committee presents the Board with the results of its work and  actions it proposes. The minutes of these meetings are circulated  to members of the Supervisory Board. Meetings in 2011 In 2011, the Supervisory Boards Remuneration, Appointments and  Human Resources Committee met four times. The attendance rate  by its Members was 95 %. It reported on its work to the Supervisory  Board at the February 16, June 21 and 22, October 19 and  December15, 2011 meetings. The Remuneration, Appointments & Human Resources Committee  made recommendations to the Supervisory Board concerning:   the Membership of the Supervisory Board and of its committees  and the classi cation of Members on the basis of the  independence criteria;   the succession of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board;   the remuneration of members of the Management Board  (amount, structure of 2012 remuneration, 2011 targets, and level  of achievement of 2010 targets);   the changes to the top-up pension plan for senior executives;   the implementation of the annual performance share plans and  the allocation of stock grants to members of the Management  Board, in accordance with the AFEP/MEDEF guidelines of  October6, 2008;   the launch in 2012 of a new employee share issue;   changes to the articles of association regarding the upper age  limit (abolition of the statutory age limit) and regarding non-voting  members whose maximum number is now set at four;   the amount of attendance fees;   organisation of the three-year appraisal of the Board;   organisation and operation of the Board in the light of the results  of the three-year appraisal. The Committee also reported to the Board on:   the review of the work of the Management Board and the  assessment of the performance of its Members;   the review of the performance of Members of the Executive  Committee;   the review of succession plans for members of the Management  Board and Members the Executive Committee;   the review of the remuneration of Executive Committee Members;   the review of the draft report from the Chairman on  corporategovernance.   > 5. Management Board members The bylaws stipulate that the Management Board may have  between two and seven members. The Management Board and its Chairman are appointed by the  Supervisory Board. Membership on the Management Board is for  three years and renewable. The age limit for holding of ce as a member of the Management  Board is 65. When a member reaches the age of 65, the Supervisory  Board may extend his or her term several times provided that the  total extension does not exceed three years. The Management Board consists of two members: Jean-Pascal  Tricoire, Chairman, and Emmanuel Babeau. He was appointed  by the Supervisory Board for a three year term that will expire on  May2, 2012. At its meeting of February21, 2012 the Supervisory  Board decided to renew his appointment at term for a further three  years expiring on May2, 2015.  122 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT BOARD MEMBERS Pre sident and CEO  MrJean-Pascal Tricoire Age: 48 Business address: Schneider Electric 35, rue Joseph Monier – 92500 Rueil-Malmaison - France 99,885 (1) Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2006/Term ends: 2012 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Chairman of the Management Board of Schneider ElectricSA,  Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer of Schneider Electric  Industries SAS, Director of Schneider Electric USA, Inc. (USA).  (United States).   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Director of Clipsal Asia Holding Limited, Digital Electronics  Corporation, Schneider Electric (Australia) Pty. Limited, Schneider  Electric New Zealand Holding Limited, PT Schneider Indonesia,  Schneider Electric Japan Ltd, Schneider Electric Japan Holding  Ltd, Schneider Electric Venezuela SA, Schneider Toshiba Inverter  SAS and PDL Holding Ltd. Experience and quali cations After graduating from ESEO Angers and obtaining an MBA from  EM Lyon, Jean-Pascal Tricoire spent his early career with Alcatel,  Schlumberger and Saint-Gobain. He joined the Schneider Electric  Group (Merlin Gerin) in 1986. From 1988 to 1999 he occupied  occupational functions within Schneider Electric abroad, in Italy  ( ve years), China ( ve years) and South Africa (one year). Heheld  corporate positions from 1999 to 2001: Director in charge of  Strategic Global Accounts and the Schneider 2000+ strategic  plan. From January2002 to the end of 2003, he was Executive  Vice-President of Schneider Electrics International Division.  InOctober2003, he was appointed Chief Operating Of cer, before  becoming Chairman of the Schneider ElectricSA Management  Board on May3, 2006. Member of the Management Board  MrEmmanuel Babeau Age: 44 Business address: Schneider Electric 35, rue Joseph Monier – 92500 Rueil-Malmaison - France 1,187(1) Schneider ElectricSA shares First appointed: 2009/Term ends: 2012 Directorships and other functions   Currently: Chairman of the Board of Directors of Schneider Electric Services  International, Director of Schneider Electric Industries S.A.S.,  Schneider Electric France and Schneider Electric USA.   Previous directorships and functions held in the past  veyears: Group Deputy Managing Director in charge of Finance at  PernodRicard. Experience and quali cations Emmanuel Babeau graduated from ESCP and began his career  at Arthur Andersen in 1990. In 1993, he joined the Pernod  Ricard group as an internal auditor. He was appointed head of  Internal Audit, the Corporate Treasury centre and consolidation in  1996. Mr Babeau subsequently held several executive positions  at Pernod Ricard, notably outside France, before becoming  Vice- President, Development in 2001, CFO in June 2003 and  Group Deputy Managing Director in charge of Finance in 2006. He  joined Schneider Electric in the  rst half of 2009. (1) Held directly or through the FCPE.  123 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 DECLARATIONS CONCERNING THESITUATION OF THE MEMBERS OFTHE SUPERVISORY BOARD ANDMANAGEMENT BOARD   > 6. Organisational and operating  procedures oftheManagementBoard The Management Board has the broadest powers in relation to third  parties to act in all circumstances in the Companys name within the  limits of the corporate purpose, except for those powers that are  speci cally vested in the Supervisory Board and the Shareholders  Meeting under French law, and except for those matters that require  the prior authorisation of the Supervisory Board. Under French law and pending, when necessary, the Supervisory  Boards authorisation, the Management Board:   approves the annual and interim  nancial statements and related  management reports;   calls Shareholders Meetings;   decides share issues and capital reductions, pursuant to an  authorisation given by shareholders in Extraordinary Meeting;   grants stock options and makes stock grants, pursuant to an  authorisation given by shareholders in Extraordinary Meeting;   decides to carry out bond issues. The Management Board has adopted internal rules and procedures  that organise its activities and its relations with the Supervisory  Board. These internal rules and procedures are invalid against  claims from third parties. The Management Board met 16times in 2011.   > 7. Declarations concerning  thesituation of the members  ofthe Supervisory Board  andManagement Board The members of the Supervisory Board and Management Board  together hold 0.03% of the Companys capital and 0.03% of the  voting rights. Emmanuel Babeau has a service contract with Schneider Electric  Industries SAS and is Chairman of the Board of Directors of  Schneider Electric Services International. He receives compensation  for these duties. Claude Briquet has a service contract with Schneider Electric  Industries SAS. Service contracts None of the members of the Supervisory Board or Management Board has a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries  providing for bene ts upon termination of employment. Conviction or incrimination To the best of the Companys knowledge, in the last  ve years, none  of the members of the Supervisory Board or Management Board  has been:   the subject of any convictions in relation to fraudulent offences or  of any of cial public incrimination and/or sanctions by statutory  regulatory authorities;   disquali ed by a court from acting as a member of the  administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an issuer  or from acting in the management or conduct of the affairs of  an issuer;   involved, as a member of an administrative, management or  supervisory body or a partner, in a bankruptcy, receivership or  liquidation.  124 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT INTERESTS ANDCOMPENSATION Family ties To the best of the Companys knowledge, none of the members of the Supervisory Board or Management Board are related to each other. Conflicts of interest To the best of the Companys knowledge, there are no arrangements  or understandings with major shareholders, customers, suppliers  or others pursuant to which a member of the Supervisory Board  or Management Board has been selected as a member of an  administrative, management or supervisory body or a member of  Senior Management. To the best of the Companys knowledge, there are no con icts  of interest between any duties of the members of the Supervisory  Board or Management Board to the Company and their private  interests or other duties. To the best of the Companys knowledge, the members of the  Supervisory Board and Management Board have no restrictions  on selling their Company shares aside from those stipulated in  stock option and stock grant plans (seepage249  and following)  for Members of the Management Board and a 250 share-holding  requirement for members of the Supervisory Board.   > 8. Management interests  andcompensation Corporate officers and Executive Committee compensation policy** The general principles underlying the Senior Management  compensation policy and the situation of each executive are  reviewed by the Remunerations and Appointments and Human  Resources Committee and presented to the Supervisory Board. The policys aims are to:   retain and motivate the best talents;   reward individual and collective performance;   align overall compensation with the Groups results. The variable remuneration, expressed in terms of a percentage  of the  xed element, is linked to the attainment of objectives set  out at the beginning of the  nancial year. There can be quite a  considerable variation in amounts depending on the degree of  attainment of objectives. This  uctuation can vary from 0% to 160%  of the  xed remuneration for Members of the Executive Committee  and 200% for the Chairman of the Management Board. The variable  remuneration is therefore of a distinctly random nature. The variable remuneration of Executive Committee Members are  determined as follows:   30% is determined by Groups overall performance, as measured  in terms of operating margin, organic growth, cash generation  ratio and customer satisfaction rates;   70% is based on the performance of the executives unit  (economic targets), as measured on the basis of collective  targets (solutions, the Companys social responsibility,  people  development etc.) and on the attainment of measurable personal  goal set for them. The remuneration of the Management Board Members is set  by the Supervisory Board based on the recommendations of  the Remunerations and Appointments and Human Resources  Committee. The variable remuneration of the Management Board Members are  determined as follows:   70% is determined by Groups overall performance, as measured  in terms of operating margin, organic growth, cash generation  ratio, customer satisfaction rates, corporate social responsibility  and people  development);   30% on the attainment of measurable personal performance  targets set by the Supervisory Board. Directors bene t from an annual long-term participation scheme  that gives them a performance-based allocation of shares, linked in  part, for Executors  or those who are residents in the USA, to stock  appreciation rights (SARs) that are akin to stock options. Stock  options are no longer been allocated since December2010. As part of this long term participation scheme, 100% of the shares  and/or SARs allocated to Members of the Management Board  since January2009 and to Members of the Executive Committee  since December 2011 are subject to a performance criterion.  The level of performance attainment recorded is controlled by the  external auditors. Details of these stock grants are set out on pages 249, 253  (History  of share plans).  125 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT INTERESTS ANDCOMPENSATION Pension benefits** (1) The maximum amount is de ned as follows: 50% if the number of years of service is less than or equal to  ve years, plus 1% per year from the  sixth year of service for Senior Manager status. French members of the Management Board are covered by the  Groups top-hat de ned-bene t pension plan (article39) and, with the  exception of Jean-Pascal Tricoire, supplementary de ned- contribution  pension plans (article 83) for employees and/or Group Managers.  The bene ts from de ned-contribution plans are deducted from the  pension supplement from the de ned-bene t plan. The de ned-bene t plan provides for a pension supplement of a  maximum amount equal to 60% (1) of the difference between the  average reference salary (i.e. the average of the base salary and of  the remuneration during three calendar years prior to retirement)  plus the total bene t amounts granted under external plans  (compulsory and other plans, where applicable). The pension plus  the additional pensions from de ned-contribution plans, may not  exceed 25% of the average reference salary. The de ned-bene t  plan includes, subject to conditions, a right to 60% for the surviving  spouse. Under the contingency section, an annuity for the spouse  is paid if the executive dies before the retirement age. In the event  of disability occurring in the course of business, the executive has a  right to a pension supplement as of his/her sixtieth birthday. This de ned-bene t plan (see pages 260, 261 and 265 ) will be  modi ed as of July1, 2012 in particular to provide for a progressive  acquisition of the rights of these bene ciaries according to how long  they have been in the Group and on the Executive Committee. Non-French Members of the Board of Directors are covered by  pension plans in line with local practices in their respective countries. Compensation of the Supervisory Board Members Chairman of the Supervisory Board Based on the recommendation of the Remunerations, Appointments  and Human Resources Committee, at its meeting on April22, 2010,  the Supervisory Board decided to set the annual compensation of  its Chairman at EUR500,000 not including the attendance fees paid  to Supervisory Board Members. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board does not receive any stock  options or stock grants and will not be entitled to any payment on  leaving the Board. In 2011, MrHenri Lachmann was paid:   in his capacity as Chairman of the Supervisory Board:  EUR500,000;   in attendance fees for 2010: EUR60,000;   under the Companys pension plan for senior executives:  EUR558,276. Mr Lachmann has a Company car and may also use the  chauffeur- driven Company cars made available to Group Senior  Management. This bene t in kind can be estimated for the entire   nancial year at EUR2,279 . Members of the Supervisory Board The Annual Shareholders Meeting  set total attendance fees at  EUR1million. TheSupervisory Board has decided to allocate these  fees as follows:   Board members and non-voting Members resident in France  receive a basic fee of EUR15,000 and members resident outside  France receive double this amount;   Board members receive a fee of EUR5,000 for each meeting they  attend;   members who sit on the committees of the Board receive a  xed  fee of EUR15,000, with the Audit Committee Chairman receiving  double this amount.  126 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT INTERESTS ANDCOMPENSATION On this basis, attendance fees paid in respect of 2010 and 2011 were as follows: Supervisory Board members Amounts paid for the  nancial  year 2011(1) Amounts paid for the  nancial  year 2010(1) MrLACHMANN     Attendance fees EUR70,000 EUR60,000 Other EUR500,000 EUR500,000 MrAPOTHEKER     Attendance fees EUR75,000 EUR57,500 Other     MrsATKINS (2 )     Attendance fees EUR61,000 - Other     MrBBAR (3 )     Attendance fees EUR15,000 EUR15,000 Other     MrBRIQUET (4)     Attendance fees - - Other     MrFORGEARD     Attendance fees EUR70,000 EUR60,000 Other     MrGALLOT     Attendance fees EUR70,000 EUR60,000 Other     MrKIM (5 )     Attendance fees EUR61,000 - Other     MrKISSLING     Attendance fees EUR85,000 EUR75,000 Other     MrsKOPP     Attendance fees EUR50,000 EUR45,000 Other     Mrde La MARTINIRE     Attendance fees EUR85,000 EUR75,000 Other     MrMAHINDRA (6 )     Attendance fees EUR29,600 EUR11,100 Other     MrsSNQUIER (7 )     Attendance fees EUR40,000 EUR8,150 Other     MrTHOMAN     Attendance fees EUR65,000 EUR55,000 Other     MrWEINBERG     Attendance fees EUR60,000 EUR55,000 Other     (1) Attendance fees for the year are paid at the beginning of the following year. (2 ) This sum includes a non-recurring fee of EUR15,000 awarded by the Board for Ms ATKINS. (3 ) Non-voting member. (4) MrBriquet, who has a employment contract with Schneider Electric Industries SAS, waived payment of his attendance fees. Thesumof  the attendance fees will be donated by Schneider Electric SA to the Schneider Electric Foundation.  (5 ) This sum includes a non-recurring fee of EUR10,000 awarded by the Board to MrKIM. (6 ) MrMahindra resigned on June27, 2011. (7 ) Non-voting member before being appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board at the Annual Shareholders Meeting on April21,  2011.  127 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT INTERESTS ANDCOMPENSATION Based  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Remunerations,  Appointments and Human Resources Committee, at its meetings  on December15, 2010, February16, 2011, December15, 2011  and February 21, 2012 the Supervisory Board set the annual  compensation for the members of the Management Board. President and CEO–Jean-Pascal Tricoire At its meetings of December15, 2010 and February16, 2011, the  Supervisory Board:   decided to set the annual 2011 salary ofJean-Pascal Tricoire at  EUR900,000 and his target variable remuneration at 100% of this  amount, with a maximum of 200%. 70%  of MrTricoires target  variable remuneration is based on Group performance targets  and 30% is based on measurable personal targets;   authorised, as part of the long-term incentive  plan for 2011, an  allocation of  50,000 (1) performance shares  under plan 10. The  allocation of these shares is entirely dependent on attaining  Group performance criteria, in compliance with the AFEP/ MEDEF recommendations. These shares  are also subject to  lock-up arrangements (see page 250 ). At its meeting of February16, 2011 the Supervisory Board set the  following targets for MrTricoires variable remuneration.   Group performance: organic revenue growth, growth in operating  pro t, cash generation ratio and customer satisfaction rates;   Individual performance: complete the One programme develop  the new company programme, balance between Solutions/ Products...    Based on these elements, at its meeting of February 21, 2012,  the Supervisory Board set the variable remuneration for 2011 at  133.10 % of his base salary, or EUR1,197,900 . Member of the Management Board –  Emmanuel Babeau At its meetings of December15, 2010 and February16, 2011, the  Supervisory Board decided:   to set Mr Babeaus total  xed annual salary for 2011 at  EUR500,000 and his target variable remuneration at 80% of this  amount, with a maximum of 160%. 70% of MrBabeaus target  variable remuneration is based on Group performance targets  and 30% is based on measurable personal targets;   authorised, as part of the long-term incentive  plan for 2011, an  allocation of  20,000 (2 ) shares for performance under plan 10.  The allocation of these shares is entirely dependent on attaining  Group performance criteria, in compliance with the AFEP/MEDEF  recommendations. These options are also subject to lock-up  arrangements (see page250 ). 70% of the variable remuneration is based on the Groups overall  performance (rate of operating margin, organic growth, cash  generation ratio, customer satisfaction rate, companys social  responsibility and people  development ) and 30% is based on  attaining personal objectives laid down by the Board. Based on these elements, at its meeting of February 21, 2012,  the Supervisory Board set the variable remuneration for 2011 at  103.23 % of base salary, or EUR516,150  (1) The data below has been adjusted to re ect two-for-one share split  that took place on September2, 2011. (2) See note 1 . (3) The valuation of stock options and stock grants correspond to a measurement carried out in application of IFRS 2 and not remuneration  actually received during the  nancial year. Income from these stock options and stock grants is subject to the attainment of  performancecriteria Compensation and stock options for Management Board Members Overview of Management Board compensation Summary of remunerations, stock options and shares granted to each corporate officer director for the  financial year Jean-Pascal TRICOIRE, President and CEO Financial year 2011 Financial year 2010 Remuneration for the  nancial year 2,101,097  2,323,946 Valuation of options granted during the  nancial year (3 ) 0 958,000 Value of stock grants granted during the  nancial year 2,565,000 867,500 TOTAL 4,666,097  4,149,446 Emmanuel BABEAU, Member of the Management Board Financial year 2011 Financial year 2010 Remuneration for the  nancial year 1,021,667  1,215,167 Valuation of options granted during the  nancial year (3 ) 0 287,400 Value of stock grants granted during the  nancial year 1,026,000 260,250 TOTAL 2,047,667  1,762,817  128 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT INTERESTS ANDCOMPENSATION Summary table of the remuneration of each corporate officer Jean-Pascal TRICOIRE Financial year 2011 Financial year 2010 President and CEO Amounts due for the   nancial year Amounts paid during  the  nancial year Amounts due for the   nancial year Amounts paid during  the  nancial year Fixed remuneration 900,000 900,000 850,000 850,000 Variable remuneration 1,197,900  1,468,800 1,468,800 1,147,500 Exceptional remuneration 0 0 0 0 Attendance fees 0 0 0 0 Bene ts in kind (company car) 3,197 3,197 5,146 5,146 TOTAL 2,101,097  2,371,997 2,323,946 2,002,646 Emmanuel BABEAU Financial year 2011 Financial year 2010 Member of the Management Board Amounts due for the   nancial year Amounts paid during  the  nancial year Amounts due for the   nancial year Amounts paid during  the  nancial year Fixed remuneration 500,000 500,000 500,000 500,000 Variable remuneration 516,150  709,650 709,650 316,000 Exceptional remuneration 0 0 0 0 Attendance fees 0 0 0 0 Bene ts in kind (company car) 5,517 5,517 5,517 5,517 TOTAL 1,021,66 7 1,215,167 1,215,167 821,517 Subscription or purchase options attributed during the financial year to each corporate officer by the issuer  and by any company in the Group The data below has been adjusted to re ect two-for-one share split  that took place on September2, 2011. No options to subscribe new shares or purchase existing shares were granted during the 2011  nancial year. For a complete understanding of the information reported in the summary of the compensation, stock options and stock grants received by  each corporate of cer (see page 127 ), the allocations made for 2010 are given below.  Plan no. (1) Plan date Unit  valuation  IFRS2 Number  of options  granted Exercise price Exercise period Type of  options(2) Jean-Pascal TRICOIRE 33 Dec. 21, 2009 9. 58 100,000 37. 92 Dec. 21, 2013/ Dec. 20, 2019 P/S Emmanuel BABEAU 33 Dec. 21, 2009 9. 58 30,000 37. 92 Dec. 21, 2013/ Dec. 20, 2019 P/S (1) Plan 33 granted for the  nancial year 2010. (2) Their type, purchase options (P) or subscriptions options (S) will be determined before the start of the  nancial year.   Plan 33 Performance criteria 100% of options – 2010 and2011 operating margin and share of revenue generated in new economies  129 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT INTERESTS ANDCOMPENSATION Stock grants allocated during the financial year to each corporate officer The data below has been adjusted to re ect two-for-one share split  that took place on September2, 2011. For a complete understanding of the information reported in the summary of the compensation, stock options and stock grants received  by each corporate of cer (see page127 ), the allocations made in 2011 (for 2012) and the allocations made in2009 and 2010  for2010  and2011 are disclosed hereinafter.   Plan no.(1) Plan date Number of  sharesgranted Unit valuation  IFRS2 Acquisition  date Date of availability Jean-Pascal TRICOIRE 8 Dec. 21, 2009 25,000 34. 70 December  22, 2012 February23, 2013 10 Dec. 17, 2010 50,000 51. 30 March18, 2013 March19, 2015 13 Dec. 16, 2011 50,000 33. 89 March17, 2014 March18, 2016 Emmanuel BABEAU 8 Dec. 21, 2009 7,500 34. 70 December  22, 2012 February23, 2013 10 Dec. 17, 2010 20,000 51. 30 March18, 2013 March19, 2015 13 Dec. 16, 2011 22,000 33. 89 March17, 2014 March18, 2016 (1) Plan 8 for 2010, plan 10 for 2011, plan 13 for 2012.   Plan 8 Plan 10 Plan 13 Performance criteria 100% of the shares – 2010 and  2011 operating margin and  share of revenue generated in  neweconomies 100% of the shares – 2011 and  2012 operating margin and  average revenue growth in 2011  and 2012 compared to changes in  world GDP over the same period 100% of the shares - 2012  and 2013 operating margin  and change in the Planet  &SocietyBarometer Performance shares made available for each corporate officer Name Plan no. Plan date Number of shares made  available during the   nancial year Date of availability Conditions of acquisition Jean-Pascal TRICOIRE 1 Dec. 21, 2006  10,588 Dec. 21, 2011 50% of shares - 2007 and 2008  operating margin and revenue Benefits received by members of the Management Board Management Board  corporate of cers Employment contract Top-hat pension plan Payments or bene ts  may be due in the event  of termination or change  offunction Payments in relation to a  non-compete agreement Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Jean-Pascal TRICOIRE   See  hereafter  President  and CEO See above  Pension  bene ts   See hereafter  President  and CEO   See hereafter  President  and CEO   President and CEO May3, 2009 May2, 2012 Emmanuel BABEAU See hereafter  Member  of the  Management  Board   See above  Pension  bene ts (1)   See hereafter  Member  of the  Management  Board   See hereafter  Member  of the  Management  Board   Member of the  Management Board May3, 2009 May2, 2012 (1) The contribution paid in 2011 to the de ned contribution retirement plan was EUR22,901.  130 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT INTERESTS ANDCOMPENSATION President and CEO - Jean-Pascal Tricoire  In accordance with AFEP/MEDEF guidelines, Mr  Jean-Pascal  Tricoire resigned from his service contract when he was  reappointed Chairman of the Management Board on May3, 2009.  The Supervisory Board has de ned the bene ts granted to him as  Chairman of the Management Board. Under the terms of his new  status, approved by the Annual Shareholders Meeting of April23,  2009, MrJean-Pascal Tricoire: 1) will continue to bene t from:  – the Schneider Electric SA and Schneider Electric Industries  SAS employee bene t plan, which offers health, disability and  death coverage,  – the supplementary health, disability and death coverage  available to the Groups senior French executives,  – the Top-hat Pension Plan for the Groups Senior Management  described in the Supervisory Board Chairmans report in  accordance with article L.225-68 of the French Commercial  Code (see page125 ); 2) MrTricoire will be due compensation in the event of termination,  capped at two years of his target remuneration ( xed salary  and target bonus, maximum described below) taking into  account compensation provided for in the non-compete  agreement described below. The amount due will be subject to  performance criteria. Compensation will be due in the event that: (i) Mr Tricoire resigns, is dismissed or is not reappointed as  a member or Chairman of the Management Board in the  12months following a material change in Schneider Electrics  shareholder structure that could change the membership of the  Supervisory Board, (ii) Mr Tricoire resigns, is dismissed or is not reappointed as a  member or Chairman of the Management Board following a  reorientation of the strategy pursued and promoted by him  until that time, whether or not in connection with a change in  Schneider Electrics shareholder structure as described above, (iii) MrTricoire is asked to resign, is dismissed or is not reappointed  as a member or Chairman of the Management Board when  the mathematical average of the rate of achievement of  performance objectives used to calculate his variable bonus  was 50% or higher in the four full  nancial years preceding his  departure (or, if he has been a member and Chairman of the  Management Board for less than four years, in the number of  full  nancial years since his appointment). Payment of compensation will depend on the mathematical  average of the rate of achievement of performance objectives  used to determine the variable portion of Mr Tricoires  remuneration for the three full years preceding the date of the  Board meeting at which the decision is made. If the mathematical average is:  – less than 50% of the target: no compensation will be paid,  – equal to 50% of the target: he will receive 75% of the maximum  amount,  – equal to 100% of target: he will receive 100% of the maximum  amount,  – between 50% and 100%, he will receive between 75% and  100% of the maximum amount calculated on a straight-line  basis depending on the rate of attainment. To date, the achievement rate of Group performance objectives  for the previous three  nancial years is, on average, 138.6 %.  Theseobjectives were based on the Groups overall performance  (operating margin, organic growth, cash generation ratio and  customer satisfaction rate); 3) is bound by his non-compete agreement should he leave the  Company, unless a mutually agreeable arrangement is found;  the agreement is for a period of one year and is remunerated  (60% of target remuneration:  xed and  variable); 4) will retain all of the stock options, stock grants and performance  stock grants allocated or to be allocated to him should he  leave the Company. The performance condition is de ned as  follows; the average rate of attainment of the Group targets  that determine Jean-Pascal Tricoires variable remuneration  calculated for the last three  nancial years at the time of his  departure, which  gure should be at least 50% of target. Travel and business expenses for Jean-Pascal Tricoire are assumed  by the Group, as well as the costs of his new professional and  personal organization and any related extra expenses. He may use  the chauffeur-driven Company cars made available to Group Senior  Management and also has the use of a Company car. This bene t  in kind is estimated at EUR3,197. The Supervisory Board on February21, 2012 decided to renew the  appointment to the Management Board that terminates on May2,  2012 for a further period of three years. On this occasion, it adapted   the bene ts granted to Jean-Pascal Tricoire as part of his functions  as a corporate of cer. The Anual Shareholders  Meeting of May3,  2012 is called upon to approve these (see pages 261-262, 265  and 266 ). Emmanuel Babeau Under his service contract with Schneider Electric Industries SAS,  Emmanuel Babeau is covered by the top-hat pension plan for senior  executives in France (see above) and is also entitled to a termination  bene t should the employer terminate the contract or if, following  a signi cant change in equity ownership, he decides to terminate.  This termination bene t, including the bene t provided for in the  industry collective bargaining agreement (Convention Nationale des  Ingnieurs et Cadres de la Mtallurgie), is capped at two years of  his target annual compensation (salary plus target variable bonus). Should MrBabeau leave the Company for any reason, the Company  may evoke the non-compete agreement in his service contract  and the provisions of the industry collective bargaining agreement  (Convention Nationale des Ingnieurs et Cadres de la Mtallurgie),  which call for monthly payment of an amount equivalent to 50%  to 60% of the average monthly compensation for the last twelve  months of presence (salary plus paid bonus). This payment is due  for one year, renewable once. Mr Babeaus travel and entertainment expenses are reimbursed  by the Company. He may use the chauffeur-driven company cars  made available to Group Senior Management and also has the use  of a Company car. This bene t in kind is estimated at EUR5,517.  131 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 MANAGEMENT INTERESTS ANDCOMPENSATION Senior Management The Senior Management team consists of the Management Board,  assisted by the Executive Committee. The 14 member Executive  Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Management Board.  In addition to the members of the Management Board, it comprises:   the Executive Vice-Presidents of the Global Functions:  Information Systems, Marketing, Strategy & Innovation, Global  Human Resources and Industrial Operations;   the Executive Vice-Presidents of the businesses: Power Global &  EMEAS*, Power North America & Buildings, Power Asia Paci c,  Industry, Energy, IT and Custom Sensors & Technologies. Senior Management compensation in 2011 In 2011, gross compensation, including bene ts in kind, paid by  group companies to members of Senior Management other than  the Management Board members amounted to EUR12,069,456,  including EUR4,984,231 in variable remuneration for the  2010  nancial year. Group objectives for the  nancial year in  questionwere:   organic growth;   operating margin;   cash  ow;   customer satisfaction and dissatisfaction. Performance shares and SARs The data below has been adjusted to re ect two-for-one share  split  that took place on September2, 2011. As part of the annual  long-term participation schemes:   Allocation of December2010 for the 2011  nancial year On December17, 2010, members of Senior Management other  than Management Board members were allocated (for the 2011   nancial year) a total of:  – Performance shares (French residents): 29,000shares under  plan10;  – Stock grants (non-residents): 88,000shares under plan11;  – SARs (US citizens or residents): 190,000SARs. All of the options and stock grants are subject partially (50%) to  performance criteria.   Allocation of December2011 for 2012 On December16, 2011, members of Senior Management other  than Management Board members were allocated (for the 2012   nancial year) a total of:  – 12,500 stock grants under plan13 for residents of France;  – 120,250 stock grants under plan 14 for non-residents of  France;  – 210,000 SARs for US residents or citizens. 100% of these allocations are subject to performance criteria. As of December31, 2011, Members of Senior Management other  than Management Board members thus held:   676,854 stock options including 124,400 subject to the  attainment of Group performance criteria;   744,440 SARs including 431,360 that are conditional;   338,682 performance  shares including 235,716 that are  conditional. *  EMEAS =Europe, Middle-East, Africa and South America. Compensation paid to members of Senior Management other than Management  Board members  132 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 REGULATED AGREEMENTS Transactions in Schneider ElectricSA shares by senior management and  corporate officers in 2011 Transactions disclosed in application of article621–18-2 of the French Monetary andFinancialCode Date Name Transaction type Unit price (1) Total transaction  amount June28, 2011 Henri Lachmann Exercise of stock options 27.77 1,666,500 July12, 2011 Henri Lachmann Subscription via FCPE 47.69 75,000 July12, 2011 Claude Briquet Subscription via FCPE 47.69 2,400 July12, 2011 Claude Briquet Subscription via FCPE 47.69 4,786 July12, 2011 Emmanuel Babeau Subscription via FCPE 47.69 6,465 July12, 2011 Jean-Pascal Tricoire Subscription via FCPE 47.69 3,000 July12, 2011 Jean-Pascal Tricoire Subscription via FCPE 47.69 210,395 August29, 2011 Dominique S n quier Share purchase 45.24 22,870 August29, 2011 Betsy Atkins Share purchase $ 65.62 $ 32,808 September1, 2011 Jeong Kim Share purchase 46.77 23,415 November15, 2011 Natural person connected to  Serge Weinberg Share purchase 39.90 9,974 November15,2011 Natural person connected to  Serge Weinberg Share purchase 39.90 9,974 December12, 2011 Willy Kissling Share transfer 40.38 1,615 December12, 2011 Willy Kissling Share transfer 40.37 30,318 December12, 2011 Willy Kissling Share transfer 40.38 35,252 (1) Data adjusted to re ect two-for-one share split  that took place on September2, 2011.   > 9. Regulated Agreements At its meeting of January6, 2006, the Board of Directors authorised  the signature of a shareholders agreement between AXA and  Schneider ElectricSA. The agreement calls for the continuation of  stable cross-shareholdings between the two groups. In particular,  Schneider ElectricSA undertakes to hold no less than 8.8million  AXA shares, or 0.4% of AXAs capital, while AXA undertakes  to hold no less than 2.6million Schneider ElectricSA shares or  1% of Schneider Electric SAs capital. Each group also holds a  call option that may be exercised in the event of hostile takeover.  Thisagreement, which was entered into for a period of one year  and renewable tacitly each year for one year was approved by the  Anual Shareholders  Meeting of April26, 2007. On December22,  2011 AXA and Schneider Electric informed the AMF that they had  decided not to renew this agreement. It will therefore cease in its  effects on the date dictated by the contract, i.e. May15, 2012. This  cancellation has been made public by the AMF on December27,  2011. As Jean-Pascal Tricoire agreed to resign from his employment  contract with the Schneider Electric Group (where he has 22years  seniority) when his term as Chairman of the Board expired on  May2, 2009, the Supervisory Board de ned his new status with  his agreement. His new status took effect on May3, 2009 and was   133 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT approved by the Shareholders Meeting. Under this agreement, set  out on pages130  Jean-Pascal Tricoire:   bene ts from the Top-hat Pension Plan for Schneider Electric  senior executives, the Schneider ElectricSA employee bene t  plan and the supplementary health, disability and death coverage  available to the Groups senior executives;   is bound by a non-compete agreement;   is entitled to compensation in the event of termination,  capped at 24 months of his target remuneration taking into  account compensation provided for in the non-compete  agreement described above and provided that he resigns, is  dismissed or is not re-appointed following a material change in  SchneiderElectrics shareholder structure or a re-orientation of  the strategy pursued and promoted by him until that time;   retains, subject to performance criteria, all unvested stock  options, stock grants and performance stock grants should he  leave the Company. At its meetings of April23 and December17, 2009, the Supervisory  Board agreed that Emmanuel Babeau would continue to bene t  from the top-hat pension plan for senior executives provided under  his employment contract with Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS.  The Shareholders Meeting of April22, 2010 approved this bene t. On February21, 2012 the Supervisory Board gave the Management  Board authorisation to change the Top-hat Pension Plan for the  Schneider Groups directors to comply with the AFEP/MEDEF  recommendations that provide for progressive acquisition of rights  according to length of service. It has also given authorisation for  Management Board members to bene t from the modi ed plan  (see pages 260, 261  and 265 ). The Supervisory Board decided to renew the Management Board  on expiry of its appointment on May2, 2012 for a further period  of three years. As a result, and pursuant to the TEPA act, the  Supervisory Board decided to renew the sections of the articles  of association relating to Mr Jean-Pascal Tricoire. These remain  unchanged under the following conditions:   the bene t of supplementary sickness, incapacity, disability  and death coverage available to the Schneider Electrics senior  executives is subject to performance criteria;   compensation in the event of termination is not capped at twice  the target remuneration ( xed and variable target), but at twice  the mathematical average of the effective annual remuneration  ( xed and variable) for the last three years (see pages 261-262,  265-266 ).   > 10. Internal control and risk  management** 10.1  Definition and objectives of internal control and risk management Definition and objectives The Groups internal control procedures are designed to ensure:   compliance with laws and regulations;   application of instructions and guidelines issued by Senior  Management;   the proper functioning of the Companys internal processes,  notably as concerns asset preservation;   the reliability of  nancial reporting; more generally, internal control helps the Group manage its  businesses, run ef cient operations and use its resources ef ciently. Internal control aims to prevent and manage risks related to the  Groups business. These include accounting and  nancial risks,  the risk of fraud, as well as operating,  nancial and compliance  risks. However, no system of internal control is capable of providing  absolute assurance that these risks will be managed completely. Scope of this report The system is designed to cover the Group, de ned as the  Schneider ElectricSA parent company and the subsidiaries over  which it exercises exclusive control. Jointly controlled entities are subject to all of the controls described  below, with the exception of self-assessments of the implementation  of Key Internal Controls (see Operating Units below). Internal control reference documents The Groups internal control system complies with the legal  obligations applicable to companies listed on the Paris stock  exchange. It is consistent with the reference framework laid down  by Frances Autorit des Marchs Financiers (AMF). The internal control process is a work in progress; procedures are  adapted to re ect changes in the AMF recommendations and the  business and regulatory environment, as well as in the Groups  organisation and operations. Information used to prepare this report This report was prepared using contributions from the  Groups Internal Audit and Internal Control Departments, the  Management Control and Accounting Departments, as well as  the various participants in internal control. It was reviewed by the  AuditCommittee.  134 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT In 2011, the Groups organisational chart rests on Senior  Management, of Global Functions, of Operating Divisions;  de ned in terms of businesses, geographical location, logistical or  industrialresponsibility. The Groups corporate governance bodies supervise the  development of the internal control and risk management systems.  The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring the  systems effectiveness (see Committees of the Supervisory Board,  Chapter3 4). Each manager is responsible for monitoring internal control in  his or her area, at the different levels of the organisation, as are  all key internal control participants, in accordance with the tasks  describedbelow. Senior Management Senior Management is responsible for designing and leading the  overall internal control system, with support from all key participants  and notably the Internal Audit and Groups Internal Control  Departments. It also monitors the Groups performance, during quarterly reviews  with the Operating Divisions and Global Functions. These reviews  cover business trends, action plans, current results and forecasts  for the quarters ahead. Similar reviews are carried out at different  levels of the Group prior to Senior Managements quarterly review. Internal Audit Department The Internal Audit Department reports to Senior Management. It  had an average staff of 13 people in 2011. The internal auditors are  responsible for ensuring that, at the level of each unit:   risks are appropriately identi ed and managed;   signi cant  nancial, management and operating information is  accurate, reliable and timely;   employees actions are in compliance with the Groups policies,  standards, procedures and the applicable laws and regulations;   instructions issued by Senior Management are effectively applied;   resources are acquired economically, used ef ciently and  protected adequately. Annual internal audit plans are drawn up based on risk and control  concerns identi ed by Senior Management, taking into account the  results of past audits, the work performed by the external auditors  and the results of internal control self-assessments returned by the  units. When necessary, the audit plan is adjusted during the year to  include special requests from Senior Management. These missions,  which are not included in the initial audit plan, help the Group detect  potential cases of fraud. The internal audit process is described in Section5 below. After each internal audit, a report is issued setting out the auditors   ndings and recommendations. Measures are taken to monitor  implementation of recommendations and speci c audits are  conducted if necessary. The audit reports and the implementation of its recommendations  are distributed to Senior Management and to the Audit Committee. The external auditors also have access to the reports. Internal Control Department The Internal Control Department, which reports to the Internal Audit  Department, is responsible particularly for:   de ning and updating the list of Key Internal Controls in close  cooperation with the Global Functions and in line with the  recommendation of the AMF reference framework;   maintaining and leading a network:  – a network of internal business controllers in the Operating  Divisions, with responsibility for de ning Key Internal Controls  and ensuring their use in the operating units within their  scope – notably through training sessions and annual self- assessments,  – internal regional controllers to carry out training in the entities  and on-site control of the accuracy of self-evaluations and the  ef ciency of the remediation plans implemented as a result  of the previous years self-evaluations, by the entities coming  within their geographic scope. After each internal audit, a  report is issued setting out  ndings and recommendations for  the attention of the persons in charge of the entity audited,  – the internal controllers in the Operating and Regional Divisions,  in their respective assignments, act in close cooperation using  standardised methods;   analysing and critically reviewing the results of these  self- assessments to identify areas that require an action plan at  the Group, Operating Division or Global Function level;   leading the Internal Control Committee, comprising internal  controllers from the Operating and Regional Divisions, as well  as internal control correspondents from the Global Functions.  The Committee members work to improve internal control and  adapt procedures in light of the results of self-assessments and  changes in the business environment or organisation. Finance and Control – Legal Affairs  Department The Finance and Control – Legal Affairs Department is actively  involved  in  organising  control  and  ensuring  compliance  withprocedures. Within the department, the Management Control and Accounting  unit plays a key role in the internal control system by:   drafting and updating instructions designed to ensure that  statutory and management accounting practices are consistent  throughout the Group and compliant with applicable regulations;   organising period-end closing procedures; 10.2 Internal control organisation and management: key participants  135 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT   analysing performance and tracking the achievement of targets  assigned to the operating units. The Management Control and Accounting unit is responsible for:   the proper application of Group accounting principles  andpolicies;   the integrity of the consolidation system database;   the quality of accounting processes and data;   training for  nance staff in the form of speci c seminars;   drafting, updating and distributing the necessary documents for  producing quality information. The unit drafts and updates:   a glossary of accounting terms used in the reporting package,  including a de nition of each term;   the chart of accounts for reporting;   a Group statutory and management accounting standards  manual, which includes details of debit/credit pairings in the  consolidation system;   a Group reporting procedures manual and a system users guide;   a manual describing the procedures to be followed to integrate  newly acquired businesses in the Group reporting process;   an intercompany reconciliation procedure manual;   account closing schedules and instructions. The Management Control and Accounting unit monitors the reliability  of data from the subsidiaries and conducts monthly reviews of the  various units primary operations and performance. The Finance and Control – Legal Affairs Department oversees  tax and legal affairs and insurance, to provide comprehensive  management of these risks. The Treasury Department centralises nearly all of the Treasury and  Financing management of the Group, and centralises or audits the  Treasury of the Group. In addition it distributes rules for  nancial risk  management and payments security. The Corporate Treasury Center also reviews balance-sheet changes  and  nancial risks facing the Groups companies on an annual basis  during formal  nancial review meetings. Procedures for managing  nancial risk are described in  RiskFactors . Operating Divisions and operating units The Operating Division management teams play a critical role in  effective internal control. All Group units report to one of the Operating Divisions, which  are headed by an Executive Vice-President, supported by a   nancialcontroller. The Executive Vice-Presidents of the Operating Divisions sit on  the Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman of the  Management Board. The  nancial controllers report to the Internal  Audit and Internal Control Departments. Within each division, the management team organises control of  operations, ensures that appropriate strategies are deployed to  achieve objectives, and tracks unit performance. A Management Committee led by the corporate Management  Control and Accounting unit reviews the transactions of the  Divisions and businesses on a monthly basis. The Operating Divisions have teams of internal controllers who  organise training on Key Internal Controls for the units within  their scope and analyse the quality of the internal control  self- assessments (including ratings and action plans) returned by  the units. They detect internal control issues that require action plans in some  or all of the units under their responsibility. They also identify units  that need speci c assistance and either implement or oversee the  implementation of the appropriate support. They carry out monitoring of the remediation plans drawn up at the  time of the self-evaluations and control assignments on site. Lastly, the internal control teams offer suggestions for enhancing  and updating the Key Internal Controls. Global Functions (Human Resources,  Purchasing, Manufacturing, Supply Chain,  Information Systems,etc.) Schneider Electric centralises decision-making and risk management  at the corporate level through speci c bodies such as the Group  Acquisitions Committee (see Risk Factors), by combining certain  functions within the Finance and Control – Legal Affairs Department  (see above) and through dedicated Global Functions. An Innovation and Technology Council meets eight times per year  to ensure cross-functional coordination among the Global Function  for innovation and new products. The Human Resources Department is responsible for deploying  and ensuring the application of procedures concerning employee  development, occupational health and work safety. The Purchasing Department is responsible for establishing guidelines  concerning purchasing organisation and procedures; relationships  between buyers and vendors; and procedures governing product  quality, service levels, and compliance with environmental standards  and Group codes of conduct. The Global Functions also issue, adapt and distribute policies,  target procedures and instructions to units and individuals assigned  to handle speci c duties. The Global Functions have internal control correspondents who  work with the Internal Control Department to establish and update  the Key Internal Controls deployed across the Group. They analyse the results of self-assessments concerning the Key  Internal Controls that fall within their Functions scope, identify  internal control issues that require action plans and either implement  or oversee the implementation of these plans.  136 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The main internal control benchmarks are available to all employees,  notably on the Group intranet. The Global Functions send updates  of these Registration Documents to the appropriate units and  individuals through their networks of correspondents. In some cases, dedicated e-mails are sent out or messages are  posted on the intranet portal to inform users about publications  orupdates. Whenever possible, the distribution network leverages the  managerial/functional  organisation  to  distribute  standards  andguidelines. Principles of Responsibility The Principles of Responsibility, initially published in 2002, were  updated in 2009. Translated into all the languages used within the Group, given  to all new employees and available on the Groups intranet, they  are designed to guide employees in their decisions and actions.  They de ne the Groups essential values and set out individual  responsibility in respect of these values. They also set out the  interrogation and alert procedures. A Committee on Ethics and Responsibility has been set up, and  correspondents appointed to steer action in this area, to make  updates and to validate changes. The Committee also answers  employee questions that are not addressed in the companion  guide to the Principles of Responsibility, or that employees own  managers are unable to answer. (see Sustainable development  framework, Chapter2 Section2). In 2011, Internal Audit carried out  an assignment aimed at assessing the deployment of the Principals  of Responsibility as well as the adequacy of the information and  training resources with managers and employees. Insider code This code sets out the rules to be followed by management and  employees to prevent insider trading. It imposes an obligation of  con dentiality on all employees who have access to con dential  information and sets permanent restrictions on purchases and  sales of Schneider Electric SA shares by persons who have  access to price-sensitive information in the course of their work  (see Organisational and operating procedures of the Supervisory  Board, Chapter3  2). International internal auditing standards The Schneider Electric internal auditors are committed to complying  with the international standards published by the Institute of Internal  Auditors (IIA) and other bodies. International Financial Reporting Standards  (IFRS) The consolidated  nancial statements for all  scal years  commencing on and after January1, 2005 have been prepared in  accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS),  in compliance with European Union regulation 1606/2002. The Group applies IFRS as adopted by the European Union as of  December31, 2011. The Groups accounting principles re ect the underlying  assumptions and qualitative characteristics identi ed in the IFRS  accounting framework. accrual accounting, business continuity,  true and fair view, ruleofsubstance over form, neutrality, prudence,  completeness, comparability, relevance andintelligibility. The application of Group accounting principles and methods is  mandatory for all Group entities, for management reporting and  statutory consolidation. IFRS guidelines are available on the intranet, along with training  modules covering the more technical aspects. Commitment limits and authorisations Commitment limits have been set for executives from Group level  down to the individual units. Thus, product purchase and sale contracts may only be signed  by, or with the authorisation of, operations correspondents who  bene t from ad-hoc authorisations which, in turn, are granted by  their managers. Within this organisational framework, Business  executives have the power to authorise the signature of product or  service, purchase or sale contracts covering up to EUR10million.  Moreover, they enable their collaborators to authorise smaller  amounts which they consider appropriate for the signature of such  contracts. Moreover, all transactions that may affect the Groups fundamental  interests, due to their size or nature, must be authorised in advance  by the Management Board or, in some cases, by the Supervisory  Board. This rule applies in particular to all transactions affecting the  scope of consolidation, purchases and sales of strategic assets,  trademarks and patents, and off-balance sheet commitments. Statutory and management  reportingprinciples An integrated reporting and consolidation system applicable to all  Group companies and their management units has been in place  since January 1, 2006. Statutory and management reporting  principles and support tools are available on the Group intranet. The subsidiaries record their transactions in accordance with Group  standards. Data are then adjusted, where necessary, to produce  the local statutory and tax accounts. The reporting system includes consistency controls, a comparison  of the opening and closing balance sheets and items required to  analyse management results. Key Internal Controls A list of Key Internal Controls was drawn up in 2008 and is expanded  annually. Its 114items cover:   the control environment (Principles of Responsibility, Delegation  of Powers, Separation of Functions, Business Continuity Plans  and Retention of Records); 10.3 Distributing information: benchmarks and guidelines  137 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT 10.4 Risk identification and management   operating processes (purchases, sales, inventories,etc.);   accounting and  nancial cycles;   Human Resources, IT, Legal and Tax cycles. The Key Internal Controls are available to all units on the Group  intranet, along with appendices with more detailed information,  links to full policy descriptions on the Functions intranets, an  explanation of the risks covered by each Key Internal Control and a  self-assessment guide. For each cycle, the Key Internal Controls cover compliance, reliability,  risk prevention and management and process performance. The  operating units  ll out self-assessment questionnaires concerning  the Key Internal Controls. General risks at the Group level The Internal Audit Department interviews the Groups 55 top  managers to update the list of general risks at the Group level  each year. The risks identi ed through these interviews are ranked  by impact and probability of occurrence. The threat/opportunity  aspect of each risk is also taken into account. Risk factors related to the Companys business, as well as  procedures for managing and reducing those risks, are described in  Risk Factors. These procedures are an integral part of the internal  control system. The risk matrix and the analysis of changes from one year to the  next contribute to the development of an internal audit plan for the  following year. Half of the major and general risks identi ed at end-2010 were  addressed in audits carried in 2011 to assess action plans for  managing and reducing risks. Operating risks at the unit level Operating risks are managed  rst and foremost by the units in  liaison with the Operating Divisions, based on Group guidelines  (notably the Key Internal Controls). Each subsidiary is responsible  for implementing procedures providing an adequate level of internal  control. The Operating Divisions implement cross-functional action plans for  operating risks identi ed as being recurrent in the units or as having  a material impact at the Group level. The internal control system is  adjusted to account for these risks as needed. The Groups insurance programs cover the remaining portion of  transferable risks. Risk Solutions The Risk Solutions Management Department , de nes and  implements principles and tools designed to manage these risks; In 2011, a network of Solution Risk managers was set up to assess  the risks inherent in all major projects. The rules for entering into  agreements and adopting solutions in projects were updated. Risk management by the Risk and Insurance  Department The Risk and Insurance Department contributes to internal audits  by de ning and deploying a Group-wide insurance strategy, as  de ned in Risk Factors and Insurance Strategy. The insurance  strategy includes the identi cation and assessment of the main  insurable risks and de nes and recommends measures to prevent  these risks and protect assets. Risk management by the Safety Department The Groups Security Department de nes corporate governance  with regard to loss prevention in the area wilful acts against property  and people. In this respect and in close cooperation with the Risk and Insurance  Department, it is directly involved in assessing the nature of such risk  as well as de ning adequate prevention and protection measures. The Security Department publishes internally a table of Country  Risks for use in security procedures that are mandatory for people  travelling, expatriates and local employees. On request it provides  support to local teams for any security issues (site audit, expatriates  or local employee security, security whilst on assignments,etc.). It brings its methodology to develop emergency plans (Evacuation  plans, Crisis management plans, Business continuity plans,etc.)  and ensures coordination of the Corporate Crisis Team (SEECC -  Schneider Electric Emergency Coordination Center) each time that  it is activated. The Security Department is integrated in the Fraud Committee  alongside the Internal Audit Department and the Legal Department  and gets involved in combatting internal fraud (managing and  carrying out internal investigations). Management of information system risks An IT Security unit within the Information, Process and Organisation  Department de nes and implements speci c security policies for  information systems. This department has speci c skills in auditing the security of  IT systems. After each site audit, a report is issued setting out   ndings and recommendations for the attention of the persons in  charge of the entity audited.  138 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT 10.5 Control procedures This section describes speci c measures taken in 2011 to improve  the Groups control system. Operating units For internal control to be effective, everyone involved must  understand and continuously implement the Groups general  guidelines and the Key Internal Controls. Training in Key Internal Controls continued in 2011 for those  involved for the  rst time in the annual self-evaluation process: newly  promoted managers and entities recently integrated. Operational  units, trained by their line management undertook self-evaluation  of compliance with the Key Internal Controls governing their scope  of operations. The self-assessments conducted during the 2011 campaign  covered 90% of consolidated revenue and made it possible to  de ne improvement plans in the operating units, when necessary.  The ultimate goal is that these evaluations should cover at least  90% of consolidated revenue each year. The self-assessments are conducted in the units by each process  manager. Practices corresponding to the Key Internal Controls are  described and performance is rated on a scale of1 (non- compliance)  to4 (very good). For all responses below3 (compliance) on the scale, an action plan  is de ned and implemented to achieve compliance. These action  plans are listed in the self-assessment report. The units  nancial manager conducts a critical review of the  self- assessments by process, and certi es the quality of the overall  results. The self-evaluation is then also certi ed by the person in  charge of the unit. Operating Divisions and business To control the reliability of the  nancial statements and the  alignment of performance with set targets, the Group relies on  Senior Managements quarterly review process and procedures  carried out by the Management Control and Accounting Unit to  control the quality of accounting data provided by consolidated  units (see Internal Control organisation and Management – Senior  Management and Internal control procedures governing the  production and processing of accounting and  nancial information). In 2011, the Operating Divisions continued to provide training for  the operating units on internal control issues and examined and  challenged the self-assessments of internal audits of these units.  After analysing the results, improvement plans were developed  either for certain units or for certain Key Internal Controls at the  Division level. The regional internal controllers carried out audits on site as to the  reliability of self-assessments of Internal Control and the ef ciency of  the remediation plans put in place as a result of the previous years  self-assessments. Global Functions In 2011, the Global Functions continued to set guidelines, issue  instructions and provide support. During the year:   the Companys processes were mapped and each one assigned  a process guarantor sponsored by a member of the Executive  Committee. The key processes for carrying out strategy of  Schneider Electric are the subject of particular attention so as to  ensure coherence with operational results, IT and organisational  resources  employed  including  coherence  with  internal  controldemands;   for the two-year period 2010 and 2011, the IT Security Department  carried out 13audits in units, which gave rise to reports giving  conclusions and recommendations for the managers of the units  audited. The implementation of recommendations by the units  is subject to monitoring. In 2011 particular attention was paid to  R&D centres;   in addition to on-site audits, the security function in 2011  acquired a new skill known as penetration testing. This skill  set allows the vulnerability of websites to be identi ed and for  remedial measures taken to limit the effects on any future attacks.  Five sites were audited;   the Management of Solution Risks Department assists project  leaders in risk assessment, the conclusion of contracts for  major projects and organisation of validation meetings before  submitting proposals;   in 2011, the Security Department headed up the organisation  of a new Group-level crisis room. In addition, by identifying at a  global level certain internal competences speci c to the area of  investigation, it initiated the creation of a new organisation directly  reporting to the Fraud Committee that will signi cantly increase  investigation capabilities as regards combatting internal fraud;   the Corporate Treasury Department continued to roll out its  central payment system developed in 2009 and which today  covers 60 subsidiaries. Roll out will continue in the years to  come. A system of monitoring bank guarantees so as to track  commitments is also under development. Internal Control Department Internal Control continued to deploy the Key Internal Controls  – training and requests for self-assessments – throughout the  Operating Divisions, with the scope extended to cover new units:  50% of the de ciencies  identi ed during the 2010 campaign were  deemed settled in 2011. New de ciencies  were identi ed owing to additional Key Internal  Controls, which gave rise to further action plans. Internal Control self-assessments were received and analysed,  which identi ed areas needing work in 2012 as part of the process  of continuous improvement. In addition to the analysis and action plans initiated by the Entities  and Operating Divisions, similar work is being carried out in the  Global Functions. On the basis of the results obtained in their  eld,  the various functions de ne and implement improvement actions  as needed.  139 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The list of Key Internal Controls continues to grow. In 2011, the  Global Functional Department de ned Key Internal Controls covering  the Bid Creation and Administration process; these controls were  self-evaluated by the major Research and Development units. A software package for the management of Internal Audit and  Internal Control self-assessment questionnaires and follow-up  action plans will be introduced to replace the in-house application  used to date. A regional internal control organisation was introduced in 2011 that  consists of 28regional in-house controllers in three regions, who:   perform the duties de ned under Section2.3 for the units in their  regional scope, covering all Operational Departments;   establish standardised procedures (e.g. for internal control  assignments  such  as  control  cycles,  documentation,  scope de nition, work programs etc.), in line with Internal  Auditprocedures. Internal Audit Department In addition to  ne-tuning the general risk matrix and performing  audits to ensure these risks are managed properly, the Internal  AuditDepartment:   monitors and reviews the way that Key Internal Controls  areapplied;   critically reviews the audited units internal control self-assessment  and related action plans. The Departments audit assignments go beyond the Key Internal  Controls, and include an in-depth review of processes and their  effectiveness, focusing on compliance and/or performance,  depending on the size of the audited unit and the identi ed risks  and challenges. The internal auditors also review newly acquired units to assess  their level of integration and ensure that Group rules and guidelines  are properly applied. A summary overview of the departments audits makes it possible  to identify any emerging or recurring risks that require new  risk management tools and methodologies or adjustments to  existingresources. In 2011, Senior Management ordered unscheduled audits on  emerging risks that led to the revision of certain internal procedures. In 2011, the internal auditors performed 22audits, including:   full audits of medium-sized units;   audits of a number of risks or operating processes;   post-acquisition audits for newly acquired companies;   analyses of control self-assessments by the units;   follow-up audits to ensure recommendations are applied;   assistance assignments . Committee on Ethics and Responsibility The Committee on Ethics and Responsibility steers action in relation  to the Principles of Responsibility, updates them and validates  changes. It also answers employee questions that are not addressed  in the companion guide to the Principles of Responsibility, or that  employees own managers are unable to answer. (see Sustainable development framework, Chapter2 Section2.) Fraud Committee In 2010, the Fraud Committee formalised the policy against fraud  and the process of reporting and treating fraud and suspected fraud,  including changes in procedures or practices to avoid recurrence. Declared incidents are monitored by the Fraud Committee,  which meets on a monthly basis. The Fraud Committee decide  on investigations that are managed either by the local units or  centrally by the Fraud Committee depending on the nature and  the seriousness of the incident. A report is written and updated  monthly for this purpose. The Fraud Committee presents an annual  summary report to the Audit Committee. 2011: stronger internal control system In 2011, further efforts were made to improve the identi cation and  control of general risks, to step up periodic reviews of results and  performance, and to enhance auditing practices. The year was  marked, for the internal control system, by the items set out above,  in particular:   the Fraud Committees procedures were de ned and implemented  for investigation and analysis of the identi ed incidents of fraud;   regional internal control units were set up in an internal control  system covering three levels: management, regional internal  control and internal audit;   a dedicated software package for the management of  self- assessment questionnaires and follow-up action plans will  be ushered in to replace the in-house application used to date;   internal control self-assessment questionnaires were sent out  to cover 90% of the Groups consolidated revenue (training  managers in internal control practices, de ning and implementing  remedial action plans if needed) including units from the  acquisition of Areva Distribution;   administrative measures were pursued regarding segregation of  duties in the informationsystems. 10.6 Internal control procedures governing the production and processing  ofconsolidated and individual company accounting and financial  information In addition to:   its regulatory tasks;   its responsibility for overseeing the close of accounts across the  Group;   its audits of the Groups results with respect to set targets (see  Internal Control Organisation and Management: Finance and  Control – Legal Affairs).  140 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Management Control and Accounting unit is tasked with  overseeing:   the quality of reporting packages submitted monthly by  thesubsidiaries;   the results of programmed procedures;   the integrity of the consolidation system database. The Management Control and Accounting unit ensures that:   given that the Group consolidated  nancial statements are   nalized a few weeks after the annual and half-year balance  sheet date, subsidiaries perform a hard close at May 31,  and November 30, of each year so that most consolidation  adjustments for the period can be calculated in advance;   the scope of consolidation is determined and, in cooperation  with the Legal Affairs Department, the Groups interest and  the type of control (exclusive control, joint control, signi cant  in uence) of each subsidiary, determined on the basis of the  consolidationmethod;   instructions are issued for the closing process, including reporting  deadlines, required data and any necessary adjustments;   the Groups consolidated  nancial statements are analysed  in detail, to understand and check the main contributions by  subsidiaries, as well as the substance of transactions re ected  in the accounts;   accounting classi cations are veri ed, in particular the preparation  and approval of the statement of changes in equity and the cash   ow statement being the key control points. Internal control procedures con rm the existence and value of  assets and liabilities. To this end:   each subsidiary is responsible for implementing procedures  providing an adequate level of internal control;   internal control procedures generally consist of de ning levels  of responsibility for authorising and checking transactions, and  segregating tasks to help ensure that all transactions are justi ed.  In addition, integrated statutory and management reporting  systems have been developed to guarantee the completeness of  transaction data recorded in the accounts;   all of the subsidiaries apply International Financial Reporting  Standards (IFRS) with regard to recognition principles,  measurement and accounting methods, impairment and  veri cation;   the Management Control and Accounting unit performs checks  and analyses. 10.7 Report of the Statutory Auditors on the internal control procedure Statutory Auditors  Report, prepared in  accordance with article L. 225-235 of French  Commercial Code (Code de commerce), on  the report prepared by the Chairman of the  Supervisory Board of the Company Schneider  Electric S.A. This is a free translation into English of a report issued in French language and is  provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. This report should be  read in conjunction with and construed in accordance with French law and professional  auditing standards applicable in France.  To the Shareholders, In our capacity as statutory auditors of Schneider Electric S.A. and  in accordance with article L. 225 235 of French Commercial Code  (Code de Commerce), we hereby report on the report prepared by  the Chairman of your Company in accordance with article L. 225- 68 of French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) for the year  ended December 31, 2011. It is the chairman s responsibility to prepare and submit for the  supervisory board s approval a report on the internal control and  risk management procedures implemented by the company and  to provide other information required by article L. 225-68 of French  commercial code (Code de commerce) relating to matters such as  corporate governance. Our role is to:   report on the information contained in the chairman s report in  respect of the internal control and risk management procedures  relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and   nancial information;   con rm that the report also includes other information required  by article L. 225-68 of French commercial code (Code de  commerce). It should be noted that our role is not to verify the  fairness of this other information. We conducted our work in accordance with French professional  standards. Information on the internal control and risk  management procedures relating to the preparation  and processing of accounting and financial  information These standards require that we perform the necessary procedures  to assess the fairness of the information provided in the chairman s  report in respect of the internal control and risk management  procedures relating to the preparation and processing of the  accounting and  nancial information. These procedures consist  mainly in:   obtaining an understanding of the internal control and risk  management procedures relating to the preparation and  processing of the accounting and  nancial information on which  the information presented in the Chairman s report is based, and  existing documentation;   obtaining an understanding of the work involved in the preparation  of this information and of the existing documentation;   determining if any material weaknesses in the internal control  procedures relating to the preparation and processing of  accounting and  nancial information that we would have noted in   141 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3 APPLICATION OF THE AFEP/MEDEF CORPORATEGOVERNANCEGUIDELINES Schneider Electric applies the AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance guidelines with the following exceptions: Recommendation Schneider Electric practice Deadline for Audit Committee review of the  nancial  statements The Audit Committee should review the  nancial statements at  least two days before they are reviewed by the Board. At Schneider Electric, the Audit Committee which reviews the Financial  Statements meets after the Management Board meeting that approves  the Financial Statements and the day before the Board Directors  meeting. However, the Committee members receive a meeting  le with the draft  Financial Statements four to  ve days before the meeting. Compensation and bene ts paid to corporate of cers Fixed salary should be revised only after a relatively long period,  such as three years. The Management Board members  xed salary is revised each  year. When Jean-Pascal Tricoire became President and CEO, his  compensation was not (and still is not) aligned with that of CEOs  of comparable companies. The Board decided to reduce the gap  gradually through annual salary revisions after reviewing MrTricoires  performance. Top-hat pension plan The increase in potential rights should correspond to a limited  percentage of the bene ciarys compensation. Under the Top-hat Pension Plan for the Groups Senior Management  (see page 125 ), most rights are acquired at the outset. However, the  plan complies with the recommendations intention, given that:   the rights are capped at 25% of average compensation;   current members still have many years of service to perform before  they can bene t from the plan. The Supervisory Board authorised the Management Board to change  this plan to conform with the AFEP/MEDEF recommendations  (seepages 260-261 and 265 )   >  11. Application of the AFEP/MEDEF  corporategovernanceguidelines** the course of our work are properly disclosed in the Chairman s  report. On the basis of our work, we have nothing to report on the information  in respect of the company s internal control and risk management  procedures relating to the preparation and processing of accounting  and  nancial information contained in the report prepared by the  chairman of the Supervisory Board in accordance with article L.  225-68 of French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce). Other information We con rm that the report prepared by the chairman of the  supervisory board also contains other information required by article  L. 225-68 of French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce). Courbevoie and Paris-La Dfense, March 21, 2012 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by Mazars Ernst & Young et Autres David CHAUDAT Yvon SALAN  142 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC  143 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC Business review 4  1. Trends in Schneider Electrics core markets  144 2. Review of the consolidated financial statements  146 3. Review of the parent company financial statements  150 4. Review of subsidiaries  150 5. Outlook  150  144 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 4 TRENDS IN SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS CORE MARKETS BUSINESS REVIEW  > 1.  Trends in Schneider Electrics core  markets Industries and machine manufacturers The industry and machine manufacturers markets continued to  grow signi cantly in 2011, in the continuity of the sharp rebound  experienced since the economic cycle trough in May2009.  The dynamics during the year changed though, from a buoyant  start of year, somewhat ampli ed by the Fukushima earthquake  (customers anticipating orders for fear of electronic components  shortages), towards a weaker second semester, when the OEMs  (original equipment manufacturers) sector in North East Asia (China,  Korea, Taiwan, Japan) was affected by the tight credit policy led by  China government to curb in ation. However, China infrastructure  and mining sectors continued to grow. Investments in Western Europe were as well impacted in the second  part of the year, due to the uncertainty generated by the sovereign  crisis, while the US markets enjoyed a relative resilience, notably in  the last fourmonths of the year. Beyond these  regions, very positive evolution of emerging markets,  such as South and Central Americas, Russia, South East Asia,  driven by water and mining investments. The political events in the Mediterranean countries affected the  investments and projects, notably those linked to Water (Egypt,  Lybia). In the rest of the world, the standardization of the water  treatment plants and a more comprehensive management of  the whole water cycle in large urban environments sustained the  investments.  The mining ,  minerals and metals  sectors grew substantially this year,  with signi cant investments in countries such as Brazil, Canada,  Russia, and, in the later part of the year, also in Australia, driven  both by the increased consumption of raw materials and a concern  to control and reduce energy consumption. Non residential buildings In the US, non-residential construction declined on an annual basis,  but experienced signs of sequential improvement starting during the  second semester. Front runners were healthcare, private education,  retail and manufacturing buildings. European countries suffered  from the sovereign debt crisis and austerity measures. In  new  e conomies, the non-residential construction market experienced a  dynamic activity generated by the powerful process of urbanisation. Schneider Electric solutions and services are designed to monitor  and control system for buildings ef ciency. Our solutions integrate  access control, video surveillance, HVAC, and lighting control on  an open standard systems to maximize buildings ef ciency by  improving the energy consumption and safety of a building. In 2011, Schneider Electric has reinforced its Building Energy  and Occupancy Management offer with the integration of Vizelia  and D5X. Schneider Electric has also acquired Summit Energy, a  Strategic Energy Sourcing leader and Viconics, offering an exciting  suite of wireless thermostats. Residential In the US, residential construction market sector was negatively  impacted notably by low consumer con dence and tight lending  conditions. However, starts of multi-family housing has improved  throughout the year, from a very weak level. In the Eurozone, after a harsh fall of output between 2008 and  2010, the residential market has slightly improved in 2011. Note  that this trend is characterized by large disparities across countries.  On one hand, Iberian countries are still undergoing strong decline  in investment and facing high levels of outstanding inventories.  Meanwhile, countries such as France are in an intermediate pace  essentially thanks to the support of new housing construction. On  the other hand, Germany and Scandinavian countries have been  far less affected by the debt crisis with a housing market which is  even growing. In Asia Paci c, residential construction was relatively  fast growing. In Japan and New Zealand, the end of the year  was marked by large  ows of reconstruction due to earthquakes  destructions. Finally, in new economies, positive demographic and  urbanisation trends drove the housing constructions.  145 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC BUSINESS REVIEW 4 TRENDS IN SCHNEIDER ELECTRICS CORE MARKETS Utilities and Infrastructures Electric power While emerging economies keep on investing heavily in their grid  infrastructures to meet their growth objectives with strong rising  demand, mature economies have adjusted their investment plans  to deal with aging grid assets and the need to connect more  renewable sources, still maitaining or improving their performance  in terms of reliability of power supply. As a result, the global e lectric  p ower market keeps enjoying a steady 4 to 6% growth rate.  Themomentum towards smart grids is materialized by a growing  activity in demonstration pilot projects to test new technologies  and associated business models, as well as sustained investment  in distribution automation and advanced distribution management  systems which offer attractive return on investments for grid  operators. Market accelerators such as the increased activity in  grid-connected renewables, the roll-out of electric vehicles and the  implementation of demand response programs will strenghten the  need for new investments world-wide. Oil and gas In 2011 Oil & Gas markets have con rmed the recovery engaged  in 2010. With more that USD500billion  invested in Exploration &  Production, investment surged by 15% in 2010, and exceeded the  level reached pre-crisis in 2008. Uncertainties caused by the geopolitical tensions in Middle East and  North African (Arabic spring) together combined with the sovereign  debt turmoil have not altered the con dence of Oil Companies in  2011 who pursued their investment. Those short term uncertainties  do not hamper the long term vision where more than 75% of energy  demand is supplied by fossil energy. The Middle East continued to invest to maintain its production  capacities (Saudi Arabia) while Iraq  elds are promised to large  developments to tap its large O&G reserves. In North America  investment is sustained by the shale gas and tar sand development. Schneider Electric has been present in all key O&G geographies  and large Oil & Gas companies, as well as major EPC companies,  have been Schneiders customer for years. Schneider supplies  energy management and control solutions that allow them to  improve Energy Management and brings them innovative solution  to tap reserves in harsh environment. By complementing its O&G  expertise and IT capabilities, the acquisition of Telvent in June2011  will foster the development of new integrated business solution that  will deliver more ef ciency to the Oil & Gas infrastructures. Data centres and Networks The IT global markets grew at a moderate pace in 2011, impacted  in the second half by a slowdown in Europe with an expected  spillover into a more cloudy 2012. After strong growth in 2010, x86  server growth was more modest in 2011, primarily supported by  Asia and Latin America. At the same time, the drivers for long term growth remained  unchanged with the migration to the Cloud and larger Data Centres  where fast growing collocation companies will battle it out with  T elcos and IT Outsourcers. Strong ITB customers in the Collocation  segment, with access to capital markets or with the backing of large  Private Equity groups, as well as Telcos will continue to operate their  Data Centres at very high utilization and will expand their number of  sites on a global basis to meet demand. Our Data Centre  Solutions and Services offerings experienced a  strong growth con rming ITBs leadership in those key segments,  reinforced further with the integration of Uni air, Lee Technologies  and Viridity. In the fast growing Data Centre Infrastructure  Management software segment, Schneider Electric was named a  Market Leader by IDC. In the Emerging markets, Schneider Electric  strengthened its position in India with the acquisitions of Luminous  and APW President.  146 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC BUSINESS REVIEW 4 REVIEW OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   > 2. Review of the consolidated  financial statements Review of business and consolidated statement of income Changes in the scope of consolidation Acquisitions On January 7 , 2011, Schneider Electric announced the  signature of an agreement to acquire a majority of the shares in  APW President Systems Ltd. which designs and manufactures  standard and customized racks and enclosure systems in India,  serving in particular information technology and telecom end-users.  APW President Systems Ltd. has approximately 380 employees  and generated sales of INR1.08 billion (approx. EUR17 million)  for the twelve months ending September 30, 2010. With  APWPresidentSystems Ltd., Schneider Electric is well positioned  to capture opportunities in the fast growing Indian IT infrastructure  market as well as in international markets, particularly in Asia Paci c  and Middle East. The Group will also be able to tap the talent pool  and increase its solutions execution capabilities from server rooms  to extra large data centres. On March24, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature of  an agreement to acquire Summit Energy Services Inc., an American  company leader in outsourced energy procurement and sustainability  services to industrial, commercial and institutional enterprises. It is  employing more than 350individuals  and serves client facilities in  more than 90countries. Summit Energy is a fast-growing business,  expected to generate sales of approximately USD65million for the  current year. The acquisition of Summit Energy allows Schneider  Electric to broaden its energy management services and solution  portfolio, offering customers the ability to manage and optimize their  energy consumption from the supply side through the demand side,  while also growing Schneider Electrics energy and environmental  online reporting capabilities. On March31, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature of  an agreement to acquire from Smartlink Network Systems Ltd. the  assets of the Indian company DIGILINK business, one of the leading  structured cabling systems providers in India. Headquartered in  Mumbai, the DIGILINK business has 92employees and generated  sales of about INR1.55billion (approx. EUR25million) in calendar  year 2010. With this acquisition the Group will be able to gain  access to DIGILINKs well-established distribution network in  the retail sector which complements its presence in enterprise  segments and will generate signi cant cross-selling opportunities  for its Power and IT products. On April4, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature of  an agreement to acquire in the United States Lee Technologies, a  leading service provider for the data centres of the North American  market. Headquartered in Fairfax, Virginia, Lee Technologies has  over 300employees and generated sales of about USD140million  (approx. EUR104 million) in 2010. Lee Technologies brings to  Schneider Electric capabilities ranging from consulting, site  assessment, design, equipment speci cation and selection to  integration, commissioning, facility operations staf ng, maintenance  and proactive 24x7 remote monitoring. This full repertoire of  services will reinforce Schneider Electrics IT business skills in data  centre management and its ability to provide data centres, one  of the worlds fastest growing end-users of energy, with the best  standards in energy conservation and reliability. On May30, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature of  an agreement to acquire 74% of Luminous Power Technologies  Pvt. Ltd., a market leader in India that provides inverters, UPS and  power storage systems to help homes and small and medium sized  businesses face frequent power cuts. Luminous is a leading player  in the around EUR800million Indian inverter and power storage  market that is growing at more than 20% a year. Luminous has  a strong presence in India and employs approx. 3,000 people  in eightdifferent industrial sites in India and one in China. It has  generated revenues of INR11.0 billion (approx. EUR170 million)  for the  scal year ending March2011.With Luminous, Schneider  Electric will become the leader in the Indian inverters and secured  power market and gain access to a complementary retail network. On June 9, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature  of an agreement to acquire Leader Harvest Power Technologies  Holdings Limited (Leader & Harvest), one of the leading  players in the fast-growing medium voltage drives market in  China. Headquartered in Beijing, Leader & Harvest develops,  manufactures and commercialises medium voltage (MV) variable  speed drives. The company employs over 750people and has an  extensive inhouse nationwide sales and service support network  across 30provinces. With an annual growth rate in excess of 20%  in the past few years, the company is expected to generate sales  of approximately USD150 million (approx. EUR100 million) for  2011. Leader &Harvests range represents an excellent addition  to Schneider Electrics industrial automation range of products  and solutions. Medium voltage drives are a key element of energy  ef cient solutions to our key target segments of mining, minerals &  metals and water & waste water. On July21, 2011, Schneider Electric announced it has entered into  a partnership with NVC Lighting Holding Limited (NVC Lighting) to  speed up its market penetration in smaller cities in China via NVC  Lightings well established diffused channels. The partnership will  give Schneider Electric an exclusive access to diffused channels  and bring forth strong revenue synergies. NVC Lighting has a solid  presence in China with broad diffused channels and extensive retail  management experience. It has the access to over 3,000 retail  outlets, half of which are located in smaller cities and townships.  147 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC BUSINESS REVIEW 4 REVIEW OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On July22, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signature of  an agreement to acquire the bresilian group Steck Da Amazonia  Industria Electrica Ltda. and af liates (Steck Group), a key player  (950 employees, about BRL180 million (approx. EUR80 million)  in 2011) in the fast growing  nal low voltage segment serving the  residential and commercial buildings and industries in Brazil. The  transaction will enable Schneider Electric to broaden its product  portfolio and market access and hence provide an opportunity to  expand its presence in new economies, particularly in Latin America. On June1, 2011, Schneider Electric announced the signing of a  de nitive agreement related to the acquisition, through a public  offer of Telvent GIT SA (Telvent), a leading solution provider  specializing in high value-added IT software and solutions for real- time management of mission critical infrastructure in the  elds of  electricity, oil & gas, water and transportation. By acquiring Telvent,  Schneider Electric integrates a high value-added software platform  that presents a good  t with its own range in  eld device control  and operation management software for the smart grid and  ef cient infrastructures. The Group also doubles its overall software  development competencies and enhances its IT integration and  software service capability, including weather services. Schneider  Electric made a cash tender offer for all of Telvents shares at a  price of USD40 per share, which represents a premium of 36% to  Telvents average share price over the last three months. This offer  has successfully been completed on August30, 2011. Acquisitions and disposals that took place in2010  and that had an impact on the 2011 financial  statements The following entities were acquired during  nancial year 2010 and  their consolidation on a full-year basis for  nancial year 2011 had a  scope effect compared to  nancial year 2010:   Cimac, consolidated as of January21, 2010,   Zicom Electronic Security Systems Limited, consolidated as of  March5, 2010,   SCADA group, consolidated as of April13, 2010,   Distribution business of Areva T&D, consolidated as of  June7,2010,   Uni air, consolidated as of November23, 2010,   Vizelia and D5X, consolidated as of December9, 2010. Changes in foreign exchange rates Changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the euro had a  material impact over the year. This negative effect amounts to  EUR229 million on consolidated revenue and EUR32 million on  EBITA(1) (effect of conversions only). Revenue On December 31, 2011, the consolidated revenue of Schneider  Electric totaled EUR22,387million, an increase of 14.3% at current  scope and exchange rates compared to December31, 2010. This growth breaks down into 8.3% organic, a contribution of  acquisitions net of disposals of 7.3% and a negative exchange rate  effect of 1.3%. (1) EBITA (Earnings Before Interests, Taxes and Amortisation of purchase accounting intangibles) corresponds to operating pro t before amortisa- tion and impairment of purchase accounting intangible assets from acquisitions, and before goodwill impairment. Changes in revenue by operating segment Power revenue (37% of Group revenue), totaled EUR8,297million  on December31, 2011, an increase of 7.0% on an actual basis and  of 7.6% at constant scope and exchange rates. This performance  is driven primarily by product business which continued to be  supported by global manufacturing and infrastructure markets,  launching of new offers and better coverage especially in new  economies. Solutions business shows about  at revenue compared  to 2010 despites renewable energy revenue was negative, due to  the change by some countries in their incentive policies. Infrastructure revenue (22% of Group revenue), totaled  EUR4,897million on December31, 2011, an increase of 12.8% on  an actual basis (2010 comparative data including EUR1,878million  of Areva D revenues from January1) and of  7.5% at constant scope  and exchange rates. Despite the product business globally  at, the  growth in Infrastructure sales is driven by improving demand in  solutions business from electro-intensive customers (oil and gas,  mining and metals), infrastructure projects in the new economies. Industry revenue (20% of Group revenue), totaled EUR4,404million  on December31, 2011, an increase of 10.5% on an actual basis  and of  10.4% at constant scope and exchange rates. The product  business recorded solid growth, bene ting from the globally  well- oriented industrial demand, especially from machine builders  segment in new economies and some export-oriented mature  markets, as well as new product launches. The performance of  Industry is also boosted by the solutions business, particularly in  the areas of OEM solutions, drives systems for mining, oil and gas,  and cement sectors, energy ef ciency solutions as well as industrial  services. IT revenue (14% of Group revenue), totaled EUR3,237million on  December31, 2011, an increase of 17.9% on an actual basis and  of 10.3% at constant scope and exchange rates. The solutions  business grew double-digit, re ecting the strong demand for  complete data center projects and services. Products bene ted  from the good momentum particularly in the region Rest of the  World. Buildings revenue (7% of Group revenue), totaled EUR1,552million  on December31, 2011, an increase of 10.7% on an actual basis and  4.8% at constant scope and exchange rates. Solution business is  supported by strong advanced and installed base services and also  security systems and energy ef ciency projects in mature countries  and in new economies. The low growth in product business is  hampered by challenging new constructions market conditions in  mature markets.  148 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC BUSINESS REVIEW 4 REVIEW OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Adjusted EBITA by operating segment Adjusted EBITA is de ned as EBITA before Restructuring costs and  before Other operating income and expense (of which Acquisition,  integration and separation costs). Power achieved an Adjusted EBITA margin of 21%, this rate is  down 0.6point compared to December31, 2010. Infrastructure achieved an Adjusted EBITA margin of 10.4%,  stable compared to December31, 2010 (10.3%). Industry achieved an Adjusted EBITA margin of 17.7%, down  1point compared to December31, 2010. IT  achieved an Adjusted EBITA margin of 16.2%, down 0.4point  compared to December31, 2010. Buildings achieved an Adjusted EBITA margin of 9.3%, down  1.3point compared to December31, 2010. Net financial income/loss Net  nancial income/loss is a net loss of EUR415 million at  December31, 2011, compared to EUR347million at December31,  2010. Net  nance costs totaled EUR301 million, up EUR19 million  compared to 2010. This increase is mainly due to a higher net   nancial debt. Exchange gains and losses, including the impact of the Groups  foreign currency hedges, was a negative effect of EUR40million in  2011, compared to an income of EUR25million in 2010. The  nancial component of pension plan and other post-employment  bene t costs represents a net expense of EUR45million compared  to EUR49million in 2010. Finally, other net  nancial expense, in the amount of EUR37million,  can mainly be explained by bank fees linked to issuance or  settlement of credit lines. Tax The effective tax rate at December31, 2011 was 23.1% compared  to 24.0% at December31, 2010. Share of profit/(losses) of associates The share of pro t/losses of associates represents income of  EUR28million at December31, 2011. It principally comprises the  share in net income of Electroshield-Samara in Russia (EUR14million)  and the Fuji Electric joint venture in Japan (EUR12million). Non-controlling interests Minority interests in net income for  nancial year 2011 totaled  EUR84million, compared to EUR76million in 2010. This represents  the share in net income attributable mainly to the minority interests  of certain Chinese companies. Profit for the period Net income for the period attributable to the equity holders of the  parent company amounted to EUR1,820million, a EUR100million  increase over 2010 (EUR1,720million). Earnings per share Earnings per share (taking into account the division of the nominal  value of the shares by two, effective on September 2, 2011)  amounted to EUR3.39 in 2011 compared with EUR3.30 in 2010. Review of balance sheet and cash flow statement items Total consolidated balance sheet amounted to EUR35,886million  as at December31, 2011, up 15.6% compared with December31,  2010. Non-current assets amounted to EUR22,540million or 63%  of total assets. Goodwill Goodwill amounted to EUR12,773million or 36% of total assets, up  by EUR2,560million compared with December31, 2010. The Groups acquisitions – mainly comprising Areva Distribution –  in 2011 accounted for EUR2,356million of the increase. Changes  in foreign exchange rates accounted for EUR142 million of the  increase. The Groups impairment tests did not lead to the recognition of any  additional impairment losses during the period. Property, plant and equipment and intangible  assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets amounted to  EUR7,277million or 20% of total assets, up 10% compared with  December31, 2010. Intangible assets Trademarks amounted to EUR2,529million at December31, 2011,  an increase of EUR103million compared with December31, 2010  mainly as a result of acquired entities Telvent, Steck and Luminous  and foreign exchange differences. Gross capitalised development costs totaled EUR1,292 million  (EUR809million net), including the capitalisation of costs for current  projects in an amount of EUR217million. Other intangible assets, net, consisting primarily of customer  relationships  recognised on acquisition, software and patents,  increased by EUR252 million over the year primarily due to the  EUR436million of intangible assets recognised in the balance sheet  following the acquisition of Telvent, Leader & Harvest and Summit  Energy. Property, plant and equipment Net property, plant and equipment came to EUR2,573million, an  increase of EUR236million compared with December31, 2010.  149 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC BUSINESS REVIEW 4 REVIEW OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investments in associates Investments in associates amounted to EUR489million, a steep  rise compared to the balance of EUR42million as at December31,  2010. Non-current financial assets Non-current  nancial assets totaled EUR557million. They mainly  comprised listed equity investments (mainly AXA  and NVC Lighting  shares) for EUR191million and potential assets linked to acquisitions. Cash and net debt Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in  operating assets and liabilities came to EUR2,579 million versus  EUR2,534 million in 2010, and represented 11.5% of revenue  compared with 12.9% the year before. Change in working capital requirement consumed EUR327million  in cash, re ecting the increase in inventories generated by the  corresponding rise in revenue. In all, net cash provided by operating activities totalled  EUR2,252million in 2011 compared with EUR2,262million in 2010. Net capital expenditure, which includes capitalised development  projects, represented an outlay of EUR746 million, or 3.3% of  revenue, compared with EUR528million, or 2.7% in 2010. The  years  acquisitions  represented  a  cash  out ow  of  EUR2,873million in 2011 compared to 1,754million in 2010, net  of cash acquired. Numerous acquisitions took place in 2011, such  as Telvent, Leader & Harvest, Luminous, Summit Energy, Steck  and Digilink; the main acquisition of 2010 was Areva Distribution for  EUR1,208million. There was no sale of treasury stock in 2011 when the sale of treasury  stock in 2010 generated a net cash in ow of EUR249 million.  Dividends paid totaled EUR925million, of which EUR69million to  minority interests. This is an increase compared to EUR241million  paid in 2010 (out of which EUR46million to minority interests), as a  result of an increase in the dividend per share that was entirely paid  in cash (when part of it was paid in shares in 2010). Net debt at December31, 2011 totaled EUR5,266million or 32.7%  of equity attributable to equity holders of the parent. This represents  an increase of EUR2,530 million from the year before with the  purpose of  nancing 2011 acquisitions. The Group ended the year with cash and cash equivalents  of EUR2,771 million, of which EUR1,515 million in cash,  EUR634 million in marketable securities and EUR622 million in  short-term negotiable instruments such as commercial paper,  money market mutual funds and equivalents. Total current and non-current  nancial liabilities amounted to  EUR8,037million. Of this, bonds represented EUR5,540million and  non-current bank loans EUR1,464million. Five new bond issues, in  an aggregate amount of EUR1,692million, were launched in 2011,  while EUR500million worth of bonds were redeemed at maturity. Equity As at December31, 2011 equity attributable to equity holders of the  parent company came to EUR15,898million, or 44% of the balance  sheet total. The EUR1,113million increase over the period was the  net result of the following:   pro t for the year of EUR1,820million,   payment of the 2010 dividend in an amount of EUR856million,   actuarial losses on de ned bene t plans of EUR275million,   foreign exchange differences in an amount of EUR159million,   share issues for EUR178million,   the exercise of stock options for EUR51million,   disposal of own shares for EUR38million. Minority  interests  amounted  to  EUR192 million,  down  EUR12million compared with December31, 2010 as a net effect  of the EUR84million pro t for the year, the dividend payments of  EUR69million and various negative items for EUR27million. Provisions Current and non-current provisions totaled EUR3,363million, or 9%  of the balance sheet total, of which EUR960million covered items  that are expected to be paid out in less than one year. This item  primarily comprises provisions for pensions and healthcare costs in  an amount of EUR1,723million. The EUR219million increase over  the year corresponds mainly to actuarial variances, linked to the  decrease of discount rates. Other  provisions  excluding  employee  bene ts  totaled  EUR1,640million at December31, 2011. These provisions cover  economic risks (tax risks,  nancial risks generally corresponding to  sellers warranties) for EUR739 million, product risks (warranties,  disputes over identi ed defective products) for EUR420 million,  restructuring for EUR137 million, customer risks (customer  disputes and losses on long-term contracts) for EUR87million and  environmental risks for EUR57million. The EUR176million increase  over the year principally corresponds to the acquisitions of the  period (EUR167million). Deferred taxes Deferred tax assets came to EUR1,444million as at December31,  2011, re ecting unused tax losses of an amount of EUR294million,  future tax savings on provisions for pensions of an amount of  EUR553million, and non-deductible provisions and accruals of an  amount of EUR247million. Deferred tax liabilities totaled EUR944 million and primarily  comprised deferred taxes recognised on trademarks, customer  relationships  and patents acquired in connection with business  combinations.  150 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC BUSINESS REVIEW 4 REVIEW OF THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   > 3. Review of the parent company  financial statements   > 4. Review of subsidiaries Schneider Electric SA posted total portfolio revenues of  EUR1,436  million in 2011 compared with EUR691 million the  previous year. Schneider Electric Industries SAS, the main  subsidiary, paid dividends of EUR1,300million in 2011 compared  with EUR672 million in 2010. Interest expense net of interest  income amounted to EUR80 million versus EUR177 million the  year before. Non-recurring income amounted to EUR1,336million  versus EUR497million in 2010. On December30, 2011, Schneider ElectricSA invoiced Schneider  Electric IndustriesSAS a  nancial compensation for the use of the  trademark Schneider Electric for EUR1.2billion. Net pro t stood at EUR2,604million compared with EUR703million  in 2010. Equity  before  appropriation  of  net  pro t  amounted  to  EUR11,701million at December31, 2011 versus EUR9,738million  at the previous year-end, after taking into account 2011 pro t,  dividend payments of EUR856 million and share issues in an  amount of EUR215million. All trade payables are due before end-January. Schneider ElectricSA proceed to several bond issuances during  the year for a total nominal amount of EUR1.7billion euros and  repaid the 2006 bond of EUR500 million at the maturity date  (July18, 2011). Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS Revenue totaled EUR3.6billion versus EUR3.4billion in 2010. The subsidiary posted an operating loss of EUR88million compared  with an operating pro t of EUR22million in 2010. Net pro t came to EUR992million compared with EUR1,502million  in 2010. Cofibel Co bel posted a net pro t of EUR2 million, compared with  EUR154million in 2010 (out of which EUR152million of capital gain  on sale of Schneider ElectricSA shares). Cofimines Co mines posted a net pro t of EUR16 million, compared with  EUR34million in 2010 (out of which EUR29million of capital gain  on sale of Schneider ElectricSA shares). Remuneration and benefits of corporate officers The remuneration and other bene ts paid to corporate of cers are disclosed in Chapter 3, Corporate Governance, paragraph 8,  Management interests and compensation (page124 and following).   > 5. Outlook For 2012, the uncertainty surrounding the global economy limits  visibility. While the Group sees continued strength in new economies  and opportunities from a recovering North America, Western  Europe is expected to weigh on growth. In this context and assuming no major change in economic  conditions, the Group expects  at to slightly positive organic growth  for sales and an adjusted EBITA margin between 14% and 15%.  151 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC Consolidated financial  statements 5  1. Consolidated statement of income  152 2. Consolidated statement ofcashflows  154 3. Consolidated balance sheet  156 4. Consolidated statement ofchanges in equity  158 5. Notes to the consolidated financial statements  159 6. Statutory Auditors report on theconsolidated  financialstatements  217  152 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   > 1. Consolidated statement of income (in millions of euros except for earnings per share) Note Full year 2011 Full year 2010 Revenue 3 22,387 19,580 Cost of sales (13,958) (11,842) Gross pro t 8,429 7,738 Research and development 4 (539) (450) Selling, general and administrative expenses (4,658) (4,269) EBITA adjusted* 3,232 3,019 Other operating income and expenses 6 (8) 8 Restructuring costs 7 (145) (96) EBITA** 3,079 2,931 Amortization and impairment of purchase accounting intangibles 8 (226) (228) Operating income 2,853 2,703 Interest income 30 24 Interest expense (331) (306) Finance costs, net (301) (282) Other  nancial income and expense 9 (114) (65) Net  nancial income/loss (415) (347) Pro t before tax 2,438 2,356 Income tax expense 10 (562) (566) Share of pro t/(losses) of associates 28 6 PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 1,904 1,796   attributable to owners of the parent 1,820 1,720   attributable to non-controlling interests 84 76 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 21.3 3.39 3.30 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 3.35 3.28 * EBITA adjusted (Earnings Before Interests, Taxes, Amortization of purchase accounting intangibles and Restructuring costs) EBITA  adjusted corresponds to operating pro t before amortization and impairment of purchase accounting intangible assets, before goodwill  impairment, before other operating income and expenses and before restructuring costs. ** EBITA (Earnings Before Interests, Taxes and Amortization of purchase accounting intangibles) EBITA corresponds to operating pro t  before amortization and impairment of purchase accounting intangible assets and before goodwill impairment. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated  nancial statements.  153 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME Other comprehensive income (inmillions of euros) Full year 2011 Full year 2010 Pro t for the period 1,904 1,796 Other comprehensive income:     Translation adjustment 159 944 Cash- ow hedges (87) 31 Available-for-sale  nancial assets (60) (32) Actuarial gains (losses) on de ned bene ts (275) (6) Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income  129 3 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (134) 940 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 1,770 2,736 Attributable:       to owners of the parent 1,694 2,649   to non-controlling interests 76 87 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated  nancial statements.  154 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OFCASHFLOWS   > 2. Consolidated statement  ofcashflows (inmillions of euros) Note Full year 2011 Full year 2010 I - Cash  ows from operating activities:       Pro t for the period   1,904 1,796 Share of (pro t)/losses of associates, net of dividends received   (28) (6) Adjustments to reconcile net pro t to net cash provided by operating  activities:       Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   386 358 Amortization of intangible assets other than goodwill   380 387 Impairment losses on non-current assets   31 29 Increase/(decrease) in provisions   (89) (49) Losses/(gains) on disposals of assets   12 (21) Difference between tax paid and tax expense   (65) 14 Other   48 26 Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating  assets and liabilities, before tax   2,579 2,534 Decrease/(increase) in accounts receivable   (280) (291) Decrease/(increase) in inventories and work in process   (38) (515) (Decrease)/increase in accounts payable   (41) 373 Change in other current assets and liabilities   32 161 Change in working capital requirement   (327) (272) Total I 2,252 2,262 II - Cash  ows from investing activities:       Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (515) (376) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment   52 84 Purchases of intangible assets   (297) (239) Proceeds from disposals of intangible assets   14 3 Net cash used by investment in operating assets   (746) (528) Net  nancial investments 2 (2,873) (1,754) Purchases of other long-term investments   (54) 5 Increase in long-term pension assets   (64) - Sub-total   (2,991) (1,749) Total II (3,737) (2,277) III - Cash  ows from  nancing activities:       Issuance of long-term debt 24 1,692 1,000 Repayment of long-term debt   (500) (1,160) Sale/(purchase) of own shares   - 249 Increase/(reduction) in other  nancial debt   432 (273) Issuance of shares   210 305 Dividends paid: Schneider ElectricSA *   (856) (195) Non-controlling interests   (69) (46)  Total III 909 (120)  155 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OFCASHFLOWS (inmillions of euros) Note Full year 2011 Full year 2010 IV - Net effect of exchange rate: (166) 6 Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents: I +II +III +IV   (742) (129) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period   3,296 3,425 Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   (742) (129) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD 20 2,554 3,296 * Dividends paid in 2010 totalled EUR525million, of which EUR330million were returned by shareholders who decided to reinvest their dividend. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated  nancial statements.  156 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET   > 3. Consolidated balance sheet Assets (inmillions of euros) Note  Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Non-current assets       Goodwill, net 11 12,773 10,213 Intangible assets, net 12 4,704 4,258 Property, plant and equipment, net 13 2,573 2,337 Total tangible and intangible assets   7,277 6,595 Investments in associates 14 489 447 Available-for-sale  nancial assets 15.1 296 410 Other non-current  nancial assets 15.2 261 144 Non-current  nancial assets   557 554 Deferred tax assets 16 1,444 1,023 Total non-current assets   22,540 18,832 Current assets       Inventories and work in progress 17 3,349 3,139 Trade accounts receivable 18 5,484 4,441 Other receivables and prepaid expenses 19 1,638 1,212 Current  nancial assets 15.3 104 38 Cash and cash equivalents 20 2,771 3,389 Total current assets   13,346 12,219 TOTAL ASSETS   35,886 31,051 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated  nancial statements.  157 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Liabilities (inmillions of euros) Note  Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Equity 21     Share capital 2,196 2,176 Additional paid-in capital 6,690 6,495 Retained earnings 6,864 6,133 Translation reserve 148 (19) Equity attributable to owners of the parent  15,898 14,785 Non-controlling interests 192 204 Total equity 16,090 14,989 Total long-term provisions     Pensions and other post-employment bene t obligations 22 1,723 1,504 Other long-term provisions 23 680 588 Total long-term provisions 2,403 2,092 Non-current  nancial liabilities     Bonds 24 5,540 3,845 Other long-term debt 24 1,387 1,165 Non-current  nancial liabilities 6,927 5,010 Deferred tax liabilities 16 944 957 Other non-current liabilities 25 235 128 Total non-current liabilities 10,509 8,187 Current liabilities     Trade accounts payable 4,094 3,432 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 2,320 1,760 Short-term provisions 23 960 876 Other current liabilities 803 692 Short-term debt 24 1,110 1,115 Total current liabilities 9,287 7,875 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 35,886 31,051 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated  nancial statements.  158 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OFCHANGES IN EQUITY   > 4. Consolidated statement  ofchanges in equity (inmillions of euros except  fornumber of shares) Number  of shares  (thousands) Capital Additional  paid-in  capital Treasury  shares Retained  earnings Translation  reserve Equity  attributable  to owners  ofthe parent Non- controlling  interests TOTAL Dec.31, 2009 (1) 262,752 2,102 5,934 (324) 4,969 (952) 11,729 131 11,860 Pro t for the period         1,720   1,720 76 1,796 Other comprehensive  income         (4) 933 929 11 940 Comprehensive  income for the period         1,716 933 2,649 87 2,736 Capital increase 6,497 52 422       474   474 Exercise of stock  options 2,710 22 139       161   161 Dividends         (525)   (525) (46) (571) Change in treasury  shares       249     249   249 Stock options         30   30   30 Other       1 17   18 32 50 Dec.31, 2010 271,959 2,176 6,495 (74) 6,207 (19) 14,785 204 14,989 Pro t for the period         1,820   1,820 84 1,904 Other comprehensive  income         (293) 167 (126) (8) (134) Comprehensive  income for the period         1,527 167 1,694 76 1,770 Division of the nominal  value by two 271,959                 Capital increase 3,856 15 162       178   178 Exercise of stock  options 1,169 5 33       37   37 Dividends         (856)   (856) (69) (925) Stock options         51   51   51 Other (2)         9   9 (19) (10) Dec.31, 2011 548,943 2,196 6,690 (74) 6,938 148 15,898 192 16,090 (1) Dec.31, 2009  gures restated for acquisition fees and French CVAE. (2) Of which EUR9million in connection with the employee share purchase plan and a negative EUR19million for the ArevaD PPA  adjustment. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated  nancial statements.  159 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS   Note1  Accounting Policies  160 Note2  Changes in the scope of consolidation  166 Note3  Segment information  168 Note4  Research and development  170 Note5  Depreciation and amortisation expenses  171 Note6  Other operating income and expenses  171 Note7  Restructuring costs  171 Note8  Amortisation and impairment of  purchase accounting intangibles  172 Note9  Other financial income and expense  172 Note10 Income tax expense  173 Note11  Goodwill  174 Note12 Intangible assets  175 Note13 Property, plant and equipment  177 Note14 Investments in associates  179 Note15 Financial assets  179 Note16 Deferred taxes by type  180 Note17 Inventories and work in progress  180 Note18 Trade accounts receivable  181 Note19 Other receivables and prepaid expenses  181 Note20 Cash and cash equivalents  182 Note21 Equity  182 Note22 Pensions and other post-employment  benefit obligations  190 Note23 Provisions  196 Note24 Total (current and non-current)  financial liabilities  197 Note25 Other non-current liabilities  199 Note26 Financial instruments  200 Note27 Employees  204 Note28 Related party transactions  204 Note29 Commitments and contingent liabilities  205 Note30 Subsequent events  205 Note31 Statutory Auditors fees  206 Note32 Consolidated companies  207 All amounts inmillions of euros unless otherwise indicated. The following notes are an integral part of the consolidated  nancial statements. The Schneider Electric Groups consolidated  nancial statements for the  nancial year ended December31, 2011 were  drawn up by the Management Board on February17, 2012 and reviewed by the Supervisory Board on February21,  2012. They will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting of May3, 2012.  The Groups main business activities are described chapter 1 of the Registration Document.   > 5. Notes to the consolidated financial  statements  160 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note1  Accounting Policies 1.1 – Accounting standards The consolidated  nancial statements have been prepared in  compliance with the international accounting standards (IFRS)  as adopted by the European Union as of December 31, 2011.  Thesame accounting methods were used as for the consolidated   nancial statements for the year ended December31, 2010. The following standards and interpretations that were applicable  during the period did not have a material impact on the consolidated   nancial statements as of December31, 2011:   amendment to IAS32 – Classi cation of Rights Issues;   amendment to revised IAS24 – Information on Related parties;   2010 improvements to IFRS (May2010);   amendment to IFRIC14 – Prepayment of a Minimum Funding  Requirement;   IFRIC 19 – Extinguishing Financial liabilities with Equity  instruments. There are no differences in practice between the standards applied  by Schneider Electric as of December31, 2011 and the IFRS issued  by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), since the  application of standards and interpretations that are mandatory for  reporting periods beginning on or after January1, 2011 but not yet  adopted by the European Union would not have a material impact. Lastly, the Group did not apply the following standards and  interpretations that had not yet been adopted by the European  Union as of December31, 2011 or that are mandatory at some  point subsequent to December31, 2011:   Standards adopted   – IFRS 7 – Disclosures  – Transfert of Financial assets    Standards not yet adapted  –  amendment to IAS 1 – Presentation of Items of Other  Comprehensive Income;  – IAS12 – Recovery of Underlying Assets;  – IAS19 revised – Employee bene ts;  – IAS27 revised – Separate Financial Statements;  – IAS28 revised – Investments in associates and joint-ventures;  – amendments to IAS 32 – Offsetting Financial assets and  Financial liabilities;  – amendments to IFRS7 – Disclosures – Transfer of Financial  assets;  – IFRS9 – Financial instruments;  – IFRS10 – Consolidated Financial Statements;  – IFRS11 – Joint Arrangements;  – IFRS12 – Disclosure of Interests in Other entities;  – IFRS13 – Fair value Measurement;  – amendment to IFRS1 – Severe Hyperin ation and Removal of  Fixed dates for First-Time Adopters;  – IFRIC 20 – Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a  Surface Mine. Schneider Electric is currently assessing their potential impact on  the Groups consolidated  nancial statements. At this stage of  analysis, the Group does not expect the impact on its consolidated   nancial statements to be material, except for IFRS10 and  IFRS11 for which impacts are being assessed on entities currently  consolidated with proportional consolidation, and except for IFRS9  due to uncertainties surrounding the adoption process in Europe. The  nancial statements provide data prepared in accordance with  IFRS for the years ended December31, 2011 and December31,  2010. The  nancial statements for the year ended December31,  2009, presented in the Registration Document registered with  Autorit des Marchs Financiers (AMF) under number D10-0125  on March19, 2010, are incorporated by reference. 1.2 – Basis of presentation The  nancial statements have been prepared on a historical cost  basis, with the exception of derivative instruments and available- for- sale  nancial assets, which are measured at fair value. Financial  liabilities are measured using the amortised cost model. The book  value of hedged assets and liabilities and the related hedging  instruments corresponds to their fair value. 1.3 – Use of estimates and assumptions The preparation of  nancial statements requires Group and  subsidiary management to make estimates and assumptions  that are re ected in the amounts of assets and liabilities reported  in the consolidated balance sheet, the revenues and expenses in  the statement of income and the obligations created during the  reporting period. Actual results may differ. These assumptions mainly concern:   the measurement of the recoverable amount of goodwill,  property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (note1.10);   the realisable value of inventories and work in process (note1.12);   the recoverable amount of accounts receivable (note1.13);   the valuation of share-based payments (note1.19);   the calculation of provisions for contingencies, in particular for  warranties (note1.20);   the measurement of pension and other post-employment bene t  obligations (note22). 1.4 – Consolidation principles Subsidiaries over which the Group exercises exclusive control,  either directly or indirectly, are fully consolidated. Exclusive  control is control by all means, including ownership of a majority  voting interest, signi cant minority ownership, and contracts or  agreements with other shareholders. Group investments in entities controlled jointly with a limited number  of partners, such as joint ventures and alliances, are proportionally  consolidated in accordance with the recommended treatment  under IAS31 - Interests in Joint Ventures.  161 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Companies over which the Group has signi cant in uence  (associates) are accounted for by the equity consolidation  method. Signi cant in uence is presumed to exist when more than  20% of voting rights are held by the Group. Companies acquired or sold during the year are included in or  removed from the consolidated  nancial statements as of the date  when effective control is acquired or relinquished. Intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated. The list of consolidated subsidiaries and associates can be found  in note32. The reporting date for all companies included in the scope of  consolidation is December 31, with the exception of certain  associates accounted for by the equity method. For the latter  however,  nancial statements up to September30 of the  nancial  year have been used (maximum difference of three months in line  with the standards). 1.5 – Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition  method, in accordance with IFRS 3 - Business Combinations.  In accordance with the option provided by IFRS 1 – First-Time  Adoption of IFRS – business combinations recorded before  January1, 2004 have not been restated. Material acquisition costs  are presented under Other operating income and expenses in the  statement of income. All acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree  are recognised at their fair value, following a measurement period  that can last for up to 12months from the date of acquisition. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share in  the fair value of assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition is  recognised in goodwill. Where the cost of acquisition is lower than  the fair value of the identi ed assets and liabilities acquired, the  negative goodwill is immediately recognised in the statement of  income. Goodwill is not amortised, but tested for impairment at least  annually and whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired  (see note1.10 below). Any impairment losses are recognised under  Amortisation and impairment of purchase accounting intangibles. 1.6 – Translation of the financial statements  offoreign subsidiaries The consolidated  nancial statements are prepared ineuros. The  nancial statements of subsidiaries that use another functional  currency are translated into euros as follows:   assets and liabilities are translated at the of cial closing rates;   income statement and cash  ow items are translated at  weighted- average annual exchange rates. Gains or losses on translation are recorded in consolidated equity  under Cumulative translation adjustments. In accordance with  IFRS 1 – First Time Adoption of IFRS – cumulative translation  adjustments were reset to zero at January1, 2004 by adjusting  opening retained earnings, without any impact on total equity. 1.7 – Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are recorded using the of cial  exchange rate in effect at the date the transaction is recorded or the  hedging rate. At the balance sheet date, foreign currency payables  and receivables are translated into the functional currency at the  closing rates or the hedging rate. Gains or losses on translation  of foreign currency transactions are recorded under Net  nancial  income/(loss). Foreign currency hedging is described below, in  note1.22. 1.8 – Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately or as part of a  business combination Intangible assets acquired separately are initially recognised in the  balance sheet at historical cost. They are subsequently measured  using the cost model, in accordance with IAS38 – Intangible Assets. Intangible assets (mainly trademarks and customer lists) acquired  as part of business combinations are recognised in the balance  sheet at fair value, appraised externally for the most signi cant  assets and internally for the rest. The valuations are performed  using generally accepted methods, based on future in ows. The  assets are regularly tested for impairment. Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their  useful life or, alternatively, over the period of legal protection.  Amortised intangible assets are tested for impairment when there is  any indication that their recoverable amount may be less than their  carrying amount. Amortisation and impairment losses on such intangible assets  are presented on a separate statement of income line item,  Amortisation and impairment of purchase accounting intangibles. Trademarks Trademarks acquired as part of a business combination are not  amortised when they are considered to have an inde nite life. The criteria used to determine whether or not such trademarks  have inde nite lives and, as the case may be, their lifespan, are as  follows:   brand awareness;   outlook for the brand in light of the Groups strategy for integrating  the trademark into its existing portfolio. Non-amortised trademarks are tested for impairment at least  annually and whenever there is an indication they may be impaired.  When necessary, an impairment loss is recorded. Internally-generated intangible assets Research and development costs Research costs are expensed in the statement of income when  incurred. Systems were set up to track and capitalise development costs  in 2004. As a result, only development costs for new products  launched since 2004 are capitalised in the IFRS accounts.  162 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Development costs for new projects are capitalised if, and only if:   the project is clearly identi ed and the related costs are separately  identi ed and reliably tracked;   the projects technical feasibility has been demonstrated and the  Group has the intention and  nancial resources to complete the  project and to use or sell the resulting products;   the Group has allocated the necessary technical,  nancial and  other resources to complete the development;   it is probable that the future economic bene ts attributable to the  project will  ow to the Group. Development costs that do not meet these criteria are expensed in  the  nancial year in which they are incurred. Capitalised development projects are amortised over the lifespan  of the underlying technology, which generally ranges from three to  tenyears. The amortisation of such capitalised projects is included  in the cost of the related products and classi ed into Cost of sales  when the products are sold. Software implementation External and internal costs relating to the implementation of  enterprise resource planning (ERP) applications are capitalised when  they relate to the programming, coding and testing phase. They are  amortised over the applications useful lives. In accordance with  paragraph98 of IAS38, the SAP bridge application currently being  rolled out within the Group is amortised using the unit method to  re ect the pattern in which the assets future economic bene ts are  expected to be consumed. Said units of production correspond to  the number of users of the rolled-out solution divided by the number  of target users at the end of the roll-out. 1.9 – Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is primarily comprised of land,  buildings and production equipment and is carried at cost, less  accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment  losses, in accordance with the recommended treatment in  IAS16–Property, plant and equipment. Each component of an item of property, plant and equipment with a  useful life that differs from that of the item as a whole is depreciated  separately on a straight-line basis. The main useful lives are as  follows: Buildings:  20 to 40years Machinery and equipment:  3 to 10years Other:  3 to 12years The useful life of property, plant and equipment used in operating  activities, such as production lines, re ects the related products  estimated life cycles. Useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed  periodically and may be adjusted prospectively if appropriate. The depreciable amount of an asset is determined after deducting  its residual value, when the residual value is material. Depreciation is expensed in the period or included in the production  cost of inventory or the cost of internally-generated intangible  assets. It is recognised in the statement of income under Cost of  sales, Research and development costs or Selling, general and  administrative expenses, as the case may be. Items of property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment  whenever there is an indication they may have been impaired.  Impairment losses are charged to the statement of income under  Other operating income and expenses. Leases The assets used under leases are recognised in the balance sheet,  offset by a  nancial debt, where the leases transfer substantially all  the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group. Leases that do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of  ownership are classi ed as operating leases. The related payments  are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease  term. Borrowing costs In accordance with IAS 23 R – Borrowing costs (applied as of  January1, 2009), borrowing costs that are directly attributable to  the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are  capitalised as part of the cost of the asset when it is probable that  they will result in future economic bene ts to the entity and the costs  can be measured reliably. Other borrowing costs are recognised  as an expense for the period. Prior to January1, 2009, borrowing  costs were systematically expensed when incurred. 1.10 – Impairment of assets In accordance with IAS36 – Impairment of Assets – the Group  assesses the recoverable amount of its long-lived assets as follows:   for all property, plant and equipment subject to depreciation and  intangible assets subject to amortisation, the Group carries out a  review at each balance sheet date to assess whether there is any  indication that they may be impaired. Indications of impairment  are identi ed on the basis of external or internal information. If  such an indication exists, the Group tests the asset for impairment  by comparing its carrying amount to the higher of fair value minus  costs to sell and value in use;   non-amortisable intangible assets and goodwill are tested for  impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication  that the asset may be impaired. Value in use is determined by discounting future cash  ows that  will be generated by the tested assets, generally over a period of  not more than  ve years. These future cash  ows are based on  Group managements economic assumptions and operating  forecasts. The discount rate corresponds to the Groups weighted  average cost of capital (WACC) at the measurement date plus a  risk premium depending on the region in question. The WACC  stood at 8.1% at December31, 2011, a slight decrease on the  8.4% at December31, 2010. This rate is based on (i)a long-term  interest rate of 3.7%, corresponding to the average interest rate for  10year OAT treasury bonds over the past few years, (ii)the average  premium applied to  nancing obtained by the Group in the fourth  quarter of 2011, and (iii)the weighted country risk premium for the  Groups businesses in the countries in question.  163 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The perpetuity growth rate was 2%, unchanged on the previous   nancial year. Impairment tests are performed at the level of the cash-generating  unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs. A cash-generating unit is  the smallest group of assets that generates cash in ows that are  largely independent of the cash  ows from other assets or groups of  assets. The cash-generating units in 2011 are Power, Infrastructure,  Industry, IT, Buildings and CST businesses. Power, Industry, IT  and Buildings businesses have operated as divisions since the  reorganisation on January 1, 2010. CST business was included  in 2011 within Industry business, of which it shared the same  characteristics, for presentation purpose. Infrastructure business  (previously named Energy), was created in 2011 in order to combine  all Medium Voltage activities including those from Areva Distribution,  as well as Telvent activities. Net assets were reallocated to the CGUs  at the lowest possible level on the basis of the business activities  to which they belong; the assets belonging to several activities  were allocated to each business (Power, infrastructure and Industry  mainly) pro-rata to their revenue in that business. The WACC used to determine the value in use of each CGU was  8.1% for CST, 8.8 % for Industry,  Power and IT 8.3% for Buildings  and 9.1 % for Infrastructure. Goodwill is allocated when initially recognised. The CGU allocation  is done on the same basis as used by Group management to  monitor operations and assess synergies deriving from acquisitions. Where the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is lower than  its book value, an impairment loss is recognised. Where the  tested CGU comprises goodwill, any impairment losses are  rstly  deducted therefrom. 1.11 – Non-current financial assets Investments in non-consolidated companies are classi ed as  available-for-sale  nancial assets. They are initially recorded at their  cost of acquisition and subsequently measured at fair value, when  fair value can be reliably determined. The fair value of equity instruments quoted in an active market  may be determined reliably and corresponds to the quoted price  at balance sheet date (Level 1 from the fair value hierarchy as per  IFRS7). In cases where fair value cannot be reliably determined (Level 3  inputs), the equity instruments are measured at net cost of any  accumulated impairment losses. The recoverable amount is  determined with reference to the Groups share in the entitys net  assets along with its expected future pro tability and outlook. This  rule is applied in particular to unlisted equity instruments. Changes in fair value are accumulated in equity under Other  reserves up to the date of sale, at which time they are recognised  in the income statement. Unrealised losses on assets that are  considered to be permanently impaired are recorded under  Finance costs and other  nancial income and expense, net. Loans, recorded under Other non-current  nancial assets, are  carried at amortised cost and tested for impairment where there  is an indication that they may have been impaired. Long-term   nancial receivables are discounted when the impact of discounting  is considered signi cant. 1.12 – Inventories and work in process Inventories and work in process are stated at the lower of their  entry cost (acquisition cost or production cost generally determined  by the weighted average price method) or of their estimated net  realisable value. Net realisable value corresponds to the estimated selling price net  of remaining expenses to complete and/or sell the products. Inventory impairment losses are recognised in Cost of sales. The cost of work in process, semi- nished and  nished products,  includes the cost of materials and direct labor, subcontracting costs,  all production overheads based on normal capacity utilisation rates  and the portion of research and development costs related to the  production process (corresponding to the amortisation of capitalised  projects in production and product and range maintenance costs). 1.13 – Trade accounts receivable Depreciations for doubtful accounts are recorded when it is  probable that receivables will not be collected and the amount of the  loss can be reasonably estimated. Doubtful accounts are identi ed  and the related depreciations determined based on historical loss  experience, the age of the receivables and a detailed assessment of  the individual receivables along with the related credit risks. Once it  is known with certainty that a doubtful account will not be collected,  the doubtful account and the related depreciation are written off via  the statement of income. Accounts receivable are discounted in cases where they due in over  one year and the impact of adjustment is signi cant. 1.14 – Assets held for sale Assets held for sale are no longer amortised or depreciated and  are recorded separately in the balance sheet under Assets held for  sale at the lower of amortised cost and net realisable value. 1.15 – Deferred taxes Deferred taxes, corresponding to temporary differences between  the tax basis and reporting basis of consolidated assets and  liabilities, are recorded using the liability method. Deferred tax assets  are recognised when it is probable that they will be recovered at a  reasonably determinable date. Future tax bene ts arising from the utilisation of tax loss carryforwards  (including amounts available for carryforward without time limit)  are recognised only when they can reasonably be expected to  berealised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred tax  assets and liabilities that concern the same unit and are expected  to reverse in the same period are netted off.  164 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.16 – Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents presented in the balance sheet consist  of cash, bank accounts, term deposits of three months or less and  marketable securities traded on organized markets. Marketable  securities are short-term, highly-liquid investments that are readily  convertible to known amounts of cash at maturity. They notably  consist of commercial paper, mutual funds and equivalents. In light of  their nature and maturities, these instruments represent insigni cant  risk of changes in value and are treated as cash equivalents. 1.17 – Schneider ElectricSA shares Schneider ElectricSA shares held by the parent company or by  fully consolidated companies are measured at acquisition cost  and deducted from equity. They are held at their acquisition cost  untilsold. Gains (losses) on the sale of own shares are added (deducted) from  consolidated reserves, net of tax. 1.18 – Pensions and other employee benefit  obligations Depending on local practices and laws, the Groups subsidiaries  participate in pension, termination bene t and other long-term  bene t plans. Bene ts paid under these plans depend on such  factors as seniority, compensation levels and payments into  mandatory retirement programs. Defined contribution plans Payments made under de ned contribution plans are recorded  in the income statement, in the year of payment, and are in full  settlement of the Groups liability. In most countries, the Group participates in mandatory general  plans, which are accounted for as de ned contribution plans. Defined benefit plans De ned bene t plans are measured using the projected unit  creditmethod. Expenses recognised in the statement of income are split between  operating income (for current service costs) and net  nancial income/ (loss) (for  nancial costs and expected return on planassets). The amount recognised in the balance sheet corresponds to the  present value of the obligation, adjusted for unrecognised past  service cost and net of plan assets. Where this is an asset, the recognised asset is limited to the present  value of any economic bene t due in the form of plan refunds or  reductions in future plan contributions. Changes resulting from periodic adjustments to actuarial  assumptions regarding general  nancial and business conditions  or demographics (i.e., changes in the discount rate, annual salary  increases, return on plan assets, years of service,etc.) as well as  experience adjustments are immediately recognised in the balance  sheet and as a separate component of equity in Other reserves. Other commitments Provisions are funded and expenses recognised to cover the  cost of providing health-care bene ts for certain Group retirees in  Europe and the United States. The accounting policies applied to  these plans are similar to those used to account for de ned bene t  pension plans. The Group also funds provisions for all its subsidiaries to cover  seniority-related bene ts (primarily long service awards in its French  subsidiaries). Actuarial gains and losses on these bene t obligations  are fully recognised in pro t or loss. 1.19 – Share-based payments The Group grants different types of share-based payments to senior  executives and certain employees. These include:   Schneider ElectricSA stock options;   stock grants;   stock appreciation rights, based on the Schneider ElectricSA  stock price. Only plans set up after November7, 2002 that did not vest prior to  January1, 2005 are affected by the application of IFRS2 – Share- based payments. Pursuant to this standard, these plans are measured on the date  of grant and an employee bene ts expense is recognised on a  straight-line basis over the vesting period, in general three or four  years depending on the country in which it is granted. The Group uses the Cox, Ross, Rubinstein binomial model to  measure these plans. For stock grants and stock options, this expense is offset in the  own share reserve. In the case of stock appreciation rights, a liability  is recorded corresponding to the amount of the bene t granted,  re- measured at each balance sheet date. As part of its commitment to employee share ownership, Schneider  Electric gave its employees the opportunity to purchase shares at a  discount (note21.5). 1.20 – Provisions for contingencies and pension  accruals A provision is recorded when the Group has an obligation to a third  party prior to the balance sheet date, and where the loss or liability is  likely and can be reliably measured. If the loss or liability is not likely  and cannot be reliably estimated, but remains possible, the Group  discloses it as a contingent liability. Provisions are calculated on a  case-by-case or statistical basis and discounted when due in over a  year. The discount rate used for long-term provisions was 3.42% at  December31, 2011 versus 2.75% at December31, 2010.  165 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Provisions are primarily set aside to cover:   economic risks: These provisions cover tax risks arising from tax audits performed  by local tax authorities and  nancial risks arising primarily on  guarantees given to third parties in relation to certain assets and  liabilities;   customer risks: These provisions are primarily established to covers risks arising  from products sold to third parties. This risk mainly consists of  claims based on alleged product defects and product liability;   product risks: These provisions comprise:  – statistical provisions for warranties: the Group funds provisions  on a statistical basis for the residual cost of Schneider Electric  product warranties not covered by insurance.  – provisions to cover disputes concerning defective products  and recalls of clearly identi ed products;   environmental risks: These provisions are primarily funded to cover cleanup costs;   restructuring costs, when the Group has prepared a detailed  plan for the restructuring and has either announced or started to  implement the plan before the end of the year. 1.21 – Financial liabilities Financial liabilities primarily comprise bonds and short and  long- term bank borrowings. These liabilities are initially recorded at  fair value, from which are deducted any direct transaction costs.  Subsequently, they are measured at amortised cost based on their  effective interest rate. 1.22 – Financial instruments and derivatives Risk hedging management is centralised. The Groups policy is  to use derivative  nancial instruments exclusively to manage and  hedge changes in exchange rates, interest rates or prices of certain  raw materials. The Group accordingly uses instruments such  as swaps, options and futures, depending on the nature of the  exposure to be hedged. Foreign currency hedges The Group periodically buys foreign currency derivatives to hedge the  currency risk associated with foreign currency transactions. Some  of these instruments hedge operating receivables and payables  carried in the balance sheets of Group companies. The Group does  not apply hedge accounting to these instruments because gains  and losses on this hedging is immediately recognised. At year- end,  the hedging derivatives are marked to market and gains or losses  are recognised in Net  nancial income/(loss), offsetting the gains  or losses resulting from the translation at end-of-year rates of foreign  currency payables and receivables, in accordance with IAS21 –  The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. The Group also hedges future cash  ows, including recurring  future transactions, intra-group foreign currency loans or planned  acquisitions or disposals of investments. In accordance with IAS39,  these are treated as cash  ow hedges. These hedging instruments  are recognised in the balance sheet and are measured at fair  value at the end of the year. The portion of the gain or loss on the  hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is  accumulated in equity, under Other reserves, and then recognised  in the statement of income when the hedged item affects pro t  or loss. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging  instrument is recognised in Net  nancial income/(loss). In addition, certain long-term receivables and loans to subsidiaries  are considered to be part of the net investment, as de ned by  IAS21 – The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. In  accordance with the rules governing hedges of net investments,  the impact of exchange rate  uctuations is recorded in equity and  recognised in the statement of income when the investment is sold. Interest rate swaps Interest rate swaps allow the Group to manage its exposure to  interest rate risk. The derivative instruments used are  nancially  adjusted to the schedules, rates and currencies of the borrowings  they cover. They involve the exchange of  xed and  oating-rate  interest payments. The differential to be paid (or received) is accrued  (or deferred) as an adjustment to interest income or expense over  the life of the agreement. The Group applies hedge accounting as  described in IAS39 for interest rate swaps. Gains and losses on  re-measurement of interest rate swaps at fair value are recognised  in equity (for cash  ow hedges) or in pro t or loss (for fair value  hedges). Commodity contracts The Group also purchases commodity derivatives including forward  purchase contracts, swaps and options to hedge price risks on all  or part of its forecast future purchases. Under IAS39, these qualify  as cash  ow hedges. These instruments are recognised in the  balance sheet and are measured at fair value at the period- end.  The effective portion of the hedge is recognised separately in equity  (under Other reserves) and then recognised in income (gross  margin) when the hedged item affects consolidated income. The  effect of this hedging is then incorporated in the cost price of the  products sold. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the  hedging instrument is recognised in Net  nancial income/(loss). Cash  ows from  nancial instruments are recognised in the  consolidated statement of cash  ows in a manner consistent with  the underlying transactions. Put options granted to minority shareholders In line with the AMFs recommendation of November2010 and in  the absence of a speci c IFRS rule, the Group elected to retain  the accounting treatment for minority put options applied up to   166 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS December31, 2009 (involving puts granted to minority shareholders  prior to this date). In this case, the Group elected to recognise the  difference between the purchase price of the minority interests  and the share of the net assets acquired as goodwill, without  re- measuring the assets and liabilities acquired. Subsequent  changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised by adjusting  goodwill. The Group elected to recognise the subsequent changes in the fair  value of the liability against equity. 1.23 – Revenue recognition The Groups revenues primarily include merchandise sales and  revenues from services and contracts. Merchandise sales Revenue from sales is recognised when the product is shipped  and risks and bene ts are transferred (standard shipping terms  areFOB). Provisions for the discounts offered to distributors are set aside  when the products are sold to the distributor and recognised as a  deduction from revenue. Certain Group subsidiaries also offer cash discounts to distributors.  These discounts and rebates are deducted from sales. Consolidated revenue is presented net of these discounts  andrebates. Service contracts Revenue from service contracts is recorded over the contractual  period of service. It is recognised when the result of the  transaction can be reliably determined, by the percentage of  completionmethod. Long-term contracts Income from long-term contracts is recognised using the  percentage-of-completion method, based either on the percentage  of costs incurred in relation to total estimated costs of the entire  contract, or on the contracts technical milestones, notably proof  of installation or delivery of equipment. When a contract includes  performance clauses in the Groups favor, the related revenue is  recognised at each project milestone and a provision is set aside if  targets are not met. Losses at completion for a given contract are provided for in full  as soon as they become probable. The cost of work-in-process  includes direct and indirect costs relating to the contracts. 1.24 – Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated in accordance with IAS 33 –  Earnings Per Share. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting pro t  attributable to equity holders of the parent and the weighted  average number of shares outstanding for the dilutive effect of the  exercise of stock options outstanding at the balance sheet date.  The dilutive effect of stock options is determined by applying the  treasury stock method, which consists of taking into account the  number of shares that could be purchased, based on the average  share price for the year, using the proceeds from the exercise of the  rights attached to the options. 1.25 – Statement ofcashflows The consolidated statement of cash  ows has been prepared  using the indirect method, which consists of reconciling net pro t  to net cash provided by operations. The opening and closing  cash positions include cash and cash equivalents, comprised  of marketable securities, (note 1.16) net of bank overdrafts  andfacilities. Note2  Changes in the scope of consolidation The Groups consolidated  nancial statements for the year ended December31, 2011 can be summarised as follows: Number of companies Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Parent company and fully consolidated subsidiaries 590 549 Proportionally consolidated companies 1 1 Companies accounted for by the equity method 5 6 TOTAL 596 556  167 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.1 – Acquisition of Areva T&Ds Distribution business in 2010 In accordance with standard IFRS3R, Schneider Electric valued the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value on the date of  acquisition. The  nal allocation of the acquisition price breaks down as follows: Areva Distribution  Before allocation of  acquisition price Allocation of  acquisition price After allocation of  acquisition price Acquisition price     1,208 Cash and cash equivalents 33 - 33 Current assets 992 (23) 969 Non current assets 437 139 576 Total assets 1,462 116 1,578 Financial liabilities 45 - 45 Non-current liabilities excluding debt 167 156 323 Current liabilities excluding debt 799 67 866 Non-controlling interests 34 (18) 16 Total liabilities 1,045 205 1,250 GOODWILL     880 The valuation of the assets acquired at their fair value led  principally to the recognition of intangible assets in the amount of  EUR159 million (technology, backlog, inventories and customer  relationships) and to revaluations of property, plant and equipment  in the amount of EUR26 million; these assets were valued by  independent experts. Contingent liabilities were recognised for a  total amount of EUR199million. The goodwill is not tax-deductible. On December 31, 2010, the main elements of the provisional  computation were:   contingent liabilities, for the identi cation of risks, particularly  tax, was not completed at the close of business on  December31,2010;   tangible assets, because the estimated fair value of these assets  was in progress;   intangible assets, because the assumptions used to value the  technology has been re ned in 2011. On December 31, 2010, the Distribution business of Areva  T&Ds, had been included to the scope of consolidation from the  acquisition date, i.e. June7, 2010. If Distribution business of Areva  T&Ds had been acquired from January1, 2010, then the effect on  the consolidated income statement i n 2010 would have been as  follows:   Group  excluding Areva  Distribution Contribution of  ArevaD since  acquisition Group  published ArevaD from  January1, to  Jun.7 Group including  ArevaD since  January1 Revenue 18,350 1,230 19,580 648 20,228 EBITA 2,846 85 2,931 9 2,940 % 15.5% 6.9% 15.0% 1.4% 14.5% Restructuring costs (96)   (96) (5) (101) Other operating income and expenses 8   8   8 Adjusted  EBITA* 2,934 85 3,019 14 3,033 % 16.0% 6.9% 15.4% 2.2% 15.0% * Adjusted EBITA: EBITA before Restructuring costs and Other income and expenses (of which Costs of acquisition, integration  andseparation). Comparative data in 2010 did not require a change in 2011 because the impacts related to changes in fair value recognized as part of the  acquisition were not signi cant across the Schneider Group balance sheet and income statement also.  168 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2 – Other acquisitions during the year The total amount of acquisitions during the year came to EUR2,873million, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired.   2011 2010 Acquisitions (2,873) (1,762) Cash and cash equivalents paid (2,953) (1,800) Cash and cash equivalents paid acquired 80 38 Disposals 6 8 Other operations (6) -  NET FINANCIAL INVESTMENT (2,873) (1,754) It is mainly related to the acquisition of Telvent (August30, 2011),  Leader & Harvest (June 9, 2011), Luminous (May 30, 2011),  Summit Energy (March24, 2011), Steck (July22, 2011) and Digilink  (March31, 2011). The temporary valuation of assets acquired at their fair value  principally led to the recognition of intangible assets in the amount  of EUR432 million (technology, backlog, customer relationships)  and to revaluation of property, plant and equipment in the amount  of EUR4million; these assets were valued by independent experts.  Contingent liabilities and indemni cation assets were recognized  respectively for a total amount of EUR93million and EUR47million.  These amounts are before deferred tax impacts. On December 31, 2011, the main elements of the provisional  computation are:   contingent liabilities, for the identi cation of risks is not completed;   tangible assets, because the estimated fair value of these assets  is in progress;   intangible assets, because the assumptions used to value these  assets will be re ned in 2012. Note3  Segment information The new divisions are organised by business (Power, Infrastructure,  Industry, IT, Buildings). The  ve Businesses are:   Power, which includes the activities of Low Voltage (electrical  distribution), LifeSpace (wiring devices and associated interface  devices) and Renewables (conversion and connection to the grid)  further to the transfer of Medium Voltage to the Energy business in  2011 (see below); the business is in charge of the end-customer  segments Residential and Marine when it relates to solutions  integrating the offers of several activities from the Group;   Infrastructure, created in 2011 and previously named Energy,  combines all Medium Voltage activities including those from  Areva Distribution, as well as Telvent; the business is in charge  of the end-customer segments Oil and Gaz and Utilities when it  relates to solutions integrating the offers of several activities from  the Group;   Industry, which includes Automation & Control and three end- customer segments: OEMs, Water Treatment and Mining,  Minerals & Metals when it relates to solutions integrating the offers  of several activities from the Group, as well as Custom Sensors &  Technologies business (Sensors & Automatives), grouped under  Industry from 2011;   IT, which covers Critical Power & Cooling Services and two  end- customer segments: Data Centers and Financial Services  when it relates to solutions integrating the offers of several  activities from the Group;   Buildings, which includes Building Automation and Security and  four end-customer segments: Hotels, Hospitals, Of ce Buildings  and Retail Buildings. Data concerning General Management that cannot be allocated to  a particular segment are presented under Corporate costs. Operating segment data is identical to that presented to the  Management Board, which has been identi ed as the main decision- making body for allocating resources and evaluating segment  performance. Performance assessments used by the Management  Board are notably based on Adjusted  EBITA. Share-based payment  is presented under Corporate costs. The Management Board  does not review assets and liabilities by Business. The same accounting principles governing the consolidated   nancial statements apply to segment data. Details are provided in Chapter 4 of the Registration Document  (Business Review).  169 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1 – Information by operating segment Dec.31, 2011   Power Infrastructure Industry IT Buildings Corporate  costs Total Revenue 8,297 4,897 4,404 3,237 1,552 - 22,387 EBITA 1,714 465 761 497 126 (484) 3,079 % 20.7% 9.5% 17.3% 15.3% 8.1% - 13.8% Restructuring costs (75) (19) (24) (9) (11) (7) (145) Other operating income and expense 49 (27) 4 (17) (8) (9) (8)   of which acquisition and  integration costs (2) (50) (5) (10) (8) (24) (99) Adjusted  EBITA * 1,740 511 781 523 145 (468) 3,232 % 21.0% 10.4% 17.7% 16.2% 9.3% - 14.4% * Adjusted EBITA: EBITA before Restructuring costs and before Other operating income and expenses (of which Costs of acquisition,  integration and separation) Dec.31, 2010 (included ArevaD since January1, 2010)   Power Infrastructure Industry IT Buildings Corporate  costs Total Revenue 7,755 4,341 3,984 2,746 1,402 - 20,228 EBITA 1,660 456 698 453 135 (462) 2,940 % 21.4% 10.5% 17.5% 16.5% 9.6% - 14.5% Restructuring costs (37) (10) (41) (5) (9) 1 (101) Other operating income and expense 24 21 (5) 2 (4) (30) 8    of which acquisition and  integration costs - - (3) - (3) (25) (31) Adjusted EBITA* 1,673 445 744 456 148 (433) 3,033 % 21.6% 10.3% 18.7% 16.6% 10.6% - 15.0% * Adjusted EBITA: EBITA before Restructuring costs and before Other operating income and expenses (of which Costs of acquisition,  integration and separation). As a consequence of the creation of Infrastructure business,  revenue and pro ts related to Medium voltage business, reported  in 2010 in Power Business are now reported in Energy division.  Additionally, revenue and pro ts related to Distribution business of  Areva from January1 to June7, 2010, that were not consolidated in   nancial statements released on December31, 2010 and described  in note2.1 are now also reported in Infrastructure business, in order  to ease the comparability from previous semester. Due to a change of responsibility, 2011  rst quarter revenue of the  Power and Building businesses have been modi ed compared to  the data set provided in  rst quarter 2011 Group revenues release.  170 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2 – Information by region The geographic regions covered by the Group are:   Western Europe;   North America: United States, Canada and Mexico;   Asia-Paci c;   Rest of the World (Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, South America). Non-current assets include net goodwill, net intangible assets and net property, plant and equipment. Dec.31, 2011   Western  Europe of which  France North  America of which  USA Asia- Paci c of which  China Rest of the  world Total Revenue by country market 7,184 1,958 5,208 4,360 5,933 2,798 4,062 22,387 Non-current assets 7,361 1,710 7,466 7,310 4,413 1,095 811 20,051 Dec.31, 2010   Western  Europe of which  France North  America of which  USA Asia- Paci c of which  China Rest of the  world Total Revenue by country market 6,568 1,777 4,704 3,952 4,792 2,269 3,516 19,580 Non-current assets 6,022 1,869 6,391 6,141 3,590 703 805 16,808 3.3 – Degree of dependence in relation to main customers No single customer accounts for more than 10% of consolidated revenue. Note4  Research and development Research and development costs break down as follows:   2011 2010 Research and development costs in cost of sales 206 171 Research and development costs in commercial expenses - - Research and development costs in R&D costs (1) 539 450 Capitalized development costs 234 197 TOTAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS OF THE YEAR 979 818 (1) Of which EUR29million research and development tax credit in December2011 and EUR21million in December2010. Amortisation of capitalised development costs amounted to EUR112million for the 2011  nancial year, compared with EUR107million  in2010.  171 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note5  Depreciation and amortisation expenses Depreciation and amortisation expenses recognised in operating expenses were as follows:   2011 2010 Included in cost of sales:     Depreciation and amortisation (398) (373) Included in selling, general and administrative expenses:     Depreciation and amortisation (133) (131) DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSES (531) (504) In 2011, provisions in an amount of EUR90million were recorded in  other operating income and expenses. The net amount of impairment losses on non-current assets totaled  EUR25 million, of which EUR7 million in goodwill impairment  (note8), and EUR17million in other operating income and expenses  (note6). Note6  Other operating income and expenses Other operating income and expenses break down as follows:   2011 2010 Impairment losses on assets - (34) Gains on asset disposals 8 25 Losses on asset disposals (9) (5) Costs of acquisitions (99) (31) Pension plan curtailments 42 8 Others 50 45 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES (8) 8 The costs of acquisitions are the costs of acquisition, integration  and separation related to major acquisitions in 2010 and 2011. The line Pension plan curtailments includes mainly a provision  release for medical care in the US of EUR45million. The line Others includes mainly a reversal of provision for litigation  or claims expired on December. In 2010, this line included mainly  a reversal of provision for EUR22million due to changes in paid  vacation modalities in the US and a proceed from  insurance claim  for EUR17million. Note7  Restructuring costs Restructuring costs totaled EUR145million over the period. They mainly relate to industrial and support function reorganisations in Europe  (approximately EUR99million) and in North America (approximately EUR14million).  172 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note8  Amortisation and impairment of purchase accounting intangibles Note9  Other financial income and expense   2011 2010 Exchange gains and losses, net (40) 25 Financial component of de ned bene t plan costs (45) (49) Dividends received 9 9 Net gains/(losses) on disposal of long-term investments (1) 3 Other  nancial expense, net (37) (53) OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE (114) (65) Dividends are mainly received on AXA shares.   2011 2010 Amortization of purchase accounting intangibles (208) (213) Impairment of purchase accounting intangibles (3) - Goodwill impairment (15) (15) AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF PURCHASE ACCOUNTING INTANGIBLES (226) (228) The migration of the Groups brands towards the Schneider  Electric brand (One Brand project) has led to the amortisation  from January1, 2010 of the Xantrex, TAC and MGE brands over  a six-year period. The corresponding amortisation expense totaled  EUR57million over the year. Impairment losses totaling EUR15 million are recognised on  goodwill relating to two small businesses in Europe sold on second  semester. Impairment tests performed on all the Groups CGUs have not  led to impairment losses being recognised. Analysis of the tests  sentitivity shows that no impairment losses would be recognized in  the following scenarios:   a 0.5point increase of the discount rate;   a 1.0point decrease of the growth rate;   a 0.5point decrease of margin rate.  173 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note10 Income tax expense Whenever possible, Group entities  le consolidated tax returns. Schneider ElectricSA has chosen this option for the French subsidiaries it  controls directly or indirectly through Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS. 10.1 – Analysis of income tax expense    2011  2010 Current taxes     France (190) (23) International (718) (598) Total (908) (621) Deferred taxes     France (100) 6 International 446 49 Total 346 55 INCOME TAX (EXPENSE)/BENEFIT (562) (566) 10.2 – Tax proof    2011  2010 Pro t attributable to owners of the parent 1,820 1,720 Income tax (expense)/bene t (562) (566) Non-controlling interests (84) (76) Share of pro t of associates 28 6 Pro t before tax 2,438 2,356 Statutory tax rate 34.43% 34.43% Income tax expense calculated at the statutory rate (839) (811) Reconciling items:     Difference between French and foreign tax rates 220 196 Tax credits and other tax reductions 87 62 Impact of tax losses (28) 1 Other permanent differences (2) (14) Income tax (expense)/bene t (562) (566) EFFECTIVE TAX RATE 23.1% 24.0%  174 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note11 Goodwill 11.1 – Main items of goodwill Group goodwill is broken down by business as follows:    Dec.31, 2011 Net Dec.31, 2010 Net Power 3,906 3,789 Industry 2,176 1,732 Buildings 1,642 1,345 ITB 3,061 2,620 Infrastructure 1,987 727 TOTAL 12,773 10,213 The 2010 goodwill is presented in order to take into account the business reorganisation that occurred in 2011. Square D goodwill was allocated to each business in proportion to operating income:   Power  Industry  Square D Company 82% 18% 11.2 – Movements during the year The main movements during the year are summarised as follows :   2011 2010 Net goodwill at opening 10,213 8,611 Acquisitions* 2,356 938 Disposals (21) (1) Impairment - (15) Translation adjustment 142 675 Reclassi cations 83 5 Net goodwill at year end 12,773 10,213 Cumulative impairment (178) (172) * On the basis of the exchange rate at acquisition date. Acquisitions There is a 12 month period after the date of acquisition for the  Group to  nalise the allocation of goodwill to these entities.  Thecorresponding goodwill is therefore provisional. Goodwill generated by acquisitions made during the year  totaled EUR2,356 million and correspond principally to Telvent  (EUR1,001 million), the Chinese group L eader &  Harvest  (EUR347million) and the Indian group Luminous (EUR260million). Goodwill generated by 2010 acquisitions totaled EUR938million,  consisting mainly of Areva Distribution for EUR727 million,  SCADAgroup in Australia for EUR110 million and Cimac in the  United Arab Emirates for EUR33million. Impairment Impairment tests performed on all the Groups CGUs have not led  to impairment losses being recognised. Other changes Translation adjustments concern principally goodwill onUSdollars.  175 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note12 Intangible assets 12.1 – Change in intangible assets   Trademarks Software Development  projects (R&D) Other Total GROSS VALUE           Dec.31, 2009 2,420 724 842 1,213 5,199 Acquisitions - 15 197 27 239 Disposals (4) (8) (10) (5) (27) Translation adjustments 205 20 39 95 359 Reclassi cation - 20 8 (33) (5) Changes in scope of consolidation and other - 29 9 213 251 Dec.31, 2010 2,621 800 1,085 1,510 6,016 Acquisitions 0 25 217 54 296 Disposals - (30) (19) (8) (57) Translation adjustments 80 4 21 46 151 Reclassi cation 1 4 (16) (25) (36) Changes in scope of consolidation and other 84 24 4 338 450 Dec.31, 2011 2,786 827 1,292 1,915 6,820 ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION AND  IMPAIRMENT           Dec.31, 2009 (132) (489) (243) (416) (1,280) Depreciation and impairment (60) (73) (115) (160) (408) Recapture 4 7 6 3 20 Translation adjustments (7) (14) (20) (35) (76) Reclassi cation - (1) 2 5 6 Changes in scope of consolidation and other - (23) 3 - (20) Dec.31, 2010 (195) (593) (367) (603) (1,758) Depreciation and impairment (60) (61) (112) (151) (384) Recapture - 29 9 1 39 Translation adjustments (2) (5) (11) (22) (40) Reclassi cation - 13 3 (3) 13 Changes in scope of consolidation and other - 1 (5) 18 14 Dec.31, 2011 (257) (616) (483) (760) (2,116) NET VALUE           Dec.31, 2009 2,288 235 599 797 3,919 Dec.31, 2010 2,426 207 718 907 4,258 Dec.31, 2011 2,529 211 809 1,155 4,704 In 2011, changes in scope of consolidation of other intangible assets mainly include recognized intangibles relating to Telvent (EUR182million)  and to Leader & Harvest (EUR125million), acquired in 2011.  176 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.2 – Trademarks At December31, 2011, the main trademarks recognised were as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 APC 1,406 1,382 Pelco 388 370 Clipsal 200 194 MGE 167 167 TAC 82 101 Juno 88 86 Digital 54 50 Other 144 76 NET 2,529 2,426 Brands recognised on acquisition realized in 2011 (Telvent, Luminous, Steck) amount to EUR78million. They are recorded in line O ther. The migration of the Groups brands towards the Schneider Electric brand (One Brand project) has led to the amortisation from January1,  2010 of the Xantrex, TAC and MGE brands over a six-year period. The corresponding amortisation expense totaled EUR57million over  theyear.  177 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note13 Property, plant and equipment 13.1 – Change in tangible assets   Land Buildings Machinery and  equipment Other Total GROSS VALUE           Dec.31, 2009 156 1,234 3,208 735 5,333 Acquisitions 1 54 171 145 371 Disposals (8) (53) (132) (65) (258) Translation adjustments 11 61 144 47 263 Reclassi cation 2 35 91 (121) 7 Changes in scope of consolidation and other 69 149 196 91 505 Dec.31, 2010 231 1,480 3,678 832 6,221 Acquisitions 11 104 168 233 516 Disposals (1) (18) (105) (46) (170) Translation adjustments 2 11 21 1 35 Reclassi cation 3 33 42 (141) (63) Changes in scope of consolidation and other (24) 122 18 33 149 Dec.31, 2011 222 1,732 3,822 912 6,688 ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION AND  IMPAIRMENT           Dec.31, 2009 (12) (597) (2,372) (387) (3,368) Depreciation and impairment (1) (65) (240) (55) (361) Recapture 1 41 140 36 218 Translation adjustments (1) (23) (93) (28) (145) Reclassi cation - 3 (9) 5 (1) Changes in scope of consolidation and other (1) (61) (123) (42) (227) Dec.31, 2010 (14) (702) (2,697) (471) (3,884) Depreciation and impairment (1) (76) (250) (58) (385) Recapture 0 11 121 27 159 Translation adjustments 0 (6) (20) (2) (28) Reclassi cation 3 4 38 11 56 Changes in scope of consolidation and other (3) (23) 6 (13) (33) Dec.31, 2011 (15) (792) (2,802) (506) (4,115) NET VALUE           Dec.31, 2009 144 637 836 348 1,965 Dec.31, 2010 217 778 981 361 2,337 Dec.31, 2011 207 940 1,020 406 2,573 Reclassi cations primarily correspond to assets put into use.  178 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.2 – Finance leases Tangible assets primarily comprise the following  nance leases:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Land 1 3 Buildings 44 74 Machinery and equipment 31 32 Other tangible assets 2 3 Accumulated depreciation (67) (83) ASSETS UNDER FINANCE LEASE, NET 11 29 Future minimal rental commitments on  nance lease properties at December31, 2011 break down as follows:   Minimum  payments Discounted  minimum  payments Less than one year 1 1 Between one and  ve years 4 4 Five years and more 1 1 TOTAL COMMITMENTS 6 6 Discounting effect -   Discounted minimum payments 6   13.3 – Operating leases Rental expense breaks down as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Minimum rentals 110 118 Conditional rentals 1 1 Sub-lease rentals (7) (4) TOTAL RENTAL EXPENSE 104 115 Operating lease commitments break down as follows at December31, 2011:   Minimum  payments Discounted  minimum  payments Less than one year 96 93 Between one and  ve years 250 226 Five years and more 108 85 TOTAL COMMITMENTS 454 404 Discounting effect (50)   Discounted minimum payments 404    179 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note14 Investments in associates Investments in associates can be analysed as follows:   % interest at Dec.31 Share net assets at Dec.31 Share in net pro t at Dec.31   2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Delta Dore Finance 20.0% 20.0% 15 13 2 1 Electroshield TM Samara 50.0% 50.0% 276 266 14 - Sunten Electric Equipment 50.0% 50.0% 96 85 - (1) Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems 36.8% 36.8% 96 76 12 5 Other N/A N/A 6 7 - 1 TOTAL - - 489 447 28 6 Note15 Financial assets 15.1 – Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale  nancial assets, primarily comprising investments, are detailed below:     Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 % interest Gross value Revaluation/ impairment Fair value Fair value I – Listed available-for-sale  nancial assets           AXA 0.5% 111 (4) 107 132 NVC Ligthing 9.2% 115 (33) 82 - Gold Peak Industries Holding Ltd 4.4% 6 (4) 2 3 Total listed AFS   232 (41) 191 135 II – Unlisted available-for-sale  nancial assets           Citec, SEAT (1) 100.0% 6 - 6 - FCPR SEV1 100.0% 34 21 55 58 FCPR SESS 54.5% 10 - 10 10 Simak (2) 99.4% 5 - 5 5 SE Venture 100.0% 7 (7) - - Others (3)   36 (7) 29 202 Total unlisted AFS   98 7 105 275 TOTAL AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL  ASSETS   330 (34) 296 410 (1) Companies purchased in 2011. (2) Removed from the scope of consolidation – in liquidation. (3) Gross unit value of less than EUR5million. The fair value of investments quoted in an active market corresponds  to the price on the balance sheet date. The revaluation of listed  investments over the year has had a negative impact on other  equity reserves of EUR60million. 15.2 – Other non-current financial assets Non Current  nancial assets total EUR261million at December31,  2011 and include  potential assets linked to acquisitions. 15.3 – Current financial assets Current  nancial assets total EUR104million at December31, 2011  and comprise short-term investments.  180 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note16 Deferred taxes by type Deferred taxes by type can be analysed as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Deferred tax assets     Tax credits and tax loss carryforwards 294 387 Provisions for pensions and other post-retirement bene t obligations 553 423 Impairment of receivables and inventory 163 183 Non-deductible provisions for contingencies and accruals 84 134 Other 350 (104) TOTAL DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 1,444 1,023 Deferred tax liabilities     Differences between tax and accounting depreciation (113) (107) Trademarks and other intangible assets (430) (897) Capitalized development costs (R&D) (55) (56) Other (346) 103 TOTAL DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (944) (957) Note17 Inventories and work in progress Inventories and work in process changed as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Cost:     Raw materials 1,604 1,461 Production work in process 362 559 Semi- nished and  nished products 1,564 1,384 Goods 75 84 Solution work in process 132 - INVENTORIES AND WORK IN PROCESS AT COST 3,605 3,488 Impairment:     Raw materials (191) (169) Production work in process (10) (20) Semi- nished and  nished products (167) (147) Goods (12) (13) Solution work in process (8) - IMPAIRMENT LOSS (387) (349) Net:     Raw materials 1,413 1,292 Production work in process 353 539 Semi- nished and  nished products 1,397 1,237 Goods 63 71 Solution work in process 124 - INVENTORIES AND WORK IN PROCESS, NET 3,349 3,139 Deferred tax assets recorded in respect of tax loss carryforwards at December31, 2011 essentially concern France (EUR102million) and  Belgium (EUR77million).  181 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Accounts receivable 5,442 4,276 Notes receivable 185 265 Advances to suppliers 116 98 Accounts receivable at cost 5,744 4,639 Impairment (259) (198) Accounts receivable, net 5,484 4,441 Of which:     On time 4,446 3,658 Less than one month past due 400 326 One to two months past due 168 126 Two to three months past due 112 100 Three to four months past due 93 79 More than four months past due 265 152 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET 5,484 4,441 Note18 Trade accounts receivable Accounts receivable result from sales to end-customers, who are  widely spread both geographically and economically. Consequently,  the Group believes that there is no signi cant concentration of  creditrisk. In addition, the Group takes out substantial credit insurance and  uses other types of guarantees to limit the risk of losses on trade  accounts receivable. Changes in provisions for impairment of short and long-term trade accounts receivable were as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Provisions for impairment on January1 (198) (140) Additions (34) (47) Utilizations 31 23 Reversals of surplus provisions 3 3 Translation adjustments 3 (10) Other (64) (27) PROVISIONS FOR IMPAIRMENT ON DECEMBER31 (259) (198) Note19 Other receivables and prepaid expenses   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Other receivables 337 236 Other tax credits 1,039 698 Derivative instruments 82 118 Prepaid expenses 180 160 TOTAL 1,638 1,212  182 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Note20 Cash and cash equivalents   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Marketable securities 634 1,825 Negotiable debt securities and short-term deposits 622 115 Cash and cash equivalents 1,515 1,449 Total cash and cash equivalents 2,771 3,389 Bank overdrafts (217) (93) NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2,554 3,296 Note21 Equity 21.1 – Capital Share capital At the Annual General Meeting held on April21, 2011 Schneider  Electric shareholders approved the division of the nominal value of  the shares by two. The operation took effect on September2, 2011  and resulted in the issuance of 271,959,091new shares. The Companys share capital at December31, 2011 amounted to  EUR2,195,772,096, represented by 548,943,024shares with a par  value of EUR4, all fully paid up. At December31, 2011, a total of 548,722,100 voting rights were  attached to the 548,943,024shares outstanding. Schneider Electrics capital management strategy is designed to:   ensure Group liquidity;   optimise its  nancial structure;   optimise the weighted average cost of capital. The strategy must also ensure the Group has access to different  capital markets under the best possible conditions. Factors taken  into account for decision-making purposes include objectives  expressed in terms of earnings per share, ratings or balance sheet  stability. Finally, decisions may be implemented depending on  speci c market conditions. Changes in share capital Changes in share capital since December31, 2010 were as follows:   Cumulative number of shares Total (in euros) Capital at Dec.31, 2010 271,959,091 2,175,672,728 Division of the par value by two 271,959,091 - Exercise of stock options 1,169,210 4,676,840 Employee share issue 3,855,632 15,422,528 CAPITAL AT DEC.31, 2011 548,943,024 2,195,772,096 The share premium account increased by EUR194,755,657following the exercise of options and the increases in capital.  183 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 21.2 – Ownership structure   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Capital Number of  shares Voting rights Number of  votingrights Capital Voting rights % % % % Capital Research andManagement  Company(1) 9.4 51,780,765 8.9 51,780,765 8.2 7.7 CDC 3.7 20,349,002 4.6 26,699,002 4.2 5.1 Employees 4.6 25,001,870 7.1 41,268,373 4.1 6.1 Own shares 0.0 1,058 - - - - Treasury shares 1.7 9,164,952 - - 1.7 - Public 80.6 442,645,377 78.0 455,807,950 81.8 79.4 TOTAL 100.0 548,943,024 100.0 584,722,100(2) 100.0 100.0 (1) To the best of the Companys knowledge. (2) Number of voting rights as de ned in article223-11 of the AMF general regulations, which includes shares stripped of voting rights. No shareholders pact was in effect as of December31, 2011. 21.3 – Earnings per share These calculations are adjusted to re ect the division of the par value by two, from 8 euros to 4 euros, effective September2, 2011. Determination of the share base used in calculation (in thousands of shares) Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Common shares* 537,422 537,422 521,786 521,786 Stock grants   2,890   1,184 Stock options   2,623   2,180 Average weighted number of shares 537,422 542,935 521,786 525,150 * Net of treasury shares and own shares. Earnings per share (In euros)  Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Pro t before tax 4.54 4.49 4.51 4.48 EARNINGS PER SHARE 3.39 3.35 3.30 3.28 21.4 – Dividends paid and proposed In 2011, the Group paid out the 2010 dividend of EUR3.20 per  share, for a total of EUR856million. In 2010, the Group paid out the 2009 dividend of EUR2.05 per  share, for a total of EUR525million. At the Shareholders Meeting of May 3, 2012, shareholders will  be asked to approve a dividend of EUR1.70 per share for 2011.  At December 31, 2011 Schneider Electric SA had distributable  reserves in an amount of EUR96million (versus EUR257million at  the previous year-end), not including pro t for the year.  184 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 21.5 – Share-based payments Current stock option and stock grant plans The Board of Directors of Schneider ElectricSA and later the Management Board have set up stock option and stock grant plans for senior  executives and certain employees of the Group. The main features of these plans were as follows at December31, 2011: Stock option plans Plan no. Date of Board  meeting Type of  plan(1) Starting date of exercise period Expiration date Price (ineuros) Number of  options initially  granted Options cancelled  because targets not  met 18 Mar.24, 2000 P Mar.24, 2003 Mar.23, 2008 32.62 2,842,400 1,373,200 19 April4, 2001 S April4, 2005 April3, 2009 34.06 3,115,700 N/A(2) 20 Dec.12, 2001 S Dec.12, 2005 Dec.11, 2009 25.63 3,200,000 333,600 21 Feb.5, 2003 S Feb.5, 2007 Feb.4, 2011 22.60 4,000,000 283,800 22 Feb.5, 2003 S June5, 2003 Feb.4, 2011 22.60 222,000 N/A(2) 23 May6, 2004 S Oct.1, 2004 May5, 2012 27.77 214,000 N/A(2) 24 May6, 2004 S May6, 2008 May5, 2012 27.77 4,121,400 188,600 25 May12, 2005 S Oct.1, 2005 May11, 2013 28.23 277,000 N/A(2) 26 June28, 2005 S June28, 2009 June27, 2013 30.09 4,007,600 - 27 Dec.1, 2005 S Dec.1, 2009 Nov.30, 2013 35.70 3,229,800 - 28 Dec.21, 2006 S or P Dec.21, 2010 Dec.20, 2016 40.67 2,514,240 - 29 April23, 2007 S or P April23, 2011 April22, 2017 48.52 166,300 - 30 Dec.19, 2007 S or P Dec.19, 2011 Dec.18, 2017 46.00 1,889,852 980,926 31 Jan.5, 2009 S or P Jan.5, 2013 Jan.4, 2019 26.06 1,358,000 - 32 Aug.21, 2009 S or P Aug.21, 2013 Aug.20, 2019 31.30 10,000 - 33 Dec.21, 2009 S or P Dec.21, 2013 Dec.20, 2019 37.92 1,652,686 - TOTAL           32,820,978 3,160,126 (1) S =Options to subscribe new shares. P =Options to purchase existing shares. (2) Not applicable because no vesting conditions were set. Rules governing the stock option plans are as follows:   to exercise the option, the grantee must be an employee or  corporate of cer of the Group. Vesting is also conditional on the  achievement of performance criteria;   the options expire after eight to ten years;   the vesting period is three or four years in the United States and  four years in the rest of the world.  185 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Stock grants Plan no. Date of Board  meeting Vesting Date Expiration Date Number of shares  grantedoriginally Grantscancelled because  targets not met 1 Dec.21, 2006 Dec.21, 2009 Dec.21, 2011 104,012 - 2 April23, 2007 April23, 2010 April23, 2012 4,428 - 3 Dec.19, 2007 Dec.19, 2010 Dec.19, 2012 132,788 69,434 4 Dec.19, 2007 Dec.19, 2011 Dec.19, 2011 114,500 58,176 5 Jan.5, 2009 Jan.5, 2012 Jan.5, 2014 287,430 - 6 Jan.5, 2009 Jan.5, 2013 Jan.5, 2013 424,702 - 7 Aug.21, 2009 Aug.21, 2012 Aug.21, 2014 2,500 - 8 Dec.21, 2009 Dec.21, 2011 Dec.21, 2013 319,506 - 9 Dec.21, 2009 Dec.21, 2013 Dec.21, 2013 780,190 - 10 Dec.17, 2010 Mar.17, 2013 Mar.17, 2015 665,524 - 11 Dec.17, 2010 Dec.17, 2014 Dec.17, 2014 1,161,696 - 10 bis July26, 2011 July26, 2013 July26, 2015 3,000  - 11 bis July26, 2011 July26, 2015 July26, 2015 5,882 -  12 July26, 2011 July26, 2015 July26, 2015 19,850 -  13 Dec.16, 2011 Dec.16, 2013 Dec.16, 2015 645,443 -  14 Dec.16, 2011 Dec.16, 2015 Dec.16, 2015 1,387,800 -  TOTAL       6,059,851 127,610 Rules governing the stock grant plans are as follows:   to receive the stock, the grantee must be an employee or  corporate of cer of the Group. Vesting is also conditional on the  achievement of performance criteria;   the vesting period is two to four years;   the lock-up period is zero to two years. Outstanding options and grants Change in the number of options Plan no. Number of options  outstanding Dec.31, 2010 Number of options  exercised and/ or  createdin2011 Number of options  cancelled in 2011(1) Number of options  outstanding Dec.31, 2011 21 88,452 (29,674) (58,778) - 22 12,940 (820) (12,120) - 23 30,332 (8,040) -  22,292 24 845,644 (274,254) -  571,390 25 58,940 (14,872) -  44,068 26 1,890,198 (234,952) (7,676) 1,647,570 27 2,168,392 (265,750) (3,232) 1,899,410 28 2,105,646 (291,794) (13,130) 1,800,722 29 152,300  - (8,000) 144,300 30 882,440 -  (40,480) 841,960 31 1,286,900 -  (33,600) 1,253,300 32 10,000 -  -  10,000 33 1,646,086 -  (21,450) 1,624,636 TOTAL 11,178,270 (1,120,156) (198,466) 9,859,648 (1) Including potential cancellations due to targets not being met or options being granted to employes without being exercised.  186 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL To exercise the options granted under plans 26 to 33, and the SARs,  the grantee must be an employee or corporate of cer of the Group.  In addition, exercise of some options is generally conditional on the  achievement of annual objectives based on  nancial indicators. In respect of subscription vesting conditions for current stock option  plans, Schneider ElectricSA has created 1,169,210shares in 2011. Change in the number of stock grants Plan no. Number of stock grants  atDec.31, 2010 Number of existing or new  shares grants in 2011 Number of shares  cancelledin 2011 Number of shares  outstanding Dec.31, 2011 4 54,086 (49,054) (5,032) - 5 274,680 - (1,850) 272,830 6 411,026 - (17,278) 393,748 7 2,500 - - 2,500 8 319,506 - (1,544) 317,962 9 772,190 - (21,780) 750,410 10 665,524 - (3,544) 661,980 11 1,161,696 - (25,620) 1,136,076 10 bis  - 3,000 -  3,000 11 bis -  5,882 -  5,882 12 -  19,850 -  19,850 13 -  645,443 -  645,443 14 -  1,387,800 -  1,387,800 TOTAL 3,661,208 2,012,921 (76,648) 5,597,481 For stock grants to vest, the grantee must be an employee or corporate of cer of the Group. In addition, vesting of some stock grants is  conditional on the achievement of annual objectives based on  nancial indicators. 21.5.1  Valuation of share-based payments Stock option valuation In accordance with the accounting policies described in note1.20,  the stock option plans have been valued on the basis of an  average estimated life of between seven and ten years using the  followingassumptions:   expected volatility of between 20% and 28%, corresponding to  capped historical volatility;   a payout rate of between 3.0% and 4.5%;   a discount rate of between 2.9% and 4.5%, corresponding to a  risk-free rate over the life of the plans (source: Bloomberg). Based on these assumptions, the amount recorded under Selling,  general and administrative expenses for stock grant plans set up  after November7, 2002 breaks down as follows:   2011 2010 Plan 28 - 5 Plan 29 - 1 Plan 30 1 2 Plan 31 2 2 Plan 32 - - Plan 33 4 4 TOTAL 7 14  187 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Valuation of stock grants In accordance with the accounting policies described in note1.20,  the stock grant plans have been valued on the basis of an average  estimated life of between four and  ve years using the following  assumptions:   a payout rate of between 3.0% and 4.5%;   a discount rate of between 1.6% and 4.5%, corresponding to a  risk-free rate over the life of the plans (source: Bloomberg). Based on these assumptions, the amount recorded under Selling, general and administrative expenses for stock grant plans set up after  November7, 2002 breaks down as follows:   2011 2010 Plan 5 2 2 Plan 6 2 2 Plan 7 - - Plan 8 5 5 Plan 9 6 6 Plan 10 16 1 Plan 11 13 - Plan 10 bis - - Plan 11 bis - - Plan 12 - - Plan 13 - - Plan 14 - - TOTAL 44 16 21.5.2  Worldwide Employee Stock Purchase Plan Schneider Electric gives its employees the opportunity to become  group shareholders thanks to employee share issues. Employees  in countries that meet legal and  scal requirements have the choice  between a classic and a leveraged plan. Under  the  classic  plan,  employees  may  purchase  SchneiderElectric shares at a 15% to 20% discount to the price  quoted for the shares on the stock market. Employees must then  hold their shares for  ve years, except in certain cases provided for  by law. The share-based payment expense recorded in accordance  with IFRS 2 is measured by reference to the fair value of the  discount on the locked-up shares. The lock-up cost is determined  on the basis of a two-step strategy that involves  rst selling the  locked- up shares on the forward market and then purchasing the  same number of shares on the spot market (i.e., shares that may be  sold at any time) using a bullet loan. This strategy is designed to re ect the cost the employee would  incur during the lock-up period to avoid the risk of carrying the  shares subscribed under the classic plan. The borrowing cost  corresponds to the cost of borrowing for the employees concerned,  as they are the sole potential buyers in this market. It is based  on the average interest rate charged by banks for an ordinary,  non- revolving personal loan with a maximum maturity of  ve years  granted to an individual with an average credit rating. Under the leveraged plan, employees may also purchase  Schneider Electric shares at a 15% to 20% discount from the price  quoted on the stock market. However, the leveraged plan offers a  different yield pro le as a third-party bank tops up the employees  initial investment, essentially multiplying the amount paid by the  employee. The total is invested in Schneider Electric shares at a  preferential price. The bank converts the discount transferred by  the employee into funds with a view to securing the yield for the  employee and increasing the indexation on a leveraged number  (factor of 4.4 in 2010) of directly subscribed shares. As with the classic plan, the share-based payment expense is  determined by reference to the fair value of the discount on the  locked-up shares (see above). In addition, it includes the value of the  bene t corresponding to the issuers involvement in the plan, which  means that employees have access to share prices with a volatility  pro le adapted to institutional investors rather than to the prices and  volatility pro le they would have been offered if they had purchased  the shares through their retail banks. The volatility differential is  treated as a discount equivalent that re ects the opportunity gain  offered to employees under the leveraged plan. As regards the  rst semester 2011, Schneider Electric gave  its employees the opportunity to purchase shares at a price of  EUR95.38 or EUR89.77 per share, depending on the country, as  part of its commitment to employee share ownership, on June6,  2011. This represented a 15% to 20% discount to the reference  price of EUR112.21 calculated as the average opening price  quoted for the share during the 20 days preceding the Management  Boards decision to launch the employee share issue. Altogether, 1.9 million shares were subscribed, increasing the  Companys capital by EUR178million as of July12, 2011. The issue  represented a total cost of EUR9million, taking into account the   ve-year lock-up period.  188 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL The tables below summarize the main characteristics of the plans, the amounts subscribed, the valuation assumptions and the plans cost  for 2011 and 2010. Nonleveraged plans 2011 2010 % Value % Value Plan characteristics         Maturity (years)   5   5 Reference price (euros)   112.21   79.34 Subscription price (euros):    between 95.38   67.44 and   89.77   65.86 Discount:         between 15.0%   15.0%   and 20.0%   17.0%   Amount subscribed by employees   72.0   37.8 Total amount subscribed   72.0   37.8 Total number of shares subscribed (millions of shares)   0.8   0.6 Valuation assumptions         Interest rate available to market participant (bullet loan) (1) 4.8%   4.1%   Five year risk-free interest rate (euro zone) 2.8%   2.1%   Annual interest rate (repo) 1.0%   1.0%   (a) Value of discount:         between 15.0% 7.9 15.0% 6.2 and 20.0% 6.7 17.0% 0.6 (b) Value of the lock-up period for market  participant 14.9% 12.9 15.0% 6.7 Total expense for the Group (a-b) 0.12% to 5.12% 1.8 0.01% to 2.01% 0.1 Sensitivity           decrease in interest rate for market participant (2) -0.5% 2.0 -0.5% 1.2 Amounts inmillions of euros, unless otherwisestated. (1) Average interest rate charged on an ordinary, non-revolving personal loan, with a  ve-year maturity to an individual with an average  credit rating. (2) A decline in the interest rate for market participants reduces the lock-up cost and increases the expense booked by the issuer.  189 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Leveraged plans 2011 2010 % Value % Value Plan characteristics         Maturity (years)   5   5 Reference price (euros)   112.21   79.34 Subscription price (euros):          between 95.38   67.44 and   89.77   65.86 Discount (5):          between 15.0%   15.0%   and 20.0%   17.0%   Amount subscribed by employees   10.6   9.9 Total amount subscribed   105.7   105.4 Total number of shares subscribed (millions of shares)   1.2   1.6 Valuation assumptions         Interest rate available to market participant (bullet loan) (1) 4.8%   4.1%   Five year risk-free interest rate (euro zone) 2.8%   2.1%   Annual dividend rate 3.0%   3.0%   Annual interest rate (repo) 1.0%   1.0%   Retail/institutional volatility spread 5.0%   5.0%   (a) Value of discount:         between 15.0% 5.9 15.0% 11.7 and 20.0% 18.1 17.0% 8.0 (b) Value of the lock-up period for market  participant 14.9% 19.3 15.0% 18.8 (c) Value of the opportunity gain (2) 2.0% 2.6 1.9% 2.4 Total expense for the Group (a-b+c) 2.10% to 7.10% 7.3 1.89% to 3.89% 3.3 Sensitivity           decrease in interest rate for market participant (3) -0.5% 3.1 -0.5% 3.3   increase in retail/institutional volatility spread (4) 0.5% 0.3 0.5% 0.2 Amounts inmillions of euros, unless otherwisestated. (1) Average interest rate charged on an ordinary, non-revolving personal loan, with a  ve-year maturity to an individual with an average  credit rating. (2) Calculated using a binomial model. (3) A decline in the interest rate for market participants reduces the lock-up cost and increases the expense booked by the issuer. (4) An increase in the retail/institutional volatility spread increases the opportunity gain for the employee and increases the expense booked  by the issuer. (5) In some countries, due to local law, employees subscribe for undiscounted sums while the bank subscribes at a discount  toprovidetheleverage.  190 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 21.6 – Schneider ElectricSA shares At December31, 2011, the Group held 9,164,952 Schneider Electric shares in treasury stock, which have been recorded as a deduction  from retained earnings. 21.7 – Tax on equity Total income tax recorded in Equity amounts to EUR329million as of December31, 2011 and can be analysed as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Change in tax Cash- ow hedges 100 69 31 Available-for-sale  nancial assets (3) (14) 11 Actuarial gains (losses) on de ned bene ts 233 146 87 Other (1) (1) - TOTAL 329 200 129 The Group has set up various post-employment bene t plans for  employees covering pensions, termination bene ts, healthcare, life  insurance and other bene ts, as well as long-term bene t plans  for active employees, primarily long service awards and similar  bene ts, mainly in France. Note22 Pensions and other post-employment benefit obligations Actuarial valuations are generally performed each year. Theassumptions used vary according to the economic conditions prevailing in the  country concerned, as follows:   Weighted average rate Of which US plans 2011 2010 2011 2010 Discount rate 4.3% 5.0% 4.6% 5.5% Rate of compensation increases 2.5% 2.0% N/A N/A Expected return on plan assets (1) 6.9% 7.0% 8.0% 8.3% (1) Corresponding to the 2010 and 2011 rates. The discount rate is determined on the basis of the interest rate  for investment-grade (AA) corporate bonds or, in the event a  liquid market does not exist, government bonds with a maturity  that matches the duration of the bene t obligation (reference:  Bloomberg). In the United States, the average discount rate is  determined on the basis of a yield curve for investment-grade (AA  and AAA) corporate bonds. These benchmarks, which are the same as those used in previous  years, comply with IAS19. The expected return on plan assets is determined on the basis of  the weighted average expected return of the total asset value. The discount rate currently stands at 4.00% in the euro zone,  4.59% in the United States and 4.90% in the United Kingdom. A 0.5 point increase in the discount rate would reduce pension and  termination bene t obligations by around EUR155million and the  service cost by EUR2million. A 0.5 point decrease would increase  pension and termination bene t obligations by EUR165million and  the service cost by EUR2million. The post-employment healthcare obligation mainly concerns the  United States. A one point increase in the healthcare costs rate  would increase the post-employment healthcare obligation by  EUR38million and the sum of the service cost and interest cost  by EUR3 million. A one point decrease in healthcare costs rate  would decrease the post-employment healthcare obligation by  EUR33million and the sum of the service cost and interest cost by  EUR2million. In 2011, the rate of healthcare cost increases in the United States  is based on a decreasing trend from 8% in 2012 to 4.5% in 2023.  Thiscompares with the previous years forecast of 9% in 2011 to  5% in 2015. In 2009, the forecast was based on a decreasing trend  from 9% in 2010 to 5% in 2014. The rate in France was estimated  at 4% in 2011, as in 2010 and in 2009.  191 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Pensions and termination benefits Pension obligations primarily concern the Groups North American  and European subsidiaries. These plans feature either a lump-sum  payment on the employees retirement or regular pension payments  after retirement. The amount is based on years of service, grade  and end-of-career salary. They also include top-hat payments  granted to certain senior executives guaranteeing supplementary  retirement income beyond that provided by general, mandatory  pension schemes. The majority of bene t obligations under these plans, which represent  76% of the Groups total commitment or EUR2,027 million at  December31, 2011, are partially or fully funded through payments  to external funds. These funds are not invested in Group assets. External funds are invested in equities (around 36%), bonds  (around54%) and real estate or cash (around 9%). Contributions amounted to EUR83million in 2011 and are estimated  at EUR56million for 2012. At December 31, 2011, provisions for pensions and termination  bene ts totaled EUR1,263million, compared with EUR1,032million  in 2010. These provisions have been included in non-current  liabilities, as the current portion was not considered material in  relation to the total liability. Payments made under de ned contribution plans are recorded in the  income statement in the year of payment and are in full settlement  of the Groups liability. De ned contribution plan payments totalled  EUR61million in 2011 and EUR59million in 2010. Other post-employment and long-term benefits:  including healthcare, life insurance and long service  awards The North American subsidiaries pay certain healthcare costs  and provide life insurance bene ts to retired employees who ful ll  certain criteria in terms of age and years of service. These post- employment bene t obligations are unfunded. Healthcare coverage for North American employees represents  84% of this obligation. The assumptions used to determine post-employment bene t  obligations related to healthcare and life insurance are the same  as those used to estimate pension bene t obligations in the  countryconcerned. Other long-term bene t obligations include healthcare coverage  plans in Europe, for EUR62million, and long-service awards due by  subsidiaries in France, for EUR13million. At December 31, 2011, provisions for these bene t obligations  totaled EUR460 million, compared with EUR472 million at  December31, 2010. These provisions have been included in non- current liabilities, as the current portion was not considered material  in relation to the total liability. 22.1 – Changes in provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefit obligations Changes in provisions for pensions and other post-employment bene t obligations (net of plan assets) were as follows:   Pensions and  termination  bene ts Of which SE  USA Other post- employment  and long-term  bene ts Of which SE  USA Provisions  for pensions  & other post- employment  bene ts Dec.31, 2009 944 293 435 358 1,379 Net cost recognized in the statement of income 63 2 25 18 88 Bene ts paid (58) (1) (26) (21) (84) Plan participants contributions (21) (1) 2 2 (19) Actuarial items recognized in equity 4 (18) - 4 4 Translation adjustment 40 23 29 26 69 Changes in the scope of consolidation 58 - 5 - 63 Other changes 2 1 2 - 4 Dec.31, 2010 1,032 299 472 387 1,504 Net cost recognized in the statement of income 70 3 (22) (29) 48 Bene ts paid (28) - (21) (20) (49) Plan participants contributions (83) (66) 2 2 (81) Actuarial items recognized in equity 247 143 20 - 267 Translation adjustment 20 17 9 9 29 Changes in the scope of consolidation (10) - (1) - (11) Other changes 15 (1) 1 - 16 Dec.31, 2011 1,263 395 460 349 1,723  192 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Changes in gross items recognised in equity were as follows:   Pensions and  termination  bene ts Other post- employment and  long-term bene ts Provisions for  pensions & other  post-employment  bene ts. Dec.31, 2009 458 (53) 405 Actuarial (gains)/losses on projected bene t obligation 42 - 42 Actuarial (gains)/losses on plan assets (38) - (38) Effect of the asset ceiling - - - Dec.31, 2010 462 (53) 409 Actuarial (gains)/losses on projected bene t obligation 222 18  240  Actuarial (gains)/losses on plan assets 25 - 25  Effect of the asset ceiling - - - Dec.31, 2011 709 (35 ) 674  22.2 – Provisions for pensions and termination benefit obligations Annual changes in obligations, the market value of plan assets and the corresponding assets and provisions recognised in the consolidated   nancial statements can be analysed as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010   Of which SE USA   Of which SE USA 1. Reconciliation of balance sheet items         Pension assets - - - - Provisions for pensions and other post-employment  bene t (1,263) (395) (1,032) (299) NET ASSET/(LIABILITY) RECOGNIZED  INTHEBALANCE SHEET (1,263) (395) (1,032) (299)   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010   Of which SE USA   Of which SE USA 2. Components of net cost recognized in the  statement of income         Service cost 41 2 43 2 Interest cost (effect of discounting) 110 53 109 56 Expected return on plan assets (86) (56) (82) (56) Past service cost 1 - - - Curtailments and settlements 4 4 (7) - NET COST RECOGNIZED IN THE STATEMENT  OFINCOME 70 3 63 2  193 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010   Of which SE USA   Of which SE USA 3. Change in projected bene t obligation         Projected bene t obligation at beginning of year 2,340 1,034 2,055 937 Service cost 41 2 43 2 Interest cost (effect of discounting) 110 53 109 56 Plan participants contributions 4 - 4 - Bene ts paid (100) (47) (134) (48) Actuarial (gains)/losses recognized in equity 222 120 42 14 Past service cost 1 4 5 - Changes in the scope of consolidation (18) - 87 - Translation adjustments 62 44 130 73 Curtailments and settlements 4 - (7) - Other 19 - 6 - PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION  ATENDOFYEAR 2,685 1,210 2,340 1,034 Actuarial gains and losses have been fully recognised in  Otherreserves. They stem mainly from changes in actuarial assumptions (primarily  discount rates) used to measure obligations in the United States,  the United Kingdom and the euro zone. At December 31, 2011, actuarial gains relative to the effects of  experience on pension and termination bene t obligations totaled  EUR20million for the Group. At December 31, 2010, actuarial gains relative to the effects of  experience totaled EUR49million for the Group. At December31,  2009, actuarial losses relative to the effects of experience totaled  EUR64million. At December31, 2008, actuarial losses relative to  the effects of experience totaled EUR445million. At December31,  2007, actuarial losses relative to the effects of experience totaled  EUR2million.   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010   Of which SE USA   Of which SE USA 4. Change in fair value of plan assets         Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 1,304 735 1,112 643 Expected return on plan assets 86 56 82 56 Plan participants contribution 4 - 4 - Employer contributions 83 66 21 1 Bene ts paid (72) (47) (76) (47) Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized in equity (25) (23) 38 32 Changes in plan s -  -  - - Changes in the scope of consolidation (8) - 29 - Translation adjustments 42 27 90 50 Curtailments and settlements - - - - Other 7 - 4 - FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS AT END OF YEAR 1,421 814 1,304 735 The actual return on plan assets was EUR61million. Actuarial gains and losses have been fully recognised in Other  reserves. They stem mainly from the differential between the effective and  expected return on plan assets in the US and Canada.  194 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010   Of which SE USA   Of which SE USA 5. Funded status         Projected bene t obligation (2,685) (1,210) (2,340) (1,034) Fair value on plan assets 1,421 814 1,304 735 Surplus/ (De cit) (1,264) (396) (1,036) (299) Effect of the asset ceiling - - - - Deferred items:         Unrecognized past service cost 1 1 4 - (LIABILITIES)/NET ASSET RECOGNIZED IN THE  BALANCE SHEET (1,263) (395) (1,032) (299) 22.3 – Provisions for healthcare costs, life insurance benefits and other post-employment  benefits Changes in provisions for other post-employment and long-term bene ts were as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 1. Components of net cost recognized in the statement of income     Service cost 7 7 Interest cost (effect of discounting) 20 22 Expected return on plan assets - - Past service cost (7) (4) Curtailments and settlements (42) - Amortization of actuarial gains & losses - - NET COST RECOGNIZED IN THE STATEMENT OF INCOME (22) 25 Amounts related to pensions and termination bene t obligations as of 2011 and the four previous periods are as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Dec.31, 2009 Dec.31, 2008 Dec.31, 2007 6. Historical data           Projected bene t obligation (2,685) (2,340) (2,055) (2,036) (1,958) Fair value on plan assets 1,421 1,304 1,112 1,010 1,402 Surplus/ (De cit) (1,264) (1,036) (943) (1,026) (556) Effect of the asset ceiling - - (1) (2) (10) Deferred items:           Unrecognized past service cost 1 4 0 1 1 (LIABILITIES)/NET ASSET RECOGNIZED  INTHEBALANCE SHEET (1,263) (1,032) (944) (1,027) (565) Amortisation of actuarial gains and losses concerns long-term  bene ts for active employees, notably long service awards in  France. In 2011, healthcare plan curtailment in the US decreased the bene t  obligation.  195 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 2. Change in projected bene t obligation     Projected bene t obligation at beginning of year 445 406 Service cost 7 7 Interest cost (effect of discounting) 20 22 Plan participants contribution 2 2 Bene ts paid (21) (26) Actuarial (gains)/losses recognized in equity 20 - Past service cost (41) - Changes in the scope of consolidation (1) 5 Translation adjustments 9 29 Other (including curtailments and settlements) - - PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT END OF YEAR 440 445 Actuarial gains and losses have been fully recognised in Other  reserves except for long-term bene ts for active employees,  notably long service awards in France, for which all actuarial gains  and losses are recognised in the income statement. Actuarial  gains and losses stem from changes in actuarial assumptions  (primarilydiscount rates). At December 31, 2011, actuarial losses relative to the effects  of experience on healthcare costs, life insurance and other  post- employment bene ts totaled EUR21 million for the Group.  Actuarial gains totaled EUR26million at December31, 2010. At December31, 2009, actuarial losses relative to the effects of  experience totaled EUR18 million for the Group. They totaled  EUR10million at December31, 2008. And at December31,2007,  actuarial gains relative to the effects of experience totaled  EUR59million.   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 3. Funded status     Projected bene t obligation (440) (445) Deferred items:     Unrecognized past service cost (20) (27) PROVISION RECOGNIZED IN BALANCE SHEET (460) (472) Amounts related to healthcare costs and other post-employment obligations as of 2011 and the four previous periods are as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Dec.31, 2009 Dec.31, 2008 Dec.31, 2007 4. Historical data           Projected bene t obligation (440) (445) (406) (401) (366) Deferred items:           Unrecognized past service cost (20) (27) (29) (35) (33) PROVISION RECOGNIZED IN BALANCE SHEET (460) (472) (435) (436) (399)  196 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Note23 Provisions   Economic  risks Customer  risks Products  risks Environmental  risks Restructuring Other risks Provisions Dec 31, 2009 418 80 264 44 210 132 1,148 Long-term portion 131 31 79 27 28 80 375 Additions 117 18 150 3 39 75 402 Discounting effect - - 1 - - (4) (3) Utilizations (36) (9) (95) (2) (124) (34) (300) Reversals of surplus  provisions (75) (9) (17) - (19) (8) (128) Translation adjustments 16 4 16 2 5 3 46 Changes in the scope  ofconsolidation and other 174 2 90 8 13 12 299 Dec 31, 2010 614 86 409 55 124 176 1,464 Long-term portion 275 35 104 26 21 127 588 Additions 159 5 143 8 87 69 471 Discounting effect 1 - - - - - 1 Utilizations (82) (8) (109) (5) (77) (60) (341) Reversals of surplus  provisions (53) (6) (29) (1) (9) (38) (136) Translation adjustments 8 1 3 - - 2 14 Changes in the scope  ofconsolidation and other 92 9 3 - 12 51 167 Dec 31, 2011 739 87 420 57 137 200 1,640 Long-term portion 388 34 81 28 18 131 680 (a) Economic risks These provisions cover, in particular, tax risks arising from audits  performed by local tax authorities and  nancial risks arising primarily  on guarantees given to third parties in relation to certain assets  andliabilities. Variations in scope of consolidation and others amount to  EUR92million and are principally related to  Leader &Harvest, Steck  and Luminous acquisitions . (b) Customer risks These provisions are primarily established to covers risks arising  from products sold to third parties. This risk mainly consists of  claims based on alleged product defects and product liability. Provisions for customer risks also integrate the provisions for  losses at completion for a number of long term contracts, for  EUR18million. (c) Product risks These provisions comprise:   statistical provisions for warranties: the Group funds provisions  on a statistical basis for the residual cost of Schneider Electric  product warranties not covered by insurance;   provisions for disputes over defective products;   provisions to cover disputes related to recalls of clearly  identi edproducts. (d) Environmental risks These provisions are primarily funded to cover cleanup costs.  197 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Note24 Total (current and non-current) financial liabilities Non-current  nancial liabilities break down as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Bonds 5,540 4,348 Bank and other borrowings 1,464 1,379 Lease liabilities 7 15 Employees pro t sharing 12 10 Short-term portion of convertible and non-convertible bonds - (503) Short-term portion of long-term debt (96) (239) NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 6,927 5,010 Current  nancial liabilities break down as follows:   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Commercial paper 190 - Accrued interest 132 110 Other short-term borrowings 475 170 Drawdown of funds from lines of credit - - Bank overdrafts 217 93 Short-term portion of convertible and non-convertible bonds - 503 Short-term portion of long-term debt 96 239 Short-term debt 1,110 1,115 TOTAL CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 8,037 6,125 24.1 – Breakdown by maturity     Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Nominal Interests Swaps Nominal 2011       1,115 2012 1,110 285 46 104 2013 1,181 256 27 1,085 2014 1,158 187 5 767 2015 998 133 7 980 2016 792 120 - 546 2017 and beyond 2,798 171 - 1,528 TOTAL 8,037 1,152 85 6,125  198 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 24.2 – Breakdown by currency   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Euro 6,272 5,182 US Dollar 728 521 Indian rupee 233 22 Japanese yen 384 153 Brazilian real 147 75 Russian rouble 32 34 Colombian peso 29 23 Other 212 115 TOTAL 8,037 6,125 24.3 – Bonds   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Effective interest rate Maturity Schneider ElectricSA 2011   500 Euribor +0.200% variable July 2011 Schneider ElectricSA 2013 605 608 CMS 10+1.000% variable and 6.750%  xed July 2013 Schneider ElectricSA 2014 730 498 Libor USD +0.490% variable and 4.500%  xed January 2014 Schneider ElectricSA 2015 749 748 5.375%  xed January 2015 Schneider ElectricSA 2016 736 519 Euribor +0.600% variable and 0.849%, 0.846%,  2.875%  xed July, November,  December 2016 Schneider ElectricSA 2017 987 981 4.000%  xed August 2017 Schneider ElectricSA 2018 743 - 3.750%  xed July 2018 Schneider ElectricSA 2019 495 - 3.500%  xed January 2019 Schneider ElectricSA 2020 495 494 3.625%  xed July 2020 TOTAL 5,540 4,348     Schneider ElectricSA has made several bond issues as part of its  Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTN) programme over the past few  years. Issues that were not yet due as of December31, 2011 were  as follows:   JPY22.5billion worth of bonds issued in 2011, comprising a  rst  JPY12.5billion tranche at a rate of 0.849% issued in Novemberand  due in November2016 and a second JPY10billion tranche at a  rate of 0.84625% issued in Decemberdue in December2016;   EUR500million worth of bonds issued in September2011, at a  rate of 3.5%, due in January2019;   EUR750million worth of bonds issued in July2011, at a rate of  3.75%, due in July2018;   USD300million worth of bonds issued in July2011, at a rate  variable rate indexed on the three-month USD Libor, due in  July2014;   EUR300 and EUR200million worth of bonds issued successively  in July and October 2010, at a rate of 2.875%, due on  July20,2016;   EUR500million worth of bonds issued in July2010, at a rate of  3.625%, due on July20, 2020;   EUR150million worth of bonds issued in May2009 to top up the  EUR600million twelve-year tranche, due January8, 2015, at a  rate of 5.375% issued on October2007, raising the total issue  to EUR750million;   EUR250million worth of bonds issued in March2009 to top up  the EUR780million twelve-year tranche, at a rate of 4%, issued in  August2005, raising the total issue to EUR1.03billion;   EUR750million worth of bonds issued in January2009 at a rate  of 6.75%, due on July, 16 2013; in July2010, this borrowing was  partially repayed with EUR263million;   EUR100million worth of bonds issued in July2008 indexed to the  10-year Constant Maturity Swap (CMS) rate, due July31,2013;   EUR12million corresponding to the discounted present value of  future interest payments on a EUR177million eightyear bond  issue (July25, 2008 to July25, 2016) indexed to the threemonth  Euribor. The nominal value of the bonds is not recognised in debt  because the bond holder has waived its right to repayment of the  principal in exchange for the transfer, on a no-recourse basis, of  the future cash  ows corresponding to the requested refund of  a tax receivable;   EUR180million worth of bonds issued in April2008 to top up the  EUR600million twelve-year tranche, at a rate of 4%, issued in  August2005, raising the total issue to EUR780million;  199 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL   EUR600million worth of bonds issued in October2007, at a rate  of 5.375%, due on January8, 2015;   EUR1billion worth of bonds issued in July2006, comprising a  EUR500 million  ve-year variable rate tranche indexed to the  threemonth Euribor and a EUR500million 7 1/2-year tranche at  4.5%. On July17, 2011 the  rst tranche was reimbursed;   EUR600million worth of bonds issued in August2005, at a rate  of 4%, due on August2017. These bonds are traded on the Luxembourg stock exchange. The  issue premium and issue costs are amortised according to the  effective interest method. 24.4 – Other information At December 31, 2011 Schneider Electric had con rmed credit  lines of EUR2.8billion, all unused. Loan agreements and committed credit lines do not include any   nancial covenants nor credit rating triggers.   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Debt related to 2010 acquisitions* 25 53 Electroshield TM Samara acquisition debt 50 50  Debt on Luminous valu ation 76 - Other 84 25 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 235 128 * Acquisition of D5X, Vizelia and HDev. The  debt on Luminous valu ation corresponds to the Group commitments on the minority interest (26%) in Luminous. Note25 Other non-current liabilities  200 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Note26 Financial instruments The Group uses  nancial instruments to manage its exposure to  uctuations in interest rates, exchange rates and metal prices. Exposure to  these risks is described in the chapter on risk factors in the Registration Document. 26.1 – Carrying amount and nominal amount of derivative financial instruments   IFRS  designation Dec 31, 2010   Dec 31, 2011 Dec 31, 2011 Carrying  amount Change over the period Carrying  amount Nominal amount Statement of  income (1) Equity (2) Other (3) Sale Purchase Foreign exchange                 Futures - cash  ow hedges CFH* (95) 27 16 (7) (59) 194 (1,404) Futures - net investment hedges NIH* 9 - (59) - (50) 1,633   Futures - hedges of balance sheet  items Trading/ FVH* (24) (60) - - (84) 2,632 (1,637) Metal prices                 Futures and options CFH* 14 - (26) - (12)   (171) Share-based payment                 Call options CFH* 53 (2) (17) - 34   (136) (4) Interest rates                 Swaps on credit lines CFH*/FVH* (24) (3) 13 - (14)   (1,131) DERIVATIVES FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS   (67) (38) (73) (7) (185)     * Cash  ow hedge/Fair value hedge/Net investment hedge. (1) Gains and losses on hedging instruments for the period are offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying, which are also  recognised in net result. (2) Reported in equity under Retained earnings or Translation adjustment. (3) Telvents acquisition impact. (4) 3,300,894 Schneider Electric stocks are hedged in relation to Stock Appreciation Rights granted to US employees. The carrying amount re ects the fair value of  nancial instruments.  201 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 26.2 – Currency risk Positions of futures hedges of balance sheet items and net investment by currency   Dec.31, 2011 Sales Purchases Net AED 115 (12) 103 AUD 219 (49) 170 CHF 18 (10) 8 DKK 6 (68) (62) GBP 181 (84) 97 HKD 263 - 263 HUF 30 (50) (20) JPY - (42) (42) RUB 46 - 46 SAR 36 (3) 33 SEK 4 (131) (127) SGD 970 (133) 837 USD 2,307 (1,014) 1,293 ZAR 22 - 22 Others 48 (41) 7 TOTAL 4,265 (1,637) 2,628 26.3 – Impact of financial instruments Dec.31, 2011 Impact on  nancial  income and  expense Impact on Equity Fair value Translation  adjustment Other Available-for-sale  nancial assets 6 (60) 9 - Loans and accounts receivable 30 - 78 - Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (331) - (158) - Derivative instruments (38) (73) (2) - TOTAL (333) (133) (73) -  Dec.31, 2010 Impact on  nancial  income and  expense Impact on Equity Fair value Translation  adjustment Other Available-for-sale  nancial assets 12 (32) 6 - Loans and accounts receivable 24 - 372 - Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (306) - (561) - Derivative instruments (64) 31 2 - TOTAL (334) (1) (181) - Theses forward currency hedging positions include EUR1,977million in hedges of loans and borrowings of a  nancial nature (net sales) and  EUR651million in hedges of operating cash  ows (net sales). Other cash- ow hedge contracts are mainly related to the following currencies: USD, DKK, BRL, JPY and CAD.  202 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL   The impact of  nancial instruments, by category, on pro t and  equity was as follows:   the main impact on pro t concerned interest income andexpense;   the impact on equity primarily stemmed from the measurement  of available-for-sale  nancial assets and derivative instruments at  fair value and from translation adjustments to foreign currency  loans, receivables and liabilities. 26.4 – Maturities of financial assets and liabilities   Up to 1year 1 to 5years > 5years Financial liabilities (1,110) (4,129) (2,798) Financial assets 2,771 191 - NET POSITION BEFORE HEDGING 1,661 (3,938) (2,798) 26.5 – Balance sheet amounts for financial instruments by category (In millions of euros)  Dec.31, 2011 Breakdown by category Carrying  amount Fair value Fair value  through P&L Available-for- sale  nancial  assets Loans,  receivables  and  nancial  liabilities at  amortized cost Derivative  instruments ASSETS             Available-for-sale  nancial assets 296 296 - 296 - - Other non-current  nancial assets 261 261 - - 261 - TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 557 557 - 296 261 - Current assets:             Trade accounts receivable 5,484 5,484 - - 5,484 - Other receivables 82 82 - - - 82 Current  nancial assets 104 104 104 - - - Marketable securities 634 634 634 - - - TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 6,304 6,304 738 - 5,484 82 LIABILITIES     Non-current liabilities:             Other long-term debt 6,927 7,248 - - 7,248 - TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 6,927 7,248 - - 7,248 - Current liabilities             Trade accounts payable 4,094 4,094 - - 4,094 - Other 292 292 - - 25 267 Short-term debt 1,110 1,110 - - 1,110 - TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 5,496 5,496 - - 5,229 267  203 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL (In millions of euros)   Dec.31, 2010 Breakdown by category Carrying  amount Fair value Fair value  through P&L Available-for- sale  nancial  assets Loans,  receivables  and  nancial  liabilities at  amortized cost Derivative  instruments ASSETS             Available-for-sale  nancial assets 410 410 - 410 - - Other non-current  nancial assets 144 144 - - 144 - TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 554 554 - 410 144 - Current assets:             Trade accounts receivable 4,441 4,441 - - 4,441 - Other receivables 118 118 - - - 118 Current  nancial assets 38 38 38 - - - Marketable securities 1,825 1,825 1,825 - - - TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 6,422 6,422 1,863 - 4,441 118 LIABILITIES     Non-current liabilities:             Other long-term debt 5,010 5,276 - - 5,276 - TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 5,010 5,276 - - 5,276 - Current liabilities             Trade accounts payable 3,432 3,432 - - 3,432 - Other 204 204 - - 19 185 Short-term debt 1,115 1,115 - - 1,115 - TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 4,751 4,751 - - 4,566 185 26.6 – Fair value hierarchy The split of  nancial instruments by fair value level is as follows:   Dec.31, 2011  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Available-for-sale  nancial assets 191 - 105 296 Net derivative instruments - (185) - (185) Marketable securities 634 - - 634 NET ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE 825 (185) 105 745   Dec.31, 2010  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Available-for-sale  nancial assets 135 - 275 410 Net derivative instruments - (67) - (67) Marketable securities 1,825 - - 1,825 NET ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE 1,960 (67) 275 2,168  204 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Note27 Employees 27.1 – Employees The average number of permanent and temporary employees was as follows in 2010 and 2011: (number of employees) 2011 2010 Production 70,610 61,911 Administration 69,881 61,571 TOTAL AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 140,491 123,482 By region:     EMEAS* 68,392 60,937 North America 27,245 26,324 Asia-Paci c 44,854 36,221 * Europe, Middle-East, Africa, SouthAmerica. Note28 Related party transactions 27.2 – Employee benefits expense   2011 2010 Payroll costs (5,362) (4,649) Pro t-sharing and incentive bonuses (70) (65) Stock options (51) (31) WESOP (9) (3) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE (5,492  ) (4,748) 27.3 – Benefits granted to senior executives In 2011, the Group paid EUR0.57 million in attendance fees to  the members of its Supervisory Board. The total amount of gross  remuneration, including bene ts in kind, paid in 2011 by the Group  to the members of Senior Management excluding members of the  Management Board totaled EUR12million, of which EUR4.9million  corresponded to the variable portion. During the last three periods, 559,000 stock options and  528,482 stock grants have been allocated to members of Senior  Management. Since December 16, 2011, 100% of stock grants and/or stock  options are conditional on the achievement of performance criteria  for members of the Executive Committee. Amounts here above  have been restated to re ect the division by half of the nominal  amount of the stock that occurred on September2, 2011. Pension obligations with respect to members of Senior  Management amounted to EUR76million at December31, 2011  versus EUR73million at December31, 2010. Please refer to Chapter3 Section8 of the Registration Document for  more information regarding the members of Senior Management. 28.1 – Associates Companies over which the Group has signi cant in uence,  accounted for by the equity consolidation method. Transactions  with these related parties are carried out on arms length terms. Related party transactions were not material in 2011. 28.2 – Related parties with significant  influence No transactions were carried out during the year with members of  the Supervisory Board or Management Board. Compensation and bene ts paid to the Groups top senior  executives are described in note27.3. The increase in the average number of employees is primarily linked to the 2011 acquisitions.  205 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 29.1 – Guarantees and similar undertakings   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Market counter guarantees (1) 934 880 Pledges, mortages and sureties (2) 15 17 Endorsements and guarantees -  6 Other commitments given (3) 318 175 GUARANTEES GIVEN 1,267 1,078 Endorsements and guarantees received 71 80 GUARANTEES RECEIVED 71 80 (1) On certain contracts, customers require a guarantee from a bank that the contract will be fully executed by the Group. For these  contracts the Group gives a counterguarantee to the bank. If a claim occurs, the risk linked to the commitment is assessed and a  provision for contingencies is recorded when the risk is considered probable and can be reasonably estimated. (2) Certain loans are secured by property, plant and equipment and securities lodged as collateral. (3) Other guarantees given comprise guarantees given in rental payments. Note29 Commitments and contingent liabilities 29.2 – Purchase commitments Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates Commitments to purchase equity investments correspond to put  options given to minority shareholders in consolidated companies  or relate to earn-out payments. The amount of these commitments  was not material at December31, 2011. Information technology services The Group is party to an agreement with Capgemini providing for  outsourcing (facilities management) of certain of its information  technology functions in Europe and deployment of a system of  shared SAP management applications. The  rst pilot version of  the global system was implemented in India in April2007 and the  second version was deployed in mid-2008 in several European pilot  countries. At the end of 2011, Schneider Electric had capitalised  total costs (net of impairment) of EUR142million. The costs are  progressively amortised with effect from 2009, over a seven-year  rolling calendar and based on the number of users connected  worldwide as the system is deployed. For 2011 , the contractual facilities management costs amount to  EUR100million including the volume and indexing factors provided  for by the contract (EUR103million for 2010). 29.3 – Contingent liabilities Senior Management believes that the provisions recognised in the  balance sheet, in respect of the known claims and litigation to which  the Group is a party, should be adequate to ensure that such claims  and litigation will not have any substantial impact on the Groups   nancial position or results. This is notably the case for the potential  consequences of a current dispute in Belgium involving former  senior executives and managers of the Group. The Group has entered into a company-wide agreement in  respect of individual training entitlement. It has applied the French  accounting treatment recommended by opinion 2004-F issued  by the CNCs urgent issues committee. Expenditure on individual  training is written off as an expense during the period and therefore  no provision is made for it. As of December 31, 2011, rights  accrued but not used by employees of French entities of the Group  corresponded to around 1,643,000hours. Note30 Subsequent events On February13, 2012, we received notice that a tax litigation in Spain was settled in favor of Schneider Electric for an amount of EUR20million  excluding late payment interests. This potential tax income was not recorded in 2011 consolidated  nancial statements.  206 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Fees paid by the Group to the Statutory Auditors and their networks: (in thousands of euros) 2011 Ernst & Young % Mazars % TOTAL Audit           Statutory auditing 9,922 91% 7,057 93% 16,979 o/w Schneider ElectricSA 100   100     o/w subsidiaries 9,822   6,957     Related services 788 7% 506 7% 1,294 o/w Schneider ElectricSA -   -     o/w subsidiaries 788   506     Audit sub-total 10,710 98% 7,563 100% 18,273 Other services Legal, tax 212 2% 0 0% 212 TOTAL FEES 10,922 100% 7,563 100% 18,485 Note31 Statutory Auditors fees (in thousands of euros) 2010 Ernst & Young % Mazars % TOTAL Audit           Statutory auditing 8,463 87% 6,578 99% 15,041 o/w Schneider ElectricSA 100   100     o/w subsidiaries 8,363   6,478     Related services 1,046 11% 80 1% 1,126 o/w Schneider ElectricSA -    -     o/w subsidiaries 1,046   80     Audit sub-total 9,509 98% 6,658 100% 16,167 Other services Legal, tax 211 2% 3 0% 214 TOTAL FEES 9,720 100% 6,661 100% 16,381  207 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Note32 Consolidated companies The main companies included in the Schneider Electric Group scope of consolidation are listed below.     % interest Dec.31, 2011 % interest Dec.31, 2010 Europe       Fully consolidated       Schneider Electric Energy Austria AG Austria 100.0 100.0 MGE UPS Systems Vertriebs GmbH Austria 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Austria GmbH Austria 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Power Drives GmbH Austria 100.0 100.0 Co bel SA Belgium 100.0 100.0 Compagnie Financire, Minire et Industrielle SA - Co mines Belgium 100.0 100.0 tablissements Crouzet NV Belgium 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Energy Belgium SA Belgium 100.0 100.0 Schneider ElectricSA Belgium 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Services International SPRL Belgium 100.0 100.0 Summit Energy International BVBA Belgium 100.0 - Delixi Electric SEE EOOD Bulgaria 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric d.o.o. Croatia 100.0 100.0 Merten Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric AS Czech Republic 98.3 98.3 Schneider Electric CZ s.r.o. Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 7-Technologie A/S Denmark 100.0 - JO-EL Electric A/S Denmark 100.0 100.0 rbaekvej 280 A/S Denmark 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Denmark A/S Denmark 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Danmark A/S Denmark 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Denmark ApS Denmark 100.0 100.0 Schneider Nordic Baltic A/S Denmark 100.0 100.0 Telvent Denmark ApS Denmark 100.0 - Schneider Electric EESTI AS Estonia 100.0 100.0 Elko Suomi Oy Finland 100.0 100.0 I-Valo Oy Finland 100.0 100.0 JO-EL Electric Oy Finland 100.0 100.0 Oy Lexel Finland Ab Finland 100.0 100.0 Pelco Finland Oy Finland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Finland OY Finland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Finland Oy Finland 100.0 100.0 Strmfors Electric Oy Finland 100.0 100.0 Vamp OY Finland 100.0 100.0 Alombard SAS France 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Protection et Contrle SAS France 100.0 100.0 BCV Technologies SAS France 100.0 100.0 BEI Ideacod SAS France 100.0 100.0 Boissire Finance SNC France 100.0 100.0 Construction lectrique du Vivarais SAS France 100.0 100.0 Crouzet Automatismes SAS France 100.0 100.0 D5X France 100.0 - Dinel SAS France 100.0 100.0 Distrelec SA France 100.0 100.0 Elau SARL France 100.0 100.0 Electro Porcelaine SAS France 100.0 100.0 Energy Pool Developpement France 100.0 -  209 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL     % interest Dec.31, 2011 % interest Dec.31, 2010 Schneider Electric Energy GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Motion Deutschland GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Motion Real Estate GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Sachsenwerk GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Telvent Deutschland GmbH Germany 100.0 - Uni air GmbH Germany 100.0 - Verwaltung SVEA Building Control Systems GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric AE Greece 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Greece ABEE Greece 100.0 100.0 BEI Automative Hungary Manufacturing Inc. Hungary 100.0 100.0 CEE Schneider Electric Kzep-Kelet Europai Korlatolt Felelssg Tarsasag Hungary 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Energy Hungary LTD Hungary 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Hungary Kft Hungary 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Hungaria Villamassagi ZRT Hungary 100.0 100.0 Uni air Magyarorszag Kft Hungary 100.0 - APC (EMEA) Ltd Ireland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Ireland Ltd Ireland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Ireland Ireland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Logistics Europe Ltd Ireland 100.0 100.0 Square D Company Ireland Ltd Ireland 100.0 100.0 Thorsman Sales Ireland Ltd Ireland 100.0 100.0 Crouzet Componenti Srl Italy 100.0 100.0 SAIP & Schyller Spa Italy 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Energy Manufacturing Italia Srl Italy 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Industrie Italia Spa Italy 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Italia Srl Italy 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Spa Italy 100.0 100.0 Uni air Spa Italy 100.0 - Lexel Fabrika SIA Latvia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Baltic Distribution Center Latvia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Latvija SIA Latvia 100.0 100.0 UAB Schneider Electric Lietuva Lithuania 100.0 100.0 COC Luxembourg S. r.l. Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Comodot S. r.l. Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Industrielle de Rassurance SA Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Maha Investment Luxembourg 100.0 - SGBT European Major Investments SA Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 SHL Luxembourg S. r.l. Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 American Power Conversion Corp (A.P.C.) BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 APC Holdings BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 APC International Corporation BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 APC International Holdings BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Control Microsystems BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Crouzet BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Elau BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Pelco Europe BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Pro-Face HMI BV (sub-group) Netherlands 99.9 99.9 Sandas Montage BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Energy Netherlands BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Logistic Centre BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Manufacturing The Netherlands BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Summit Energy Services BV Netherlands 100.0 - Telvent Netherlands BV Netherlands 100.0 - U.P.S. Systems MGE BV Netherlands 100.0 100.0  210 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL     % interest Dec.31, 2011 % interest Dec.31, 2010 ELKO AS Norway 100.0 100.0 JO-EL Electric AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Lexel Holding Norgue AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Norway AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Norge AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Norway AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Elda Eltra S.A. (ex Eltra SA) Poland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Polska Sp. z.o.o. Poland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Energy Poland Sp. z.o.o. Poland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Industries Polska SP Poland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Poland Sp. z.o.o. Poland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Polska SP Poland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric II IT Portugal LDA Portugal 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Portugal LDA Portugal 100.0 100.0 Telvent Portugal SA Portugal 100.0 - Schneider Electric Romania SRL Romania 100.0 100.0 DIN Elektro Kraft OOO Russia 100.0 100.0 LLC Schneider Electric Zavod ElectroMonoblock Russia 100.0 100.0 OOO Schneider Electric Buildings (Russia) Russia 100.0 100.0 OOO Lexel Elektromaterialy (SPB) Russia 100.0 100.0 OOO RusEI Russia 100.0 100.0 OOO Schneider Electric Kaliningrad Russia 100.0 100.0 Relay Protection Vamp CJSC Russia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Equipment Kazan Ltd Russia 100.0 100.0 ZAO Potential Russia 100.0 100.0 ZAO Schneider Electric Russia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Srbija d.o.o. Beograd Serbia 100.0 100.0 Telvent DMS LLC for Power Enginering Nove Sad Serbia 57.0 - Schneider Electric Slovakia Spol SRO Slovakia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric d.o.o. Slovakia 100.0 100.0 EFI Electronics Europe SL Spain 100.0 100.0 Keyland Sistemas de Gestion SL Spain 50.0 - Manufacturas Electricas SA Spain 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT, Spain SL Spain 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Energy Spain SL Spain 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Espana SA Spain 100.0 100.0 Telemantenimiento de Alta Tension, SL Spain 100.0 100.0 Telvent Arce Sistemas, SA Spain 100.0 - Telvent Energia SA Spain 100.0 - Telvent Environment SA Spain 100.0 - Telvent Export SL Spain 100.0 - Telvent GIT SA Spain 100.0 - Telvent Global Services, SA Spain 100.0 - Telvent Servicios Compartidos SA Spain 100.0 - Telvent Tra co y Transporte SA Spain 100.0 - Tra co Ingenieria SA Spain 100.0 - Uni air Iberica SA Spain 100.0 - AB Crahftere 1 Sweden 100.0 100.0 AB Wibe Sweden 100.0 100.0 AB Wibe Telescopic Masts Sweden - 100.0 Elau AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Elektriska AB Delta Sweden 100.0 100.0 Elko AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 JO-EL Electric AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Lexel AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Pelco Sweden AB Sweden 100.0 100.0  211 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL     % interest Dec.31, 2011 % interest Dec.31, 2010 Pele Security AB Sweden 100.0 - Pisara AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Sweden AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Distribution Centre AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Sweden AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Sverige AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Telvent Sweden AB Sweden 100.0 - Thorsman & Co AB Sweden 100.0 100.0 Crouzet AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Feller AG Switzerland 83.7 83.7 Gutor Electronic GmbH Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Switzerland AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Finances SA Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric (Schweitz) AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Ukraine Ukraine 100.0 100.0 Ajax Electrical Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Andromeda Telematics Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 - Andromeda Telematics Holdings Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 - APC Power and Cooling, UK Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 APC UK Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 C-Matic Systems Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 - CBS Group Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Crouzet Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Crydom SSR Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Elau Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Kell Systems Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 - Lexel Holdings (UK) Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Newall Measurement Systems Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Pelco UK Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Power Measurement Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 - Powerman Ltd (ex Grawater of Wake eld Ltd) United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Sarel Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric (UK) Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings UK Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Energy Holdings UK Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Energy UK Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT UK Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Serck Control and Safety Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Serck Controls Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Telvent UK Ltd United Kingdom 100.0 - Accounted for by equity method       Delta Dore Finance SA (sub-group) France 20.0 20.0 Mre Electric Group A/S Norway 34.0 34.0 Electroshield TM Samara (sub-group) Russia 50.0 50.0 North America       Fully consolidated       Control Microsystems Inc. Canada 100.0 100.0 Juno Lighting Ltd Canada 100.0 100.0 Novasena 1 ULC Canada 100.0 100.0 Novasena 2 ULC Canada 100.0 100.0 Power Measurement Ltd Canada 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Canada Inc. Canada 100.0 100.0 Telvent Canada Ltd Canada 100.0 - Trio Datacom Inc. Canada 100.0 100.0  212 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL     % interest Dec.31, 2011 % interest Dec.31, 2010 Viconics Technologies Inc. Canada 100.0 - APC Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Automatismo Crouzet De Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Custom Sensors & Technologies Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Custom Sensors & Technologies Transportation de Mxico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Gestion Integral de Proyectos y Ingenieria, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 99.8 - Industrias Electronicas Paci co, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 MGE Systems Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Ram Tech Manufacturing de Mexico S de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Ram Tech Services de Mexico S de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Administracion, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Schneider Industrial Tlaxcala, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Schneider Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Schneider R&D, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Schneider Recursos Humanos, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Steck de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 - Square D Company Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0 100.0 Telvent Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico 99.8 - Adaptive Instruments Corp. USA 100.0 100.0 American Power Conversion Federal Systems, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 APC America Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 APC Corp. USA 100.0 100.0 APC Holdings Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 APC Sales & Service Corp. USA 100.0 100.0 BEI Precisions Systems & Space Co. Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 BEI Sensors & Systems Company, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Control Microsystems U.S. Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Crydom, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Custom Sensors & Technologies, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Delsena 1, LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Delsena 2, LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Juno Lighting LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Juno Manufacturing Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Kavlico Corp. USA 100.0 100.0 Lee Technologies, LLC USA 100.0 - Lee Technologies Group, LLC USA 100.0 - Lee Technologies Puerto Rico, LLC USA 100.0 - Lee Technologies Services, LLC USA 100.0 - Neovasys Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Netbotz Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Newall Electronics Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 P.H.L. Four, Inc. USA 80.0 80.0 P.H.L. One, Inc. USA 80.0 80.0 Pacsena LP USA 100.0 100.0 Palatine Hills Leasing Inc. USA 80.0 80.0 Pelco, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Power Measurement Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Pro-face America, LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Americas, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Critical Systems, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings, LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Engineering Services, LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Holdings Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Investments 2, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Motion USA, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0  213 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL     % interest Dec.31, 2011 % interest Dec.31, 2010 Schneider Electric Summit Holdings, Inc. USA 100.0 - Schneider Electric USA, Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Vermont Ltd USA 100.0 100.0 SNA Holdings Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Square D Investment Company USA 100.0 100.0 Summit Belgium I, Inc. USA 100.0 - Summit Belgium II, Inc. USA 100.0 - Summit Energy Services, Inc. USA 100.0 - Telvent Farradyne Enginnering, PC USA 100.0 - Telvent Services Inc. USA 100.0 - Telvent USA Corp. USA 100.0 - Veris Industries LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Xantrex Technology Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Asia-Paci c       Fully consolidated       APC Australia Pty. Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Clipsal Australia Pty. Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Clipsal Integrated Systems Pty. Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Clipsal Technologies Australia Pty. Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Control Microsystems Asia Paci c Pty. Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Pelco Australia Pty. Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Scadagroup Pty. Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric (Australia) Pty. Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Australia Holdings Pty. Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Australia Pty. Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Serck Controls Pty. Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Telvent Australia Pty. Limited Australia 100.0 - APC (Suzhou) Uninterrupted Power Supply Co., Ltd. China 100.0 100.0 APC (Xiamen) Power Infrastructure Co., Ltd. China 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric (Xiamen) Switchgear Co. Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Huadian Switchgear (Xiamen) Co., Ltd China 55.0 55.0 Shanghai Schneider Electric Power Automation Co. Ltd China 59.0 59.0 Schneider Switchgear (Suzhou) Co, Ltd China 58.0 58.0 Beijing Leader & Harvest Electric Technologies Co. Ltd China 100.0 - Beijing Leader & Harvest Energy Ef ciency Investments Co. Ltd China 100.0 - Beijing Merlin Great Wall Computer Room Equipment & Engineering Co. Ltd China 75.0 75.0 Citect Controls Systems (Shanghai) Ltd China 100.0 100.0 ClipsalManufacturing(Huizhou)Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Custom Sensors & Technologies Asia (Shangai) Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Foshan Gaoming TAC Electronic & Electrical Products Company Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Foshan Wilco Electrical Trading Co Ltd China 100.0 100.0 MERTEN Shanghai Electric Technology Co. Ltd China 100.0 100.0 MGE Manufacturing Shanghai Co. Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Proface China International Trading (Shangha) Co. Ltd China 99.9 99.9 RAM Electronic Technology and Control (Wuxi) Co., Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Schneider (Beijing) Medium & Low Voltage Co., Ltd China 95.0 95.0 Schneider (Beijing) Medium Voltage Co. Ltd China 95.0 95.0 Schneider (Shaanxi) Baoguang Electrical Apparatus Co. Ltd China 70.0 70.0 Schneider (Shangha) Supply Co. Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Schneider (Suzhou) Drives Company Ltd China 90.0 90.0 Schneider (Suzhou) Enclosure Systems Co Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Schneider (Suzhou) Transformers Co. Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Schneider Automation Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 100.0 100.0 Schneider Busway (Guangzhou) Ltd China 95.0 95.0 Schneider Electric (China) Investment Co. Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 100.0 100.0  214 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL     % interest Dec.31, 2011 % interest Dec.31, 2010 Schneider Electric IT (China) Co., Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Low Voltage (Tianjin) Co. Ltd China 75.0 75.0 Schneider Shangha Apparatus Parts Manufacturing Co. Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Schneider Shangha Industrial Control Co. Ltd China 80.0 80.0 Schneider Shangha Low Voltage Term. Apparatus Co. Ltd China 75.0 75.0 Schneider Shangha Power Distribution Electric Apparatus Co. Ltd China 80.0 80.0 Schneider Wingoal (Tianjin) Electric Equipment Co. Ltd China 100.0 100.0 Telvent - BBS High & New Tech (Beijing) Co. Ltd China 80.0 - Telvent Control System (China) Co. Ltd China 100.0 - Tianjin Merlin Gerin Co. Ltd China 75.0 75.0 Wuxi Proface Electronic Co.Ltd China 99.9 99.9 Clipsal Asia Holdings Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Clipsal Asia Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Clipsal Industries Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Custom Sensors & Technologies Asia (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Luminous Power Technologies (HK) Ltd Hong Kong 100.0 - Schneider Electric IT Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Asia Paci c Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 APC India Private Ltd India 100.0 100.0 APW President Systems Ltd India 75.0 - Cimac Automation Private Ltd India 85.0 85.0 Cimac Software Systems Private Ltd India 85.0 85.0 CST Sensors India Private Limited India 100.0 100.0 Luminous Power Technologies Private Ltd India 100.0 - Luminous Renewable Energy Solutions Private Ltd India 100.0 - Luminous Teleinfra Ltd India 100.0 - Schneider Electric India Private Ltd India 100.0 100.0 Uni air India Private Ltd India 100.0 - PT Clipsal Manufacturing Jakarta Indonesia 100.0 100.0 PT Schneider Electric IT Indonesia Indonesia 100.0 100.0 PT Merten Intec Indonesia Indonesia 100.0 100.0 PT Schneider Electric Indonesia Indonesia 100.0 100.0 PT Schneider Electric Manufacturing Batam Indonesia 100.0 100.0 APC Japan, Inc. Japan 100.0 100.0 Digital Electronics Corporation Japan 99.9 99.9 Schneider Electric Japan Holdings Ltd Japan 100.0 100.0 Toshiba Schneider Inverter Corp. Japan 60.0 60.0 Clipsal Integrated Systems (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 Clipsal Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 DESEA Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 Gutor Electronic Asia Paci c Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 Huge Eastern Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 KSLA Energy & Power Solutions (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 PDL Electric (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 30.0 30.0 Schneider Electric Energy Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Industries (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric (NZ) Ltd New Zealand 100.0 100.0 American Power Conversion Land Holdings Inc. Philippines 100.0 100.0 Clipsal Philippines Philippines 100.0 100.0 MGE UPS Systems Philippines Inc. Philippines 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric (Philippines) Inc. Philippines 100.0 100.0 Clipsal International Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0  215 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL     % interest Dec.31, 2011 % interest Dec.31, 2010 KSLA Energy & Power Solution Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Merten Asia Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Pelco Asia Paci c Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Buildings Singapore Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Export Services Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Logistics Asia Paci c Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Singapore Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Logistics Asia Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Overseas Asia Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Singapore Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric South East Asia (HQ) Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Pro Face Korea Co. Ltd South Korea 99.9 99.9 Schneider Electric Korea Ltd (ex Samwha EOCR Co. Ltd) South Korea 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Lanka (Private) Limited Sri Lanka 100.0 100.0 Pro Face Taiwan Co. Ltd Taiwan 99.9 99.9 Schneider Electric Taiwan Co Ltd Taiwan 100.0 100.0 Clipsal (Thailand) Co. Ltd Thailand 95.1 95.1 MGE UPS Systems SA (Thailand) Co. Ltd Thailand 100.0 100.0 Pro Face South East Asia Paci c Co. Ltd Thailand 100.0 100.0 Schneider (Thaland) Ltd Thailand 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric CPCS (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Thailand 100.0 100.0 Square D Company (Thaland) Ltd Thailand 100.0 100.0 Telvent Thailandia Ltd Thailand 100.0 - Clipsal Vietnam Co. Ltd Vietnam 100.0 100.0 MGE UPS Systems Viet Nam Limited Vietnam 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Vietnam Co. Ltd Vietnam 100.0 100.0 Accounted for by proportionate method       Delixi Electric Ltd (sub-group) China 50.0 50.0 Accounted for by equity method       Sunten Electric Equipment China 50.0 50.0 Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems Co., Ltd (sub-group) Japan 37.0 37.0 Rest of the world       Fully consolidated       Delixi Electric Algerie Algeria 100.0 100.0 SARL Schneider Electric Algerie Algeria 100.0 100.0 MGE UPS Systems Argentina S.A Argentina 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Argentina SA Argentina 100.0 100.0 Steck Electric SA Argentina 100.0 - Telvent Argentina SA Argentina 100.0 - Clipsal Middle East Bahrain 80.0 80.0 APC Brasil Ltda Brasil 100.0 100.0 CST Latino America Comercio E Representacao de Produtos Electricos E  Elestronicos Ltda Brasil 99.8 99.8 Matchmind Software Ltda Brasil 100.0 - Microsol Tecnologia SA Brasil 100.0 100.0 Ram Do Brasil, Ltda Brasil 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Brasil Ltda Brasil 100.0 100.0 MGE UPS Systems Do Brasil Ltda Brasil 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Participacoes Do Brasil Ltda Brasil 100.0 - Telve nt Brazil SA Brasil 100.0 - Softbrasil Automao Ltda Brasil 100.0 100.0 Steck da Amazonia Industria Electrica Ltda Brasil 100.0 - Steck Industria Electrica Ltda Brasil 100.0 - Inversiones Schneider Electric Uno Limitada Chile 100.0 100.0 Marisio SA Chile 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Chile SA Chile 100.0 100.0 Telvent Chile SA Chile 100.0 -  216 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL     % interest Dec.31, 2011 % interest Dec.31, 2010 Dexson Electric SA Colombia 100.0 100.0 Schneider de Colombia SA Colombia 85.0 85.0 Schneider Centroamerica SA Costa Rica 100.0 100.0 Delixi Electric Egypt s.a.e Egypt 98.0 98.0 Schneider Electric Distribution Company Egypt 87.4 87.4 Schneider Electric Egypt SA Egypt 91.0 91.0 Schneider Electric Industries Iran Iran 89.0 89.0 Telemecanique Iran Iran 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric LLP Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric East Mediterranean SAL Lebanon 96.0 96.0 Crouzet SA Morocco 100.0 100.0 Delixi Electric Maroc SARL AU Morocco 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric IT Morocco, SA Morocco 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Maroc Morocco 100.0 100.0 Delixi Electric West Africa Ltd Nigeria 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Nigeria Ltd Nigeria 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Oman LLC Oman 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Pakistan (Private) Limited Pakistan 80.0 80.0 Schneider Electric Peru SA Peru 100.0 100.0 Cimac Electrical and Automation W.L.L Qatar 75.0 75.0 EPS Electrical Power Distribution Board & Switchgear Ltd Saudi Arabia 51.0 51.0 Telvent Saudi Arabia Co. Ltd Saudi Arabia 100.0 - Delixi Electric South Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Merlin Gerin SA (Pty) Ltd South Africa 80.0 80.0 Schneider Electric IT South Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric South Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 74.9 74.9 Uni air South Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100.0 - Schneider Enerji Endustrisi Sanayi Ve Ticaret Turkey 100.0 100.0 DMR Demirbag Elektrik Malzemeleri Ticaret Anonim Sirketi Turkey 100.0 100.0 Metesan Elektric Malzemeleri Ticaret Ve Pazarlama A.S Turkey 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Bilgi Teknolojileri Ticaret Ve Pazarlama A.S Turkey 100.0 100.0 Schneider Elektrik Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S. Turkey 100.0 100.0 Cimac Electrical and Control Systems LLC United Arab Emirates 80.0 80.0 Cimac FZCO United Arab Emirates 100.0 100.0 Cimac LLC United Arab Emirates 49.0 49.0 Clipsal Middle East FZC United Arab Emirates 100.0 100.0 Clipsal Middle East FZCO United Arab Emirates 60.0 60.0 CLS Systems FZCO United Arab Emirates 100.0 100.0 Delixi Electric FZE United Arab Emirates 100.0 100.0 Hunter Watertech Middle East FZE United Arab Emirates 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric DC MEA FZCO United Arab Emirates 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric FZE United Arab Emirates 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric RAK FZE United Arab Emirates 100.0 100.0 APC Uruguay SA Uruguay 100.0 100.0 Schneider Electric Venezuela SA Venezuela 91.9 91.9 Telvent Venezuela SA Venezuela 50.0 -  217 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 STATUTORY AUDITORS REPORT ON THECONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS   > 6.  Statutory Auditors report on  theconsolidated financialstatements This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors report on the consolidated  nancial statements issued in French and it is provided solely  for the convenience of English speaking users. The Statutory Auditors report includes information speci cally required by French law in such reports,  whether modi ed or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the consolidated  nancial statements and includes an explanatory  paragraph discussing the auditors assessments of certain signi cant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose  of issuing an audit opinion on the consolidated  nancial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances,  transactions, or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the speci c veri cation of information given in the management report and in  the documents addressed to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional  auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual  Shareholders Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended  December31, 2011, on:   the audit of the accompanying consolidated  nancial statements  of Schneider ElectricSA;   the justi cation of our assessments;   the speci c veri cation required by French law. These consolidated  nancial statements have been approved by  the Management Board. Our role is to express an opinion on these  consolidated  nancial statements based on our audit. I – Opinion on the consolidated  financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards  applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the  consolidated  nancial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques  or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the  amounts and disclosures in the  nancial statements. An audit also  includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used  and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as  the overall presentation of the  nancial statements. We believe that  the audit evidence we have obtained is suf cient and appropriate to  provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated  nancial statements give a true and  fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the  nancial position of  the Company as at December31, 2011 and of the results of its  operations for the year then ended in accordance with IFRS, as  adopted by the European Union. II – Justification of assessments In accordance with the requirements of articleL. 823-9 of French  Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justi cation  of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters:   Note 1.8 to the consolidated  nancial statements explains the  method for recognizing research and development costs and  describes the criteria under which development costs may  be capitalized. We reviewed the data and assumptions used  to identify projects that qualify for capitalization, as well as the  Groups calculations, and veri ed that adequate disclosure is  made in the notes to the consolidated  nancial statements.   As explained in notes1.10 and 8 to the consolidated  nancial  statements, intangible assets and goodwill are tested for  impairment at least once a year and when factors exist indicating  that the related assets may have suffered a loss of value. We  analysed, on a test basis, the indicators of a loss of value and the  other information evidencing the absence of any loss of value. We  reviewed the data, assumptions used, and calculations made,  and veri ed that adequate disclosure is made in the notes to the  consolidated  nancial statements.   As indicated in notes1.15 and 16 to the consolidated  nancial  statements, future tax bene ts arising from the utilization of tax  loss carry forwards are recognized only when they can reasonably  be expected to be realized. We veri ed the reasonableness of the  assumptions used to produce estimate of future taxable income  used to support assessments of the recoverability of these  deferred tax assets.   Notes 1.18 and 22 describe the method for valuing pensions  and other post-employment obligations. Actuarial valuations  were performed for these commitments. We reviewed the data,  assumptions used, and calculations made, and veri ed that  adequate disclosure is made in the notes to the consolidated   nancial statements.   Note7 Restructuring costs states the amount of restructuring  costs recorded in 2011. We veri ed that, based on currently  available information, these costs concern restructuring measures  initiated or announced before December 31, 2011, for which  provisions have been recorded based on an estimate of the costs  to be incurred. We also reviewed the data and assumptions used  by the Group to make these estimates. These assessments were made as part of our audit of the  consolidated  nancial statements taken as a whole and therefore  contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the  rst  part of this report. III – Specific verification As required by law we have also veri ed in accordance with  professional standards applicable in France the information  presented in the Groups management report. We have no matter to report as to its fair presentation and its  consistency with the consolidated  nancial statements. Courbevoie and Paris-La Dfense, February21, 2012 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by Mazars Ernst & Young et Autres David CHAUDAT Yvon SALAN  218 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 STATUTORY AUDITORS REPORT ON THECONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS  219 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC Company financial  statements 6  1. Balance sheet  220 2. Statement of income  222 3. Notes to the financial statements  223 4. Statutory Auditors report on the financial statements 234 5. List of securities held atDecember31, 2011  235 6. Subsidiaries and affiliates  236 7. The Companys financial results overthelastfiveyears  238  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 220 6 BALANCE SHEET COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   > 1. Balance sheet Assets (in thousands of euros) Notes Gross A. & D. or Prov. Dec.31, 2011  Net Dec.31, 2010  Net Dec.31, 2009  Net Non-current assets:             Intangible assets 1.1           Intangible rights   27,474 (27,474) - - - Property, plant and equipment 1.2           Land   2,954 - 2,954 2,964 2,965 Buildings   48 (48) - - - Other   1,469 (243) 1,226 1,226 1,226     31,945 (27,765) 4,180 4,190 4,191 Investments             Shares in subsidiaries and af liates 2.1 4,607,2124 (17,896) 4,589,316 4,590,207 4,590,203 Other investment securities 2.2 160,081 (77) 160,004 160,004 160,004 Advances to subsidiaries and af liates 2.3 3,606,707 (61) 3,606,646 3,139,977 3,139,107 Other   - - - - -     8,373,999 (18,034) 8,355,966 7,890,188 7,889,315 Total non-current assets   8,405,945 (45,799) 8,360,146 7,894,378 7,893,505 Current assets:             Accounts receivable             Accounts receivable - trade    101 - 101 58 136 Other 3 180,085 (45,256) 134,829 185,047 2,394     180,186 (45,256) 134,930 185,105 2,529 Cash and cash equivalents             Marketable securities 4 217,284 (17,604) 199,680 217,284 219,240 Advances to the Group cash pool 5 9,845,777 - 9,845,777 6,481,885 6,065,867 Other   5 - 5 981 15     10,063,066 (17,604) 10,045,461 6,700,150 6,285,122 Total current assets   10,243,253 (62,860) 10,180,391 6,885,255 6,287,651 Accruals and other assets:             Prepaid expenses 6.1 1,621 - 1,621 1,696 1,616 Deferred charges 6.2 11,815 - 11,815 8,943 8,952 Call premiums 6.3 52,287 - 52,287 49,995 53,593 Translation losses   - - - - - TOTAL ASSETS   18,747,717 (108,659) 18,639,056 14,840,268 14,245,318 The notes form an integral part of these company  nancial statements.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 221 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 BALANCE SHEET Equity and liabilities (in thousands of euros) Note Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Dec.31, 2009 Equity:         Share capital 7.1 2,195,772 2,175,673 2,102,016 Additional paid-in capital 7.2 6,587,655 6,392,899 5,831,637 Reserves and retained earnings         Legal reserve   217,567 210,202 197,941 Retained earnings 7.3 96,496 256,681 322,373 Net income for the  nancial year   2,603,738 702,982 475,753 Untaxed provisions   2 2 425 Total equity   11,701,230 9,738,439 8,930,145 Provisions for contingencies and pension accruals: 8       Provisions for contingencies   45 45 959 Provisions for pension accruals   31,721 31,704 31,779 Total provisions for contingencies and pension  accruals   31,766  31,749 32,738 Non-current liabilities:         Bonds 9 5,750,973 4,544,565 4,707,565 Other borrowings 10 527,889 510,369 514,487 Amounts payable to subsidiaries and af liates   13 13 13 Borrowings and  nancial liabilities 11 190,064 3 46,678     6,468,939 5,054,951 5,268,743 Current liabilities:         Accounts payable – trade   276 288 251 Accrued taxes and payroll costs   394,073 5,148 3,363 Other   9,834 9,694 10,013     404,183 15,130 13,626 Total non-current and current liabilities   6,873,122 5,070,081 5,282,369 Deferred income 12  141 - 66 Translation gains   32,797 - - TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES   18,639,056 14,840,268 14,245,318 The notes form an integral part of these company  nancial statements.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 222 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 STATEMENT OF INCOME   > 2. Statement of income (in thousands of euros) Note 2011 2010 2009 Sales of services and other   261 2,379 2,455 Reversals of provisions, depreciation and amortisation  and expense transfers   1,987 1,992 2,424 Operating revenues   2,249 4,371 4,879 Purchases and external expenses   9,094 5,549 8,533 Taxes other than on income   4,455 1,726 2,063 Payroll expenses   2,719 8,198 5,862 Depreciation, amortisation and provision expense   500 200 1,973 Other operating expenses and joint-venture losses   1,392 1,005 1,257 Operating expenses   18,159 16,678 19,689 Operating pro t/loss   (15,910) (12,307) (14,810) Dividend income   1,436,419 691,233 540,925 Interest income   216,004 142,631 182,775 Reversals of impairment provisions for long-term  receivables and other   0 0 103 Financial income   1,652,422 833,864 723,803 Interest expense   296,408 319,904 321,229 Provision expense   3,789 4,484 1,926 Financial expenses   300,197 324,388 323,155 Net  nancial income/(loss) 14 1,352,225 509,476 400,649 Proceeds from  xed asset disposals   1,191,653 192 294 Provision reversals and expense transfers   915 1,499 32,433 Other   109 1,230 8,861 Non-recurring income   1,192,677 2,921 41,588 Carrying amount of  xed asset disposals   1,240 2,273 2,962 Provisions, depreciation and amortisation   17,604 0 0 Other   968 56 410 Non-recurring expenses   19,812 2,329 3,372 Net non-recurring income/(expense) 15 1,172,864 592 38,216 Net income tax bene t 16 94,558 205,221 51,700 NET INCOME   2,603,738 702,982 475,753 The notes form an integral part of these company  nancial statements.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 223 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   > 3. Notes to the financial statements   (All amounts in thousands of euros unless otherwise indicated) During the  nancial year, Schneider Electric SA carried out  EUR215million in share capital increases, as follows:   the employee share issue carried out on July 12, 2011 as  part of the worldwide Employee Stock Purchase Plan, for  EUR177million;   the exercise of stock options, for EUR38million. The Company carried out several bond issues during the  nancial  year for a nominal aggregate of EUR1.7 billion, for  nancing of  acquisitions on September1, 2011 and redeemed EUR500million  worth of bonds issued in 2006 upon maturity on July18, 2011. Furthermore, on July21, 2010 the Company carried out a partial  redemption of the EUR750million bond issue maturing on July16,  2013 for a nominal amount of EUR263million on the basis of a  purchase price of EUR299 million. This deal gave rise to the  recognition of EUR36million in  nancial expenses. Following the merge of Digital Holding and Schneider Electric Japan  Holding of December2010 signed on March2011 with effective  date on January 1, 2011, the company know owns shares of  Schneider Electric Japan Holding for EUR21million. Moreover, the Company sold, on December29, 2011, its shares  in Socit Industrielle de Rassurance that she owned since  September11, 2009 for EUR3million verus a net book value of  EUR1million. On  December 30,  2011,  the  company  invoiced  to  SchneiderElectricIndustriesSAS a  nancial compensation for the  use of Schneider Electric trademark, according to an agreement  signed on December15, 2011 for EUR1.2billion. Lastly, the Company issued commercial paper in 2011, and the  outstanding balance of EUR190million at December31, 2011 were  redeemed in January2012. Accounting principles As in the prior  nancial year, the  nancial statements for the  nancial  year ended December31, 2011 have been prepared in accordance  with French generally accepted accounting principles. Non-current assets Non-current assets of all types are stated at cost. Intangible assets Intangible rights are amortised over a maximum of  ve years. Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a  straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, ranging from  three to tenyears. Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates Shares in subsidiaries and af liates are stated at acquisition cost. Provisions for impairment may be funded where the carrying amount  is higher than the estimated value in use at the end of the  nancial  year. This estimate is primarily determined on the basis of the  underlying net assets, earnings outlook and economic forecasts.  For the more recently-acquired investments, the analysis also takes  account of the acquired business goodwill. For listed securities, the average stock price over the previous  month is used. Unrealised gains resulting from such estimates are  not recognised. Own shares Treasury stock is stated at weighted average cost. In the case of treasury stock held for allocation on the exercise  of stock options, a provision is recorded if the exercise price is  lower than the carrying value of the related treasury shares or if the  average stock price for the month previous to the closing is lower  than the weighted average cost. Pension obligations The present value of termination bene ts is determined using the  projected unit credit method. Provisions are funded for the supplementary pension bene ts  provided by the Company on the basis of the contractual terms of  top-hat agreements. The Company applies the corridor method to actuarial gains and  losses arising from changes in estimates. Under this method, the  portion of net cumulative actuarial gains and losses exceeding 10%  of the projected bene t obligation is amortised over 10years. Significant events of the financial year  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 224 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note1  Non-current assets 1.1 – Intangible assets This item primarily consists of share issue and merger expenses, which are fully amortised. Note2  Investments 2.1 – Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates Shares in subsidiaries and af liates Dec.31, 2010 Additions Disposals Dec.31, 2011 Cost 4,608,104 21,556 (22,448) 4,607,212 Provisions (17,896) - - (17,896) NET 4,590,208 21,556 (22,448) 4,589,316 The main changes over the  nancial year are mainly related to the transfer of Digital Holding shares towards Schneider Electric Japan Holding  for EUR21million and to acquisition of Co bel shares and Co mines shares. On December29, 2011, the Company carried out the disposal of investments Industrielle de Rassurance for EUR1million.  The main investments at December31 , 2011 were as follows: Currency risk Where necessary, a contingency provision is in place for unrealised  exchange losses. However, where there are unrealised exchange  gains and losses on back-to-back transactions in the same  currency and with the same maturity, the amount of the provision is  then limited to the net loss. Bonds Redemption premiums and issue costs are amortised over the life  of the bonds. 1.2 – Tangible assets Tangible assets Dec.31, 2010 Additions Disposals Dec.31, 2011 Cost 4,480 - (10) 4,470 Depreciation (290) - - (290) NET 4,190 - (10) 4,180 Shares in subsidiaries and af liates Carrying value Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS 4,344,481 Co bel 137,210 Co mines 82,655 Schneider Electric Japan Holding 21,249 Other (less than EUR20million) 3,721 TOTAL 4,589,316  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 225 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2 – Other investment securities Other investment securities Dec.31, 2010 Increases Decreases Dec.31, 2011 Schneider ElectricSA shares 48,778 - - 48,778 Other 111,303 - - 111,303 Provisions for other shares (77) - - (77) NET 160,004 - - 160,004 2.3 – Advances to subsidiaries and affiliates Advances to subsidiaries and af liates Dec.31, 2010 Increases Decreases Dec.31, 2011 Cost 3,140,038 548,584 (81,915) 3,606,707 Provisions (61) - - (61) NET 3,139,977 548,584 (81,915) 3,606,646 Other investment securities primarily include Schneider ElectricSA  shares acquired for allocation on the exercise of certain stock  options. Schneider Electric SA has not reclassi ed own shares  allocated to this line item as of December31, 2004. However, since  then, all purchases made for allocation to stock option plans have  been classi ed as marketable securities. On September2, 2011, the nominal value of the shares was divided  by two. As a consequence, the number of own shares recognised  under Other investment securities is 1,994,154 versus 997,077  shares at December 31,2010, representing a gross value of  EUR49million. Other shares primarily consist of EUR111million of AXA shares.  The other investments included in this item have been fully  writtendown. At December31, 2011, this item mainly consisted of two loans totaling EUR3billion granted to Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS, repayable  in 2011 and 2015, of three loans granted to Boissire Finance for a total amount of EUR456million with maturity date 2016 and of accrued  interest of EUR50million. Note3  Other receivables Other receivables Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Cost 180,085 230,307 Provisions (45,256) (45,260) NET 134,829 185,047 Other receivables primarily consist of the EUR280million in group tax relief, net of EUR210million in advances to subsidiaries, representing  a net amount of EUR70million. As of December31, 2011, line item still included EUR45million in disputed receivables, all fully written down.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 226 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note4  Marketable securities   Dec.31, 2010 Aquisitions Disposals Dec.31, 2010 Number of  shares* Value Value Value Value Number of  shares Stock options plan 26 1,460,906 43,300 - (17,604) 25,696 866,970 Stock options plan 27 1,892,054 54,128 - - 54,128 1,892,054 Stock options plan 28 2,000,000 57,348 - - 57,348 2,000,000 Stock options plan 29 62,666 1,797 - - 1,797 62,666 Stock options plan 30 1,755,172 60,711 - - 60,711 1,755,172 Stock grants plan 5 - - 8,141 - 8,141 274,680 Stock grants plan 8 - - 9,463 - 9,463 319,256 Total Gross 7,170,798 217,284 17,604 (17,604) 217,284 7,170,798 Provisions   - (17,604) - (17,604)   TOTAL NET   217,284 - (17,604) 199,680   * Taking into account the two-for-one share split  effective on September2, 2011. Marketable securities primarily represent own shares held by the  Company for allocation to stock option plans. The shares oh stock  grants plans n5 and 8 are registered as direct shareholders and  blocked during two years. At December31, 2011, a EUR17million provision was registered  over the 593,936 own shares allocated to plans n5 and 8 by  Management Board decision on December6, 2011; these shares  were allocated to plan n26 in 2010. Note5  Advances to the Group cash pool Note6  Accruals and other assets 6.1 – Prepaid expenses This EUR1million line item consists of the expenses incurred in arranging a rate swap in connection with the EUR600million bond issue  ofOctober8, 2007. This item consists of interest-bearing advances by Schneider ElectricSA to the Group cash pool (Boissire Finance) that are recoverable  on demand.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 227 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.2 – Bond issue expenses Bond issue expenses Dec.31, 2010 Increases Decreases Dec.31, 2011 Aug.11, 2005 due 2017 (600million) 878 - (118) 760 July17, 2006 due 2011 (500million) 22 - (22) - July17, 2006 due Jan. 2014 (500million) 78 - (23) 55 Oct. 8, 2007 due 2015 (600million) 860 - (214) 646 Feb. 16, 2007 due 2014 (4,500million) (bridge loan) 2,116 - (526) 1,590 May21, 2008 due 2013 (18million) 31 - (13) 18 May21, 2008 due 2013 (183million) 318 - (131) 187 May21, 2008 due 2015 (55million) 126 - (28) 98 May21, 2008 due 2015 (129million) 295 - (64) 231 June11, 2008 due 2013 (12million) 21 - (7) 14 July25, 2008 due 2016 (177million) 115 - (20) 95 Mar.20, 2009 due 2018 (250million) 93 - (12) 81 Apr.30, 2009 due 2014 (150million) 164 - (38) 126 Jan.16, 2009 due 2013 (750million) 1,163 - (469) 694 July20, 2010 due 2016 (300million) 753 - (126) 627 July20, 2010 due 2016 (200million) 485 10 (84) 411 July20, 2010 due 2020 (500million) 1,426 - (112) 1,314 July1, 2011 due 2014 ($300million) - 276 (46) 230 July12, 2011 due 2018 (750million) - 2,702 (181) 2,521 Sep.22, 2011 due 2019 (500million) - 1,665 (89) 1,576 Nov.18, 2011 due 2016 (JPY12billion) - 302 (7) 295 Dec.8, 2011 due 2016 (JPY10billion) - 250 (3) 247   8,943 5,205 (2,334) 11,815 6.3 – Redemption premiums Redemption premiums Dec.31, 2010 Increases Decreases Dec.31, 2011 Aug. 11, 2005 due 2017 (600million) 2,841 - (382) 2,459 July17, 2006 due 2011 (500million) 109 - (109) - July17, 2006 due Jan. 2014 (500million) 1,443 - (431) 1,012 Oct. 8, 2007 due 2015 (600million) 283 - (70) 213 Apr.11, 2008 due 2018 (55million) 5,584 - (713) 4,871 Apr. 11, 2008 due 2018 (125million) 13,039 - (1,661) 11,378 Mar.20, 2009 due 2018 (250million) 27,041 - (3,434) 23,607 Apr.30, 2009 due 2014 (150million) (3,060) - 708 (2,352) Jan. 16, 2009 due 2013 (750million) 131 - (53) 78 July20, 2010 due 2016 (300million) 1,892 - (317) 1,575 July20, 2010 due 2016 (200million) (3,560) - 602 (2,958) July20, 2010 due 2020 (500million) 4,254 - (335) 3,919 July1, 2011 due 2014 ($300million) - 372 (63) 309 July12, 2011 due 2018 (750million) - 4,845 (325) 4,520 Sep.22, 2011 due 2019 (500million) - 3,865 (207) 6,658   49,995 9,082 (6,790) 52,287 The increases in this line item were due to the 2011 bond issues (see note9).  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 228 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note7  Shareholders equity and retained earnings (inmillions of euros) Share capital Additional  paid-in capital Reserves  and retained  earnings Net income for  the year Untaxed  provisions Total December31, 2009 before  allocation of net income for the year 2,102 5,831 521 476 1 8,931 Change in share capital 39 265       304 Allocation of 2009 net income     12 (12)   0 2009 dividend 35 296 (66) (464)   (199) Other changes during the period         (1) (1) 2010 net income       703   703 December31, 2010 before  allocation of net income for the year 2,175 6,393 467 703 -  9,738 Change in share capital 20 195       215 Allocation of 2010 net income     7 (7)   0 2010 dividend     (160) (696)   (856) Other changes during the period           - 2011 net income       2,604   2,604 DECEMBER31, 2011 BEFORE  ALLOCATION OF NET INCOME  FOR THE YEAR 2,195 6,588 314 2,604 -  11,701 7.1 – Capital Share capital The Companys share capital at December31, 2011 amounted to  EUR2,195,772,096, consisting of 548,943,024shares with a par  value of EUR4, all fully paid up. Changes in share capital During the  nancial year, 3,855,632 shares were issued as part of  the worldwide Employee Stock Purchase Plan amounting to the  EUR15million in share capital while 1,169,210 new shares were  issued on the exercise of stock options, increasing the share capital  by EUR5million. Own shares The total number of own shares held at the reporting date stood at  9,164,952, representing a net amount of EUR248million. 7.2 – Additional paid-in capital Additional paid-in capital rose by EUR195million over the  nancial  year, including EUR162 million from the worldwide Employee  Stock Purchase Plan and EUR33 million from the exercise of  stockoptions. 7.3 – Retained earnings Pursuant to the third resolution of the Annual and Extraordinary  Shareholders Meeting of April 21, 2011, EUR7 million of the  EUR703million in 2010 distributable earnings was allocated to the  legal reserve. EUR856million was paid out in dividends (including  EUR160million deducted from retained earnings).  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 229 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note8  Provisions for contingencies and pension accruals   Dec.31, 2010 Increases Decreases Dec.31, 2011 Provisions for contingencies         Disputes 15 - - 15 Other 30 - - 30   45 - - 45 Provisions for pension accruals         Pension accruals 31,704 2,000 (1,983) 31,721   31,749 2,000 (1,983) 31,766 8.1 – Contingencies Management is con dent that overall the balance sheet provisions  for disputes of which it is currently aware and in which the Company  is involved should be suf cient to ensure that these disputes do not  have a material impact on its  nancial position or income. Thisis  particularly true of the provisions set aside to cover the potential  consequences of a pending dispute in Belgium involving former  senior executives and managers of the Company. 8.2 – Pension accruals The Company has various obligations towards its current and  retired senior executives and managers. Following an actuarial  valuation carried out in 2011, the provision for these obligations was  estimated to EUR32million. The Company applied the corridor method to the actuarial gains  and losses arising from this valuation (see accounting principles).  At December 31, 2011, cumulative actuarial gains and losses  totalled EUR7 million. From 2012, a total of EUR2.5 million,  exceeding 10% of the obligation, is being amortised over 10years. Note9  Bonds   Share capital Interest rate Maturity Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Schneider ElectricSA 2017 600,000 600,000 4.00% Fixed Aug.11, 2017 Schneider ElectricSA 2011 - 500,000 Euribor +0.20% Floating July18, 2011 Schneider ElectricSA 2014 500,000 500,000 4.50% Fixed Jan.17, 2014 Schneider ElectricSA 2015 600,000 600,000 5.375% Fixed Jan.08, 2015 Schneider ElectricSA 2017 125,000 125,000 4.00% Fixed Aug.11, 2017 Schneider ElectricSA 2017 55,000 55,000 4.00% Fixed Aug.11, 2017 Schneider ElectricSA 2016 177,565 177,565 Euribor +0.60% Floating July25, 2016 Schneider ElectricSA 2013 100,000 100,000 CMS +1% Floating July31, 2013 Schneider ElectricSA 2013 487,000 487,000 6.75% Fixed July16, 2013 Schneider ElectricSA 2015 150,000 150,000 5.375% Fixed Jan.08, 2015 Schneider ElectricSA 2017 250,000 250,000 4.00% Fixed Aug.11, 2017 Schneider ElectricSA 2016 300,000 300,000 2.875% Fixed July20, 2016 Schneider ElectricSA 2016 200,000 200,000 2.875% Fixed July20, 2016 Schneider ElectricSA 2020 500,000 500,000 3.625% Fixed July20, 2020 Schneider ElectricSA 2014 231,857   Libor +0.49% Floating July1, 2014 Schneider ElectricSA 2018 750,000   3.75% Fixed July12, 2018 Schneider ElectricSA 2019 500,000   3.50% Fixed Jan.22, 2019 Schneider ElectricSA 2016 124,750   0.849% F ixed Nov.18, 2016 Schneider ElectricSA 2016 99,800   0.84625% Fixed Dec.8, 2016   5.750,973 4,544,565     Fixed:  xed rate. Floating:  oating rate.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 230 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Schneider ElectricSA has made a series of bond issues as part of  its Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTN) program over the past few  years. The issues that had not matured as of December31, 2011  were as follows:   JPY12 and JPY10billion for a total amount of EUR225million  worth of respectively 0.849% and 0.84625% bonds issued in  Novemberand December2011 and maturing on November18,  2016 and December8, 2016;   EUR500million worth of 3.50% bonds issued in September2011  and maturing on January22, 2019;   EUR750million worth of 3.75% bonds issued in July2011 and  maturing on July12, 2018;   USD300million for a total amount of EUR232million worth of  bonds issued in July 2011 at a  oating rate and maturing on  July1, 2014;   EUR300 and EUR200million worth of 2.875% bonds successively  issued in Julyand October2010 and maturing on July20, 2016;   EUR500million worth of 3.625% bonds issued in July2010 and  maturing on July20, 2020;   EUR150million worth of bonds issued in May2009 to top up  the EUR600million tranche at 5.375% maturing on January8,  2015 and issued in October2007, thereby raising the total issue  to EUR750million;   EUR250million worth of bonds issued in March2009 to top up  the EUR780million 12year tranche at 4% issued in August2005,  thereby raising the total issue to EUR1.03billion;   EUR750million worth of 6.75% bonds issued in January2009  and maturing on July16, 2013. In July2010, this bond was partly  redeemed to the amount of EUR263million, reducing the bond  to EUR487million;   EUR100million worth of bonds issued in July2008 at a  oating  rate indexed to the 10y ear CMS (Constant Maturity Swap) and  maturing on July31, 2013;   EUR177million worth of  oating-rate bonds issued in July2008  and maturing on July25, 2016;   EUR180million worth of bonds issued in April2008 to top up the  EUR600million 12year tranche at 4% issued in August2005,  thereby raising the total tranche to EUR780million;   EUR600million worth of 5.375% bonds issued in October2007  and maturing on January8, 2015;   EUR1 billion worth of bonds issued in July 2006, comprising  a EUR500 million  ve-year  oating rate tranche and a  EUR500million 71/2-year4.5% tranche;   EUR600million worth of 4% bonds issued in August2005 and  maturing in August2017; These bonds are traded on the Luxembourg stock market. The  issue premiums and issue costs are amortised in line with the  effective interest method. Lastly, the Group redeemed EUR500 million worth of July 2006  bonds at maturity date on July18, 2011. Note10 Other borrowings Other borrowings at December31, 2011 included accrued interest  on bonds and other debt issued by the Company. Following the  issue of EUR1.7billion worth of bonds in 2011, accrued interest  amounted to EUR131million, compared to EUR113million at end  of 2010. Finally, this line item includes a EUR397 million Schuldschein  loan granted by international banks in  rst-half 2008, comprising  four tranches: a EUR129million sevan-year  oating-rate tranche,  a EUR55million seven-year  xed-rate tranche, a EUR195million   ve- year  oating-rate tranche and a EUR18 million  ve-year   xed- rate tranche. Note11 Interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Dec.31, 2010 Increase Decrease Dec.31, 2011 Commercial paper - 3,101,000 (2,911,000) 190,000 Overdrafts 1 61 - 62 Other 2 - - 2 NET 3 3,101,061 (2,911,000) 190,064 At December31, 2011, Interest-bearing liabilities are mainly composed of a EUR190million of commercial paper to be redeemed in  January2012.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 231 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note12 Maturities of receivables and payables   Total Due within 1 year Due in 1 to 5 years Due beyond 5 years Non-current assets         Advances to subsidiaries and af liates 3,606,707 50,236 3,556,471 Other investment Current assets Accounts receivable - trade 101 101 Other receivables 180,085 112,385 67,700 Marketable securities 217,284 154,777 62,507 Prepaid expenses 1,621 764 857 Debt         Bonds 5,750,973 2,068,857 3,682,116 Bank loans 397,000 397,000 Other borrowings 130,889 130,889 Amounts payable to subsidiaries and af liates 13 13 Interest-bearing liabilities 190,064 190,061 3 Accounts payable - trade 276 276 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 394,073 394,073 Other 9,834 9,834 Deferred income 141 141 Note13 Related-party transactions (minimum 10% interest)   Gross Net Shares in subsidiaries and af liates 4,604,529 4,586,633 Advances to subsidiaries and af liates 3,606,579 3,606,518 Accounts receivable 969 742 Cash and cash equivalents 9,845,777 9,845,777 Interest-bearing liabilities - - Accounts payable - - Revenues:       dividends   1,428,936   interests   93,832  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 232 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note14 Net financial income   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Dividends 1,436,419 691,233 Net interest income (expense) (80,404) (177,272) Other (3,789) (4,484) NET FINANCIAL INCOME 1,352,225 509,477 Note15 Net non-recurring income/(expense)   Dec.31, 2011 Dec.31, 2010 Net gains/(losses) on  xed asset disposals 1,190,413 (2,081) Provisions net of reversals (16,889) 1,499 Other non-recurring income/(expense) (859) 1,173 NET NON-RECURRING INCOME/(EXPENSE) 1,172,864 592 The EUR1.2billion net gain on  xed assets disposals is mainly related to the sale of Schneider Electric trademark to Schneider Electric  IndustriesSAS. In December2011, the Company registered a EUR17million provision related to the allocation of own shares to stock grants plan n5 and 8. Note16 Net income tax benefit The income tax expense line item in the statement of income  mainly consists of the Group tax relief recorded by the tax group  headed by Schneider ElectricSA, net of 2011 income tax due by  EUR159million. Group relief totalled EUR280million in 2011, up on  the EUR73million the prior  nancial year. Schneider Electric SA is the parent company of the tax group  comprising all French subsidiaries that are over 95%-owned. Tax  loss carryforwards available to the Company in this capacity totaled  EUR704million at December31, 2011. The main 2011 dividends received by Schneider ElectricSA were paid by its subsidiaries Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS (EUR1,300million),  Co bel (EUR79million) and Co mines (EUR50million). The Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS subsidiary paid a dividend of EUR672million in 2010.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 233 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Underlying Hedging instrument (in thousands of euros) Type Face value Maturity Impact  onnet nancialincome Market value Bond issue USD300,000,000 July1, 2014 (745) (1,466) Schuldschein EUR195,000,000 May21, 2013 (6,552) (9,765) Schuldschein EUR129,000,000 May21, 2015 (4,277) (14,646) Private placement (CMS) EUR100,000,000 July31, 2013 (3,584) (6,143) Private placement (CMS) EUR100,000,000 July31, 2013 2,728 4,770 Bond issue 2013 EUR475,000,000 July16, 2013 7,466 14,320 TOTAL     (4,964) (12,930) Note17 Off-balance sheet commitments 17.1 – Partnership obligations The share of liabilities of SC non-trading companies attributable to  Schneider ElectricSA as partner is not material. The share of liabilities of SNC  ow-through entities attributable to  Schneider ElectricSA as partner is not material. 17.2 – Guarantees given and received Commitments given: Counter-guarantees of bank guarantees: None Other guarantees given: EUR504million Commitments received: Bank counter-guarantees: None Note18 Other information 18.1 – Workforce At December31, 2011, the Company had two employees. 18.2 – Consolidated financial statements Schneider ElectricSA is the parent company of the Group and accordingly publishes the consolidated  nancial statements of the Schneider  Electric Group. 17.3 – Financial instruments Schneider Electric Group hedging transactions, exchange guarantees and the establishment of  nancial instruments are carried out by  the manager of the Group cash pool, Boissire Finance, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS, which in turn is  wholly- owned by Schneider ElectricSA. Nevertheless, Schneider ElectricSA has arranged  xed-rate/ oating-rate interest rate swaps to  hedge certain bond issues, the market value of which is as follows:  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 234 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 STATUTORY AUDITORS REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   > 4. Statutory Auditors report on the  financial statements This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors report on the Financial Statements issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience  of English speaking users. The Statutory Auditors report includes information specically required by French law in such reports, whether modied or not. This information is presented  below the audit opinion on the  nancial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors assessments of certain signicant  accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the nancial statements taken as a  whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions, or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the specic verication of information given in the management report and in the documents addressed to  shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards  applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the nancial statements are free of material misstatement. An  audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques  or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the  amounts and disclosures in the nancial statements. An audit also  includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used  and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as  the overall presentation of the nancial statements. We believe that  the audit evidence we have obtained is sufcient and appropriate to  provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the nancial statements give a true and fair view of  the assets and liabilities and of the nancial position of the Company  as at December31, 2011 and of the results of its operations for  the year then ended in accordance with French generally accepted  accounting principles. To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual  Shareholders Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended  December31, 2011 on:   the audit of the accompanying nancial statements of Schneider  ElectricSA;   the justication of our assessments;   the specic verications and information required by law. These nancial statements have been approved by the  Management Board. Our role is to express an opinion on these  nancial statements based on our audit. I – Opinion on the Financial Statements II – Justification of assessments In accordance with the requirements of articleL.823-9 of the French  Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justication  of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: As part of our assessment of the accounting principles and  methods used by your company, we veri ed the appropriateness  of the principles and methods used to value shares in subsidiaries  and afliates, described in the section on accounting principles and  in note2 to the nancial statements, and obtained assurance that  they were correctly applied. Our assessments were made in the context of the performance  of our audit of the nancial statements, taken as a whole, and  therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed  in the rst part of this report.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 235 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 LIST OF SECURITIES HELD ATDECEMBER31, 2011 III – Specific verifications and information We have also performed the specic verications required by law, in  accordance with professional standards applied in France. We have no matters to report regarding the fair presentation and  conformity with the nancial statements of the information given in  the Management Boards report and in the documents addressed  to the shareholders with respect to the nancial position and the  nancial statements. Regarding the information provided in accordance with the  requirements of articleL.225-102-1 of French Commercial Code  relating to the compensation and benets paid to the Corporate  ofcers concerned and the engagement granted to them, we  veried the conformity with the nancial statements, or with the  data used for the preparation of the nancial statements; and, when  applicable, with the information collected by the Company from the  companies which control your Company or are controlled by your  Company. On the basis of the audit we performed, we attest that  this information is true and fair. In accordance with French Law, we have ensured that the required  information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling  interests and the names of the principal shareholders has been  properly disclosed in the Management Boards report. Paris-La Dfense and Courbevoie, February21, 2012, The Statutory Auditors French original signed by Ernst & Young et Autres Mazars Yvon SALAN David CHAUDAT   > 5. List of securities held  atDecember31, 2011 Number amount (in thousands of euros) Company Carrying of securities A. Major investments     (Carrying amounts over EUR15 thousand) 56,019,611 Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS 4,344,481 10,612,659 AXA 111,172 44,271 SELF 2,683 1,300 Vigo SAS 53 1,994,154 Schneider ElectricSA own shares 48,778     4,507,167 B. Other investments     (Carrying amounts under EUR15 thousand) 1,038 C. Investments in real estate companies   - D. Investments in foreign companies   241,114 TOTAL   4,749,319 Marketable securities     7,170,798 Schneider ElectricSA own shares 199,681 (stock option plans 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 and Stocks grants plan n5 and 8)   TOTAL   199,681  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 236 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES   > 6. Subsidiaries and affiliates Company (in thousands of euros) Capital Reserves and  retained earnings &  retained earnings  prior to appropriation  ofearnings* Share interest  held (%) I. Detailed information on subsidiaries and af liates with a carrying amount  of over 1% of the share capital of Schneider ElectricSA       A. Subsidiaries (at least 50% owned)         Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS 35, rue Joseph Monier – 92500 Rueil-Malmaison, France 896,313 4,745,624 100.00   Co bel 18/20, avenue Winston Churchill - 1180 Brussels, Belgium 55,362 7,642 99.79   Co mines 18/20, avenue Winston Churchill - 1180 Brussels, Belgium 41,522 32,793 99.84 B. Af liates (10 to 50%-owned)         Schneider Electric Japan Holdings Ltd 8-2-52 Nanko-Higashi - 559 0031 Suminoe Osaka, Japan 26,038 37,560 4.81 II. Other subsidiaries and af liates       A. Subsidiaries not included in SectionI: (+50%)       a) French subsidiaries (aggregate)       b) Foreign subsidiaries (aggregate)       B. Af liates not included in SectionI: (0-50%)       a) French companies (aggregate)       b) Foreign companies (aggregate)       * Including income or loss in prior  nancial year.  2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 237 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES Book value of securities  held Loans and  advances  provided by the  Company and still  outstanding Amount of  guarantees  given by the  Company Sales (ex. VAT)  in the past   nancialyear Pro t or loss (-) in  the past  nancial  year Dividends received  by the Company  during the   nancial year Comments Gross Net                                 4,344,481 4,344,481 3,148,324 - 3,631,827 992,332 1,299,655   137,210 137,210 - - Holding  company 2,081 78,681   82,655 82,655 - - Holding  company 16,170 50,001                   21,249 21,249 - - - (6,186) -                                   18,934 1,038 - - - - 600   - - - - - - -                   113,985 113,909 - - - - 7,483   - - - - - - -    2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 238 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 THE COMPANYS FINANCIAL RESULTS OVERTHELASTFIVEYEARS   > 7. The Companys financial results  over the last five years Description 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Financial position at December31           Share capital (in thousands of euros) 2,195,772 2,175,672 2,102,016 1,979,405 1,962,395 Number of shares in issue 548,943,024 271,959,091 262,752,025 247,425,629 245,299,366 Number of convertible bonds in issue (in thousands)     - - - Maximum number of shares to be created (in thousands):             through conversion of bonds     - - -   through exercise of rights 15,556 7,478 9,860 9,183 9,382 Results of operations (in thousands of euros)           Sales (ex. VAT) 215 2,225 2,419 1,906 946 Investment revenue, interest income and other revenue 1,652,422 833,865 723,928 1,623,715 747,914 Earnings before tax, depreciation, amortization and  provisions 1,345,453 506,204 393,238 1,087,409 136,259 Income tax 168,347 9,922 13,244 10,883 11,099 Earnings after tax, depreciation, amortization and  provisions 2,603,738 702,982 475,753 1,147,592 226,643 Dividends paid(1) excluding tax credit and withholdings 933,203  (2) 870,269  538,642 853,618 809,488 Results of operations per share (in euros)           Earnings before depreciation, amortisation  andprovisions 4.79 2.62 1.71 4.72 0.51 Earnings after tax, depreciation, amortization  andprovisions 4.74 2.58 1.81 4.64 0.92 Net dividend per share 1.70 (2)  3.20  2.05 3.45 3.30 Employees           Average number of employees during the  nancial year 2 2 2 1 2 Total payroll for the  nancial year (in thousands of euros) 4,549 4,262 3,859 4,376 4,291 Total of employee bene ts paid over the  nancial year           (Social security, other bene ts, etc.) (in thousands of euros) 1,170 3,936 2,004 1,374 2,606 (1) Dividends on shares held in treasury on the dividend payment date and the associated withholding are credited to retained earnings. (2) Pending approval by the Annual Shareholders Meeting of May3, 2012.  239 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC General  presentation of  SchneiderElectricSA 7 1. General information on the Company  240 2. Shareholders rights andobligations  241 3. Capital  243 4. Ownership structure  247 5. Employee profit-sharing, stock ownership  248 6. Performance share grants andstock option plans  249 7. Disclosure of information required in accordance with  articleL.225- 100-3 oftheFrench Commercial Code**  255 8. Stock market data  255 9. Investor relations  257  240 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 7 GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA This report includes the Chairmans report on the conditions applicable for the preparation and organisation of the  work carried out by the Supervisory Board and the internal control and risk management procedures implemented  within the Company. Sections2 (General Meetings and Voting rights) and 7 below, as well as the paragraph entitled A Management Board/ Supervisory Board system, Sections1, 2, 3, 4, 8 (Management Board and Executive Committee compensation  policy and Pension bene ts), 10 and 11 of Chapter3 constitute the Supervisory Board Chairmans report prepared in  accordance with articleL.225 -68 of the French Commercial Code. They are indicated with**.   > 1. General information on the Company Schneider ElectricSA is a French corporation (Socit Anonyme)  with a Management and Supervisory Board (since May3, 2006)  governed by the French Commercial Code, with a share capital  of EUR2,195,772,096, whose registered head of ce is located at  35,rue Joseph Monier – 92500 Rueil-Malmaison, France (phone  number: +33 (0)141297000). The Company is registered in Nanterre under No.542048574,  business identi er code (APE) 7010Z. Schneider ElectricSA was founded in 1871 and its term is up to  July1, 2031. It was  rst called Spie Batignolles, then changed its  name to SchneiderSA when it merged with SchneiderSA in 1995,  and then to Schneider ElectricSA in May1999. As stated in article2 of its articles of association, the Company has  the following objectives, directly or indirectly, engaged in any form,  in France and elsewhere: (i) the design, development and sale of products, equipment  and solutions related to the metering, management and use  of energy in all its forms and delivering reliability, ef ciency and  productivity, in particular through the pursuance, whether by  creating, acquiring or otherwise, of all activities related to:   electrical equipment manufacturing, electrical distribution and  secure power supply;   building control, automation and safety;   industrial control and automation, including software;   management of all types of data centres, networks, equipment  and other infrastructure; (ii) the acquisition, purchase, sale and use of any intellectual or  industrial property rights relative to these industries; (iii) involvement in any way in any enterprise, company or  consortium, whatever the type, undertaking activities related to  the Companys business or such as to encourage its industry  and commerce, and, more generally, all industrial, commercial  and  nancial, real estate and other operations related directly or  indirectly in any way to the above objective. The Company may perform any operations that fall within the  scope of its objectives either alone for its own bene t or on behalf  of third parties, either by having an interest in, or by the purchase,  subscription, contribution or exchange of company shares,  partnership shares and the purchase of any company, irrespective  of type, in pursuance of a similar or related objective, or such as to  encourage its extension or development. The articles of association, minutes of General Meetings, Auditors  reports and other legal documents concerning the Company  are available for consultation at the Companys head of ce  (Management Board secretariat) located at 35rue Joseph Monier -  92500 Rueil-Malmaison, France. The articles of association, regulated information, Registration  Documents, sustainable development reports, calls to meeting  and other documents are also available on the corporate website  (http:// www.schneider-electric.com).  241 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS ANDOBLIGATIONS  > 2. Shareholders rights  andobligations The procedures for calling and holding General Meetings are  governed by French law. The meetings are held at the head of ce or any other address  provided in the call to meeting. When the decision is made to call  a General Meeting, the Management Board may decide to make  all or part of the meeting available for public viewing via video  conferencing or remote transmission. All shareholders may attend personally or be represented at General  Meetings after providing proof of their identity and share ownership  in accordance with the applicable law and regulations. When the decision is made to call a General Meeting, the  Management Board may also decide to allow shareholders to  participate or vote using videoconferencing facilities and/or any  other telecommunication medium allowed under the applicable  legislation. Remote voting procedures are governed by the applicable laws  and regulations. In particular, shareholders may send proxy and  postal voting forms before General Meetings either on paper or,  if approved by the Management Board and stated in the Meeting  announcement and/or notice, electronically. When the decision is made to call a General Meeting, the  Management Board may authorise shareholders to  ll out and  sign these forms electronically through a secure site set up by  the General Meeting organiser using a process that complies with  article 1316-4, paragraph 2, line 1 of the French Civil Code, for  example by entering an ID and a password. Proxies or votes submitted electronically before the General  Meeting, as well as the related acknowledgements of receipt,  will be considered irrevocable and binding documents. However,  in the event that shares are sold before the applicable record  date (i.e.midnight CET three days before the Meeting date), the  Company will cancel or amend, as appropriate, any related proxies  or votes submitted electronically before the General Meeting. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board chairs the General Meetings.  In his absence, he is replaced by the Vice Chairman or by another  member of the Supervisory Board speci cally designated for this  purpose by the Supervisory Board. In the event that no Chairman  has been selected, the General Meeting elects its Chairman. The two shareholders with the largest number of voting rights  present at the meeting or accepting the mission serve as scrutineers. The meeting committee selects the secretary, who may or may not  be a shareholder. An attendance sheet is  lled out in accordance with French law. Copies or extracts of the Meetings minutes are certi ed either by  the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board, a member  of the Management Board or the General Meeting secretary. Voting rights** 1 – Double voting rights (article24 of the  articles of association) Voting rights attached to shares are proportionate to the equity in  the capital they represent, assuming that they all have the same  par value. Each share carries one voting right, unless there are  any unavoidable legal restrictions on the number of voting rights  that may be held by any single shareholder. Notwithstanding the  foregoing, double voting rights are attributed to fully paid-up shares  registered in the name of the same holder for at least two years  prior to the end of the calendar year preceding the one in which  the General Meeting takes place, subject to compliance with the  provisions of the law. In the case of a bonus share issue paid up  by capitalising reserves, earnings or additional paid-in capital, each  bonus share allotted in respect of shares carrying double voting  rights will also have double voting rights. The shares are stripped of their double voting rights if they are  converted into bearer shares or transferred to another person,  except in the case of an inheritance or family gift, with the transfer  from one registered holder to another. Double voting rights may also be stripped by a decision of the  Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting, rati ed by a special meeting  of shareholders bene ting from double voting rights. The minimum holding period to qualify for double voting rights was  reduced from four to two years by decision of the combined Annual  and Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting of June27, 1995. Annual Shareholders Meetings (article23 of the articles of association)**  242 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS ANDOBLIGATIONS 2 – Ceiling on voting rights (article24 of the  articles of association) At the Annual Meeting, no shareholder may exercise more than  10% of the total voting rights attached to the Companys shares.  The 10% ceiling is calculated on the basis of the single voting rights  held directly and proxies held by the shareholder concerned. If  the shareholder holds or represents shares carrying double voting  rights, the limit may be raised to 15%, provided that the 10% ceiling  is exceeded solely by virtue of the double voting rights. To apply these provisions:   the total number of voting rights is calculated on the date of the  Meeting and announced to shareholders when the Meeting is  called to order;   the number of voting rights held directly and indirectly include  those attached to shares owned by a shareholder personally,  those attached to shares held by a legal entity over which the  shareholder exercises control, as de ned in article L.233-3 of  the French Commercial Code, and those attached to shares  assimilated to shares owned, as de ned by articleL.233-7 et  seq. of the French Commercial Code;   proxies returned to the Company that do not appoint a  representative are subject to the above ceilings. However, these  ceilings do not apply to the Meeting Chairman voting on behalf  of such proxies. The above ceilings will no longer apply, without it being necessary  to put the matter to the vote at a further Annual and Extraordinary  Meeting, if any individual or legal entity, acting alone or jointly with  one or other individuals or legal entities, acquires or increases its  stake to at least two-thirds of the Companys capital through a  public tender offer for all the Companys shares. In this case, the  Management Board will place on record the lifting of the above  ceilings and will amend the articles of association accordingly. The  ceiling on voting rights was approved by the combined Annual and  Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting of June27, 1995. In accordance with article L.225-96, paragraph 1 of the French  Commercial Code, any amendment to the articles of association  must be approved by shareholders in Extraordinary Meeting, by a  majority of at least two-thirds of the voting rights represented by  shareholders in attendance or participating by proxy. Shareholders may elect to hold their shares in registered or bearer form. To establish proof of ownership, the shares must be recorded in the  shareholders account in accordance with the procedures and conditions de ned by current legislation and regulations. Income appropriation (article26 of the articles of association) Net income for the year less any losses brought forward from prior  years is appropriated in the following order:   5% to the legal reserve (this appropriation is no longer required  once the legal reserve represents one tenth of the capital,  provided that further appropriations are made in the case of a  capital increase);   to discretionary reserves, if appropriate, and to retained earnings;   to the payment of a dividend. The Annual Meeting may decide to offer shareholders the  opportunity to receive the dividend in cash or in the form of new  shares of common stock. Dividends not claimed within  ve years from the date of payment  become time-barred and are paid over to the State in accordance  with the law. Types of shares (article7 paragraph1 of the articles of association) Disclosure thresholds (article7 paragraph2 of the articles of association) The articles of association stipulate that any individual or legal entity  that owns or controls (as these terms are de ned in articleL.233- 9 of the French Commercial Code) directly or indirectly, shares or  voting rights representing at least 1% of the total number of shares  or voting rights outstanding, or a multiple thereof, is required  to disclose the total number of shares, voting rights and share  equivalents held directly, indirectly or in concert to the Company  by registered letter with return receipt requested, within  ve trading  days of the disclosure threshold being crossed. In addition, effective  November1, 2009 the shareholder must notify the Company, in  the disclosure letter, of the number of existing shares it is entitled  to acquire by virtue of agreements or  nancial instruments referred  to in pointb) of the third paragraph of articleL.233-7 of the French  Commercial Code and of the number of existing shares covered by  any agreement or  nancial instrument referred to in pointc) of said  paragraph. Shareholders are also required to notify the Company   243 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 CAPITAL   > 3. Capital Share capital and voting rights if the number of shares or voting rights held falls below one of the  thresholds de ned above. In the case of failure to comply with  these disclosure obligations, the shares in excess of the disclosure  threshold will be stripped of voting rights at the request of one or  several shareholders owning at least 2.5% of the Companys capital,  subject to compliance with the relevant provisions of the law. These  disclosure thresholds were approved by the combined Annual and  Extraordinary Shareholders Meetings of June 27, 1995, May 5,  2000 and April23, 2009. Identifiable holders of bearer shares (article7 paragraph3 of the articles ofassociation) As approved by the combined Annual and Extraordinary Shareholders Meetings of June30, 1988 and May5, 2000, the Company may at  any time request that Euroclear identify holders of bearer shares carrying voting rights either immediately or in the future. The Companys share capital at December31, 2011 amounted to EUR2,195,772,096, represented by 548,943,024shares with a par value  of EUR4, all fully paid up. At December31, 2011, 584,722,100voting rights were attached to the 548,943,024outstanding shares. Potential capital Sale of shares (article8 of the articles of association) The Companys shares are transferable and negotiable. At December31, 2011, stock options granted under:   stock option plans23 to 29 represented 6,129,752shares;   3,729,896 shares for share subscription or purchase plans,  plans 30 to 33; the type of options (share subscription or  purchase options) will be determined at a later date by the  Management Board;   5,006,689 shares under the performance shares or stock  grant plans relating to existing shares or shares to be issued,  plans6 and 7 and 9 to 14; the origin of these shares (existing  shares or shares to be issued) will be determined later by the  ManagementBoard;   in addition, as part of employee share issues, the Company has  issued 99,148share subscription warrants; Together, these plans represent a total of 14,965,485shares. The potential maximum dilution in case of issue of all the shares  as a result of the exercise of options to subscribe, stock grants,  performance shares and warrants would be 2.73% of share capital  at December31, 2011.  244 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 CAPITAL The following authorisations were given to the Management Board  at the combined Annual and Extraordinary Shareholders Meetings  of April21, 2011: 1) to increase the Companys capital by capitalising reserves,  earnings or additional paid-in-capital; 2) to increase the share capital by a maximum of EUR800million  (200million shares) by issuing shares or share equivalents:   in the case of an issue with pre-emptive subscription rights, the  ceiling stands at EUR800million (200million shares);   in the case of an issue without pre-emptive subscription rights,  the ceiling stands at EUR217million (54.25million shares) with  the possibility of: (i) proceeding to issue by private placements of shares subject to  a ceiling of EUR108million (27million shares), (ii) by issuing securities tendered to the Company within the  framework of a public exchange offer initiated by the Company  or, in the limit of 10% of capital, in payment for shares or share  equivalents of unlisted companies. The Management Board is also authorised to increase the  number of shares or share equivalents to be issued in case of  oversubscription (subject to the overall limits de ned above); 3) to grant existing or new Schneider Electric SA shares to  employees and corporate of cers of the Company and its  af liates under the provisions of article L.225-197-1 et seq.  of the French Commercial Code, within a limit of 1.3% of the  Companys issued capital as of April21, 2011; 4) to grant options to purchase new or existing shares to employees  and corporate of cers of the Company and its af liates under the  provisions of articles L.225-177 and L.225-180 of the French  Commercial Code, within a limit of 1% of the issued capital as of  April21, 2011; 5) to issue new shares to members of the Employee Stock  Purchase Plan (ESPP), within a limit of 2% of the issued capital  on the date of the implementation of the authorisation; 6) to issue new shares under programs to promote stock  ownership among employees in non-French companies of the  Group, within a limit of 1% of the Companys share capital as of  April21, 2011 to be applied to the ceiling for the authorisation  given in5 above. At its meeting on December 15, 2011, the Supervisory Board  authorised the Management Board to issue new shares to  employees during 2012, within a limit of 0.9% of the Companys  issued capital. The Management Board intends to use this  authorisation in June2012 to issue new shares to employees under  a non-leveraged and leveraged stock ownership plan. Authorisations to issue shares  245 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 CAPITAL At the Annual Shareholders Meeting to be held in May2012 (see pages270  - 271 ), the Management Board will ask shareholders to renew  the authorisation for the issuance of new shares under programs to promote stock ownership among employees in non-French companies  of the Group, that will expire on October2012.   Maximum  aggregate  par value of  authorised share  issues Number of shares (inmillions) Authorisation  date/ authorisation  expires Amount used at  Dec. 31, 2011 I – Issues with pre-emptive subscription rights: shares, warrants and other securities, giving access  immediately or in the future to the capital EUR800million (1) 200 Apr.21, 2011 –(3)       Jun.20, 2013   II – Issues without pre-emptive subscription rights:         a) for the issue, in cash or listed securities, of shares,  warrants and other securities giving access immediately  or in the future to the capital EUR217million (1) 54.25 Apr.21, 2011 –(3)       Jun .20, 2013   b) to make private placements of shares 108million (1) (2) 27 Apr.21, 2011         Jun  .20, 2013    c) to issue new shares as consideration for the shares  of unlisted companies 10% of the  Companys capital  (1) (2) 54.4 Apr.21, 2011 –        Jun  .20, 2013   III – Employee share issues         Share issues restricted to employees (ESPP) 2% of the  Companys  capital (6) 10.8 Apr.21, 2011 –(3)       Jun.20, 2013   Share issues to promote stock ownership among  employees in foreign companies of the Group 1% of the  Companys  capital (4) (6) 5.4 Apr.21, 2011 –(3)       Oct.20, 2012   Stock options 1% of the  Companys  capital (6) 5.4 Apr.21, 2011 -       Jun.20, 2014   Stock grants or performance-based grants 1.3% of the  Companys  capital (6) 7 Apr.21, 2011 0.38%(5)       Jun.20, 2014   (1) The ceilings for issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights are not cumulative and are capped at EUR800million in  aggregate. (2) With a EUR217million ceiling of a). (3) At its meeting on December15, 2011, the Supervisory Board authorised the Management Board to issue new shares to employees  during 2012, within a limit of 0.9% of the Companys issued capital. The Management Board intends to use this authorisation in  June2012 to issue new shares to employees, part of the ESPP or not, under a non-leveraged and leveraged stock ownership plan. The  share capital increase that will be restricted to emplyees part of the ESPP will be deducted from the ceilings authorised in I and II a). (4) Issues of shares restricted to employees in non-French subsidiaries will be deducted from the ceiling for employee share issues (ESPP). (5) The nature of stock grant or performance plans 10bis, 11bis, 12 to 14 (subscription or purchase) will be determined on the effective  date of grant at the latest. (6) On the date of the Annual Shareholders  Meeting the capital is EUR2,177million.  246 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 CAPITAL Three-year summary of changes in capital The Annual Shareholders Meeting of April22, 2010 authorised the  Company to buy back shares. This authorisation was renewed at  the Annual Shareholders Meeting of April21, 2011. Pursuant to these authorisations, the Company did not buy back  any share during the year. Details of the share buyback programme submitted for approval at  the Annual Shareholders Meeting of May3, 2012 are as follows:   number of shares and percentage of share capital held directly  and indirectly by Schneider ElectricSA (as of March 13 , 2012 ):  – treasury stock: 8,574,460  shares, or 1.56 % of the share  capital,  – own shares: 1,058shares,   – total: 8,575,518 shares, or 1.56 % of the share capital;   overview of purposes for which shares have been held:  – the 8,574,460  shares held in treasury stock are held for  allocation on the exercise of stock options and performance  shares;   buyback plan objectives:  – reduce the capital by cancelling shares,  – hold shares for allocation on the exercise of stock option plans  or performance shares plans or to permit the conversion of  convertible debt securities,  –  nance a future acquisition (rather than issue new shares at the  time of the acquisition),  – market making under a liquidity agreement;   maximum number of shares that may be acquired:  – 10% of the issued share capital as of the date of the  Annual Shareholders Meeting, representing, on the basis  of the issued share capital at February28, 2012, a total of  54,920,425 Schneider ElectricSA shares with a par value of  EUR4,  – taking into account treasury stock and own shares at  March  13 , 2012 (8,574,460  shares), the number of shares  that could be bought back under the authorisation comes to  46 ,345,965 shares, or 8.44 % of the issued capital;   maximum purchase price and maximum aggregate amount of  share purchases:  – the maximum purchase price is set at EUR75 per share,  – share purchases may not exceed an aggregate maximum  amount of EUR4,117,072,650.   duration of the buyback programme:  – 18months maximum, expiring on November2, 2013;   transactions carried out pursuant to the program authorised by  the Annual Shareholders Meeting 2010 and renewed by the  Annual Shareholders Meeting 2011 between January1, 2011  and March 13 , 2012 :  – transactions carried out by the Company:  – number of shares acquired: 0,  – number of shares transferred since the beginning of the  programme: 590,492 . The following table shows changes in Schneider ElectricSAs share capital and additional paid-in-capital since December31, 2008 through  share issues and the exercise of stock options:   Number of shares issued  or cancelled Cumulative number of  shares Share capital Employee share issue 1,999,846*     Exercise of stock options 126,417*     Capital at December31, 2008(1)   247,425,629* EUR1,979,405,032 Payment of dividend in shares 11,967,608*     Employee share issue 2,488,297*     Exercise of stock options 870,491*     Capital at December31, 2009(2)   262,752,025* EUR2,102,016,200 Payment of dividend in shares 4,345,794*     Employee share issue 2,151,390*     Exercise of stock options 2,709,882*     Capital at December31, 2010 (3)   271,959,091* EUR2,175,672,728 Employee share issue 3,855,632     Exercise of stock option and performance shares issued 1,169,210     CAPITAL AT DECEMBER31, 2011 (4)   548,943,024 EUR2,195,772,096 * Not adjusted for the two-for-one share split  on September2, 2011. (1) Increase in share capital (EUR17.01million), increase in additional paid-in-capital (EUR123.9million). (2) Increase in share capital (EUR122.61million), increase in additional paid-in-capital (EUR555.38million). (3) Increase in share capital (EUR73.6million), increase in additional paid-in-capital (EUR561.2million). (4) Increase in share capital (EUR20.1million), increase in additional paid-in-capital (EUR194.7million). Share buybacks  247 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE   > 4. Ownership structure Three-years summary of changes in capital   Dec. 31, 2011  Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2009   Capital Number of  shares Voting rights Number of  voting rights Capital Voting  rights Capital Voting  rights %   %   % % % % Capital Research and  Management Company (1) 9.43 51,780,765 8.86  51,780,765 8.17 7.72 5.07 4.75 CDC 3.71 20,349,002 4.57  26,699,002 4.23 5.10 4.32 5.18 Employees 4.55 25,001,870 7.06  41,268,373 4.11 6.14 4.26 6.33 Own shares (2) 0.00 1,058 - - 0.00 - 0.92 - Treasury shares 1.67 9,164,952 - - 1.68 - 1.76 - Public 80.64 442,645,377 77.95 455,807,950 81.80 79.45 83.67 81.23 TOTAL 100.00 548,943,024 100.00 584,722,100 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 (1) To the best of the Companys knowledge. (2) Number of voting rights as de ned in article223-11 of the AMF general regulations, which includes shares stripped of voting rights. Disclosure thresholds To the best of the Companys knowledge, no shareholders other than Capital Research & Management Company, listed above, hold, either  directly or indirectly, more than 5% of Schneider Electrics capital or voting rights. Changes in holdings (for stakes of more than 5%) Date Company Capital (%) Voting rights (%) Apr.27, 2011 BlackRock Inc. 5.00 4.73 Apr.27, 2011 Commerzbank AG 5.63 5.33 Apr.28, 2011 Commerzbank AG 3.72 3.51 Aug.2, 2011 BlackRock Inc. 4.99 4.73 Nov.4, 2011 CDC 4.12 4.99 Pledges on Schneider Electric shares 6,356shares are pledged. Pledges on subsidiaries shares Schneider Electric SA has not pledged any shares in signi cant  subsidiaries.  248 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 EMPLOYEE PROFIT-SHARING, STOCK OWNERSHIP   > 5. Employee profit-sharing, stock  ownership Profit-sharing plans Schneider Electric employees are the drivers of company growth.  They are the main force behind the Group with their knowledge of  the business and their involvement in the roll-out of Group strategy.  By linking employees to its capital, Schneider Electric allows  them to pro t from value creation other than by their salary, thus  bringing together the interests of the employees and the Company.  In countries where regulations permit, Schneider Electric offers  its employees the opportunity to invest to restricted share capital  increases. The Groups last employee share issue took place in July2011.  Thisresulted in a subscription of 1.9million shares. At December 31, 2011, employees held a total of 25,001,870  Schneider ElectricSA shares through the corporate mutual funds or  directly, representing 4.55% of the capital and 7.06% of the voting  rights, taking into account double voting rights. Voting rights attached to shares held by corporate mutual funds are  exercised by the Supervisory Boards of the funds. The Groups employee shareholders are broken down as follows:  47% in France, 13% in the United States and 40% internationally,  including China, India, Brazil and Russia. More than 30% of  our employees are Group shareholders and are spread over  60countries. Profit sharing bonus In 2011, employees of French entities received a EUR200 payment  as a pro t sharing bonus. This bonus bene tted from a 50%  matching contribution when allocated to the Shareholder fund. Most of the Groups French companies have pro t-sharing and other pro t-based incentive plans. The amounts paid by the Groups French entities over the last  ve years were: (inmillions of euros) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Pro t-based incentive plans and pro t-sharing plans 59.9 56.5 48.5 69.7 64.8 Almost 55% of the total from incentives and pro t-sharing was invested in the Schneider Electric shareholder funds and nearly 24% was  cashed in  by employees. The Schneider Electric employee shareholding  249 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANTS ANDSTOCK OPTION PLANS   > 6. Performance share grants  and stock option plans Performance share grant plans with  performance criteria and stock option plans The  gures below have been calculated where necessary  to take account of the two-for-one share split, effective from  September2,2011. Grant policy As part of its overall staff pay policy, each year Schneider Electric  sets up a long-term incentive plan based on an annual allocation of  stock grants, and, for employees who are US citizens or residents,  Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) that are akin to stock options,  and stock options until December 2009. Since December 2010,  stock options have no longer been granted. Phantom shares which  track performance share  grants have also been granted to certain  bene ciaries in emerging market countries.  These plans are established by the Management Board, as  authorized by the Supervisory Board, which takes decisions based  on the report from the Remuneration, Appointments and Human  Resources Committee. Bene ciaries include members of Senior Management, top  managers of the Group in all countries, high-potential managers  and  employees  whose  performance  and  potential  were  judgedexceptional. Each year Schneider Electric increases the number of bene ciaries  of the annual plan. There were 1,579bene ciaries in 2009, 2,360 in  2010 and 2,637 in 2011. Allocations to Senior Management, including corporate of cers,  dropped from 17% of the total in 2006 to 11.1% in 2011. The annual plans are set up in December for the following  scal  year so that bene ciaries can be informed of their stock option and  performances shares  grants at the same time as their targets for  the year ahead. The annual plan for 2012 was set up in December2011. It comprises  the following plans, all of them subject to performance criteria:   performance  share plan13 and 13bis, concerning 647,943shares  and 608bene ciaries (French residents);    performance  share plan 14 and 14bis, concerning 1,386,800shares  and 2,029bene ciaries (residents of countries other than France);    SAR plan, concerning 816,636 SARs and 145 bene ciaries  (American citizens or residents);   Phantom shares plan concerning 70,272 phantom shares and  274 bene ciaries. Description of the shares allocated The vesting and lock-up periods for performance shares  allocations  to residents of France under plans5 and 7 are threeyears and  twoyears respectively. The vesting and lock-up periods for stock  allocations made under plans8, 10, 10bis, 13 and 13bis are at least  twoyearseach. The vesting period for performance shares  allocations made to  residents of countries other than France under plans 6, 9 and 11,  11bis, 12, 14 and 14bis is fouryears, with no lock-up period. Similarly the bene ciaries of phantom shares have a vesting period  of three years. performance shares  grants and phantom shares vest only if the  bene ciary is a Group employee as of the vesting date and if certain  performance targets, detailed below, are met (see page 253 ).  Since January 2009, for members of the Management Board, and  since December 2011 for members of the Executive Committee,  allocations of stock grants are fully subject to the achievement of  performance conditions. Description of the stock option plans The option exercise price is equal to the average closing price  of the twenty trading days prior to the date of allocation by the  Management Board. No discount is applied. Since 2006, the options have a ten year life. They may not be  exercised until after the fourth year. However, they can be exercised  before maturity in the case of a takeover bid for the Companys  shares. Exceptionally, options granted under plans 22, 23 and  25may be exercised as from the  rst year. Similarly, US citizens and  residents may exercise their rights following the third year under  certain plans. Options may only be exercised by Group employees. In addition,  exercise of 50% of the options allocated is dependent on speci c  targets being met, detailed below (see page251 ). Effective from  January 2009, all of the options granted to members of the  Management Board are subject to performance criteria. Description of Stock Appreciation Rights  (SARs) SARs have the same vesting period and expiration date as the  corresponding options or grants and are subject to the same  performance criteria. The bene ciary receives the proceeds in cash.  250 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANTS ANDSTOCK OPTION PLANS Description of phantom shares Phantom shares are akin to performance shares and are subject to  speci c performance criteria. The bene ciary receives the proceeds  in cash. Lock-up arrangements applicable to members  of the Management Board The Supervisory Board has set:   a retention target of shares representing three years of base  salary for Jean-Pascal Tricoire, and two years of base salary for  Emmanuel Babeau. Calculation of the number of shares held is  based on Schneider ElectricSA shares equivalent to the FCP  (Company Mutual Fund) units invested in Schneider Electric  shares held by the bene ciaries. In accordance with the provisions of articles L.225-185 and  L.225- 197-1 of the French Commercial Code and the AFEP/MEDEF  guidelines, the Supervisory Board has approved the following:   retention of a proportion of shares arising from the exercise of  options granted under plans30 and following must be held in a  registered account. This number corresponds to a percentage  of the capital gains realised through exercise of the options, net  of taxes and obligatory contributions and the sums necessary  to fund the purchase of such shares. The percentage is  xed at  25% for Jean-Pascal Tricoire and 15% for Emmanuel Babeau;   mand atory retention beyond the lock-up period of a percentage  of the shares acquired under plans 3 and following. The  percentage is  xed at 25% for Jean-Pascal Tricoire and 15% for  Emmanuel Babeau;   obligatory investment in Schneider ElectricSA shares of 10% of  the selling price (net of taxes and contributions) of performance  shares  grants acquired through plans set up in 2009. These obligations are suspended once the shareholding targets  described above are met. Stock options and stock grants held by  members of the Management Board Mr Jean-Pascal Tricoire As of December31, 2011, Jean-Pascal Tricoire held 859,336options  ofwhich 190,000 based on Group performance criteria, 147,500stock  grants also subject to performance criteria, 6,750shares acquired  under share plan3 which will become available as of December19,  2012, and 10,588shares under plan1 which became available as of  December21, 2011. The vesting period for plan 8 expired on December 21, 2011.  However, determination of the level of achievement of the  performance criteria required the closure and publication of the  2011  nancial statements, which occurred on February22, 2012.  As a result, delivery of the securities was deferred to that date. Mr Emmanuel Babeau As of December31, 2011, Emmanuel Babeau held 40,000options,  including 30,000 based on performance criteria, and 52,000stock  grants, of which 49,500 were subject to performance criteria. The vesting period for plan 8 expired on December 21, 2011.  However, determination of the level of achievement of the  performance criteria required the closure and publication of the  2011  nancial statements, which occurred on February22, 2012.  As a result, delivery of the securities was deferred to that date.  251 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANTS ANDSTOCK OPTION PLANS Plan Plan date Number of  bene ciaries  at inception Number of  options at  inception of which  corporate  of cers Exercise  price  (ineuros) Performance criteria % of  targets  reached Options  cancelled by  performance  criteria (1) Options  outstanding  at Dec.31,  2011 (2) 21 Feb.5, 2003 433 4,000,000 300,000 22.60 50% of options - 2005 net  operating pro t and return  on capital employed 84.0 283,800 - (5) 22 Feb.5, 2003 111 222,000 - 22.60 Without - plan reserved to  winners of the trophy NA NA - (5) 23 May6, 2004 107 214,000 - 27.77 Without - plan reserved to  winners of the trophy NA NA 22,292 24 May6, 2004 402 4,121,400 300,000 27.77 50% of options - operating  margin on revenue - 1/3  per year on 2004, 2005  and 2006 88.9 188,600 571,390 25 May12, 2005 157 277,000 - 28.23 Without - plan reserved to  winners of the trophy NA NA 44,068 26 Jun.28, 2005 458 4,007,600 400,000 30.09 50% of options - 2005 and  2006 operating margin and  revenue 100 - 1,647,570 27 Dec.1, 2005 419 3,229,800 300,000 35.70 50% of options - 2006 and  2007 operating margin and  revenue 100 - 1,899,410 28 Dec.21, 2006 489 2,514,240 224,000 40.67 50% of options - 2007 and  2008 operating margin and  revenue 100 - 1,800,722 29 Apr.23, 2007 43 166,300 - 48.52 50% of options - 2007 and  2008 operating margin and  revenue 100 - 144,300 30 Dec.19, 2007 542 1,889,852 176,400 46.00 50% of options - 2008 and  2009 operating margin and  revenue -  887,952 841,960 31 Jan.5, 2009 328 1,358,000 137,000 26.06 50% of options/100% for  the Management Board  - 2011 operating margin(4)  and 2009 to 2011 EPS  compared to a benchmark  selection(3) 80 (6) - 1,253,300 32 Aug.21, 2009 1 10,000 10,000 31.30 without - - 10,000 33 Dec.21, 2009 391 1,652,686 130,000 37.92 50% of options/100% for  the Management Board -  2010 and 2011 operating  margin(4) and 2011 share  of revenue generated in  the new economies 100  - 1,624,636       23,662,878 1,977,400     - 1,360,352 9,859,648 (1) Number of shares cancelled for non-achievement of targets (plans23 to 30). (2) Number of options outstanding after deduction of all cancellations and exercises since the plan was initiated. (3) On the basis of a pre-de ned and  xed list of 11competitor companies. (4) Excluding restructuring costs. (5) 58,778options for plan21 and 12,120options for plan 22 were cancelled following the end of the annual period (February4, 2011). (6) Application of these performance criteria has resulted in the cancellation of 133,760 options granted under plan 31 in 2012.    Past stock option plans The data below are adjusted for the two-for-one share split , effective September2, 2011.  252 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANTS ANDSTOCK OPTION PLANS Details on outstanding options (2011) The data below are adjusted for the two-for-one share split , effective September2, 2011. Plan Plan date Type of  plan(1) Expiration date Exercise  price  ineuros(2) Plans as at 1  January2011 of which  corporate  of cers(3) Number  of options  exercised  during the   nancial year Number  of options  cancelled  during the   nancial year Options  outstanding at  December 31,  2011 21 Feb.5, 2003 S Feb.4, 2011 22.60  88,452 - 29,674 58,778 - 22 Feb.5, 2003 S Feb.4, 2011 22.60  12,940 - 820 12,120 - 23 May6, 2004 S May.5, 2011 27.77 30,332 - 8,040 - 22,292 24 May6, 2004 S May5, 2011 27.77 845,644 6 6,156 274,254 - 571,390 25 May12,  2005 S May11, 2013 28.23 58,940 - 14,872 - 44,068 26 Jun.28,  2005 S Jun.27, 2013 30.09 1,890,198 403,922 234,952 7,676 1,647,570 27 Dec.1, 2005 S Nov.30, 2013 35.70 2,168,392 302,942 265,750 3,232 1,899,410 28 Dec.21,  2006 S/P Dec.20, 2016 40.67 2,105,646 161,574 291,794 13,130 1,800,722 29 Apr.23,  2007 S/P Apr.22, 2017 48.52 152,300 - - 8,000 144,300 30 Dec.19,  2007 S/P Dec.18, 2017 46.00 882,440 63,000 - 40,480 841,960 31 Jan.5, 2009 S/P Jan.4, 2019 26.06 1,286,900 90,000 - 33,600 1,253,300(3) 32 Aug .21,  2009 S/P Aug.20, 2019 31.30 10,000 10,000 - - 10,000 33 Dec.21,  2009 S/P Dec.20, 2019 37.92 1,646,086 130,000 - 21,450 1,624,636 )           11,178,270 1,22 7,594 1,120,156 198,466 9,859,648 (1) S= subscription option plan / P = purchase option plan. (2) Average of the 20 rates preceding the grant, with no discount or premium. (3) Application of these performance criteria has resulted in the cancellation of 133,760 options granted under plan31  in 2012. 24 Henri Lachmann 66,156 26 Henri Lachmann 403,922 27 Henri Lachmann 302,942 28 Jean-Pascal Tricoire 161,574 30 Jean-Pascal Tricoire 63,000 31 Jean-Pascal Tricoire 90,000 32 Emmanuel Babeau 10,000(2 ) 33 Jean-pascal Tricoire  100,000   Emmanuel Babeau 30,000 (1) Options attributed at the time of his recruitment as Chief Financial Of cer. (2) In his role as corporate of cer at the date of attribution. Situation of corporate officers, broken down by plan (at December31, 2011)(1 ) The data below are adjusted for the two-for-one share split , effective September2, 2011. (in italics, options still subject to performance conditions)  253 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANTS ANDSTOCK OPTION PLANS Past share plans (at December31, 2011) The data below are adjusted for the two-for-one share split , effective September2, 2011. Plan Plan date Number  of bene - ciaries at  inception Number of  shares at  inception Vesting  period Holding  period Performance criteria % of  targets  reached Rights  cancel- led(1)(3) Corpo- rate of - cers(2) Total  rights  cancelled  since the  grant Rights  outstanding  at  December31,  2011 4 Dec.19,  2007 274 114,500 4 years 0 50% of shares - 2008  and 2009 operating  margin and revenue - 55,394 0 10,052 0 (5) 5 Jan.5,  2009 342 287,430 3 years 2 years 50% of shares/100% for  the Management Board -  2011 operating margin(4)  and share of revenue  generated in the new  economies 2011 100  - 22,500 14,600 272,830 6 Jan.5,  2009 721 424,702 4 years 0 As plan5 100    - 0 30,954 393,748 7 Aug.21,  2009 1 2,500 3 years 2 years without - - 2,500 0 2,500 8 Dec.21,  2009 395 319,506 2years 2 years 50% of shares/100% for  the Management Board -  2010 and 2011 operating  margin(4) and share of  revenues generated in the  new economies in 2011 100    - 32,500 1,544 317,962 9 Dec.21,  2009 1,184 780,190 4 years 0 As plan9 100  - 0 29,780 750,410 10 Dec.17,  2010 658 665,524 2years  and  3months 2 years 50% of shares/100% for  the Management Board -  2011 and 2012 operating  margin(4) and 2011 and  2012 average revenue  growth compared to  changes in world GDP  over the same period - - 70,000 3,544 661,980 10  bis June26,  2011 1 3,000 2 years 2 years As plan10 - - 0 0 3,000 11 Dec.17,  2010 1,702 1,161,696 4 years 0 As plan10 - - 0 0 1,136,076 11  bis July26,  2011 1 5,882 4 years 0 As plan10 - - 0 0 5,882 12 July26,  2011 1 19,850 4 years 0 with no performance  conditions - - 0 0 19,850 13 and  13  bis(6 )    Dec.16,  2011 608 647,943 2years  and  3months 2 years 50% of the shares/100%  for the Management  Board and Executive  Committee - 2012 and  2013 (4) operating margin  and change in the Planet  &Society barometer to  the end of 2013 - - 72,000 0 647,943 14  and  14  bis(6 ) Dec.16,  2011 2,029 1,386,800 4 years 0 As plan13 - - 0 0 1,386,800       5,819,523         55,394 199,500 90,474  5,598,981 (1) Rights cancelled for non-achievement of targets.  (2)  Rights after cancellations for non-achievement of targets. (3) Application of the performance conditions led to the cancellation of 55,394shares in 2010 (plan4). (4) Excluding restructuring costs.  (5)  53,064 shares were delivered on December19, 2011 .  (6 ) Plans 13 bis and 14 bis each include a bene ciary. The vesting conditions are identical to those of plans 13 and 14.  254 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANTS ANDSTOCK OPTION PLANS Situation of corporate officers, broken down by plan (at December31, 2011)(1 ) The data below are adjusted for the two-for-one share split , effective September 2, 2011. (in italics, shares still subject to performance conditions) 1 Jean-Pascal Tricoire 10,588(2 ) 3 Jean-Pascal Tricoire 6,750 5 Jean-Pascal Tricoire 22,500 7 Emmanuel Babeau 2,500(3 ) 8 Jean-Pascal Tricoire 25,000   Emmanuel Babeau 7,500 10 Jean-Pascal Tricoire 50,000   Emmanuel Babeau 20,000 13 Jean-Pascal Tricoire 50,000   Emmanuel Babeau 22,000 (1 ) In his role as corporate of cer at the date of attribution. (2 ) The holding period ended on December 20, 2011. (3 ) Shares attributed at the time of his recruitment as Chief Financial Of cer.   Options granted and exercised and stock grants made to top10 employee  grantees during the year The data below are adjusted for the two-for-one share split , effective September2, 2011. Subscription or purchase options awarded to the ten most highly paid non-corporate officer  employees and options exercised by them   Number Exercise price/Average  weighted price Plans Options exercised in 2011 of which the number of  options bought or subscribed is the highest 247,400 34.10 24-26-27-28 Shares awarded to the ten most highly paid non-corporate officer employees   Number Plans Shares awarded for 2012 (Decembergrant) 122,500 13-14  255 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 STOCK MARKET DATA   > 7. Disclosure of information required in  accordance with articleL.225- 100-3  oftheFrench Commercial Code** Items that could have an impact in the event of a public tender  offerinclude:   agreements calling for payments to the members of the  Management Board or to employees if they resign or are  terminated without real cause or if their employment ends due to  a public tender offer (see page130 );   agreements entered into by the Company with change of  control clauses: information on the exercise of stock options  and performance shares  grants (see page2 49 ); information on  certain loans and credit facilities (see page38 );   restrictions in the articles of association on the exercise of voting  rights (see page2 49 ) relating to the non-application of the ceiling  on voting rights when a public tender offer is in process.   > 8. Stock market data In France, Schneider Electric is listed on the Eurolist of the Euronext Paris market (compartment A), where it is traded in lots of one under  ISIN code FR0000121972.  It is part of the markets benchmark CAC40 index of Frances largest stocks. 18-month trading data in Paris Year Month Trading volume (1)  (inthousands) Capital traded  (inmillions of euros)  Highs and lows(1)(2) (in euros)  Number of trading  sessions High Low 2010 August 45,370 1,989 46.73 40.70 22   September 51,863 2,338 47.48 40.80 22   October 51,429 2,535 51.93 45.71 21   November 35,675 1,899 56.88 50.43 22   December 33,968 1,911 60.00 54.65 23 2011 January 35,086 2,008 59.68 54.18 21   February 35,259 2,019 60.25 54.48 20   March 51,517 2,976 61.65 52.90 23   April 44,356 2,566 61.83 54.00 19   May 65,613 3,790 60.28 54.10 22   June 39,550 2,201 58.00 53.73 22   July 43,348 2,319 58.85 47.00 21   August 78,375 3,554 52.13 40.59 23   September 63,191 2,626 47.40 35.94 22   October 50,244 2,160 47.60 37.48 21   November 50,276 1,982 43.19 35.00 22   December 38,399 1,553 43.12 37.01 21   TOTAL 2011 595,214 29,755     257 2012 January 44,997 2,066 49.77  40.31  22 The data correspond to trading volumes on NYSE Euronext. (1) Period from August2010 to August2011 restated for the two-for-one share split , effective September2, 2011. (2) During the trading session.  256 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 STOCK MARKET DATA Five-year trading summary   2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Average daily trading volume Euronext Paris:             number of shares (in thousands) (1) 2,316.01 2,642.57 2,647.16 3,382.38 3,175.58   inmillions of euros 115.78 108.23 77.12 115.18 152 High and low share prices (ineuros):             high(1) 61.83 60.00 40.93 47.15 55.13   low(1) 35.00 36.00 20.65 19.42 41.76 Year-end closing price (ineuros) (1) 40.68 56.00 40.89 26.50 46.34 Yield including tax credit(%) 4.18 2.86 2.51 6.50 3.56 The data correspond to trading volumes on NYSE Euronext. (1) Historical data restated for the two-for-one share split, effective September2, 2011. The Schneider ElectricSA share versus the CAC40 index over five years  0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2008 Dec. 31, 2007 Dec. 31, 2006 Dec. 31, 2011 31/01/2012 Dec. 31, 2009 Share price in euros Schneider Electric share CAC 40 index 40.68 47.48 46.34 26.50 40.89 56.00 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Schneider Electric share CAC 40 index 42.05 (Source: Thomson Reuters ) Monep Options on Schneider Electric SA shares have been traded on the MONEP market since December20, 1996. Ordinary bonds  The information is disclosed in note 9 of the Company Financial Statements (pages229-230).  257 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 INVESTOR RELATIONS   > 9. Investor relations Person responsible for financial information Emmanuel Babeau Executive Vice-President, Finance, member of the Management Board 35, rue Joseph Monier – CS30323 92506 Rueil-Malmaison Cedex - France Tel: +33 (0)141297119 Contacts Institutional investors,  nancial analysts and private shareholders may request information and documents from: Carina Ho, Vice-President Financial Communication and Investor Relations For institutional investors and  nancial analysts: Tel: +33 (0)141396084 Toll-free number for individual investors in France: 0800205514 The Committee consists of eight individual shareholders appointed  by Schneider Electric for a three-year term. Members may serve a  maximum of two terms. The Committee is designed to re ect the  geographical and professional diversity of the Groups shareholders  and to relay their concerns to the Company. To ful ll this mission,  the Committee is available at all times to pass on comments from  shareholders to the Company. It gives an opinion and makes  suggestions on investor relations actions and resources. In 2011,  the Committee met to discuss various topics and to participate in  events dedicated to individual shareholders, including:   ways to strengthen the Companys strategy for individual  Shareholders;    the Committees participation in the Q&A session with the  Chairman at the Annual Shareholders Meeting.  In 2011, Committee members also took part in the following events:   visit of Schneider Electric s Research and Development center at  Grenoble-Eybens ;    guided tour of our showroom at our headquarters in Rueil  Malmaison.  Shareholder documents The Company makes available to its shareholders:   the annual report and a short form;   a letter to shareholders;   general, economic and  nancial information (presentations-press  releases);   a corporate website http://www.schneider-electric.com. Shareholders Relations Committee  258 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC GENERAL PRESENTATION OF SCHNEIDERELECTRICSA 7 STOCK MARKET DATA  259 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 8  1. Management Board report  260 2. Supervisory Boards comments ontheManagement  Boards report, mode in accordance with articleL . 225- 68  oftheFrenchCommercialCode  264 3. Auditors special reports  264 4. Resolutions  268 Annual and  Extraordinary  Shareholders Meeting  260 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 8 MANAGEMENT BOARD REPORT ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING   > 1. Management Board report Ordinary Meeting Approval of the parent company financial  statements - first resolution - We ask you to approve the transactions and  nancial statements  for the year 2011, as presented, which show a net pro t of  EUR2,603.7million. Approval of the consolidated financial  statements - second resolution - We ask you to approve the transactions and consolidated  nancial  statements for the year 2011, as presented, which show a net pro t  for the Group of EUR1,820million. Distribution: payment of a dividend of EUR1.70  per share - third resolution - We recommend a dividend of EUR1.70 per EUR4 pe r value share.  This represents a distribution rate of almost 50% of net pro t for the  Group. The dividend will be paid on May16, 2012 on 548,943,024  shares holding dividend rights on January1, 2011 that made up the  capital on December31, 2011. No dividend will be paid on treasury  shares on the payment date; the corresponding amounts will be  allocated to retained earnings. The dividend will be paid out of pro t available for distribution,  consisting of:   retained earnings of EUR96,496,292.01;   net income for the year of EUR2,603,738,064.30;   less the statutory allocation to the legal reserve of  EUR2,009,936.80; and amounting to EUR2,698,224,419.51. The dividend payment will total EUR933,203,140.80; the remaining  pro t available for distribution in euros will be allocated to retained  earnings. For individual shareholders who pay income tax in France, a social  security tax of 13.5% will be charged on the gross dividend. After applying a 40% (uncapped) allowance, only 60% of the  dividend amount net of social security tax will be included in taxable  income, less:   any deductible charges and expenses; and   an annual allowance of EUR1,525 for single, widowed or  divorced persons or couples  ling separately or EUR3,050 for  couples who  le a joint tax return. The full dividend will be eligible for the 40% allowance. No amounts  eligible or not eligible for the 40% deduction provided for in  article158-3-2 of the French Tax Code will be distributed, other  than the dividend described above. Shareholders may also choose to pay a withholding tax (at 21%)  on the full dividend amount with no allowances. In this case, the  allowances and tax credits described above will not apply. Dividend payments for the last three years were as follows:   2008 2009 2010 Dividend paid per share of  EUR8 par value (1) 3.45 2.05 3.20 Dividend paid per share  adjusted for a two-for-one  share split  (2) 1.725 1.025 1.60 (1) The full dividend is eligible for a 40% deduction for individuals  resident in France. N on-eligible dividends have been  distributed. (2) The two-for-one share split effective  on September2, 2011. Agreements and obligations governed by  articlesL.225-86 and L.225-90-1 of the French  Commercial Code - fourth and fifth resolutions - We request you to approve the agreements and regulated  obligations presented in the Statutory Auditors report drawn up  pursuant to article L.225-88 of the French Commercial Code,  regarding:   the adaptation of the top-hat de ned bene t pension plan for the  French Groups senior executives allowed to the Management  Board members;   the agreements and obligations to Mr Jean-Pascal Tricoire,  approved by the General Shareholders Meeting on April 23,  2009, which must be approved once more by the Assembly  under the TEPA Act. The adaptation of the top-hat defined benefit  pension planfor the French Groups senior  executives (4th resolution) The Groups senior executives af liated to the French Social  Security systems are the Management Board members that bene t  from a top-hat de ned bene t pension plan – article39 –. This plan  presented on page125  set up a pension of a maximum amount  equal to 60% of the difference between the average remuneration  of the last three years (reference salary) and the total of external   261 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 MANAGEMENT BOARD REPORT pensions. The amount of this pension is capped to 25% of the  reference salary considering, if applicable, the amount paid for  the de ned contribution plan(s) (article 83). This plan does not  conform to the recommendations of the AFEP/MEDEF corporate  governance guidelines which anticipate that the basic rights are  acquired without length of service conditions in the Group. In order  to conform to these recommendations, the reform anticipates:   closure of the current article39 plan to all new entrants;   implementation of a new article 39 plan open to Executive  Committee and Board members with progressive vesting of  rights according to time of service in the Group and on the  Executive Committee. Full rights are granted after 15 years  of service for a new entrant to the plan, except for the Group  service condition.  The new plan is contingent upon completing  a career in the Company with the same  exibility introduced by  Social Security in 2004. Therefore, conditional assurance of an  income is maintained in case of dismissal, producing the same  effects as employee redundancy, after 55years of age without  restarting work or for 2nd or 3rd category disability as de ned by  Social Security without restarting work. For the rest, the new planincludes the provisions of the current  plan, notably:  – limiting the top-hat pension to 25% of the reference salary  considering the pension paid for the article 83 plans  implemented by the Group (unchanged from current plan);  – the right to a widow/widowers pension for the surviving  partner;  – a spouses pension if a senior executive dies before retirement  age, although limited to rights acquired by the date of death;  – pension supplement paid to a senior executive from the  retirement date after disability occurring during work activities.   the progressive replacement of the conditional rights of the new  plan for those of the current plan. In effect, the conditional rights of  the twoplans are not added together but are gradually replaced.  As a result, the current plan, which has been continued because  of a wider scope of bene ciaries, will disappear in the future.   outsourcing of the new article 39 plan. This outsourcing is  mandatory. To this end, a contract was signed with the company  AXA France Vie following an invitation to tender issued by an  independent  rm. This contract only involves outsourcing of the  new plan that will come into force on July1, 2012, the outsourcing  of the old article39 plan still being under review. Renewal of MrJean-Pascal Tricoires status  (5thresolution) In conformity with the AFEP/MEDEF recommendations of  October6, 2008, MrTricoire agreed to resign from his employment  contract at the time of renewing his appointment as Chairman of  Management Board in May2009. Also, in agreement with MrJean- Pascal Tricoire, the Supervisory Board of February18, 2009 de ned  a status that was approved by the Annual Shareholers Meeting of  April23, 2009. This status stipulates that MrTricoire: 1) will continue to bene t from:  – the Schneider ElectricSA and Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS  employee bene t plan, which offers health, incapacity, disability  and death cover,  – the supplementary health, incapacity, disability and death  cover available to the Groups French senior executives,  – the top-hat pension plan for the Schneider Groups French  senior executives above described; 2) receives compensation in the event of termination capped at  two years of his target remuneration ( xed salary and target  bonus, maximum described below) taking into account  compensation provided for in the non-compete agreement  described below and subject to performance criteria; 3) is bound by his non-compete agreement should he leave the  Company, unless a mutually agreeable arrangement is found;  the agreement lasts for one year and is remunerated (60% of  target remuneration:  xed and  bonus); 4) retains forthwith, subject to performance criteria, the bene t  of his stock options, stock grants and performance shares  granted to him or that will be granted to him, should he leave  the Company. The appointment to the Management Board comes to an end on  May 2, 2012; the Supervisory Board of February 21, 2012 has  decided to renew the roles of Board members for three years and  therefore, to renew MrTricoires status under the two adjustment  conditions presented hereafter. It is therefore stipulated that  MrTricoire: 1) bene ts from:  – the Schneider ElectricSA and Schneider Electric IndustriesSAS  employee bene t plan, which offers health, incapacity, disability  and death cover,  – the supplementary cover available to the Groups French  senior executives for health, incapacity, disability and death.  The contingency and supplementary cover compensation are  now subject to performance criteria. The right to compensation  is subject to oneof the two following criteria being present:  the average net pro t for the last  ve  nancial years is positive  or the average free cash  ow amount for the last  ve years  ispositive; 2) bene ts from a compensation due in the event of dismissal  capped taking into account the compensation provided for in  the non-compete agreement described below, not twice the  last target remuneration ( xed salary and target bonus), but  twice the average actual annual remuneration ( xed salary and  variable) for the last three years (hereafter Maximum Amount).  The amount due will be subject to performance criteria; Compensation will be due in the event that: (i) Mr Tricoire resigns, is dismissed or is not reappointed as  a member or Chairman of the Management Board in the  12months following a material change in Schneider Electrics  shareholder structure that could change the membership of the  Supervisory Board; (ii) Mr Tricoire resigns, is dismissed or is not reappointed as a  member or Chairman of the Management Board following a  reorientation of the strategy pursued and promoted by him  until that time, whether or not in connection with a change in  Schneider Electrics shareholder structure as described above; (iii) MrTricoire is asked to resign, is dismissed or is not reappointed  as a member or as Chairman of the Management Board when  the mathematical average of the rate of achievement of Group  objectives used to calculate his bonus was 50% or higher in the  four completed  nancial years preceding his departure. Compensation will depend on the mathematical average of the  rate of achievement of Group performance objectives used to  determine MrTricoires bonus for the three completed  nancial   262 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 MANAGEMENT BOARD REPORT years preceding the date of the Board meeting at which the  decision is taken. If the mathematical average of Group performance objectives  rate is:  – less than 50% of the target: no compensation will be paid,  – equal to 50% of the target: he will receive 75% of the Maximum  Amount,  – equal to 100% of the target: he will receive 100% of the  Maximum Amount,  – between 50% and 100%: he will receive between 75% and  100% of the Maximum Amount calculated on a straight-line  basis according to the rate of achievement; The mathematical average of the Group target achievement  rate for the last threeyears (2009 to 2011) was 138.6% 3) is bound by his non-compete agreement should he leave the  Company, unless a mutually agreeable arrangement is found;  the agreement is for a period of one year and is remunerated  (60% of target remuneration:  xed +variable); 4) retains forthwith, subject to performance criteria, the bene t  of his stock options, stock grants and performance shares  granted to him or that will be granted to him, should he leave  the Company. The performance criterion depends on the  mathematical average of the rate of achievement of Group  performance objectives, used to determine Mr Jean-Pascal  Tricoires bonus for the three completed  nancial years  preceding his departure, will be equal to at least 50% of  thetarget. Mr Tricoire also bene ts from the top-hat pension plan for the  Groups senior executives as presented below and which approval  of the change is contained in the 4thresolution. Nomination of the Supervisory Board members - sixth to fifteenth resolutions - The appointments of Mrs Lo Apotheker, Claude Briquet,  Jrme Gallot, Willy Kissling, Henri Lachmann and Richard  Thoman come to an end at the close of the Annual Shareholders  Meeting. In addition, the Supervisory Board on December15, 2011  co- opted MrXavier Fontanet to replace MrAnand Mahindra whose  appointment will also come to an end at the close of the Annual  Shareholders Meeting. The Board considers the importance of the changes that occurred  in 2011 in its composition, with the addition of MrsBetsy Atkins  and Mrs Jeong Kim, Dominique Snquier and Xavier Fontanet  who was co-opted to replace MrAnand Mahindra, pausing in its  policy of female quotas, internationalisation and rejuvenation of its  members. In addition, the Management Board, in agreement with  the recommendation from the Supervisory Board, proposes:   to renew the appointment of Messrs Kissling, Lachmann and  Thoman for a two year period due to the new statutory provisions  relating to the age of Board members, and of Messrs Apotheker  and Gallot for a period of four years;   to ratify the co-opting of MrXavier Fontanet and elect him as a  member of the Supervisory Board for a period of four years. Mr Briquet having been nominated to represent the employee  shareholders in virtue of the provisions of article11-c of the articles  of association, his successor must be nominated according to the  procedure for this article. The procedure stipulates that when the  employee shareholders hold more than 3% of the capital at the end  of a  nancial year, the representative for the employee shareholders  must be elected by the Annual Shareholders Meeting from among  the candidates designated by the FCPE (collective employee  shareholding plan investing in the Company shares) Supervisory  Boards or designated by the employee shareholders when their  shares are held directly and not via the FCPEs. The candidates who have been designated are MrManfred Brill,  MrClaude Briquet, MrsMagali Herbaut and MrThierry Jacquet. Following  the  Supervisory  Boards  recommendation,  the  Management Board has agreed to the 14th resolution nominating  MrsMagali Herbaut as a Supervisory Board member representing  employee shareholders. Indeed, MrsMagali Herbauts pro le  ts the  objectives of female quotas, rejuvenation and, taking into account  her professional pathway within the Group, of internationalisation,  as set by the Supervisory Board regarding its composition. The Management Board therefore invites you to vote solely in favour  of the 14th resolution and to abstain from the 12th, 13th, and 15th  resolutions. Biographical notes for Messrs Apotheker, Fontanet, Gallot, Kissling,  Lachmann and Thoman, as well as their roles are provided in the  Company governance report (see pages109-115 ). The candidates  for the Supervisory Board member duties to represent the employee  shareholders are given below. MrManfred Brill (age: 57) Manfred Brill holds German nationality and after studying applied  science at university began his career in 1975 in the company BBC  AG as a project and software engineer. In 1982, he joined AEG  AG as a programmer, then taking on the role of systems engineer.  He later became R&D manager for communication systems and  then joined Schneider Electric Group at the time of the JV AEG  Schneider Automation. From 1999 to 2004 he worked as head of  the Communication and Con guration Department and since then  has held the position of SW Governance Manager. He was Vice- Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schneider Electric GmbH  from 2004 to 2008 and is Chairman of the Workers Council of  Schneider Electric Automation GmbH. MrClaude Briquet (age: 50) Claude Briquet is an engineering graduate from National School of  Engineers in Tarbes and from ENSEEIHT in Toulouse. He joined the  Schneider Electric Group in 1985 and began his career in the areas  of development, quality and production. He managed the Pacy I  plant from 1992 to 1996 and the Vaudreuil plant from 1996 to 1999.  He was appointed Executive Vice-President of Mafelec in 1999 and  of Alombard in 2001. MrBriquet is currently responsible for trading  in Europe within the Industry Department of Schneider Electrics  European Operating Division. He is a member of the Supervisory  Board of Schneider ElectricSA and is Chairman of the Supervisory  Board of FCPE Schneider France Germany. MrsMagali Herbaut (age: 40) Magali Herbaut graduated from the cole Suprieure de Commerce  in Grenoble and earned an MBA from Laval University (Canada).  She began her career as an auditor for the  rm Deloitte, then  joined Schneider Electric in 1996 as a management controller for  Schneider Electric Automation GmbH. Ms Herbaut spent two years  as a management controller for Schneider Electric Automation Inc.  in the US, before becoming Chief Financial Of cer for Normabarre  (2000-2003) then for the Medium Voltage/Low Voltage Regional  Facilities Unit (2003-2007), later taking charge of the Alombard  plant (2007-2008). Since 2009, she has managed the Electrical  Wiring activity in the Business Unit LifeSpace for the EMEAS region.  Ms Herbaut is a member of the Supervisory Board of the FCPE  Schneider Actionnariat.  263 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 MANAGEMENT BOARD REPORT MrThierry Jacquet (age: 47) Thierry Jacquet holds a masters degree in Management from  the cole Suprieure de Commerce in Grenoble and a degree  from the Grenoble Technology Institute. He studied Electrical  Engineering at the Paul Louis Merlin School and began his  career in 1982 with the Schneider Electric Group as a cable  tter  for very high voltage work. After a period as a draughtsman, in  1987 he was appointed to the medium voltage technical sales  business where he remained until 1999. After 1995, he was  elected (CFDT - the French Democratic Confederation of Labour)  to the Workers Council of Schneider Electric Grenoble and to  the Central Company Committee for Schneider Electric where  he was Chairman of the economic commission from 2003-2006.  Since 2007, he has been a member of the European Company  Committee of Schneider Electric and secretary of this committee  since 2009. Thierry Jacquet is Chairman of the Supervisory Board  of FCPE Schneider Actionnariat and a member of the Supervisory  Board of FCPE Schneider FranceGermany. Share buybacks - sixteenth resolution - We request that you renew the authorisation given to the Company  by the General Meeting of April21, 2011 to buy back its shares by  any appropriate method, including through the use of derivatives,  pursuant to the provisions of article L.225-209 of the French  Commercial Code. The Company buyback programs may have various objectives: to  reduce the issued capital; or to cover plans for stock options or  plans for stock grants; or to permit the conversion of convertible  debt securities; or to carry out external growth transactions and to  ensure an active market for the Companys shares. Shares bought back may be cancelled in accordance with the  authorisation given to the Management Board by the twenty- fth  resolution adopted by the General Meeting of April21, 2011. Further information on your Companys share buyback programmes  is provided on page246 . You are asked to authorise the Company to buy back shares  representing at most 10% of the issued capital as of the date of  the Meeting (e.g. 54,894,302 shares based on issued capital as at  December31, 2011). The maximum purchase price is set at EUR75.  This authorisation will not be available for use during offer periods. Extraordinary Meeting Capital increases restricted to employees - seventeenth resolution The General Meeting of April21, 2011 authorised the Management  Board to proceed within the 2% capital limit to issue shares to  employees who are members of the PEE company savings plan  (hereafter: twenty-third resolution) as well as to issue shares to  employees from non-French Group companies or to entities created  to represent these employees (hereafter: twenty-fourth resolution).  This last resolution aims to allow employee shareholder operations  in certain countries where the PEE plan rules do not easily comply  with the legislation. Within the scope of these authorisations, the Supervisory Board of  December15, 2011 authorised the Management Board to renew  the annual employee shareholder operation in 2012 within a limit  of 4.9 million shares (almost 0.9% of the capital). This program  will include a non-leveraged and a leveraged plan (x10) restricted  to employees of Group will be offered in 27 countries, excluding  France and the United States, representing 80% ofemployees. The twenty-third resolution is valid until June2013, whereas the  twenty-fourth resolution expires in November2012. Therefore, to  allow a new global employee shareholder program in 2013, we  propose a renewal of this authorisation with the same conditions. The authorisation will not exceed 1% of the capital. They will be  deducted from the ceiling of 2% of the capital set for the issuance  of shares to employees who are members of the PEE plan. Atthe  discretion of the Management Board, the issue price will be based  on either (i)the opening or closing price of the Companys share  quoted on the trading day the decision of the Management Board  setting the issue price is made, or (ii)the average of the opening  or closing prices quoted for the Companys shares over the  twenty trading days preceding the decision of the Management  Board setting the issue price under this resolution or under the  twenty- third resolution. The Management Board may apply a  maximum discount of 20% to the reference price. The discount will  be determined by the Management Board taking into consideration  any foreign legal, regulatory or tax provisions that may apply to any  bene ciary governed by foreign law. This authorisation cancels and replaces the existing authorisation  from August1, 2012 given in the twenty-fourth resolution for the  amounts remaining unused by July 31, 2012. This authorisation  is valid for a period of 18 months and can only be used from  August1,2012. Finally, the eighteenth resolution requests the powers necessary to  carry out formalities.  264 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 SUPERVISORY BOARDS COMMENTS ONTHEMANAGEMENT BOARDS REPORT, MODE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLEL   > 2. Supervisory Boards comments  on the Management Boards  report, mode in accordance  with  articleL . 225-  68  oftheFrench Commercial Code To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Schneider Electric SA, we  present below our report on regulated agreements. Our responsibility is to report to you, based on the information  provided, on the main terms and conditions of agreements that have  been disclosed to us or that we would have discovered at the time  of our work, without commenting on their relevance or substance or  researching the existence of other agreements. Under the provisions  of articles R.225-31 and R.225-58 of the French Commercial Code,  it is the responsibility of shareholders to determine whether the  agreements are appropriate and should be approved.  Furthermore, it is our responsibility, as appropriate, to inform you  of the information set forth in the provisions of articles R. 225-31  and R.225-58 of the French Commercial Code pertaining to the  signing during the past year of agreements already approved by the  Shareholders at the Shareholders Meeting. We carried out our work in accordance with French professional  standards. Those standards require that we perform procedures  to verify that the information given to us agrees with the underlying  documents. The Supervisory Board wishes to congratulate the staff and the  Management Board on the successful conclusion of the One  company programme. But over and above the simple achievement  of their objectives, the Supervisory Board wishes to emphasize  the transformations that Schneider Electric achieved with One that  constitute solid foundations for the future of the Group.  The results for the year ending 31 December 2011 in a particularly  volatile and dif cult environment clearly show:   excellent 14% growth driven largely by 8.3% organic growth,  revenues of over EUR22.3billion;   EBITA before acquisition and integration costs up 7% with a pro t  margin of 14.2%;   Group share of net income, of EUR1,820million;   earnings per share of EUR3.39, up 3%, which based on a  50% payout rate, allows a dividend of EUR1.70 per share for  submission to the General Meeting. These results re ect the commitment and dedication of all Group  employees, to whom the Supervisory Board offer their thanks.  The Supervisory Board also wishes to express its support for the new  company programme Connect, which as President and CEO Jean- Pascal Tricoire states, is designed to add to Ones achievements  and to broaden them to include all our strategic plans, products and  solutions in developed and developing countries, while improving  ef ciency at all levels. In conclusion, the Supervisory Board recommends that shareholders  approve the resolutions tabled by the Management Board.   > 3. Auditors special reports This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors special report on regulated agreements issued in French and it is provided  solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The Statutory Auditors report includes information speci  cally required by French law in such reports, whether modi  ed or not. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards  applicable in France. Statutory Auditors special report on regulated agreements   265 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 AUDITORS SPECIAL REPORTS Agreements submitted totheshareholders for  approval atthe shareholders meeting Agreements and obligations authorised since year-end  We have been advised of the following commitments and obligations,  authorised since the end of the previous  nancial year, which were  subject to advance authorisation by your Supervisory Board. The adaptation of the top-hat pension plan with de ned  contributions for the French Group Senior Executives. Persons involved: Jean-P ascal Tricoire  (President and CEO) and  Emmanuel Babeau (Board Member). Your Supervisory Board, in its meeting of 21 February 2012,  authorised the change to the top-hat pension plan with de ned  contributions for the Group managers that are subject to French  social security plans (article 39), the bene ts of the modi ed  plan for Board members and the signing by your company of an  outsourcing agreement for the new plan under the terms of the  regulated agreements and obligations. The Board members have  a direct or indirect interest. The modi cation aims to make this plan compliant with the AFEP/ MEDEF Business Governance Code by making provision for linking  acquisition of rights to length of service in the company. In order to  conform to these recommendations, the reform anticipates:    closure of the current article 39 plan to all new entrants;    the implementation of a new article 39 plan applicable to  members of the Executive Committee and the Management  Board, which provides for the progressive vesting of rights  according to seniority in the Group and the Executive Committee.  Full rights are gained after 15 years of service for a new entrant  to the plan, except for the Group service condition. Conditional  rights under the new plan are deducted from the current article  39 plan maintained for its current bene ciaries.  This new plan is contingent upon completing a career in the  company with the  exibility introduced by Social Security in  2004. A conditional assurance income is thus maintained in  the event of dismissal or redundancy after 55 years of age  without restarting work or for 2nd or 3rd category disability as  de ned by Social Security without restarting work.  In other cases, the new plan includes the provisions of the  current plan, notably:  – limiting the top-hat pension to 25% of the Reference Salary  (60% of the difference between the average remuneration  for the last 3 years and the total annuities paid from external  pension plans) considering the pension paid for the article 83  plans implemented by the Group (unchanged from current  plan);  – the right to a widow/widowers pension for the surviving  partner;  – a spouses pension if a director dies before retirement age is  limited to rights acquired by the date of death;  – pension supplement paid to a director from the retirement date  after disability occurring during work activities.    outsourcing of the new article 39 plan: this outsourcing is  mandatory. To this effect, an insurance contract for company  pensions with de ned contributions (Article L. 137-1 of the Social  Security code) was signed on 23 February 2012 by Schneider  Electric SA and Schneider Electric Industries SAS with AXA  France Vie.  The nature of the contract guarantees and the implementation and  operation methods were de ned in accordance with legislative  and regulatory provisions. The contract was agreed with normal  insurance contract conditions, under which implementation  depends on duration of human life.  It aims to guarantee payment of annuity arrears due under the  rules of the new plan for contracting companies. It takes effect  on 1 July 2012 and can be terminated each year by the parties  provided notice is given before 31 October that will take effect on  31 December of the same year.  The insurance premium amounts will be established according  to the periodic results from actuary experts for the respective  commitments of the contracting companies.  The guarantees agreed by the insurer were agreed under normal  conditions.  On the date that the contract comes into effect, the insurer will open  a collective pension fund for the contracting companies. This fund  will cover commitments resulting from the plan. The net premiums  collected by the insurer will be allocated to technical provisions for  this collective fund. Contracting companies will have recourse to  arbitrage as support for the investment.  Provisions relating to the payment of employee and former  employee rights and to the annuity service are standard provisions.  The particular provisions relate to:   – elements of the foundation agreement and rules of the top-hat  pension plan for senior executive members of the Executive  Committee for the Schneider Electric Group, provided it shall  be adopted through the unilateral decision by the contracting  companies; and   – commitments made to bene t the corporate of cers for which  the procedures established by the French Commercial Code  are applicable.  A special revaluation fund for the annuities currently being paid  will be formed. The contracting companies will be able to decide  their allocation freely when their balance exceeds 10% of the policy  liabilities for the annuities being paid (i.e. to all the stockholders or  to the collective funds). Agreements and obligations to Jean-Pascal Tricoire. Person involved: Jean-P ascal Tricoire  (President and CEO). Within the scope of renewing the appointment of Jean-Pascal  Tricoire, on 21 February 2012 your Supervisory Board decided to  renew, under the conditions of the adjustments presented below  for the supplementary cover of health, incapacity, disability and  death risks, the top-hat pension plan and the bene ts of forced  dismissal compensation, the rewritten article of association  concerning Jean-Pascal Tricoire that was produced in agreement  with Mr Tricoire following his decision to resign from his employment  contract on 2 May 2009 and approved by the Shareholders   Meeting of 23 April 2009.  This commitment is subject to approval by the Shareholders   Meeting for approval of year-end  nancial statements on 31  December 2011.   266 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 AUDITORS SPECIAL REPORTS This article of association, which has been rewritten, allows that  Jean-Pascal Tricoire:  1) to continue to bene t from:   – the supplementary health, incapacity, disability and death cover  available to the Groups French directors. These contingency  and supplementary cover compensations are however now  subject to performance criteria. Compensation is subject to  one of the following two criteria being present: positive average  net pro t of the  ve years preceding the event, or positive  average free cash  ow for the  ve years preceding the event;  – the Schneider Electric SA and Schneider Electric Industries  SAS employee bene t plan, which offers health, incapacity,  disability and death cover;  – the modi ed top hat pension plan for Schneider Group senior  executives as authorised by the Supervisory Board of 21  February 2012 and submitted for approval to the Shareholders   Meeting for approval of year-end  nancial statements on 31  December 2011. 2) compensation in the event of leaving his corporate  appointment, capped at twice the average of the effective  annual remuneration for the last three years (hereafter  Maximum Amount) taking into account compensation  provided for in the non-compete agreement described below  and subject to performance criteria. This compensation was  previously capped at two years target remuneration ( xed  salary and target bonus) in accordance with the commitment  approved by the Shareholders  Meeting of 23 April 2009.  Compensation will be due in the event that:   – Mr Tricoire resigns, is dismissed or is not reappointed as a  member or President and CEO in the 12 months following a  material change in Schneider Electrics shareholder structure  that could change the membership of the Supervisory Board;   – Mr Tricoire resigns, is dismissed or is not reappointed as a  member or President and CEO following a reorientation of the  strategy pursued and promoted by him until that time, whether  or not in connection with a change in Schneider Electrics  shareholder structure as described above;   – Mr Tricoire is asked to resign, is terminated or is not reappointed  as a member or Chairman of the Management Board when  the mathematical average of the rate of achievement of  performance objectives used to calculate his variable bonus  was 50% or higher in the four full  nancial years preceding his  departure (or, if he has been a member and Chairman of the  Management Board for less than four years, in the number of  full  nancial years since his appointment).  Compensation will depend on the mathematical average of the rate of  achievement of performance objectives used to determine the variable  portion of Mr Tricoires compensation for the three full years preceding  the date of the Board Meeting at which the decision is made.  If the mathematical average is:   – less than 50%: no compensation will be paid;   – equal to 50%: 75% of the maximum compensation will be  paid;   – equal to 100%: 100% of the maximum compensation will be  paid;   – between 50% and 100%, compensation will be calculated on  a straight-line basis at a rate of 75% to 100% of the maximum.  3) is bound by his non-compete agreement should he leave the  Company, unless a mutually agreeable arrangement is found;  the agreement is for a period of one year and is remunerated  (60% of target remuneration);  4) will retain all of the stock options, stock grants and performance  stock grants allocated or to be allocated to him should he leave  the Company. Compensation will only be due if the mathematical  average of the rate of achievement of performance objectives  used to determine the variable portion of Jean-Pascal  TRICOIREs compensation for the three full years preceding  prior to his departure is 50% or higher.  Agreements already submitted tothe  shareholders for approval attheShareholders   meeting We were informed of the status of the following agreements already  approved by the shareholders at the Shareholders  Meeting in prior  years that were or were not entered into during the past year:    Bene t from the top-hat pension plan for French Group senior  executives granted to Emmanuel Babeau The Supervisory Board, at its meetings held on 23 April 2009 and 17  December 2009, has authorised Emmanuel Babeau to bene t from  the top-hat pension plan for Schneider Electric senior executives,  as he is entitled under his service contract with Schneider Electric  Industries S.A.S. In the event that Mr Babeau is still in of ce at the  date of his retirement, these plans (de ned contribution plan, article  83, and de ned bene t plan, article 39) will ensure him a pension  equal to 25% of his average salaries over the last three years.  Nevertheless, in the event that Mr Babeau leaves the Group before  his retirement, the contributions related to article 83 would be his.  These contributions represent a capital constituting a guaranteed  income, capital which increases by EUR 22 thousand euros per  year.   Agreement with AXA (Board of Directors Meeting on 6 January  2006) The shareholders agreement between AXA and Schneider Electric  SA, approved by the Board of Directors on 6 January 2006, calls  for the continuation of stable cross-shareholdings between the two  groups. Each group also holds a call option that may be exercised  in the event of a hostile takeover. This agreement was announced by the two parties on 22 December  2011. It will end on 15 May 2012.  Agreed at  Courbevoie and Paris-La Dfense , 21March 2012 The Statutory Auditors  French original signed by Mazars Ernst & Young et Autres  David CHAUDAT Yvon SALAN  267 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 AUDITORS SPECIAL REPORTS Report from the Statutory Auditors on a share or securities issue with cancellation  ofpre-emptive subscription rights, reserved for a category of named beneficiaries  Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting of May3, 2012 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as statutory auditors of your Company, and pursuant  to articles L.225-135 and seq., L.228-92 and L.225-135 and seq.  of the French Commercial Code, we present below our report on  the project to issue common shares or securities providing access  to the Companys share capital reserved for (i) the employees and  corporate of cers of Schneider Electric Group companies, linked to  the Company under the conditions of article L.225-180 of the French  Commercial Code and of article L.3344-1 of the French Labour  Code and with their head of ce outside France; (ii) and/or mutual  funds or other entities, whether or not they have legal personality,  employee shareholdings invested in securities of a company whose  holders of units or shareholders are the persons mentioned in (i)  of this paragraph; (iii) and/or any banking institution or subsidiary  of such an institution acting at the request of the Company for the  purposes of implementation of an employee shareholding or savings  plan for the bene t of the persons mentioned in (i) of this paragraph  with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights. The maximum  nominal amount by which the capital may be increased may not  exceed 1% of the issued capital as of the date of the present  Shareholders   Meeting and which you are asked to approve. The  1% capital limit will be imposed on the planned 2% limit in the  twenty-second resolution adopted by the Shareholders   Meeting of  the April21, 2011; however it is autonomous and separate from the  aggregate amount by which the capital may be increased under  the Fourteenth and Sixteenth Resolutions of the General Meeting  of April21, 2011. You are asked to authorise the Management Board, on the basis  described in its report and with the powers of delegation, the power  to set the methods for this transaction and to exclude your pre- emptive subscriptions rights for the stocks and the securities to be  issued, for a period of 18 months from this Shareholders   Meeting.  This authorisation may only be used as and from August1, 2012. The Management Board is responsible for reporting to shareholders  on the proposed share issue in accordance with articles R.225-113  et seq. of the French Commercial Code. Our responsibility is to  express an opinion on the fairness of gures taken from the nancial  statements, on the proposal to cancel shareholders pre-emptive  subscription right, and on certain other information concerning the  issue, included in this report.  We performed the procedures we deemed necessary to conduct the  mission in accordance with the professional guidelines of the French  Institute of Statutory Auditors (CNCC). Those standards require that  we perform procedures to check the content of the report drawn up  by the competent management authority concerning this transaction  and the methods used to determine the share price.  We have no matters to report concerning the method for determining  the issue price as described in the Management Report, contingent  upon our nal review of the terms of the proposed issue.  Since the  nal conditions for the issue have not yet been xed, we  cannot formulate an opinion on these conditions and consequently  have no opinion on the proposal made to you to cancel your pre- emptive subscription right. In compliance with article R.225-116 of the French Commercial  Code, we will prepare an additional report when this authorisation is  used by your Management Board. Courbevoie  and  Paris-La Dfense, March21, 2012, The Statutory Auditors French original signed by Mazars Ernst & Young et Autres   David CHAUDAT Yvon SALAN  268 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 RESOLUTIONS FIRST RESOLUTION (Approval of the 2011 parent company  financial statements) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, having heard the report of the  Management Board and of the Statutory Auditors, and noting the  Supervisory Boards comments on the Management Boards report  and on the Company  nancial statements, approves the  nancial  statements for 2011 as presented, as well as the transactions  contained in these statements or summarised in the reports  showing a net income of EUR2,603.7million. SECOND RESOLUTION (Approval of 2011 consolidated financial  statements) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Shareholders Meetings, having heard  the report of the Management Board and of the Statutory Auditors,  and noting the Supervisory Boards comments on the Management  Boards report and on the Company consolidated  nancial  statements, approves the consolidated  nancial statements for  2011 as presented, as well as the transactions contained in these  statements or summarised in the reports. THIRD RESOLUTION (Apropriation of profit for the financial year  and dividend proposal)  The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and  majority requirements for Ordinary Meetings, and on the  recommendation of the Management Board, based on the  number of 548,943,024shares with a nominal value of EUR4 as of  December31, 2011, decides to appropriate the pro t available for  distribution for the year 2011, consisting of: (i) retained earnings from the previous  nancial year of  EUR96,496,292.01; (ii) net income for the year of EUR2,603,738,064.30; (iii) less the statutory allocation to the legal reserve of  EUR2,009,936.80; representing a total amount of EUR2,698,224,419.51, as follows: Share dividend  EUR933,203,140.80 Retained earnings  EUR1,765,021,278.71 TOTAL EUR2,698,224,419.51  The Shareholders Meeting therefore decides a dividend payment  of EUR1.70 for each of the EUR4 par value shares carrying dividend  rights on January1, 2011. The full dividend proposed is eligible for the 40% allowance for  individuals resident in France provided for in article158-3-2 of the  French Tax Code. This allowance will not apply if the shareholder  has chosen to pay the withholding tax on his or her dividends  provided for in article117 quarter of the French Tax Code. Unpaid dividends on treasury shares held at the ex-dividend date  will be allocated to retained earnings. Apart from the dividend described above, no other amounts eligible  or not eligible for the 40% allowance provided for in article158-3-2  of the French Tax Code will be distributed. Dividend payouts for Schneider ElectricSA for the last three years  were as follows:   2008 2009 2010 Dividend paid per share of  EUR8 par value (1) 3.45 2.05 3.20 Dividend paid per share  adjusted for the division by  two of the par value  (2) 1.725 1.025 1.60 (1) The full dividend is eligible for a 40% allowance for individuals  resident in France for tax purposes. No non-eligible dividends  have been distributed. (2) The two-for-one share split occured on  effective on  September2, 2011. FOURTH RESOLUTION (Approval of the arguments and regulated  obligations made in 2012 relating to the  top-hat defined benefit pension plan for  Management Board members) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, having heard the report of  the Management Board and Statutory Auditors special report  presented pursuant to the provisions of article L.225-88 of the  French Commercial Code on agreements and obligations as per  L.225-86, L.225-90-1 and L.225-79-1 of the Code, approves the  obligations and the agreement presented in these reports relating to  the top-hat pension plan with de ned contributions for Management  Board members. FIFTH RESOLUTION (Approval of the agreements and regulated  obligations relating to the status of  Jean- Pascal Tricoire) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, having heard the report of  the Management Board and Statutory Auditors special report  presented pursuant to the provisions of article L.225-88 of the  French Commercial Code on agreements and obligations as per  L.225-86 and L.225-90-1 of the Code, approves the obligations  and the agreement presented in these reports relating to the bene t  plan for MrJean-Pascal Tricoire, as well as the compensation and  bene ts due in case of cessation of duties.   >  4. Resolutions Ordinary Meeting  269 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 RESOLUTIONS SIXTH RESOLUTION (Renewal of the appointment of MrLo Apotheker  as a member of the Supervisory Board) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, renews the appointment  of MrLo Apotheker as a member of the Supervisory Board for  a period of four years, expiring at the close of the Shareholders  Meeting in 2016 to approve the 2015  nancial statements. SEVENTH RESOLUTION (Ratification of the co-opting of MrXavier  Fontanet and his appointment as a member of  the Supervisory Board) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, rati es the co-opting of  Mr Xavier Fontanet as a member of the Supervisory Board with  effect from December15, 2011 and appoints him as a member  of the Supervisory Board for a period of four years, expiring at the  close of the Shareholders Meeting in 2016 to approve the 2015   nancial statements. EIGHTH RESOLUTION (Renewal of the appointment of MrJrme  Gallot as a member of the Supervisory Board) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, renews the appointment  of Mr Jrme Gallot  as a member of the Supervisory Board for  a period of four years, expiring at the close of the Shareholders  Meeting in 2016 to approve the 2015  nancial statements. NINTH RESOLUTION (Renewal of the appointment of MrWillyKissling  as a member of the Supervisory Board) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, renews the appointment of  MrWilly Kissling as a member of the Supervisory Board for a period  of two years due to the new statutory provisions relating to the  age of Board members, expiring at the close of the Shareholders  Meeting in 2014 to approve the 2013  nancial statements. TENTH RESOLUTION (Renewal of the appointment of MrHenriLachmann  as a member of the Supervisory Board) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, renews the appointment of  Mr Henri Lachmann as a member of the Supervisory Board for  a period of two years due to the new statutory provisions with  regard to the age of Board members, expiring at the close of  the Shareholders Meeting in 2014 to approve the 2013  nancial  statements. ELEVENTH RESOLUTION (Renewal of the appointment of MrRick Thoman  as a member of the Supervisory Board) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, renews the appointment of  MrRick Thoman as a member of the Supervisory Board for a period  of two years due to the new statutory provisions relating to the  age of Board members, expiring at the close of the Shareholders  Meeting in 2014 to approve the 2013  nancial statements. TWELFTH RESOLUTION* (Nomination of a Supervisory Board member to  represent the employee shareholders pursuant  to article11- c of the articles of association). The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, nominates Mr Manfred Brill  to replace Mr Claude Briquet, whose appointment has expired,  as a member of the Supervisory Board representing the employee  shareholders for a period of four years, pursuant to article11- c of  the articles of association, expiring at the close of the Shareholders  Meeting in 2016 to approve the 2015  nancial statement. THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION* (Renewal of the appointment of a Supervisory  Board member to represent the employee  shareholders pursuant to article11- c of the  articles of association). The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, renews the appointment of  MrClaude Briquet, member of the Supervisory Board representing  the employee shareholders, whose appointment has expired, as  a member of the Supervisory Board representing the employee  shareholders for a period of four years, pursuant to article11- c of  the articles of association, expiring at the close of the Shareholders  Meeting in 2016 to approve the 2015  nancial statement. FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION* (Nomination of a Supervisory Board member  to represent the employee shareholders  pursuant to article11- c of the articles of  association). The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, nominates MrsMagali Herbaut  to replace MrClaude Briquet, whose appointment has expired, as  a member of the Supervisory Board representing the employee  shareholders for a period of four years, pursuant to article11- c of  the articles of association, expiring at the close of the Shareholders  Meeting in 2016 to approve the 2015  nancial statement.  270 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 RESOLUTIONS Extraordinary Meeting SEVENTEENTH RESOLUTION (Capital increase reserved for a class of  beneficiaries: for employees of non-French  Group companies, either directly or through  entities acting on their behalf) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Extraordinary Meetings, having considered the  report of the Management Board and the special report of the  Statutory Auditors, pursuant to articlesL.225-129-2 and L.225-138  of the French Commercial Code: 1. delegates to the Management Board, with authority to delegate  the powers necessary to effect the increase in one or more  stages, at the times it shall set and in the proportions it shall  determine, the share capital, within the limits of a maximum  of 1% of capital at the date of this Shareholders Meeting,  by issuing shares or securities granting access to Company  capital that confer the same rights as existing shares, and such  issue will be reserved for persons who meet the requirements  of the category de ned below, with the understanding that  (i)the ceiling of 1% of capital set above will be applied to the  2% ceiling set in the twenty-second resolution adopted by  the Shareholders Meeting of April 21, 2011, but is instead  autonomous and separate from the ceilings in the fourteenth  and sixteenth resolutions adopted by Shareholders Meeting  of April21, 2011, (ii)that this resolution cannot be used until  August1, 2012; 2. decides to waive the pre-emptive subscription rights of  shareholders to the shares or other securities granting access to  capital issued pursuant to this resolution and to reserve the right  to subscribe to one and/or the other class of bene ciaries who  meet the following characteristics: (i)employees and corporate  of cers of Schneider Electric Group companies related to the  Company under the conditions of article L.225- 180 of the  French Commercial Code and articleL.3344-1 of the French  Labour Code that have their headquarters outside France,  (ii)and/or mutual funds or other entities, whether or not they  have legal personality, employee shareholdings invested in  securities of a company whose unitholders or shareholders are  the persons mentioned in (i)of this paragraph; (iii)and/or any  banking institution or subsidiary of such an institution acting at  the request of the Company for the purposes of implementation  FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION* (Nomination of a Supervisory Board member  to represent the employee shareholders  pursuant to article11- c of the articles of  association). The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meetings, nominates MrThierry Jacquet  to replace MrClaude Briquet, whose appointment has expired, as  a member of the Supervisory Board representing the employee  shareholders for a period of four years, pursuant to article11- c of  the articles of association, expiring at the close of the Shareholders  Meeting in 2016 to approve the 2015  nancial statement. *  Resolutions twelve to fifteen: pursuant to article11 - c of the  articles of association of the Company, for a single seat of a  member of the Supervisory Board to represent the employee  shareholders to be filled, only the candidate who has obtained the  largest number of votes from present and represented share- holders will be appointed. Following the recommendation of the  Supervisory Board, the Management Board has approved the  14th resolution, and therefore invites you to vote in favour of this  resolution and to abstain from voting on the 12th, 13th and 15th  resolutions. SIXTEENTH RESOLUTION (Authorisation for the Company to buy back  company shares: maximum purchase price  EUR75) The Shareholders Meeting, acting with the quorum and majority  requirements for Ordinary Meeting, having heard the report of  the Management Board authorises the Management Board, in  accordance with article L.225-209 of the French Commercial  Code, to buy back Company shares in order to reduce the capital,  cover plans for stock options or plans for stock grants, or for  securities convertible into shares; to carry out external growth  transactions or to stimulate the market for Company shares under  a liquidityagreement.   The maximum number of shares that may be acquired pursuant  to this authorisation shall not exceed 10% of the issued share  capital as of the date of this Shareholders Meeting (e.g.  54,894,302shares as of December31, 2011).   The maximum purchase price is set at EUR75. However, if all or  some of the shares acquired pursuant to these conditions are  intended to grant stock options, pursuant to articlesL.225-177  et seq. of the French Commercial Code, the selling price of the  shares in question will be determined in accordance with the legal  provisions governing stock options.   As a result of the limits above, share buybacks may not exceed a  maximum amount of EUR4,117,072,650.   The shares may be acquired, disposed, exchanged or transferred  at any time, except when there is a public offering on Schneider  ElectricSA securities, in compliance with current legislation. This  may be done by any appropriate method on the market, over the  counter, or by any means including through block acquisitions  or disposals, the use of put or call options or the use of any  derivative  nancial instrument.   Shares acquired may also be cancelled, subject to compliance  with the provisions of articles L.225-204 and L.225-205 of  the French Commercial Code and in accordance with the  twenty- fourth resolution adopted by the General Meeting of  April21, 2011.   The Management Board may adjust the price(s) set above to take  into account the effect of any of the following: (i)an issue of bonus  shares or increase in the par value of existing shares paid up  by capitalising reserves or earnings, (ii)a stock-split or reverse  stock-split, or (iii)more generally, any transaction affecting equity,  to account for the impact of such transactions on the share price.  Said adjustment will be determined by multiplying the price by the  ratio between the number of shares outstanding before and after  the transaction.   The Management Board shall have full authorisation to implement  this resolution, directly or through a representative.   This authorisation will expire at the end of a period of 18months  from the date of this Meeting.  271 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING RESOLUTIONS of an employee shareholding or savings plan for the bene t of  the persons mentioned in (i)of this subsection insofar as the use  of subscription of the person authorised under this resolution  would allow employees of subsidiaries located abroad to  bene t from share ownership or equivalent employee savings  plans in terms of economic bene t to those enjoyed by other  employees of the Group; 3. decides that the unit price of the shares to be issued pursuant  to this resolution shall be  xed by the Management Board  on the basis of the share price of the Company on the  NYSEEuronextregulated market in Paris; the issue price will be  determined at the discretion of the Management Board on the  basis of either (i)the  rst or last trading price of the shares of the  Company during the trading session the day of the decision of  the Management Board  xing the issue price or (ii)the average  opening or closing prices of the shares of the Company during  the 20trading days preceding the date of the decision of the  Management Board  xing the issue price under this resolution  or  xing the issue price under the twenty-second resolution  adopted by the Shareholders Meeting on April 21, 2011;  the Management Board may  x the issue price by applying a  maximum discount of 20% to the share price of the Company  shares determined by either of the methods described in (i)and  (ii)of this paragraph, the percentage of this discount applied  to the share price of the Company will be determined by the  relevant Management Board, including legal, regulatory and tax  provisions of foreign law applicable, as the case may be, to any  persons who are bene ciaries of the issue; 4. decides that the Management Board shall have all powers,  under the conditions provided by law and within the limits set  above, to implement this delegation and determine the list of  bene ciaries within the categories established by this resolution  and the number of securities to be offered to each of them,  provided that the Management Board may decide that the  capital increase will be realised for the amounts subscribed,  provided that at least 75% of the shares or other securities  granting access to capital offered have been subscribed, and in  particular:  – de ne the characteristics of the securities to be issued,  setting the issue price, dates, times, terms and conditions of  subscription, payment, delivery and possession of shares and  securities, within legal or regulatory limits,  – note the capital increase, issue shares and other securities  granting access to capital, amend the corresponding bylaws,  – and, more generally, enter into any agreement, in particular for  achieving the successful completion of the proposed issues,  take any measures and carry out all formalities for the issue,  trading and servicing of the securities issued by virtue of this  delegation and the exercise of the rights attached thereto, and  generally do whatever is necessary; 5. decides that this delegation shall nullify as of July31, 2012 the  authorisation given by the Shareholders Meeting of April21,  2011 in its twenty-third resolution for its amounts not used by  the Management Board. The delegation conferred by this resolution shall be valid for a period  of 18months from this Shareholders Meeting. EIGHTEENTH RESOLUTION (Powers for formalities) The Shareholders Meeting gives full powers to the bearer of a copy  or excerpts of the minutes stating these resolutions to accomplish  all legal and administrative formalities.   272 2011 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC ANNUAL AND EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS MEETING 8 RESOLUTIONS  DOCUMENT DE RFRENCE 2011 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 273 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THEREGISTRATIONDOCUMENT  PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Persons responsible for  theRegistrationDocument     > Persons responsible for the  Registration Document  I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure  that such is the case, the information contained in the registration  document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with the  facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the  nancial  statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable ac- counting standards and that they present fairly the assets,  nancial  position and results of the company and the consolidated Group.  To the best of my knowledge, the business review accurately pre- sents the changes in business, results and  nancial position of the  company and the consolidated Group, as well as a description of  their principal risks and contingencies. I obtained a statement from the Statutory Auditors at the end of  their engagement af rming that they had reviewed the entire regis- tration document and examined the information about the  nancial  position and the historical accounts contained therein.  The report on the consolidated  nancial statements for the period  ended 31 December 2010 contains an observation referring to the  presentation of the consolidated  nancial statements and the new  applicable accounting standards.  Executed on 22 March 2012 On behalf of the Management Board Jean-Pascal Tricoire  President and CEO  Schneider Electric SA  Pursuant to Article 28 of Commission regulation 809/2004/EC, the following information is incorporated by reference in the pre- sent registration document:   the consolidated  nancial statements and corresponding Auditors Reports provided in Chapter 6 of the registration document  for the ended December 31, 2009 , registered with Autorit des Marchs Financiers  (AMF) under number D10 -0125 on  March19 ,2010 ,   the consolidated  nancial statements and corresponding Auditors Reports provided in Chapter 5 of the registration document  for the ended Thursday, December 31, 2010 , registered with Autorit des Marchs Financiers  (AMF) under number D11 -0151   on March 21 , 2011 ,   the annual company  nancial statements and corresponding Auditors Reports provided in Chapter 7 of the registration  document for the ended December 31, 2009 , registered with Autorit des Marchs Financiers  (AMF) under number D10 -0125   on March 19 , 2010 ,   the annual company  nancial statements and corresponding Auditors Reports provided in Chapter 6 of the registration  document for the ended Thursday, December 31, 2010 , registered with Autorit des Marchs Financiers  (AMF) under number  D11 -0151 on March 21 , 2011 ,   the business review provided in Chapter 4 of the registration document for the ended December 31, 2009 , registered with  Autorit des Marchs Financiers  (AMF) under number D10 -0125 on March 19 , 2010 ,   the business review provided in Chapter 4 of the registration document for the ended Thursday, December 31, 2010 , registered  with Autorit des Marchs Financiers  (AMF) under number D11 -0151 on March 21 , 2011 . Passages not incorporated in this document are either irrelevant for the investor or covered in another section of the registration  document. Attestation   DOCUMENT DE RFRENCE 2011 SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 274 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THEREGISTRATIONDOCUMENT  PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE AUDIT OFTHEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS  > Persons responsible for the audit  ofthefinancial statements Date appointed Appointment  expires Statutory Auditors  Ernst & Young et Autres Tour First- 1, place des Saisons  - 92037 Paris-la-Dfense-Cedex   Represented by Yvon Salan 1992 2016 Mazars Tour Exaltis -61, rue Henri- Regnault - 92400 Courbevoie  Represented byDavidChaudat 2004 2016 Alternate Auditors  Auditex 2010 2016 ThierryBlanchetier 2010 2016 Ernst & Young et Autres and Mazars are members of the Auditors Regional Company of Versailles.    This document was printed in France by an ImprimVert certi ed printer on recyclable, chlorine-free and PEFC  certi ed paper produced from sustainably managed forests. Financial Calendar  Investors relations May 3, 2012  Shareholders Annual Meeting (Paris) May 16, 2012  Dividend payment  Financial releases February  22 , 2012  2011 Annual Results April 20 , 2012  Q1 2012 Sales August  1 , 2012   Half Year Results October 25 , 2012  Q3 2012 Sales Investors Relations:  Carina Ho Tl. +33 (0)1 41 39 60 84  Fax +33 (0)1 41 29 71 42 Press Contact: Vronique Roquet Montegon Tl: +33 (0)1 41 29 70 76  Fax: +33 (0)1 41 29 88 14 www.schneider-electric.com  Headquarters: 35, rue Joseph Monier - CS 30323 F-92506 Rueil-Malmaison Cedex (France) Tl. : +33 (0) 1 41 29 70 00 Fax : +33 (0) 1 41 29 71 00 www.schneider-electric.com Incorporated in France, governed by a Management Board and Supervisory Board, with issued capital of EUR2,195,772,096  Registered in Nanterre, R.C.S. 542 048 574 Siret n: 542 048 574 01 091  Schneider Electric SA