I Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsible Business Report 2011  II The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 Contents 	 1	 Message	from	the	President	&	CEO 	 2	 About	Rezidor 	 3	 The	World	Around	Us 	 6	 Organisation,	Governance	and	Tmeline 	 7	 Responsible	Business	Highlights 	 8	 Pillar	1:	Health	and	Safety	of	our	Guests	and	Employees 	 14	 Pillar	2:	Ethical	and	social	issues	in	the	company	and	the	society 	 18	 Pillar	3:	Reducing	our	impact	on	the	environment 	 25	 Environmental	certifications	 	 26	 Summary	of	progress	 	 28	 GRI	Standard	Disclosures	Table 	 30	 Global	Compact	Compliance 	 31	 About	the	Report Unless otherwise indicated, achievements mentioned in this report  cover all hotels which are managed, leased or franchised by the Rezidor  Hotel Group. This includes 325 properties which were in operation on  31 December 2011. Note: From 18 January 2012, the Rezidor Hotel group became a member  of the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. Carlson owns the core brands  Radisson and Park Inn and is the majority shareholder of The Rezidor  Hotel Group. The legal company entity is the Rezidor Hotel Group.  Therefore this report refers to Rezidor.    See www.rezidor.com for more information.   1 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group Under our joint name – the Carlson Rezidor  Hotel Group – we are seen as one operator  across the worldwide market. This global  cooperation also means we give even more  attention to our role as a Responsible Corporate  Citizen. Together with our guests, owners,  employees and other stakeholders, we continu- ously strive to maximise our environmental  and social performance. We are already proud  that our efforts have been recognised and  rewarded: in 2011, for the second year in a  row, Rezidor has been named one of the  worlds most ethical companies. Rezidor has come a long way since we pio- neered Responsible Business in the hospitality  industry with the launch of our environmental  policy in 1989. Over the years, our Responsi- ble Business programme has developed into an  award-winning strategy which is focused on  three pillars: the health and safety of guests  and employees; respecting social and ethical  issues in the company and the communities in  which we operate; and minimising our envi- ronmental footprint. Our passion for Responsible Business is  shared by all our employees. They live  Responsible Business in the daily operations  and carry the core values of the company  through our unique Yes I Can! service philos- ophy. Together with Carlson, we are now  looking to achieve truly global synergies in  the area of Responsible Business. These will  be achieved through our:   Global Business School   Industry leading Responsible Business   training, including a module focusing on  Child Protection   Global Responsible Business Action Month  (in 2011, Rezidor celebrated the eighth   edition of this event)   Partnership with the World Childhood  Foundation   New global partnership with World Cleanup  2012. In 2012 we return to our environmental leader- ship roots with the launch of an ambitious  energy saving initiative – Think Planet!   We will continue our commitment to Respon- sible Business as we grow our leading brands  globally.  Kurt Ritter, President & CEO 2011	marked	another	impressive	year	for	Responsible	Business	at	Rezidor	and	across	all	of	our	hotels	in	 Europe,	the	Middle	East	and	Africa.	In	2012,	together	with	our	strategic	partner	Carlson,	we	are	going	global. Going global The three pillars of  Responsible Business 1.  Taking responsibility for health  and safety of guests and employees 2.  Respecting social and ethical issues  in the company as well as in the  community 3.  Reducing our impact on the   environment. Message from the President & CEO  2 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 1 1 40 8 9 5 24 45 21 7 2 13 4 11 63 2 1 1 1 63 1 1820 11 2 12 8 1 22 25 4 1 6 21 2 3 1 1 2 1 1 1 6 1 1 4 3 2 11 1 4 12 3 21 1 1 51 2 23 4 7 1 3 6 1 9 3 2 1 2 1 11 1 1 2 6 1     The	Rezidor	Hotel	Group	is	one	of	the	fastest	growing	hotel	operators	in	the	world	with		 a	presence	in	65	countries	and	three	strong	hotel	brands. About Rezidor The hotels in our portfolio are operated under  three core brands: Radisson Blu; Park Inn by  Radisson; and Hotel Missoni. We develop and  license Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson  in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA)  under Master Franchise Agreements with  Carlson, a global, privately owned hospitality  and travel company. The Hotel Missoni brand  is operated under a worldwide licensing agree- ment with the Italian fashion house Missoni.  At the end of 2011, Rezidor had 325 hotels  (circa 71,000 rooms) in operation and 100  hotels (circa 22,000 rooms) under development  in 65 countries across EMEA.  Rezidor focuses on hotel management.   Currently, all hotels in Rezidors portfolio are  either operated by Rezidor itself under a lease  or a management agreement, or by a separate  operator using one of the Rezidor brands  under a franchise agreement. Our Responsible  Business programme is encouraged at all  hotels, including franchised properties, and  our corporate offices. Hotels in operation Hotels under development Regional offices  3 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group Striving	to	be	a	successful,	sustainable	business	requires	a	dedicated	appreciation	of	the	 environment	in	which	we	operate.	Rezidor	recognises	we	have	an	impact	on	a	wide	range	 of	stakeholders,	both	directly	and	indirectly. The World Around Us   – Responsible Business Stakeholders Our Impact, Risks and Opportunities In 2010, the World Travel & Tourism Council  (WTTC) estimated that the global travel  industry generated 258 million jobs and con- tributed 9% of the global gross domestic prod- uct. An industry of this size has a considerable  impact on the social, economic and environ- mental conditions around the world. We have identified three critical global  impacts and trends that affect our business and  value chain: climate change; resource use, and  employment. Caring for Climate The UN World Tourism Organisation  (UNWTO) estimates that travel and tourism,  excluding aviation, was responsible for about  3% of global greenhouse gas emissions in  2010. UNWTO believes that this figure will  grow at 2.5% per year until 2035. The tourism sector does not only contribute  to climate change, it also faces risks as a conse- quence of climate change. These risks are  mainly linked to hotel locations, an increase in  severe weather patterns, and to increasing leg- islative pressures and taxation related to car- bon emissions. Rezidor believes this gives us clear responsibil- ity to take serious action on climate change. At  Rezidor, we do this by adhering to the UN  Global Compact and Caring for Climate ini- tiative and by continuously striving to lower  our carbon footprint. Reducing Water Consumption Hotels are very resource-intensive, particu- larly in terms of energy and water use. They  also impact the natural environment through  waste generation.  In 2006 the UN estimated that by 2050, the  worlds need for drinkable water will double  and the need for fresh water for agriculture  will increase by 80%. In light of this predic- tion, Rezidor has recognised the urgent need  to continuously reduce water consumption in  our operations and to integrate the newest  water-saving technologies in our new build  hotels and during major renovations. Being a global employer It has been said that arguing against global- ization is like arguing against the laws of grav- ity, Kofi Annan, UN Secretary General  (1997-2006). Workforces are becoming increasingly global.  The hospitality industry in general, and Rezi- dor in particular, employs people from very  diverse ethnic and religious backgrounds.  With hotels in 65 countries across EMEA,  Rezidors staff represent more than 140 differ- ent nationalities. The wide array of countries in which we  operate and the backgrounds of our employees  means that we have to diligently check we  comply with local laws, inform our employees  of their rights, ensure non-discrimination, and  make sure our staff operate to the highest eth- ical principles wherever they are located.  For our Code of Ethics and its companywide  implementation, Rezidor has been listed as one  of the Worlds Most Ethical Companies for  the second year in a row.  At Rezidor we believe diversity is an asset.  We can learn from each other as a company  and as individuals, develop talent globally, and  progress further as a global workforce.  4 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 The World Around Us Our Stakeholders and Our Responsible  Business Policy Rezidor has identified eight main stakeholder  groups. We maintain clear commitments to  each group which are detailed in our Respon- sible Business policy. The basis for identifying and selecting our  key Responsible Business stakeholders relates  primarily to the extent to which we influence  or impact them: economically; socially; and  environmentally. Through our daily operations and dedicated  exchanges with each stakeholder group, we  continuously listen to their expectations for  both today and the future. The Responsible Business Approach At Rezidor, Responsible Business means con- sidering both our short- and long-term inter- ests, and integrating economic, environmental  and social considerations into our decision  making. Since we created our Responsible Business  programme in 2001, Rezidor has focused its  activities on three pillars: 1.  Taking responsibility for the health and  safety of guests and employees 2.  Respecting social and ethical issues in the  company and the community 3.  Reducing our impact on the environment. Memberships Together with Carlson, we are joint members  of the following organisations:   International Tourism Partnership (ITP).  ITP brings together the worlds leading  international hotel companies to provide a  voice for environmental and social responsi- bility in the industry. Rezidor was one of the  founding members of ITP in 2004 and,  together with Carlson, we continue to play   a leading role in the hospitality industry  forum on responsible business.   World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC).  An international organisation of travel  industry executives which promotes global  travel and tourism.   ITP and WTTC Joint Hotel Carbon Mea- surement Initiative. ITP and WTTC,  together with all major hospitality compa- nies, are collaborating on a groundbreaking  initiative to unite industry efforts to create   a single methodology for calculating carbon  footprints and consistent metrics for com- municating emissions. Rezidor is an active  member of the working group and is partici- pating in the pilot tests.   Signatory to the Code of Conduct for the  Protection of Children from Sexual Exploi- tation in Travel and Tourism. The Code  started as a project of ECPAT (End Child  Prostitution, Child Pornography and Traf- ficking of Children for Sexual Purposes) and  is supported by the UNWTO and UNI- CEF. In 2004 Carlson was the first major  North American hospitality company to sign  the Code. Together, we adhere to the Codes  principles in all of our hotels.   Stakeholder Responsible Business Policy Employees  We educate and facilitate for our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of environmental,   ethical and social issues in their work and private lives. Customers  We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in Responsible Business related activities   at our hotels. Property Owners  We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic,   environmental and social objectives. Shareholders  We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate and transparent information on   Responsible Business performance, related risks and opportunities. Suppliers  We strive to purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their lifecycle,   from suppliers that demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Authorities  We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding labour laws,  health and safety, human rights and the environment. Community  We take an active role in the international responsible business community, and contribute   to the local communities where we operate. Environment  We do our utmost to continuously improve our performance in the areas of energy, water,   chemicals and resource consumption, and waste generation to reduce our impact on the   environment and minimize our carbon footprint.  5 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group The World Around Us  6 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 1988   Creation and adoption of the SAS International  Hotels Safety and Security Standards. 1989   First environmental policy driven by SAS Group. 1996   Launch of the Radisson SAS environmental pro- gramme with 24 action points.   Founding member of the International Hotels   Environment Initiative. 2001   Launch of the Responsible Business programme  encompassing the three pillars of health and well- being, social and ethical responsibility, environ- mental responsibility.   Responsible Business Coordinators appointed and  trained.   First Responsible Business Training initiated with  35% of staff trained by year-end.   Monthly reporting of energy, water and waste.   Save the Children becomes corporate   charity organisation. 2003   Launch of Hotels Environment Action Month   (now Responsible Business Action Month).    Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo, is first Rezidor  property to receive third party environmental   certification with the Nordic Swan eco-label.   Rezidor becomes chair of International Hotels  Environment Initiative Executive Committee. 2004   Rezidors efforts are recognised with the Hospital- ity Award for Environmental Protection.   Carlson Companies signs ECPAT Code of Conduct  against sexual exploitation of children. 2005   First Rezidor Responsible Business Award given to  the Radisson SAS St Helens Hotel (Dublin). 2006   Responsible Business programme awarded   HOFTEL Owner-Friendly Innovation of the Year. 2007   World Childhood Foundation becomes   corporate charity organisation.   Rezidor is first international hotel group to offer  guests carbon offsetting. 2008   Launch of rezidorethics.com, an independently  managed website which enables employees to  raise concerns about potential breaches of our  Code of Ethics.   Monthly TRIC=S reports distributed to all General  Managers.   Rezidor is one of the founding members of US  State Departments Overseas Security Advisory  Council (OSAC) Hotel Security Working Group. 2009   Rezidor signs the United Nations Global Compact. 2010    Rezidor is named one of the Worlds Most Ethical  Companies by the Ethisphere Institute.  44% of our hotels are eco-labelled.   Rezidor leads a joint effort with Carlson companies  to further develop safety and security globally for  the companies and their brands.   First global responsible business action month with  Carlson Companies. Organisation, Governance   and Timeline Rezidor	has	a	unique	and	long	history	of	Responsible	Business.	 Rezidors	Responsible	Business	policy	is	embedded	at	all	levels	of	the	organisation.		 We	combine	both	a	top-down	and	bottom-up	approach	to	ensure	maximum	engagement	 in	operations	and	the	greatest	impact	for	the	Group	as	a	whole. Head Office CEO and Executive  Committee Responsible Business reports directly to the CEO of Rezidor. The Executive Committee is frequently updated  on strategies, plans and progress. Responsible Business  Department Sets the Responsible Business strategy and follow-up, and ensures cross-departmental cooperation. Regions Regional Responsible  Business Coordinators There are a total of 19 Regional Responsible Business Coordinators who set regional targets in line with Group  strategy. They also follow-up on progress. Area Vice Presidents are closely involved. Hotels Responsible Business  Coordinators Each hotel has a Responsible Business Coordinator who works closely with the Hotels General Manager.  The Coordinator defines and implements Responsible Business action plans in line with both regional and  Group priorities. Responsible Business Yesterday and Today  7 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group A Success Story: Highlights 2011 Pillar 1: Health and Safety of Guests   and Employees   Rezidor Business School celebrates 15-years  of operations.   Brain Food launched in Denmark, Norway  and Sweden.   Employee satisfaction remains high at  86.7%. Pillar 2: Social and Ethical Issues in the  Company and the Community   For the second year in a row, we are named  one of the Worlds Most Ethical Companies  by the Ethisphere Institute.   80% of Rezidor hotels participate in the  Responsible Business action month for the  community in September. 385 TEUR is  raised for local and international charities.    Global partnership with World Cleanup  launched. Pillar 3: Minimising our Environmental  Footprint   Proportion of eco-labelled hotels in the  Group reaches 55% (or 179 hotels).   Environmental performance is maintained  in the context of increased occupancy.   Carlson and Rezidor participate in the ITP  and WTTCs Hotel Carbon Measurement  Initiative. Think Planet! In January 2012, Rezidor launched Think  Planet, an ambitious energy saving initiative  which aims to reduce energy consumption by  25% by 2016. Building on our environmental  successes of the past years, Rezidor hotels will  continuously reduce their resource consump- tion by focusing on operations and invest- ments. In parallel, challenging environmental  targets will be set for major renovations and  new builds. The target of 25% will ensure  Rezidor exceeds current environmental stan- dards by utilising the latest available low- energy technologies. 2011	was	a	remarkable	year	in	Rezidors	Responsible	Business	journey	with	 successes	in	all	three	pillars	of	our	Responsible	Business	programme. Key Performance Indicators 2011 2010 2009 2008 Energy/m 2 (kWh) Radisson Blu  291 285 279 292 Energy/m 2 (kWh) Park Inn  306 304 290 308 Water/ Guest Night (litres) Radisson Blu  424 433 415 461 Water/ Guest Night (litres) Park Inn  301 327 358 375 Waste/ Guest Night (kg) Radisson Blu  1.48 1.49 1.69 1.70 Waste/ Guest Night (kg) Park Inn  1.10 1.39 1.51 1.77 Medallia Guest Satisfaction Environmental Conscientiousness 8.1 8.1 7.9 — Climate Analysis Employee Satisfaction score  86.7 86.7 85.8 85.1 Average 3T Monitor Safety and Security self-audit score  92.7 92.9 93.7 92.3    Brain Food is an exciting new concept developed by Radisson Blu for meetings  and conferences. Brain Food helps maintain delegates concentration. Pillar 1 Brain Food is the latest industry leading inno- vation from Rezidor. Developed in close coop- eration with our Radisson Blu chefs in the  Nordics and a team of highly qualified experts  and nutritionists, Brain Food is a menu of reci- pes which are designed to ensure that all  meeting participants remain at their maxi- mum performance level throughout an event.  Brain Food brings benefits to both delegates  and organisers. Scientific studies have shown that food  affects our brain function. Eating the right  nutrient at the right time improves our ability  to learn and to concentrate. Smart eating can  speed-up our reactions and can even lower  stress levels – all factors that crucially affect  the quality and success of a meeting.    Im very proud of the work  that went into creating our  inspired new Brain Food  offering. Our fantastic   Nordic team really thought  outside the box to create a  unique new Food & Bever- age product that is innova- tive, relevant, exciting and  compellingly attractive to  our customers.    Michael Neuner,  Vice President   Food & Beverage The Brain Food recipes are based on six   simple principles: 1.  More fish, whole grains, eggs, fruit and   vegetables 2.  Use of local and fresh ingredients where  feasible 3. Pure ingredients with minimal processing 4. Less meat and a fat content of 10% 5.  Naturally sweetened food and never more  than 10% added sugar 6.  A focus on quality and taste experiences  that sharpen the senses. In line with our Responsible Business commit- ments, fresh and locally sourced ingredients  are utilised wherever possible as they are the  most nutritious, taste the best and are kindest  to the environment. Brain Food has been launched to enormous  acclaim across Denmark, Norway and Sweden.  Evaluations are now underway to see how this  fantastic, original concept can be introduced  into other Rezidor regions.  An Innovative Brainchild:  Brain Food for Meetings   by Radisson Blu 8 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group  9 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group PillaR 1: Health and Safety of   our Guests and Employees With	hotel	operations	in	65	countries,	keeping	hotel	guests	and	staff	safe	in	sometimes	risky	local	situations	 is	an	essential	part	of	our	business.	Rezidor	believes	that	maintaining	appropriate	levels	of	safety	and	secu- rity	is	dependent	on	the	daily	actions	of	every	employee	at	every	level	of	the	company.	This	requires	a	 dynamic	programme	that	can	be	adapted	to	meet	changing	circumstances	in	different	locations. TRIC=S – The Rezidor Formula   for Safety and Security Although TRIC=S is designed as a dynamic  programme, guidelines are needed to ensure  the safety and security of guests, employees  and owners investments while maintaining (or  even enhancing) guest and employee satisfac- tion. Therefore Rezidor has developed a for- mula known as TRIC=S, which stands for  Threat Assessment + Risk Evaluation and Mit- igation + Incident Response Preparedness +  Crisis Management, Communications and  Continuity = Safe, Secure and Sellable hotels. Good, objective threat assessment requires  honest, open communication within the  Group, so information, experience and good  practice is widely shared. In addition to news  and media monitoring, Rezidor maintains sub- scriptions to third-party risk analysis and alert  services. Rezidor also encourages hotels to  actively engage in safety and security related  forums on a local level.  Rezidor Corporate Security is part of the  support structure the company has put in  place for its decentralised and individually  empowered hotels. Corporate Security is  responsible for collating and sharing informa- tion, analysis and threat assessments with all  parts of the company on a continual basis.  Rezidor works very closely with partners  such as risk engineers at Willis (insurance  broker), in order to help hotels mitigate safety  and security risks. The Willis Blue risk man- agement benchmarking programme has been  specifically tailored for Rezidor. It follows  Rezidors Four Cornerstone structure for  Guest Safety and Security, Employee Safety  and Security, Fire Safety and Operational  Security. Willis risk engineers survey a per- centage of the portfolio annually in order to  measure performance against benchmarks.  In addition, Rezidor hotels carry out an  annual operational safety and security self- assessment based on the same four corner- stones. Safe, Secure Employees Ensure   Safe Secure Hotels At Rezidor we understand that maintaining  the high levels of safety and security that  guests, employees and owners rightfully  expect is only achievable through the actions  of every employee. Therefore, one of the foun- dations of the programme is Employee Safety  and Security. We encourage our employees to report dan- gers or irregularities, take immediate action to  prevent injury or damage, and to follow-up  and ensure that dangers are removed and  abnormalities corrected. The simple version of  the Rezidor incident response programme fol- lows three steps: 1. Sound the alarm 2. Save lives 3. Solve the problem.  Basing our approach to all incidents on these  three simple steps helps to ensure employees  can tackle issues as quickly and as close to  source as possible, thus limiting the risk that   a small issue can cause a larger incident. Yes I Can! – Always Care Yes I Can! is our company vision at Rezidor  and the Always Care motto for our safety and  security programme was inspired by this  vision of taking personal responsibility and  showing Yes I Can! hospitality. Always Care  Pillar 1  10 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 Pillar 1  11 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group says that if we care about people, care about  property and care about the world around us,  we will also take personal responsibility for  protecting these vital elements in our lives. It  is therefore everyones responsibility to Always  Care.  Communication at all Levels  The goal of our Safety and Security pro- gramme is to meet the ongoing challenges we  face. This involves monitoring threat develop- ments – from pandemics to crime to terrorism,  both globally and locally – whether they are  slowly bubbling-up under the surface or rap- idly unfolding in front of us. To ensure that  we are on top of these challenges, Rezidor  shares a TRIC=S report with all of our hotels  and operational units each month. The reports  contain data that comes from the two-way  communication between individual hotels and  the corporate offices to which they report.  This sharing of information keeps our pro- gramme very dynamic, allows us to learn from  the experiences of others, and helps us to con- tinuously improve the information and the  good practice library our hotels can access. Cooperation at all Levels   We advise our hotels to play an active role in  their local community crime prevention pro- grammes, regional or national hotel associa- tions and other groups that can help them  adapt their safety and security programmes to  meet local needs and requirements. We also  encourage them to share information and  good practices that can benefit others. At the corporate level, Rezidor is an original  member of the US Overseas Security Advisory   Council (OSAC) Hotel Security Working  Group. We are also actively involved in other  programmes designed to make hotels and  travel safer and more secure for everyone. Tomorrows TRIC=S  We live in a world of real-time communica- tions, where responsibility for ensuring the  safety, security and protection of infrastruc- ture is increasingly being shifted from govern- ment agencies to the private sector. This  brings a new wave of challenges: we not only  have a duty to care but we also have a duty to  perform. We are also fully aware that our  actions will be visible. Our TRIC=S pro- gramme has been developed to meet these new  demands of transparency and accountability.  An external review of our Corporate Secu- rity department and the TRIC=S programme  was carried out in 2009 by the UK-based con- sultancy firm BGN Risk. BGNs report con- cluded: This model is providing value for  money, but more importantly it is protecting  company assets, employees and customers.  We feel confident that the built-in dynamics  in our programmes will assist us to continue  meeting the challenges we face. Since November 2010, Rezidor has assisted  Carlson Companies with the further develop- ment of corporate safety and security pro- cesses. It is our goal to bring the corporate  safety and security guidelines of both compa- nies closer together, providing a global  umbrella of safety, security and resilience for  our brands. In 2011 this resulted in the full  exchange of information and cooperation on  the development of globally aligned libraries  of good practice that are available to all hotels  affiliated with the companies, regardless of  their geographic location. TRIC=S reports are  also tailored and distributed to all geographic  locations, helping us improve our awareness  and ensuring our brands become stronger,  safer and more secure. Healthy and Happy Guests  Creating a healthy and pleasant environment  in our hotels is one of Rezidors top priorities.  We focus on offering both non smoking and  accessible rooms. Of our 70,766 hotel rooms,  85% are non-smoking, whilst 48% of our  hotels are entirely smoke-free in guestrooms,  public spaces and back-of-house areas. Over  1,500 rooms (or 2% of the total) are adapted to  the needs of disabled guests. In 2010, Rezidor hotels in Denmark  launched Brain Food an innovative solution  for meetings. Since then the concept has been  enthusiastically adopted in many other coun- tries (see page 8). Responsible Business practices are incorpo- rated into our hotel restaurants in general and  in Rezidors restaurant concepts: RBG; Fellini;  and Verres en Ver. Hotel guidelines are to:   Use local and organic food wherever possible   Offer vegetarian and healthy options in each  menu    Eliminate unsustainable ingredients from  the menu (for example, bluefin tuna)   Eliminate single portion packaging from the  breakfast buffets. Rezidor offers guests who stay at our hotels  the most environmentally friendly products.  For our Anne Smonin range of bathroom  amenities at Radisson Blu hotels, this commit- ment translates into 100% paraben-, silicon-  and GMO-free products, and a guarantee of  no animal testing. To help reduce environ- mental impact further, Anne Smonin guest  amenities are made of recyclable packaging  including:  Bottles made from recyclable PETG   Caps and soap packaging are made in   recyclable PP   Accessories are packaged in recyclable   PET/PE and paper. Hotel Radisson Blu Hotel Nice   – Winner Award for Diversity Policy  The Radisson Blu Hotel Nice has been a  champion of diversity for many years. The  hotel trains all staff, conducts an active pro-diversity policy and fights against discrimination. In October the hotel won  an award for its overall diversity policy at  the inaugural Diversity Awards for the  Provence-Alpes-Cote dAzur region of  southern France. Under its Diversity   Charter, the hotel pursues a policy of equal  treatment in all areas of its operations. Healthy and Happy Staff Rezidors philosophy has always been to pro- mote people from within the organisation. We  are committed to developing each employee to  their full potential. We offer a range of tools  to foster people and to ensure development  from within. Our courses are focused on per- sonal development and continuous learning.  This focus has led to extraordinary results:  95% of our general managers are developed  from within the company. Rezidor 5-step People Development Programme Rezidor focuses on a comprehensive and ambi- tious 5-step people development programme.  It includes basic training around the groups  unique service philosophy Yes I Can!, high  level training to develop on-the-job skills, a  Management Development Programme, a  company owned Business School (see page 13)  and a dedicated Mentor-Mentee Programme  for future General Managers. The programme  includes the mandatory New Hire Orienta- tion, on-the-job skills development, Yes I Can!  and Living Responsible Business. Focus on Responsible Business training All Rezidor employees are trained in our  unique Living Responsible Business training  module. Heads of Departments and General  Managers receive an additional Leading  Responsible Business course. The Living Responsible Business training  programme covers the 3 pillars of the Respon- sible Business programme and illustrates how  each employee can live Responsible Business  in their everyday job and at home. In addition  Pillar 1  12 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 Pillar 1 we focus on the Code of Ethics, Human rights  and Child Protection. Employee satisfaction Rezidor aims to be the employer of choice for  our people. We care for our employees,  involve them in our planning and decision- making processes and ask for their feedback.  Our annual Climate Analysis, a Group-wide  employee satisfaction survey (conducted by an  external independent party) found that  employee satisfaction remains high at 86.7%  in 2011 (same level as 2010). The 2011 survey  included 23,108 participants from 263 business  units. This is an outstanding result within our  industry and other service industries worldwide. Celebrating diversity - Equal Opportunities Taking into account all hotels, under all con- tract types, more than 35,000 employees  worked under the Rezidor brands during 2011.  The company counts no less than 140 nation- alities amongst the workforce, 57% of which is  male. A strong understanding and respect of cul- tural differences is essential to Rezidors suc- cess given that we employ people from many  different nationalities and operate hotels in  over 65 countries. Diversity amongst the  workforce in our hotels is as old as the hospi- tality industry itself. Experience across differ- ent hotels and different countries is an inte- gral part of any hospitality career. The Rezidor Hotel Group supports staff  transfers throughout the hotels in all coun- tries, enabling our employees to grow with  Rezidor and to develop themselves. As much  as we perceive our guests to be individuals  with individual needs and wishes, we also per- ceive our employees to be individuals with  individual backgrounds and cultures. Employ- ees are hired for their attitude and willingness  to serve the guest. Cultural differences enable  us as an employer, and as a host, to cater to the  needs of our clientele on an individual basis.  Rezidors Equal Opportunities Policy states  that no discrimination due to age, race, reli- gion, gender or disability is allowed, and all  our hotels have procedures in place to ensure  this is the case. Empowering Employees Rezidor pays fair wages according to industry  standards. During 2011 we had no legal  breaches with regard to labour legislation.  Rezidor respects the rights of employees to  join trade unions if they so choose and to bar- gain collectively in accordance with local laws. Pursuant to the European Union Directive  on Works Councils (94/45/ EC, the Works  Council Directive) Rezidor has established a  European Works Council, which has been  entered into by representatives of our central  management and employees. Annual meetings  are held, where issues such as the companys  finances, performance, future ventures and  other important issues are discussed with  employee representatives.  Rezidor strives to handle all operational  changes in a transparent and open fashion,  with the goal of giving our employees fair  influence. When taking over an existing hotel,  we endeavour to retain the majority of the  employees of the earlier hotel brand.  Radisson Blu Hotels in Brussels Win   Belgian Diversity Award The two Radisson Blu hotels in Brussels  (EU and Royal) started their diversity plan  in 2009 with the specific goal to recruit  people over 45-years of age and people  with handicaps. Following two years of  hard work, Carla Georges (HR Manager of  the RDB Royal) and Sandra Reygaert (HR  Manager of the RDB EU) received finan- cial backing from the Belgian government  to help them succeed in their project.  Radisson Blu is the first hotel company to  receive the Diversity Award in Belgium.  Pillar 1   The Business School @ Rezidor is an integral part of Rezidors people   development program and gives every employee the tools they need   to aim for the top. Pillar 1 The Business School @ Rezidor is the primary  learning platform for employees within Rezi- dor. The School was launched in 1996 when  Rezidor recognised a need to take responsibil- ity for the training and development of our  employees in a structured way. This approach  has ensured consistency, streamlined costs and  fostered the companys Yes I Can! service cul- ture.  As a people business, Rezidor has always  focused heavily on personal development and  continuous learning in order to help employ- ees grow. The aim of the +20 different courses  offered through the School is to positively  impact our key business objectives of guest,  employee and owner satisfaction.  The initiative has helped Rezidor to posi- tively influence revenue, quality and value,  while at the same time offering thought-pro- voking, stimulating and enjoyable training for  participants. The School has won several pres- tigious international awards and has now  trained more than 10,000 delegates!  Courses are facilitated either by Rezidors  own internal trainers or by external consul- tants who are specialists in their subject.  Highly respected institutes such as Cornell    15 Fantastic years,   10,000 delegates and   over 20 top class training  programmes, thats really  exciting. But, most of all  seeing our team members  grow and become our  Leaders of Tomorrow   gives real satisfaction.    Jan Spooren,  Director People   Development University (US) and Huthwaite International  (UK) have provided training through our  School. In 2011, Rezidors Business School went  global. Carlson hotels in America started  training staff in their hotels using the Rezidor  success formula. A school that cares In July 2011 the Business School celebrated its  15th anniversary in a very special way in  Copenhagen, Denmark. Over 150 delegates  were attending 13 different classes at the time.  Using the motto: Theres no Business School  without Responsible Business, the School  organised a series of social events to raise  money for the UN High Commission for Ref- ugees (UNHCR) to benefit the 800,000 dis- placed persons who had fled Libya. On the  first morning of the School, over 100 delegates  ran the 2.5 km Fun Run, raising more than   2,5 TEUR. This was followed by a spectacular  Flash Mob dance by 150 Rezidorians in  Copenhagens Central Station – the first time  this had ever been done by a hotel group in  EMEA. The Flash Mob video has been viewed  more than 8,000 times on YouTube and offers  viewers the option to donate to the UNHCR. Happy Birthday: the  Business School@Rezidor  turns 15  13 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group  By   The Box Appeal was first created by the Radis- son Blu Dubai Media City in September 2007  to coincide with our annual Responsible Busi- ness Month. The appeal asks local communi- ties and businesses to fill a shoe box with a list  of 13 essential everyday items, from toothpaste  to t-shirts, which are then distributed to  impoverished labourers around the United  Arab Emirates (UAE). Formerly known as the ShoeBox Appeal,  the charity campaign has grown more success- ful each year. In 2011 it was decided that the  campaign would be rolled-out across the Mid- dle East region. A new look, logo and name  were created for the 2011 edition to ensure  that the appeal was consistent. Renamed The  Box Appeal, the aim was to collect 10,000  boxes, more than ever before from all Rezidor  hotels in the UAE, Oman, Bahrain and Cairo.  Being a charity campaign there was little  budget assigned to the appeal, so the month- long activity relied heavily on the use of public  and community relations. Several partnerships  were established with local companies who  were looking to take part in a responsible busi- ness scheme. We had a fantastic response with  companies ranging from radio stations to   Bringing together hundreds  and even thousands of peo- ple for the Box Appeal is the  most rewarding outcome of  our 4 year old campaign.  Were happy to make a small  difference in the lives of the  needy in our community and  hope to make the impact  even bigger in 2012.     Klara Zakis,  PR Manager   Middle East malls all pledging their support. Much atten- tion was paid to involving the younger genera- tion, with fun activities in schools being a  huge focus throughout the campaign. We also  worked closely with community groups, wom- ens guilds, religious institutions, and embas- sies.  A Box Appeal Facebook page was estab- lished to bring the whole community together.  People were encouraged to post photos of  themselves collecting boxes to promote  friendly rivalry. The Facebook page proved  very successful, with around 700 people join- ing in just three weeks.  The Box Appeal team worked tirelessly with  local media within the various countries to  highlight the appeal and to build interest.  Media were granted behind-the-scenes foot- age, weekly updates and news. The aim was to  provide original and creative content to ensure  larger and more prominent features in the  media. This strategy worked with The Box  Appeal becoming front page news around the  region.  The Box Appeal reached its target of 10,000  boxes and the plans for 2012 are even bigger  and better! An Appealing Proposition:  The Box Appeal   Middle East Pillar 2 14 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group In 2011, 10 Rezidor hotels across the Middle East collected   10,000 boxes with essential everyday items for local labourers.   15 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group Supporting the World Childhood   Foundation Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group supports the  World Childhood Foundation (Childhood) as  our corporate charity. The cooperation dates  back to 2007 and engages our hotels each year  in fundraising for Childhood (see page 17).  World Childhood Foundation is a non-profit  organisation dedicated to serving the most  vulnerable children in the world: street chil- dren, sexually abused and exploited children,  children trafficked for sexual purposes and  institutionalised children, with a particular  focus on girls and young mothers. Our mis- sion is to provide its several million guests  each year with a comfortable and restful stay  away from home. Childhood aims to help chil- dren who are abused and exploited to ensure  that they are given a safe and secure child- hood, or simply put, a home. These parallel  aspirations mean that Rezidors support to  Childhood is natural to who we are as a com- pany and a corporate citizen. Reacting to emergencies As a hotel group with an important and grow- ing presence in the Middle East (29 hotels  total), Rezidor reacted immediately to the  UNHCR call to support displaced persons  fleeing the violence in Libya. In June and July  2011, donation boxes were placed in all hotels  to raise much needed funds to benefit the  800,000 displaced persons who fled Libya and  who were housed in UNHCR tent camps at  the Egyptian and Tunisian borders. Responsible Business Action Month In September each year – Responsible Busi- ness Action Month (RBAM) – our hotels  give  extra focus to community activities. At Rezi- dor, 2011 marked the eighth anniversary of  RBAM, with 256 hotels (80% of total) partici- pating. RBAM is now a global initiative and is  run in coordination with Carlson Rezidor  hotels in the Americas and the Asia-Pacific  regions. This year our hotels showed they are Hotels  with a Heart with close to 460 projects. In  total 385 TEUR was raised for Childhood and  various other projects. Many of our hotels  donate volunteer time to local charities during  the year and especially in the Responsible  Business Action Month. This year employees  of 242 hotels contributed their time and skills.  Although the total in-kind value of volunteer  time and goods donated is, its worth mention- ing that through the Box Appeal alone Rezidor  donated 200 TEUR in-kind of goods. Lets do it world: Global agreement with  World Cleanup 2012 signed In November 2011, Carlson Rezidor Hotel  Group and Carlson Restaurants announced  their global partnership with World Cleanup  2012. World Cleanup is a global campaign  which aims to remove illegally dumped gar- bage in 100 countries and raise peoples aware- ness worldwide. World Cleanup 2012 will run from 24  March to 25 September 2012. During this  period, 1,300 Carlson Rezidor Hotels and 909  T.G.I. Fridays restaurants will support and  help organise World Cleanup actions world- wide. Rezidor kicked off the global partnership  with World Cleanup during the European  Week for Waste Reduction (19-27 November  2011). Eighteen Radisson Blu and Park Inn by  Radisson hotels launched cleanup activities in  11 countries.  The official World Cleanup 2012 campaign  started with an international conference at the  Radisson Blu Olympia Hotel in Tallinn (Esto- nia) where 82 countries came together to plan  their national cleanups and share best practices. Ethical Responsibility In 2011 – as in 2010 – Rezidor was listed as one  of the worlds most ethical companies by the  Ethisphere Institute, a US think-tank dedi- cated to business ethics. This is the fifth year Ethisphere has pub- lished the Worlds Most Ethical (WME) rank- ings. In 2011, 110 WME companies were iden- tified by a committee of leading attorneys,  professors, government officials and organisa- tion leaders. The methodology for the WME  ranking covers seven distinct categories: Cor- porate Citizenship and Responsibility; Corpo- rate Governance; Innovation that Contributes  to the Public Well Being; Industry Leader- Pillar 2 Pillar 2:  Ethical and social issues in   the company and the community Rezidor hotels have an important responsibility as corporate citizens of their local communities.  They undertake this responsibility by contributing to fundraising and community actions with  local non-profit organisations, schools, orphanages, and homes for the elderly. Rezidors Code of Business Conduct  and Ethics in short: 1. We respect the law 2. We show respect for all persons in all  situations 3. We think ethically 4. We act fairly 5. We do not discriminate against anyone  for any reason 6. We are honest and transparent 7. We are loyal to our employer 8. We do not exploit the companys  resources 9. We think of safety at all times 10. We take care of the Earth  16 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 Pillar 2 ship; Executive Leadership and Tone from the  Top; Legal, Regulatory and Reputation Track  Record; and Internal Systems and Ethics/ Compliance Programme. The highest scores  for each industry became the 2011 Worlds  Most Ethical Companies. Other companies on the list include Star- bucks, Timberland, UPS and General Elec- tric. For more information go to www.ethis- phere.com Rezidors inclusion in the Ethisphere rank- ing shows that we strive to act according to  the highest ethical principles and make sure  that all our 35,000 employees do so – wherever  they are. At Rezidor, our corporate Code of Ethics is  shared with all employees during their Yes I  Can! trainings and in their WHY? informa- tion booklets. In 2011, Rezidor complemented  its Code of Ethics with the requirements and  specifications of the UKs Bribery Act. The second pillar of ethics in Rezidor is  rezidorethics.com, a website run by an inde- pendent third-party organisation – Ethics  Point. Employees can use this site to find  information on our code and report concerns  anonymously.  In general, any employee with concerns or  questions about the Code is encouraged to  raise these directly with their supervisor. If  this is not possible, the employee can report  the issue on rezidorethics.com. The site and  hotline are available in 11 languages.  Rezidor does not make any contributions or  give other support, direct or indirect, to polit- ical parties or individual politicians. The Rezidor Hotel Group receives no direct  nor significant financial subsidies from gov- ernmental organisations in the countries  where we operate hotels. However it is worth  noting that 9 of our hotels received financial  assistance for Responsible Business initiatives  in other forms in 2011, for example:  Our  Radisson Blu Hotel in Karlsruhe, Germany,  received an 8 TEUR gas-tax refund for 2011  plus a 12 TEUR government grant for their  co-generation plant. Protecting the Worlds Children Rezidors majority shareholder Carlson was  the first hospitality group in the world to sign  the ECPAT Code on preventing human and  child trafficking. As part of the global Carlson  Rezidor Hotel Group, Rezidor fully endorses  the Code and applies its requirements and  guidelines in all of our 325 hotels. Hotels and  hotel staff must be alert to potentially suspect  situations and report them to their superiors  and to local relevant organisations. In 2011, an additional Child Protection  Module was integrated into our Living  Responsible Business training. The module  features an extract from the documentary  Not My Life. All hotel trainers were trained in the mod- ule. To date, 85% of our hotels have delivered  the specific training module to their staff.  Back-of-house communication materials con- stantly remind staff to be alert to this issue. Child Abuse Free Zone:   the Radisson Blu Gothenburg In 2010, the Radisson Blu Gothenburg  installed NetClean, a device which pre- vents users from accessing or distributing  child pornography on the web. Whilst the  anonymity of guests is 100% guaranteed,  the device prevents and dissuades them  from accessing this type of material. A year  after the devices were installed, the hotel  positively evaluated the device and decided  to continue its use. The Hotels policy has been widely  endorsed by Swedish politicians and media  personalities. The ECPAT Code Suppliers of tourism services which adopt  the ECPAT code commit themselves to: 1.  Establish an ethical policy regarding the  commercial sexual exploitation of chil- dren. 2.  Train their personnel in the country of  origin and travel destinations. 3.  Introduce a clause in contracts with sup- pliers, stating a common repudiation of  the commercial sexual exploitation of  children. 4.  Provide information about the commer- cial sexual exploitation of children to  travellers. 5.  Provide information to local key per- sons at the destinations. 6.  Report annually. Oslo hotels dance away for charity.  Radisson Blu Bosphorus painting a local school. . Cyclists from the Radisson Royal hotel collected 8,500  EUR for the Downside-up Fund, a local charity. Radisson Blu Anchorage hotel Lagos, Nigeria raises  900 EUR in a football match for charity. 60 female employees from our Paris hotels run   and raise money for Breast Cancer research. Park Inn Sofia cleans the forest behind the hotel. Responsible Business Action Month, September 2011  But parenthood is not always idyllic and filled  with memorable moments. It can be especially  difficult if you are struggling with emotional,  social and economic poverty, or if the home is  filled with abuse and violence. In these fami- lies it can be difficult to enjoy the beginning of  a new life.  The World Childhood Foundation (Child- hood) is focused on helping parents give chil- dren a good start in life. Our goal is to ensure  a happy childhood for each child and we seek  out organisations that work to make this hap- pen. In Warsaw, Poland, the organisation  Nobodys Child developed a model to support  vulnerable families with children under three  years of age. Young families are guided and  assisted with comprehensive support to better  equip them for their life as parents. Nobodys  Child also trains social workers and other pro- fessionals who lack appropriate skills. Another organisation that Childhood sup- ports is The Way Home. This organisation  prevents neglect, abuse and homelessness  among street children in Odessa, Ukraine.    Rezidor is an invaluable part- ner when working with fami- lies and children in small and  large communities alike.  Together, we can make a big  difference in many childrens  lives.     Charlotte Brandin,  Director Childhood USA The project focuses on vulnerable girls who  often leave their families because of brutal  treatment at home – an environment in which  they should be safe. When The Way Home  started in 2007, 25% of all street children were  girls. By 2011, the number had decreased to  8% and there were fewer unwanted pregnan- cies. With help from The Way Home, many  children can now safely return home.  It is projects like these that lie at the heart  of Childhood. We promote prevention, inter- vention and education efforts, while working  closely with each project we support. The  partnership with a company like Rezidor,  which has a strong commitment to the com- munities in which it operates, is vital for  Childhood and helps us to take initiatives  which enable parents to succeed, or aid vul- nerable children get off the streets. Rezidor is an invaluable partner when work- ing with families and children in small and  large communities alike. Together, we can  make a big difference in many childrens lives.  You can read more about these and other  Childhood projects at www.childhood.org/eng. Make Room in   Your Heart for Kids Pillar 2 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 17 When we think of holding or playing with a child, we get a warm and fuzzy  feeling. Nothing compares to gazing into the eyes of a newborn, or feeling  the squirms of a toddler wanting to get out of your arms and begin to explore  the world.  By   The Building Research Association Environ- mental Assessment Method (BREEAM) is the  leading system to assess a buildings environ- mental performance. The Radisson Blu Hotel  at East Midlands Airport has been awarded a  BREEAM score of 76.17% – well above the  BREEAM Excellent benchmark of 70%. Built by MAG Developments, the largest  British-owned air operator, in partnership  with the specialist hotel investment firm  Azure Property Group, the hotel features 218  guest rooms and nine executive suites. It also  contains the 4-star HALSA health club. The hotel uses a range of low energy tech- nologies to reduce the overall energy demand  of the building. In addition, energy is gener- ated on-site via a combined heat and power  (CHP) engine with a pure plant-oil (PPO) tri- generation energy centre which runs for 8,000  hours per year using recycled waste oil from  the food production industry. The fuel is  transported to the site in vehicles which run  on the same fuel. The system is designed to export electricity  to the national grid outside of normal occu- pancy hours. Waste energy from the CHP is  also recycled and re-circulated back into the  system so no energy is lost.  As a hotel owner, achieving  BREEAM shows our guests  that integrating the best  environmental technology  makes sense for the planet  and for business.     Bahram Sadr–Hashemi,  Managing Director of Azure  Properties UK Limited Together, these innovative technologies  deliver an 87% reduction in CO2 and supply  up to 90% of the consumed energy using  renewable sources.  The building also incorporates a number of  sustainable construction techniques to deliver  a BREEAM Excellent facility. These include a  sustainable surface-water drainage system that  utilises techniques such as porous paving in  the car park, attenuation tanks, and a rainwa- ter harvesting system. The grey water from  the hotel is also collected and recycled to flush  the hotels toilets. As an owner, it is key to show our guests  that integrating the best environmental tech- nology makes sense for the planet and for  business, says Bahram Sadr–Hashemi, Man- aging Director of Azure Properties UK Lim- ited.  This approach aligns perfectly with Rezi- dors Responsible Business programme which  strives to minimise our impact on the envi- ronment, adds Daniel Keane, General Man- ager of the Radisson Blu Hotel East Midlands  Airport. Top Environmental   Performance  Pillar 3 The Radisson Blu Hotel at East Midlands Airport, opened in October 2011,  has achieved the highest ever BREEAM score for a hotel. Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group 18  19 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group Pillar 3:  Reducing our impact  on the environment  As one of the fastest growing hotel groups in the world, Rezidor focuses on minimising our environ- mental footprint in all stages of a hotel lifecycle: from building or renovating, to operating a hotel. Responsible Renovation and Construction  Guidelines When building a new hotel or renovating an  existing property, it is important that attention  is paid to resource efficiency and creating a  building with the minimum possible carbon  footprint. At Rezidor, this is done in close  cooperation with property owners, builders  and architects.  For all newly built hotels and major renova- tions, Rezidor applies its Responsible Renova- tion and Construction guidelines. These  guidelines cover all relevant areas of the con- struction site and the building itself such as:   Use of sustainable and renewable energy  sources    Improved thermal insulation of the facade to  minimise heat loss and gain  Heat recovery systems   Rainwater recovery systems    Building management systems which create  an intelligent buildings  Effective waste and recycling management. In close cooperation with the property own- ers, Rezidor proudly opened two environmen- tal flagship hotels in 2011: the Radisson Blu  hotel East Midlands Airport (UK) and the  Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel and Confer- ence Centre Stockholm (Sweden) – see pages  18 and 20. Both buildings received interna- tional recognition for their exceptional envi- ronmental performance.  Minimising our Environmental Footprint  in Operations Rezidor hotels have operational procedures in  place to reduce the consumption of energy and  water and the generation of waste in our busi- ness every day. Investments in environmen- tally friendly technology are also made. The  process of awarding a property an eco-label or  renewing an eco-label also leads to significant  environmental investments in the hotel. For  example, the Radisson Blu Astrid (Belgium)  invested 21 TEUR in energy efficient lighting  and aerators in order to achieve the Green Key  label in 2011.  Energy Rezidor continuously strives to reduce the  energy consumption of our properties by  installing energy efficient lighting, motion  sensors, and heating, ventilation and air-con- ditioning (HVAC) controls in existing hotels.  These efforts are combined with strict envi- ronmental guidelines for new-builds and major  renovations. During 2011 Rezidor achieved:   100% LED signage for new hotels and major  renovations. Having 100% LED signage on  our hotel buildings became mandatory in  2009 for Radisson Blu and in 2010 for Park  Inn by Radisson.   94% of our hotel rooms are equipped with  energy efficient lighting.   69% of public spaces in the hotels have  energy efficient lighting. In 2011, Rezidor managed to maintain its  energy performance despite increased occu- pancy (the total number of guest nights, GN,  were up 7% compared to 2010). Although  Radisson Blu 400 300 200 100 0 08 09 10 11 Park Inn by Radisson 08 09 10 11 Radisson Blu 500 400 300 200 100 0 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 Park Inn by Radisson Radisson Blu 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 Park Inn by Radisson Energy/m2, kWh Water/guest night, litres Waste/guest night, kg Pillar 3 Note: data from managed and leased hotels (246 hotels)  20 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 Pillar 3 By    Walls, ceilings and even our stage can be  moved, sectioned-off or raised. Apart from the  modularised floor space, state-of-the-art light- ing, communications and audio-visual solu- tions are built into the facility. The building also has a highly specialised  energy system which is modelled on the com- plex but highly effective solutions found in the  process industry. All heating and cooling is  controlled by advanced data systems which are  set to calculate how much energy is needed by  the facility in the coming hours. The glass facade is comprised of 1,040 m2  of solar collectors which gather an average of   1 MW of heat energy daily. This is equivalent  to 90,000 low energy bulbs. Heating and cooling is distributed through  a concordant system. Surplus heat is distrib- uted between the different buildings to make- up for shortfalls. The building is cooled by  water which is drawn from the lake and stored  in 250 tonnes of ice tanks in the basement.  When the temperature of the lake is too low,  the system is supported by the district heating  system which utilises renewable energy  sources.  The energy performance of  this building is phenomenal.  An ordinary house uses about  139 kilowatt hours of energy  per square metre per year.  We consume 30% less.    Anders Edblad,   Chief Engineer Radisson   Blu Waterfront Hotel   and Conference Centre A control system for the electricity and venti- lation systems has also been developed. Each  floor of the building can individually be shut- down outside normal office hours. However, it  remains on standby for full operation when  needed. The world-class energy solution was  designed to cut CO2 emissions and minimise  the hotels impact on the environment and cli- mate change. It has ensured that the Stock- holm Waterfront Congress Centre is one of  the most energy efficient buildings in the  world. As the Chief Engineer, Anders Edblad says:  An ordinary house uses about 139 kilowatt  hours of energy per square metre per year. We  consume 30% less. The hotel opened its doors on 20 January  2011 a Swan eco-labeled hotel and conference  centre. The Swan is the official Nordic eco- label and it is a supplement to the environmen- tal work of our Responsible Business Pro- gramme. Greener than Green at the Waterfront Pillar 3 The Stockholm Waterfront Hotel and Congress Centre is an architectural   masterpiece, the exterior of which is dominated by steel, glass and several  types of specially formulated concrete. The inside is no less complex. 20 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group  21 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group Pillar 3 energy/m2 increased by 2% for Radisson and  by 0.5% for Park Inn by Radisson, our overall  energy consumption/GN is down from 73.67  to 70.74 kWh/GN, a decrease of 4%. In total,  19% of Rezidor hotels use renewable energy to  varying degrees. However, Rezidor believes that our con- sumption figures per square metre and per  occupied room should be reduced further in  absolute terms. Rezidors recently launched  Think Planet! initiative will focus on reducing  energy consumption by 25% over the next five  years.  Water Inadequate access to safe drinking water is a  major problem across many of the regions in  which Rezidor operates. Reducing water con- sumption in our hotels – without compromis- ing service quality for guests – is a key priority  for Rezidor.  At the end of 2011:   78% of guestrooms have dual flush toilets.   85% of guestrooms have aerators to control  tap and shower water flows.   6% of hotels recycle grey water. In 2011, water consumption in litres/GN was  reduced by 2% for Radisson Blu and by an  impressive 8% for Park Inn by Radisson. This  is due to a combined increase in total guest  nights and our continuous programmes to  increase water awareness in our hotels. Our  programmes involve guests in towel and sheet  replacement programmes, and we have an  ongoing maintenance programme to complete  the installation of water saving devices such as  aerators and sensor taps. Waste Solid waste is generated by many activities in  our hotels including food preparation, con- sumption of pre-packaged items, guest waste,  and cleaning among others. Rezidor proac- tively seeks to reduce recycle waste as much as  possible and to reduce the residual waste  which goes to landfill or incineration. In the  Living Responsible Business training, all Rezi- dor employees are trained on techniques to  minimise waste and on the waste hierarchy:  Reduce, Reuse, Recycle.  By the end of 2011:   91% of our hotels have a dedicated waste  sorting area.   75% of hotels have waste sorting facilities on  housekeeping trolleys.  89% of our total waste is recycled. In the area of waste (both residual and recy- cled) Rezidor receives reliable data from 167  hotels. Residual waste, expressed in kg/GN,  stayed stable for Radisson Blu whereas Park  Inn by Radisson hotels continued to reduce  the total per guest night by an outstanding  21%.  Carbon Emissions Rezidors greenhouse gas emissions primarily  result from energy consumption and mainly  consist of carbon dioxide emissions. Since  2006, our carbon emissions have been calcu- lated by the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon  Management (now CAMCO). The assessment  focuses on energy related emissions only and  contains both scope 1 and 2 emissions. In 2011, emissions from electricity, natural  gas, heating oil, district heating and LPG gas  for the 232 managed and leased hotels for  which Rezidor has comprehensive data  amounted to 412 138 of CO2-equivalent. Our  carbon footprint has increased less than 1% in  absolute terms, however, this is due to the  number of hotels which were added to our  portfolio in 2011. Our footprint in CO2- equivalent per guest night decreased by 6%  from 26.29 to 24.78 kg CO2e/guest night. Environmental compliance Rezidor checks for environmental compliance  with all its 325 hotels. One hotels reported a  minor issue with the concentration of chemi- cals in discharged wastewater (Radisson Blu  Kiev). The hotel paid a small fine and the issue  has been solved. ITP and WTTC Working Group   on Carbon The ITP and WTTC, together with all major  hospitality companies, are collaborating on a  groundbreaking initiative to standardise the  hotel industrys efforts to calculate and com- municate their carbon impact. The goal is to  agree a standard methodology and metrics  which are informed by the GHG Protocol  standards. This is the first time the leaders within the  hotel industry have collaborated to agree a  single methodology to measure and communi- cate emissions data. Rezidor is an active mem- ber of the working group and participates in  the pilot tests. The final methodology will be  launched during the Rio+20 Earth Summit in  June 2012. Eco-labels  External confirmation of our hotels environ- mental performance is essential to Rezidor.  Eco-labels provide an independent third-party  Carbon Neutral Hotels a Reality   in Arlanda, Sweden  Since 2011, the Radisson Blu Arlandia  Hotel and the Radisson Blu Skycity   Hotel – both in Arlanda, Sweden – have  been fully carbon neutral. Along with a  constant drive to reduce resource con- sumption and their gross carbon footprint,  the hotels compensate for the CO2 they  produce by investing in wind farms in  India and Turkey. Park Inn by Radisson Malm displays its Nordic Swan eco-label credentials.  22 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 audit of each hotels practices and actions to  protect the environment. Our target is to have  100% of our hotels eco-labelled by 2015. At the end of 2011, a total of 179 Rezidor  hotels (or 55%) across EMEA have received  eco-labels. A complete list of our eco-labelled  hotels can be found at the end of this report  (see page 25). All Rezidor hotels are 100% certified in the  Baltic countries; Finland; France; the Middle  East (Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, UAE and  Turkey); and the Netherlands. All of our man- aged and leased hotels in the Nordic countries  (Denmark, Sweden, and Norway) are Nordic  Swan certified . Working with Suppliers  Rezidor works closely with our global suppli- ers to set strict environmental performance  criteria and minimise the social and environ- mental impacts of the products and services  we purchase.  All suppliers are required to sign the Supplier  Code of Conduct and have the opportunity to  further profile their Responsible Business per- formance in RezPIN, Rezidors central pur- chasing platform. Local suppliers are also required to sign the  Supplier Code of Conduct and 57% of our  hotels actively check on their responsible busi- ness performance. 61% of our hotels also  return packaging to suppliers. Socially Responsible Investors  Since 2010 Rezidor has been listed on the  OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index and  the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index.  The Nordic Sustainability Index highlights  the 50 best-rated companies on the Nordic  exchanges, while the Sweden Index comprises  the 30 best-rated companies on the Stockholm  exchange. The indexes identify the leading  companies in terms of sustainability and Rezi- dor is proud to be recognised for monitoring  not just our bottom-line, but the triple bottom  line of environmental, social and economic  performance. Rezidor has also participated in the Sustain- able Value Creation project which analysed  the Responsible Business strategy and prac- tices of the 100 largest companies listed on the  NASDAQ OMX. Sustainable Value Creation  is a collaborative project initiated in 2009 by  14 of Swedens largest institutional investors.  The comparative report shows Rezidor scores  better than average in addressing sustainabil- ity issues in a structured way. Pillar 3  Pillar 3 The objective has been to save water, lower  energy consumption and reduce labour costs  while making the properties safer, cleaner and  more hygienic. Innovations introduced by Diversey at   Rezidor include:   The innovative, wall-mounted Revoflow  dispensing system for dishwashing.   Divermite systems for housekeeping  departments, which has reduced plastic  waste per litre of solution by as much as  97% compared to conventional, ready-to- use packaging.   SoftCare soap in hotel washrooms that  delivers superior hand-washing results  with less waste than conventional products. More recently, Diversey delivered another  innovation in operational and environmental  management for Rezidors hotels: the new  environmental packaging calculator. The cal- culator quantifies the environmental benefits  achieved from Diverseys innovative packag- ing, dispensing and dosing expertise, and  product formulations that require less water  and energy use. In an analysis of Rezidors UK business   (40 Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson  hotels), Rezidors environmental impact was  reduced by:  41% in terms of total packaging waste.   61% in terms of greenhouse gas emissions  related to materials and shipping. Several other initiatives are in the pipeline to  further reduce enable Rezidor to achieve its  goal of a minimal environmental footprint. Partners in Sustainability:  Rezidor and Diversey Pillar 3 23 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group Rezidor has contracted industry leader Diversey to provide housekeeping, laundry and kitchen solutions that deliver  superior cleaning results with minimal impact on the environment and improved profitability for the hotels.  Title 24 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 By   The eco-label was first launched in Denmark  in 1994. In 2002 it was adopted by the Founda- tion for Environmental Education as its fifth  international programme. Green Key is currently the largest global  eco-label for tourist accommodation. Over  1,500 establishments in 28 countries world- wide have received the label. The partnership between Green Key and  Rezidor Hotel Group began in 2010 and was  the first with an international hotel chain,  explains Nicolas Dubrocard. From our per- spective it was a real challenge and a wonder- ful opportunity to introduce Green Key on a  larger scale. It was also a great way to encour- age the launch of Green Key in countries such  as Bahrain, Germany, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi  Arabia, Turkey and the UAE. It is fantastic to see the measurable positive  effects the Green Key label has on the hotels  environmental performance. There is a  decrease in water consumption, the inventive  initiatives to reuse water from air conditioning  to water gardens; staff involvement; green  activities; increased communication between  The partnership with Rezidor  is a wonderful opportunity   to introduce the Green Key   on an even larger scale inter- nationally.    Nicolas Dubrocard,  Green Key International  Coordinator     guests and staff; and the use of eco-certified  cleaning products. The list of achievements is  long! Green Key is issued as a complementary  tool to Rezidors Responsible Business pro- gramme. It represents a great opportunity to  bring added value to actions and initiatives  taken by the Groups Responsible Business  champion, Chief Engineer and team. The  Green Key certification is a unique way to  reward all the efforts made and to clearly  prove to staff and guests that they are part of  the sustainability commitments promoted by  the Rezidor Hotel Group. Based on our excellent international part- nership with Rezidor, we intend to introduce  Green Key into new areas such as Bulgaria,  the Czech Republic, Egypt, and Georgia,  among others. Green Key is proud to help  Rezidor hotels achieve the companys goal of  having all hotels certified by the end of 2015.  To date 75 hotels have been Green Key   certified. A total of 179 hotels have at least   one eco-label. For a full list of Rezidors eco- labelled hotels, see page 25. For more information, go to: www.green–key.org Opening Doors  with Green Key  Pillar 3 Green Key is an eco-label for tourism facilities that promotes sustainable tourism.  Green Key also aims to contribute to the prevention of climate change by recog- nising and advocating facilities with positive environmental initiatives. 24 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group  25 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group Austrian Eco-label (3) Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna Radisson Blu Hotel & Conference Centre, Salzburg Radisson Blu Palais Hotel, Vienna BREEAM (1) Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport UK Golden Leaf (1) Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing China Green Globe (1) Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir Green Hospitality Award, Ireland (12) Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport – Platinum Radisson Blu Farnham Estate Hotel, Cavan – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Galway – Gold Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Dublin – Gold Radisson Blu St. Helens Hotel, Dublin – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Cork Airport – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick – Silver  Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Airport – Member Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone – Member Green Key (75) Bahrain The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Residence & Spa,  Manama Belgium Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp Radisson Blu EU Hotel, Brussels Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt Radisson Blu Park Lane Hotel, Antwerp Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels Estonia Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn Radisson Blu Hotel, Tallinn France Park Inn by Radisson Arcachon Park Inn by Radisson Lyon-Ouest Park Inn by Radisson Macon Park Inn by Radisson Nancy Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport Park Inn by Radisson Orange Park Inn by Radisson Paris Charles De Gaulle Airport Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes Radisson Blu Ambassador Hotel, Paris Opra Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland Resort Paris Radisson Blu Hotel, Aix-Les-Bains Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz  Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysees, Paris Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport  Radisson Blu Le Dokhans Hotel, Paris Trocadero Radisson Blu Le Metropolitan Hotel, Paris Eiffel  Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 Les Loges du Parc, Aix-Les-Bains Kuwait Hotel Missoni Kuwait Latvia Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga Lithuania Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas Park Inn by Radisson Klaipeda Park Inn by Radisson Vilnius North Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda Netherlands Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, Schiphol Oman Park Inn by Radisson Muscat Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat Poland Radisson Blu Centrum Hotel, Warsaw Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw Russia Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, St. Petersburg Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiskaya, St. Petersburg Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, St. Petersburg Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg Saudi Arabia Al Muna Kareem Radisson Blu Hotel, Al Madinah Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah Ukraine Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev United Arab Emirates Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Yas Island Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Downtown Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah Radisson Royal Hotel, Dubai The Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina Green Leaf (1) Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg South–Africa The Green Tourism Business Scheme, UK (24) Hotel Missoni Edinburgh – Gold Park Inn by Radisson Manchester, Victoria – Gold Park Inn Heathrow, London – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Airport – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow – Gold Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London – Gold Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey – Gold Park Inn by Radisson Belfast – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham West – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Northampton – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Palace, Southend-on-Sea – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Telford – Silver Park Inn Watford – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Bedford – Bronze Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham Walsall – Bronze Park Inn by Radisson Harlow – Bronze Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham – Bronze Hungarian Green Hotel Award (2) Park Inn Sarvar Radisson Blu Bke Hotel, Budapest ISO 14001 (19) Germany Radisson Blu Gewandhaus Hotel, Dresden Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe Radisson Blu Hotel, Neubrandenburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Dsseldorf Radisson Blu Resort Schloss Fleesensee Radisson Blu Resort, Rgen Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Dsseldorf Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Wiesbaden Switzerland Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport Maltese Eco-label (1) Radisson Blu Bay Point Resort, St. Julians Nordic Swan Eco-label (38) Denmark Radisson Blu Falconer Hotel & Conference Centre,  Copenhagen Radisson Blu H.C. Andersen Hotel, Odense Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Copenhagen Finland Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Vaasa Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki Norway Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Kristiansand Radisson Blu Hotel Norge, Bergen Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo Radisson Blu Hotel, lesund Radisson Blu Hotel, Bod Radisson Blu Hotel, Troms Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Polar Hotel, Spitsbergen Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo   Sweden Park Inn by Radisson Malm Park Inn by Radisson Solna Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm Hammarby Sjstad Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Hotel, Malm Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Gteborg Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Strand Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm Tunesian Eco-label (1) Radisson Blu Resort & Thalasso, Djerba Environmental certifications  26 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 Summary of progress Responsible Business Indicators 2011 Target 2011 Result EMPLOYEES We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical and social issues  in their private and work lives. Percentage of hotels that comply with local labour laws (working hours, freedom of association, equal, opportunities and non-  discrimination) 100% 100% Employee satisfaction: Climate Analysis score 85% 86.7% Percentage of hotels that have made information on rezidorethics.com available to employees 95% 97% CUSTOMERS We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in the Responsible Business related activities at our hotels. We provide a healthy environment and offer healthy, nutritious, organic and fair trade food and beverages. Third party eco-labels (% of all Rezidor hotels) 50% 55% Responsible Business page on hotel website (% of all Rezidor hotels) 70%  76%  Provide refillable amenity dispensers in public washrooms (% of all Rezidor hotels) 95%  92%  Battery collection boxes available for guests (% of all Rezidor hotels) 80%  82%  Facilities for waste sorting by guests (% of all Rezidor hotels) 40% 39% Percentage of hotel rooms that are non-smoking 80%  85%  Percentage of non-smoking hotels (guest rooms and public spaces) 45% 48%  PROPERTY OWNERS We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, environmental and social  objectives. Number of hotel owners informed about the Responsible Business programme and hotel activities 90%  94%  SHAREHOLDERS We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate and transparent information on Responsible Business related  risks and opportunities. Percentage of hotels that report monthly and annually to corporate office: Managed and leased hotels (% of total managed and leased hotels) Monthly Environmental Reporting and the annual Status Report questionnaire 100% 94% Franchised hotels (% of total number of franchisees) Annual Status Report questionnaire 75% 79% SUPPLIERS We purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their life-cycle, from suppliers that demonstrate  environmental and social responsibility. Percentage of hotels sharing Rezidor Supplier Code of Conduct with their suppliers 75% 75% Percentage of hotels which request or provide advice on how suppliers can improve their environmental, social or ethical   performance 50% 38% Serve organic certified food items (% of all Rezidor hotels) 60% 49% Serve Fair Trade certified products 60% 52% AUTHORITIES We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding labour laws, health and safety,  human rights and the environment. Zero breaches to Responsible Business-related legislation 0 breaches 0 breaches Percentage of hotels performing Responsible Business legal self-audit (% of all Rezidor hotels – where available) 100% 97% a a a a a a a a a a a a  27 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group Summary of Progress Responsible Business Indicators 2011 Target 2011 Result COMMUNITY We take an active role in the international Responsible Business community, and contribute to the local communities  where we operate. Amount of money raised for corporate and local charities  World Childhood Foundation (in )  Local charities (in ) 75,000 300,000 60,000 315,000 Number of hotels participating in Responsible Business Action Month in September 2011 200 256 ENVIRONMENT We continuously strive to improve our performance in the areas of energy, water, chemical and resource consumption,  and waste generation in order to reduce our impact on the environment without sacrificing the comfort or experience of  our guests. Energy reduction (kWh/m 2)  Radisson Blu  Park Inn by Radisson –2% +2% Radisson Blu +0.5% for Park Inn CO2 equivalent emissions/guest night (GN) –5% 6 % Water usage (litres/GN)  Radisson Blu  Park Inn by Radisson –2% –2% Radisson  Blu  –8% for Park Inn Residual waste to landfill or incineration (kg/GN)  Radisson Blu  Park Inn by Radisson –2% 0% Radisson Blu  –21% for Park Inn a a a a a  28 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011     GRI Standard Disclosures Table INDICATOR ACCORDING TO GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (G3) Page Number Profile 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO. RBR 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. RBR 3 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. RBR 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. RBR 2 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. RBR 2 AR 5–7 2.4 Location of organisations headquarters. RBR back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with major operations. AR 7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR 74 2.7 Markets served. RBR 2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. RBR 2 AR 5–7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: AR 10–13 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. RBR 1, 15, 16 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period. RBR inside 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Front cover 3.3 Reporting cycle. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. RBR back cover Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: RBR 3–4  Determining materiality  Prioritising topics within the report; and  Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report. RBR inside, front cover and  pg. 31 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect  comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. AR 7–9 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports. N/A 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. AR 10–13 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. RBR 28–29 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as  setting strategy or organisational oversight. AR 65–69 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. AR 65–69 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent  and/or non–executive members. AR 65–69 AR = Rezidor Annual Report 2011   RBR = Rezidor Responsible Business Report 2011  29 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group GRI Standard Disclosures Table INDICATOR ACCORDING TO GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (G3) Page Number Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. RBR 4 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. RBR 4 5 Performance Indicators Economic Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other   community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. AR 9-13 RBR 15 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisations activities due to climate change.  RBR 3 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. RBR 16 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts  EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind,   or pro bono engagement. RBR 15 Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. RBR 19 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. RBR 19–21 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy–efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result  of these initiatives. RBR 19 Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. RBR 21 Aspect: Employment Aspect: Training and Education LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing  career endings. RBR 12–13 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. RBR 12 Human Rights Performance Indicators Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. RBR 22 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including  the percentage of employees trained. RBR 16 Society Performance Indicators Aspect: Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organizations anti–corruption policies and procedures. RBR 15 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. RBR 16 Aspect : Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. RBR 15 SO6 Total value of financial and in–kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. RBR 15 Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non–monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. RBR 15 and 21 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Aspect : Product and Service Labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. RBR 7  30 The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsibility Report 2011 Human Rights Rezidor Systems and Processes Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of   internationally proclaimed human rights.  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  Living & Leading Responsible Business training  Employee Handbook  Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in  human rights abuses.    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  My Rights @ Rezidor  www.rezidorethics.com  Policy on the Facilitation of Prostitution  Supplier Code of Conduct Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the  effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Human Resources Guidelines  Employee Handbook   European Workers Councils  Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced  and compulsory labour.  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour.  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  ECPAT Code of Conduct  Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in  respect to employment and occupation.   Human Resources Guidelines  Employee Handbook  Living & Leading Responsible Business training  Policy on Recruitment and Selection  Transfer Policy  Policy on Sexual Harassment and Illicit Activities  Social Networking Policy  Supplier Code of Conduct Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to envi- ronmental challenges.  Responsible Business Policy  Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater  environmental responsibility.  Global Compact Caring for Climate  Responsible Business Policy  Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines  Living & Leading Responsible Business training  Rezidor List of Restricted Substances  Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of  environmentally friendly technologies.   Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines  Supplier Code of Conduct Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms,  including extortion and bribery.   Risk Assessment Policy  Global Information Security Policy  Anti-Fraud Policy  Internal Audit  Supplier Code of Conduct Global Compact Compliance  31 Responsibility Report 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group   We have an ongoing dialogue with our stake- holders and we report what we consider to be  of particular interest to those we deem key:  employees, customers, property owners,  shareholders, suppliers, authorities, commu- nity and environment. Thus the Rezidor 2011  Responsible Business Report describes the  most material and relevant sustainability  aspects of our operations, not the full range of  actions and data.  Scope and Boundaries of the Report  Rezidor has limited the reporting boundaries  to areas in which the company has full control  over data collection and information quality.  Downstream impacts are generally excluded –  as we do not at present dispose of reliable tools  to measure these. The numerical data speci- fied in this report refers to the year 2011,  unless otherwise stated. Monthly environmen- tal reporting and the annual Status Report,  compiled by the management team at each  hotel, form the foundation for Rezidors  Responsible Business reporting. The report- ing is based on year-end figures, meaning that  all hotels in operation by December 31st were  asked to report. Consequently, some hotels  report full-year data, while properties that  opened during 2011, report only for the  months they were in operation. Hotels that  discontinued operations with Rezidor during  the year are not included.  The scope of this report covers Rezidor as a  group, providing examples from operations  regardless of brand. Responsible Business is  encouraged at all hotels, including franchised  properties, and corporate offices. Unless   otherwise indicated, achievements mentioned  in this report cover all hotels which are   managed, leased or franchised by the Rezidor  Hotel Group. This includes 325 properties or  70,766 rooms which were in operation on   31 December 2011. Routines for Monitoring  Hotels are asked to report their Responsible  Business performance in two different reports.  Overall compliance with, and progress  towards the objectives of the Responsible  Business programme (see page 26–27) is  assessed through the annual Responsible   Business Status Report questionnaire. The  Status Report is an internet-based system and   contains questions touching on all relevant  areas of the Responsible Business programme.  The questionnaire used is inspired by the UN  Global Compact and the Global Reporting  Initiative guidelines.  Environmental performance data (e.g.  energy, water and waste) is collected on a  monthly basis for managed and leased hotels  through an RB reporting section in Rezidors  comprehensive financial system. Moreover, at  year-end 64% of hotels had a Responsible  Business specific Action Plan in place for 2012.  These Responsible Business Action Plans are  updated yearly. At the same time, 86% of the  hotels have also incorporated Responsible  Business related targets into their overall Busi- ness Plan.  Hotels are also able to use Rezidors exclusive  on-line self-audit system that guides them  through a review of all key elements in the  Four Cornerstones of Guest Safety and Secu- rity, Employee Safety and Security, Fire Safety  and Operational Security. One section of  questions is released to the audit each quarter,  so at the end of the year hotels will have  reviewed the entire programme. The self- audit is more than box-ticking; it is like a liv- ing manual since each question is directly  linked to a library of good practice examples  collected from the hotels themselves. The self- audit is freely available to all hotels, including  franchises. In 2011, 268 properties were  actively using the system to help keep their  internal safety and security policies, proce- dures and training programs up to date.  Accounting Principles and Verification  Financial data presented in the Responsible  Business Report is derived from audited  annual accounts. For all external reporting,  currencies are converted into Euro. Account- ing principles for financial reporting, as well  as the conversion rates used, are stated in Rez- idors 2011 Annual Report. The Responsible  Business Report has not been independently  reviewed by auditors or any other third party. An ongoing and open dialogue The purpose of this Responsible Business Report, in combination with the Rezidor 2011  Annual Report, is to help shareholders and other key stakeholders to value, assess and under- stand the operations of The Rezidor Hotel Group.  The Rezidor Hotel Group Corporate Office    Avenue du Bourget 44    B-1130 Brussels Belgium   Tel: +32 2 702 9200    Fax: +32 2 702 93 00    Email: Info@rezidor.com The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the most dynamic and fastest  growing hotel companies in the world. The group currently fea- tures a portfolio of 425 hotels with 93,000 rooms in operation  and under development in 65 countries across Europe, the   Middle East and Africa. Rezidor operates the core brands Radisson Blu and Park Inn  by Radisson – as well as Hotel Missoni, a new lifestyle brand  which is developed worldwide following a licence agreement with  the iconic Italian fashion house Missoni. Rezidor is part of the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, one of the  worlds ten largest hotel groups.  Rezidors long-standing, wide-ranging and award winning  Responsible Business programme contributed to the group being  named one of the Worlds Most Ethical Companies in 2011 for the  second year. For more information, visit www.rezidor.com If you have any comments, queries or questions, please contact: Inge Huijbrechts, Director Responsible Business inge.huijbrechts@carlsonrezidor.com Christiane Reiter, Senior Director Corporate Communication christiane.reiter@carlsonrezidor.com