SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011 2012  2  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 This is SMECs second annual Sustainability Report.  The report covers SMECs economic, environmental  and social performance from 1 April 2011 to   31 March 2012.  The information in this report pertains to SMECs  Australian operations and does not include SMECs  international operations, international subsidiaries, joint  ventures or any other controlled entities.  SMECs Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policies  and procedures have recently been approved and are  being implemented in Australia only. SMECs plan is to  expand and strengthen its CSR program throughout  Australia, before implementing it across the Companys  international operations. SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) G3.1 guidelines to a self-declared Level B. The  GRI G3.1 guidelines are the worlds most widely used  sustainability reporting guidelines. By applying these  guidelines, SMEC has ensured that this report is in line  with global best practice.  The data in this report has been gathered using  standard measurement techniques which conform  to national or international guidelines or regulatory  requirements. Specific calculations are referenced  where appropriate. All monetary figures are in  Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. For further information, please contact:  sustainabilityreport@smec.com.  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  3 Our Chief Executive Officer  4 Our Company  6 Our Divisions  8 Our Corporate Governance  10 Our Board  12 Our Executive Committee  14 Our Stakeholders  16 Our Performance  18 Our Sustainability Strategy  20 People  22 Community  30 Sustainability and Environment  34 Global Reporting Initiative Index  40 Contents  4  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 SMEC undertook sustainability reporting for the first time  last year. Since then, we have focused on integrating  sustainable business practices throughout the Company.  As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact  (UNGC), SMEC is committed to supporting and  promoting the UNGCs ten principles in the four areas of  human rights, labour, the environment and   anti-corruption. This year, SMEC continued to integrate  the UNGCs ten principles in all business operations. This Sustainability Report highlights SMECs commitment  to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities. I  am pleased to report that over the last year, SMEC  has strengthened its CSR activities, particularly within  SMECs Australian business. CSR activities within SMEC  are structured under three broad categories: People;  Community; and Sustainability and Environment.  SMECs Australian business made progress in each of  the three CSR category areas, whilst the most significant  progress was made in the People area. At SMEC, we  recognise that our people, and their skills, experience  and energy, are the drivers of the Companys success.  I am pleased to report that SMECs 2011 Employee  Feedback Survey, highlighted many positives, our people:  consider SMEC to be an attractive place to work;  appreciate and enjoy a substantial level of autonomy  and support from SMEC managers; and feel that  communication by managers and the Company has  improved since 2009. The Survey also highlighted areas  for improvement, we are developing Action Plans to  improve in these areas. In this reporting period, our focus on employee health  and safety proved to be successful with Lost Time Injury  (LTI) frequency rates reduced by 50%, proactive reporting  targets surpassed by 180% and no reported deaths or  permanently disabling injuries.  We also strengthened our employee health and  wellbeing program and developed a range of initiatives.  These included the introduction of new flexible working  arrangement policies; improved tertiary study allowances;  and significantly better parental leave benefits, including  an increase of 12 weeks paid parental leave (leave  increased from six weeks to 18 weeks).  SMECs focus on gender diversity continued this year  with establishment of a Gender Diversity Steering  Committee and an operational sub-committee WINS  (Women In SMEC). A key outcome has been the  development of a company-wide Gender Action Plan.  This Plan includes a number of initiatives designed to  raise awareness about gender diversity and increase the  number of talented females in senior positions throughout  the Company.  Our Chief Executive Officer  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  5 SMECs commitment to community development  continued with SMEC delivering projects that improved  living standards in some of the worlds poorest  communities. SMEC upheld all aspects of human rights  including abolition of child labour, promotion of the rights  of indigenous people and eradication of discrimination. Through the SMEC Foundation, SMEC continued  to provide small-scale grant support to community  groups and development projects throughout Australia  and internationally. In this reporting period, the SMEC  Foundation donated over $90,000 to 16 projects in:  Australia, Botswana, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Lao PDR,  Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, Tanzania and Zambia.  This year, of funds allocated 51% were donated to  Emergency Relief projects, followed by Education (29%),  Community Development (10%) and Health (10%). SMEC continued to provide integrated environmental  services and invested in sustainable business practices  to achieve long-term prosperity. SMEC commenced the  data collection of electricity and paper usage across  all Australian offices. Plans are in place to use this as  baseline data to set measurable targets for the reduction  of electricity and paper consumption.  Carbon offsetting continued throughout the reporting  period, with Greenhouse Gas emissions generated  through air travel and printing of annual documents  offset by carbon credits invested in a range of renewable  energy projects. In the year ahead, SMEC will expand and strengthen its  CSR program throughout Australia and work towards  integrating sustainable business practices throughout  the Companys international business. I fully support  the implementation of SMECs CSR program and look  forward to the program gaining momentum.  Ross Hitt Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer SMEC Holdings Limited I am pleased to report that over the last year, SMEC has  strengthened its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  activities, particularly within SMECs Australian business.  CSR activities within SMEC are structured under three  broad categories: People; Community; and Sustainability  and Environment.  6  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Our Company  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  7 SMEC is a professional  services firm with Australian  origins and a global  footprint that provides   high-quality consultancy  services for major  infrastructure projects.  8  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 MI AND N NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA Our Divisions North and South America 	 Established 2004 	 60 employees 	 4 offices Middle East and North Africa 	 Established 1995 	 55 employees 	 3 offices Africa 	 Established 1974 	 280 employees  	 9 offices  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  9 DLE EAST RTH AFRICA AFRICA SOUTH ASIA ASIA PACIFIC AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND South Asia 	 Established 1968 	 1,650 employees 	 14 offices Asia Pacific 	 Established 1962 	 400 employees 	 10 offices Australia and New Zealand 	 Established 1949 	 1,300 employees 	 17 offices  10  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Company Structure The SMEC Group operates through a number of  companies under SMEC Holdings Ltd. SMECs  Australian and international operations are conducted  through the operating companies of SMEC Australia Pty  Ltd and SMEC International Pty Ltd, respectively. The  SMEC Group also includes a number of subsidiaries,  established or acquired to meet regional requirements  and pursue specialised sector activities. The Board of Directors  Although unlisted, SMECs Board of Directors has  adopted practices in line with the Principles of Good  Corporate Governance and Best Practice set out by the  Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) Corporate Governance  Council. ASX Standards promote ethical decision making  and transparency and ensure fair remuneration. SMECs Board (the Board) is responsible for formulating  the strategic direction of SMEC. The Board acts on behalf  of shareholders and is accountable for SMECs financial,  operational and ethical performance. The Board has a  written charter which outlines the responsibilities of Board  members and provides a governance framework which is  in the best interests of shareholders.  SMECs Board is currently composed of two Executive  Directors and five Non-Executive Directors. The  composition of the Board is determined using these  principles: there must be a maximum of eight members,  with a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors;  the positions of Chair and Managing Director must be  held by separate people; the Chair must be elected by  the Board; Directors should have different backgrounds;  and Directors (not including the Managing Director) will  retire at the fourth Annual General Meeting following  election and (if eligible) may stand for re-election. Independence of Non-Executive Directors  An independent Director: is independent of management;  is free of any relationships that could interfere with the  exercise of independent judgement; and meets the  criteria for independence in the ASX Standards. SMECs  Board has four independent Non-Executive Directors. Board Committees The Board has three permanent committees which  provide direction on specific areas. Each committee  has a written terms of reference and is subject to annual  review by the Board. These committees are: the Audit  and Risk Committee; the Remuneration Committee; the  Nominations Committee; and the Executive Committee. Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with:  financial reporting, accounting policies and internal  control systems; identifying, assessing, monitoring and  managing SMECs material risks; and ensuring that  financial information is provided to investors and the  Board in an accurate and timely manner. The Audit and  Risk Committee must have at least three members,  consist only of Non-Executive Directors, have a majority  of independent Directors and have an independent Chair,  who is not the Chair of the Board.  Remuneration and Nominations Committee The Remuneration and Nominations Committee aims  is to assist in establishing a Board with an effective  composition, diversity, size and commitment to  adequately discharge its duties and responsibilities to the  Company, shareholders and other stakeholders. The Committee also aims to ensure that SMEC: secures,  motivates and retains a highly skilled and diverse  group of directors and senior executives to ensure the  long-term success of the Company and create value  for shareholders; remunerates its directors and senior  executives fairly and responsibly, having regard to the  performance of the Company, the performance of  the directors and senior executives and the general  remuneration environment; and implements policies and  practices that secure, motivate and retain a highly skilled  and diverse group of employees at all levels of   the Company.  The Remuneration and Nominations Committee must  consist of at least three members, be comprised solely of  Non-Executive Directors, have a majority of independent  Directors and have an independent Chair. Our Corporate Governance  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  11 Executive Committee The Executive Committee monitors SMECs operations  and ensures that strategies and policies set by the  Board are implemented. The Executive Committee is  responsible for all matters not reserved for the other  permanent Board Committees. The Executive Committee  is responsible for the day-to-day management of SMEC  and is chaired by the Managing Director and CEO. Remuneration of Directors Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees, which  in total fall within the fixed amount approved by  shareholders (currently set at $1,000,000). During the  2010–2011 financial year, remuneration of Non-Executive  Directors totalled $645,920. Non-Executive Directors are  not eligible for SMECs bonus or incentive schemes and  only statutory retirement benefits are payable.  Code of Conduct SMEC has a Code of Conduct which must be followed  by all employees. The Code requires that all employees  act with honesty, objectivity and in compliance with the  law. SMECs Code of Conduct encourages employees  to report any unethical practices within SMEC and is  regularly reviewed. Company Charter Vision: To be a global leader in high-quality solutions. Mission: Partner in the economic development of nations  by meeting the needs of clients and communities through  professional excellence and innovation. Deliver returns to  shareholders and rewarding careers to employees. Values: The SMEC Spirit embodies pride and a can  do approach. The SMEC Spirit is at the core of the  Companys culture and has bred a strong sense of  identity which drives performance. A sense of the  Companys proud traditions and the continuation of its  pioneering spirit are key elements of the SMEC Spirit. Risk Management During this reporting period, SMECs risk management  systems and practices were a key priority. Improved  processes for the identification of risks and better  consultation in managing risks, has led to the  implementation of (more) targeted risk management  measures, and an overall improvement of SMECs risk  management systems. These measures have reduced  the likelihood and potential impact of a number of  significant risks. In addition, SMEC has focused on  fostering a risk management culture. The adoption of  this culture has led to greater awareness and improved  communication of risks at all levels.  The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee,  is responsible for ensuring that there are adequate  organisational arrangements for designing, implementing,  monitoring, reviewing and continually improving risk  management throughout SMEC. Quality Management  SMEC is committed to implementing quality  management principles on all projects and has  developed a Quality Management System (QMS).  SMECs QMS complies with the requirements of   ISO 9001:2008.  SMECs QMS provides systematic control of business  activities to ensure that client expectations are being  met and, if possible, exceeded. SMECs QMS includes  processes for planning, documenting, managing and  controlling everyday business needs and activities.  The QMS ensures compliance with relevant regulatory  requirements and includes review processes to monitor  and measure performance and identify improvements.  Effective implementation of the QMS has assisted  in creating a culture at SMEC that is focused on the  provision of high-quality services, technical excellence,  innovative design and the management of environmental  and social risks. These considerations are incorporated  into SMECs everyday business decisions.  12  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Ross Hitt Managing Director and CEO BE(Civil), GradDip(Management), MAICD Ross joined SMEC in 1980. Ross was appointed  Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of SMEC  in 2009, after serving as Managing Director International  since 2005. Ross has more than 35 years experience  in engineering, development and infrastructure projects  in Australia and internationally. Ross holds a Bachelor  of Engineering (Civil) from Monash University and a  Postgraduate Diploma in Management from Deakin  University. Ross is a Fellow of the Institution of   Engineers Australia and a Member of the Australian  Institute of Company Directors and the Australia India   Business Council. Roger Bayliss Non-Executive Director BSc, MRACI, FAICD Roger was appointed to the Board in 2002. Roger  is a Non-Executive Director of SMEC, Chairman of  the Remuneration and Nominations Committee and  a SMEC Foundation Board member. Rogers career  has spanned 44 years and includes management and  policy development, marketing, international trade and  investment. Roger was a member of the executive  management team at the Australian Trade Commission  (Austrade). He is a Chartered Chemist, a Member of the  Royal Australian Chemical Institute and a Fellow of the  Australian Institute of Company Directors. Roger holds a  Bachelor of Science from Sydney University. Our Board Peter Busbridge Chairman BE(Civil), AMP Harvard, MAICD Peter joined SMEC in 1974 and has held the  positions of Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operations  Officer, Executive Director Australia, Manager New  South Wales and Chief Engineer Highways and  Transportation. In 2009, Peter was appointed Chairman  of the Board. Peter holds a Bachelor of Engineering  (Civil) from Melbourne University and completed the  Advanced Management Program at Harvard University.  Peter is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers Australia  and is a Member of the Australian Institute of Company  Directors and the Road Engineering Association of Asia  and Australasia (REAAA).  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  13 Alastair McKendrick Director and Group Finance Director BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD Alastair joined SMEC in 1999 as Financial Controller, was  appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2000 and Group  Finance Director in 2009. He was elected to the Board as  an Executive Director in 2001. Alastair has over 30 years  experience in the management of large organisations  and consulting to small-to-medium sized organisations  in Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand and the United  Kingdom. Alastair holds a Bachelor of Business  (Accounting) from Monash University, is a Fellow of  Certified Public Accountants Australia and a Member of  the Australian Institute of Company Directors.  Kate Spargo Non-Executive Director BA, LLB(Hons), FAICD Kate is a Non-Executive Director of SMEC who was  appointed to the Board in 2010. Kate is currently a  Non-Executive Director on the Boards of UGL Ltd,  Sonic Healthcare Ltd, Fletcher Building Ltd, Pacific  Hydro Pty Ltd, Investec Bank (Australia) Ltd, Accounting  Professional and Ethical Standards Board, International  Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, CoInvest  Ltd and Suncorp Portfolio Services Ltd. Kate holds a  Bachelor of Law (Honours) and a Bachelor of Arts from  Adelaide University. Kate is a Fellow of the Australian  Institute of Company Directors. Bob Scott Non-Executive Director FCA, MAICD Bob was appointed to SMECs Board in 1996. He is a  Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and  Risk Committee. Bob was Chairman of the Board from  2001 to 2009. Prior to joining SMEC, he was a partner  of Coopers & Lybrand (now PricewaterhouseCoopers)  for 23 years. Bob served as Non-Executive Director  of McConnell Dowell Ltd (a publicly listed company)  from 1996 to 2001. He has a long association with the  engineering and property industries. Bob is a Chartered  Accountant, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered  Accountants Australia and a Member of the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Max Findlay Non-Executive Director BEc, FAICD Max was appointed Non-Executive Director of SMEC in  2010. Max was the Managing Director of Programmed  Maintenance Services for 18 years until his retirement in  2008. Max serves on the Boards of several organisations  including the Royal Childrens Hospital and Skilled Group  Ltd (a publicly listed company). Max is Chairman of the  Board of EVZ Ltd and Redflex Holdings Ltd. Max holds a  Bachelor of Economics (Politics) from Monash University  and a postgraduate qualification in Accounting from  Swinburne University. Max is a Fellow of the Australian  Institute of Company Directors.  14  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Ross Hitt Managing Director and CEO BE(Civil), GradDip(Management), MAICD Ross joined SMEC in 1980. Ross was appointed  Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of  SMEC in 2009, after serving as Managing Director  International since 2005. Ross has more than 35  years experience in engineering, development and  infrastructure projects in Australia and internationally.  Ross holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from  Monash University and a Postgraduate Diploma in  Management from Deakin University. Ross is a Fellow  of the Institution of Engineers Australia and a Member  of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and  the Australia India Business Council. Alastair McKendrick Director and Group Finance Director BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD  Alastair joined SMEC in 1999 as  Financial Controller, was appointed  Chief Financial Officer in 2000 and  Group Finance Director in 2009.  He was elected to the Board as an  Executive Director in 2001. Alastair  has over 30 years experience in the  management of large organisations  and consulting to small-to-medium  sized organisations in Australia, Hong  Kong, New Zealand and the United  Kingdom. Alastair holds a Bachelor of  Business (Accounting) from Monash  University, is a Fellow of Certified  Public Accountants Australia and a  Member of the Australian Institute of  Company Directors. Neil Evans Director Strategy and Business  Development BSc(Eng), AMP Harvard Neil joined SMEC in 1993 and was  appointed Director Strategy and  Business Development in 2009.  Previously, Neil was Managing Director  Australia, and led strategic acquisitions,  business planning and delivery of  large infrastructure projects. Neil has  40 years experience and has been a  member of project boards and review  groups for major infrastructure projects  within Australia and internationally.  Neil holds a Bachelor of Science (Civil  Engineering) from the University of  New South Wales and has completed  the Harvard Business School  Advanced Management Program. Our Executive Committee SMECs  Executive  Committee  monitors the  Companys  operations and  ensures that  strategies and  policies set by  the Board are  implemented.   SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  15 Barry Norman Managing Director International GradDip(Civil), EWS(Vic), FIEAust Barry joined SMEC in 2006 and is  Managing Director International. Barry  provides leadership in business  planning, acquisitions and international  concession projects. Prior to his  appointment as Managing Director  International, Barry held the position of  Regional Director Southern (Australia),  where he was responsible for  expanding SMECs Victorian and  South Australian operations. Barry has  over 40 years engineering experience,  holds a Diploma in Civil Engineering  from Deakin University and is a life  member (and past National President)  of the Australian Water Association. Hari Poologasundram Managing Director Australia BSc(Hons), MSc, CPEng, MIEAust,  MICE, MIHT Hari joined SMEC in 1994 and was  appointed Managing Director Australia  in 2009. Hari has been a member of  the SMEC Australia Board since 2004.  Hari has over 24 years experience in  planning, design and management of  infrastructure projects using traditional  Design and Construct, Alliance and  Public Private Partnership methods.  He has led successful Alliance teams  and delivered several Pacific Highway  upgrade projects. Hari holds a Bachelor  of Science (Civil Engineering) and a  Master of Science (Civil Engineering)  from City University, London. Manoli Loukas  Acting Chief Operating Officer   Asia Pacific  GradDip(Business), MBA Manoli joined SMEC in 2005 and was  appointed Acting Chief Operating  Officer Asia Pacific in 2011. Prior to  this appointment, Manoli held the  positions of Regional Director Asia  Pacific and Regional Manager India.  Manoli is an accomplished senior  executive with a strong background in  operations management and strategy  development. Manoli has over 25  years experience in the engineering  industry in both the public and private  sectors. Manoli holds a Master  of Business Administration from  Swinburne University. Siddique A. Jafar Acting Chief Operating Officer   South Asia BE(Civil), MIEB Siddique joined SMEC in 1992 and  was appointed Acting Chief Operating  Officer South Asia in 2010. He has over  35 years experience in structural design,  construction supervision, quality control  and project monitoring for large-scale  projects. He manages the operation  and direction of SMEC in Bangladesh,  India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and the  Central Asian Republics. Siddique  has been instrumental in transforming  local subsidiaries into successful  commercial ventures. Siddique holds  a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from  Bangladesh University of Engineering  and Technology.  Irek Stawiczny  CEO GMC Global  BE(Mechanical) Irek is the founder of GMC Global. He  is a qualified engineer with 17 years  mining industry experience, working  in multiple technical and leadership  roles. Over the last 10 years, Irek   has been involved in a number of   large-scale maintenance management  improvement programs, and global  enterprise resource planning projects,  focused on delivering business  value. Irek joined SMECs Executive  Committee in 2012, when GMC  Global became part of the SMEC  Group. Irek holds a Bachelor of  Mechanical Engineering from the  Central Queensland University. Angus Macpherson Director Corporate Affairs BE(Civil), CPEng, MIEAust Angus joined SMEC in 1993. He  was appointed Director Corporate  Affairs in 2010. Angus has over 15  years experience in managing design  teams and in the development  and implementation of business  management systems. Angus  has experience in a wide range of  infrastructure projects for both the  public and private sectors. Angus  has expertise in scope control, risk  analysis, financial management,  design review and the management of  specialist technical input. Angus holds  a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from  the University of Technology, Sydney.  16  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Stakeholder Engagement SMECs stakeholders are individuals and groups  impacted by the Companys activities or those who  can impact SMECs development. SMEC aims to stay  informed of sensitive issues through effective and regular  communication with its stakeholders. SMEC has in place  policies and procedures to identify and manage issues  that may impact stakeholders as well as record significant  stakeholder communications. SMECs approach to  stakeholder engagement is modified to align with each  stakeholders area of interest.  SMECs proactive approach to stakeholder engagement  represents the Companys ongoing commitment  to working effectively with its stakeholders, learning  from past stakeholder engagement experiences and  continuing to improve performance. SMECs three   major stakeholder groups are employees, clients   and shareholders.  Employees SMEC encourages two-way communication with  employees to promote mutual understanding and  alignment of Company and individual objectives. To  enhance two-way communication, SMEC undertook an  Employee Feedback Survey in 2011. The objectives of the  survey were to: understand employee satisfaction levels;  measure SMECs progress in pre-determined areas;  compare SMECs performance to industry benchmarks;  and develop new employee programs aligned to the  Companys Strategic Plan. The results of the survey are  outlined on page 22 of this report. SMECs Staff Consultative Committee (SCC) is another  mechanism that facilitates two-way communication  between SMEC employees and management. The SCC  provides a link to and from the Executive Committee for  employees to raise concerns or make suggestions. The  SCC may take on briefs from the Executive Committee  or the Human Resources department to investigate,  report or communicate issues of interest to employees.  The SCC is a recognised SMEC Committee, comprising  a group of continuing employees partly nominated by  management and partly elected by employees. Clients SMEC is committed to continuous improvement in  client service standards. To this end, SMEC actively  solicits regular client feedback. SMEC has in place  Client Relationship Management (CRM) policies and  procedures as well as an online CRM system (which  is currently only in use in Australia). These tools help  SMEC manage client relationships in an organised and  structured manner. SMECs CRM system assists SMEC  to better services the needs of clients.  SMECs CRM policies include a specific project closure  procedure to ensure that the highest quality project  outcomes have been delivered to the satisfaction of the  client. During the project closure process, the Project  Manager must: obtain written confirmation from the client  that the project services are complete; obtain (where the  client is willing) an attestation of SMECs services from  the client; and request that the client provide feedback  on SMECs performance using SMECs Project Service  Questionnaire which includes topics such as quality of  service, quality of technical work and value for money. SMEC is in the process of developing and implementing  a new company-wide client feedback tool (and  associated policies and procedures) which will be linked  to SMECs CRM system.  These soon to be released policies and procedures  will formalise SMECs approach to client feedback and  encourage all SMEC employees to actively seek more  regular client feedback, where possible, face-to-face.  Client feedback will be sought at various phases  including: throughout projects; at project closure; and  general feedback unrelated to a specific project. SMECs new client feedback system will capture and  analyse client feedback to enable SMEC to continue to  provide excellent service and stay ahead of competitors.  Our Stakeholders  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  17 Shareholders SMEC has a policy of continuous disclosure and  communication to shareholders. The Company Secretary  is the appointed Officer responsible for communications  with the Australian Securities and Investments  Commission. This Officer is also responsible for ensuring  compliance with the continuous disclosure requirements  of the Corporations Act 2001.  The Board aims to ensure that the shareholders are  fully informed of all material information relating to  the Company. Communication with shareholders is  undertaken through: the annual report and half-yearly  reports; the Annual General Meeting; media releases and  other publications included on SMECs website   (www.smec.com); and periodic mail outs.  Stakeholder Communication SMEC uses a variety of communication methods, tailored  to each specific stakeholder group:  Employees:    CEO email announcements    Senior management email announcements    Staff Consultative Committee    Monthly internal electronic newsletter (SMEC News)    Intranet announcements    Corporate events    Corporate communications (publications)    Website (www.smec.com) Clients, Suppliers and Contractors:    Regular progress meetings and reports    Post-project client satisfaction surveys    Membership of key industry association committees    Attendance and sponsorship of industry events    Corporate events     Corporate communications (publications)    Website (www.smec.com) Partner Firms:    Membership of key industry association committees    Attendance and sponsorship of industry events    Corporate communications (publications)    Website (www.smec.com) Shareholders:    Board and Committee meetings    Company announcements    Annual General Meeting    Corporate communications (publications)    Website (www.smec.com) Government Authorities:    Regular meetings    Written submissions    Membership of key industry association committees    Corporate communications (publications)    Website (www.smec.com) Industry Bodies:    Participation on key industry association committees    Attendance at industry functions    Sponsorship of industry events    Corporate communications (publications)    Website (www.smec.com) Banks and Financiers:    Health and safety and sustainability reporting     Financial reporting via a third party company (auditor)     Corporate communications (publications)    Website (www.smec.com) Media:    Media releases    Corporate communications (publications)    Website (www.smec.com)  18  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Industry Awards SMEC is consistently ranked amongst the worlds top  engineering design firms and wins industry awards for  design innovation and the management of environmental  and social risks. In 2011, Engineering News-Records  (ENR) annual list of top design firms ranked SMEC at  number 67 in the Top 200 International Design Firms  and number 87 in the Top 150 Global Design Firms. Alliance Contracting     Excellence in Major and Capital Projects Award:  Wyaralong Dam  Australian Institute of Project Management  (Queensland)     Engineering Project over $1 million: Wyaralong Dam  Concrete Institute of Australia (Queensland)    Award for Excellence: Gateway Upgrade Project  (pictured above) Consult Australia Awards for Excellence    Gold Award (Transport and Civil Infrastructure):  Gateway Upgrade Project    Gold Award (Water): Dandenong Valley Wetlands    Gold Award (Planning and Urban Development):  Woodland Waters    Gold Award (Specialist Services): Ipswich Motorway  Upgrade (Dinmore to Goodna) Mine Fill Project  Engineers Australia (Sydney)     Environment and Heritage and Presidents Award:  Nepean Environmental Flows Project (Portion B)  Infrastructure Partnerships Australia     Project of the Year Award: Gateway Upgrade Project  Safe Work Australia Awards     Best Workplace Safety System Award:   Ballina Bypass  Urban Development Institute of Australia (Victoria)     Excellence Award for Residential Development   (over 250 lots) and Judges Landscape Award:  Woodland Waters Industry Memberships    Association of Consulting Engineers Malaysia    Association of Consulting Surveyors   (Victoria Division)    Association of Land Development Engineers    Australian Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong    Australian Green Infrastructure Council    Australian National Committee on Large   Dams (ANCOLD)    Australian Water Association (AWA)     British Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong    Board of Engineers Malaysia    CIGRE (International Conference on Large High  Voltage Electric Power Systems)     Consult Australia    Engineers Registration Board Tanzania    International Road Federation    Pakistan Engineering Council    Property Council of Australia (South   Australia Division)    Property Council of Australia (Victoria Division)    Roads Australia    Urban Development Institute of Australia  (Queensland Division)    Urban Development Institute of Australia   (Victoria Division)    Water Industry Alliance     Womens Planning Network Our Performance  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  19 Economic Performance SMECs strategic policies ensure economic performance,  sustained long-term growth and positive returns for all  stakeholders. During the reporting period (1 April 2011 to  31 March 2012), revenue in Australia increased by 17%  to $204.3 million. SMECs net operating profit after tax in  Australia increased by 34% to $11.6 million. SMECs operating costs increased by 33% to $58.3  million, with employee compensation increasing  by 13% to $129.2 million. These cost increases are  attributed, in part, to the acquisition of businesses and  the establishment of new offices. The generation and  distribution of SMECs economic value is displayed in  Figure 1. Government Financial Assistance The Australian Government offers a Research and  Development (R&D) Tax Concession for activities which  are innovative or have high levels of technical risk. As of  1 July 2011, the R&D Tax Concession program provided  a 40% tax offset; 10 cents on every R&D dollar spent.  During the reporting period, SMEC spent $3,080,276  on R&D activities and received $288,775 as a cashback  benefit (as displayed in Figure 2). This is a 61% decrease  in expenditure on R&D activities as compared to the last  reporting period. Many of SMECs eligible R&D projects  either scaled down or were completed in 2011. In  addition, many of SMECs new projects were undertaken  via Alliancing which is ineligible for R&D Tax Concessions.  Figure 1: Economic Value Generated and Distributed in Australia (all figures are in $000) Generated  VIC & SA NSW & ACT QLD & NT AUSTRALIA Revenue  $62,098  $82,158  $60,078  $204,334 Donations and Community Investments - - - - Net Operating Profit After Tax  N/A N/A N/A $11,692  Distributed  VIC & SA NSW & ACT QLD & NT AUSTRALIA Operating Costs  $17,720  $23,445  $17,144  ($58,309)  Employee Compensation $39,294  $51,987  $38,016  ($129,297)  Payments to Providers of Capital - Dividend N/A N/A N/A ($3,213)  Government (Tax) N/A N/A N/A ($10,464)  TOTAL ($201,283)  Figure 2: Financial Assistance Received from the Australian Government Claimed in 2011 Tax  Deduction at 125%  (1/4/11–30/6/11)  Claimed in 2011 ITR  Tax Deduction at  150% (1/4/11–30/6/11) Estimate Claim  Tax Offset at 40%  (1/7/11–31/3/12) TOTAL   (1/4/11–31/3/12) R&D Expenditure  $770,069   -   $2,310,207   $3,080,276  Before Tax Cash Benefit   $192,517   -   $770,069   $962,586  After Tax Cash Benefit   $57,755   -   $231,020   $288,775   20  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Our Sustainability Strategy  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  21 SMECs Corporate Social  Responsibility activities  are structured under three  broad focus areas: People;  Community; and Environment  and Sustainability.  22  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Employee Demographics As a consulting organisation, SMEC believes its people  are its most important asset. SMEC employees are  critical to the Companys continued success and  sustained growth. SMEC invests in strategies to attract,  retain and develop skilled and enthusiastic employees. SMEC is committed to achieving equal opportunities  for all employees in the workplace and ensuring that the  workplace is free from discrimination and harassment.  SMEC has implemented workplace policies, practices  and behaviours that are fair and do not disadvantage  employees on the basis of gender, age, ethnicity, religion  or any other indicators of diversity. SMEC aims to enhance employee career progression  through professional development and career planning.  SMEC also has in place a variety of programs that assist  employee wellbeing and work-life balance.  At the close of the reporting period, SMEC had a total  of 1,291 employees across Australia (as displayed in  Figure 3). This is an 8% increase on total employees  from the previous reporting period. This increase can be  attributed, in part, to the opening of new offices in the  Sunshine Coast and Newcastle, and the acquisition of  Lean and Hayward (an urban development consultancy  firm) and GMC Global (a consulting services provider to  the resources industry). The majority of SMEC employees (84.5%) are contracted  on a full-time basis, 10% are casual, 3.5% are part-time  and 1.5% are fixed-term employees. New South Wales  and the Australian Capital Territory are home to the  majority of employees (42%), followed by Victoria and  South Australia (32%), then Queensland and the Northern  Territory (25%). Turnover The average turnover of all Australian employees in 2011  was 26%; for permanent employees only, it was 15%.  The demographic profile of this turnover is consistent with  the cultural and legislative environment in which SMEC  operates. A breakdown of employee turnover in 2011 by  gender and age group is displayed in Figure 4. Analysis of employee turnover indicated that the primary  declared reason for resignation was a lack of career  development, followed by dissatisfaction with salary.  SMEC is developing Action Plans to improve these areas. During the reporting period, SMEC updated the exit  interview process, amended cessation forms, ensured  that position descriptions of all Human Resources  Managers include exit interviews as a responsibility and  investigated automation of the exit interview process.  Employee Feedback Survey SMEC conducted an Employee Feedback Survey (the  Survey) in 2011. The objectives of the Survey were to:  gain insight into employee satisfaction levels; measure  SMECs progress since the 2009 survey; compare  SMECs performance to industry benchmarks; and  develop new employee programs aligned to SMECs  Strategic Plan. In Australia, 1,230 employees received the Survey,  whilst 927 employees responded, representing a 75%  participation rate. This is the highest participation rate in  a SMEC employee survey by Australian employees. In  2009, there was a 56% response rate in Australia. The Survey found that 72% of SMECs Australian-based  employees were satisfied with their job (as displayed in  Figure 5). Employees felt that:    SMECs working environment is very open and  accepting of individual differences     They have an appropriate level of autonomy to make  decisions and take action in their day-to-day work     SMEC is an attractive place to work  The report also highlighted areas for improvement:    Sharing of information across sectors and offices     The way in which change is managed    Professional development and career opportunities SMEC is developing Action Plans to improve these areas. People  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  23 Cultural Diversity Diversity is a source of strength for SMECs clients,  partners and the communities in which SMEC operates.  SMECs employees come from a variety of ethnic  backgrounds. According to the 2011 Employee Feedback  Survey, the majority of SMEC employees were born in  Australia followed by the United Kingdom, New Zealand  and China. In Australia, an average of 41% of employees  speak languages other English. SMECs Diversity Policy states that valuing and managing  diversity means that SMEC will aim to:    Create an inclusive workplace culture    Facilitate equal employment opportunities based on  relative ability, performance and potential    Help build a safe working environment by taking  action against inappropriate behaviour that does not  value diversity including discrimination, harassment,  bullying, victimisation and vilification    Review succession plans to ensure an appropriate  focus on diversity    Identify specific factors during the recruitment and  selection process to encourage employee diversity    Develop flexible work practices to meet the differing  needs of employees and assist them to balance their  work and family commitments     Ensure that all employees have access to benefits  and services in an equitable manner    Consult stakeholders to ensure positive outcomes    Attract and retain a skilled and diverse workforce     Enhance market reputation through a workforce that  reflects the diversity of the community it services Figure 3: Employee Numbers in Australia Region Full  Time Part  Time Casual Fixed  Term TOTAL VIC & SA 343 15 46 6 410 NSW & ACT 475 19 48 10 552 QLD & NT 275 12 38 4 329 AUSTRALIA 1,093 46 132 20 1,291   % Very Satisfied  13 Satisfied  59 Dissatisfied   7 Very Dissatisfied   1 Undecided  20 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 15–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65+ Age Number of Employees Male Female Figure 4: Employee Turnover by Gender and Age Figure 5: Overall Employee Job Satisfaction  24  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Gender Diversity SMEC is committed to promoting gender diversity and  understands that achieving a gender balance throughout  the Company is a business imperative. During this  reporting period, 30.6% of all new employees and 19.5%  of graduate employees who joined SMEC in Australia  were female. A total of 25% of all SMEC employees were  female; there has been no change in this figure since the  last reporting period.  These figures are significantly higher than the industry  standard. According to Engineers Australia, 14% of  Australian engineers are female and 16.3% of Australian  graduate engineers are female. The majority of SMECs female employees are aged  between 25 and 34. A breakdown of SMECs employees  by gender and age group is displayed in Figure 6. SMEC  classifies employees into three employment types:    Professional: degree qualified employees including  engineers, scientists and corporate services     Technical: employees who are not degree qualified  but have technical skills    Administration: employees in administrative roles  including executive assistants and receptionists  A breakdown of SMECs employees by gender and  employment type is displayed in Figure 7; the majority   of SMECs female employees are classified as  Professional (54%), followed by Administration (34%),   then Technical (12%).  Gender Diversity Steering Committee SMEC is committed to increasing the number of females  in senior positions. To address this issue, a Gender  Diversity Steering Committee, chaired by SMECs Chief  Executive Officer was established in 2011. The role of the  Committee is to monitor the implementation of SMECs  Gender Action Plan to ensure that SMEC achieves its  gender diversity objectives. Women In SMEC (WINS)  In 2011, WINS (Women In SMEC) was established to help  increase the level of participation of women in leadership  in SMEC. WINS is comprised of employees from each  of the major Australian offices. Activities undertaken by  WINS include:    Identifying strategies that address career issues     Identifying external networking opportunities     Raising awareness about gender diversity     Facilitating internal networking and   knowledge sharing    Identifying strategies to enhance personal and  professional development  Gender Diversity Awareness SMEC understands that one of the difficulties in achieving  a gender balance is the lack of awareness around  gender issues. As such, SMEC undertook a number of  activities during the reporting period designed to increase  employee gender diversity awareness. A SMEC intranet site, Diversity was launched in 2011.  The site includes: SMECs diversity statement; a calendar  of events; links to diversity policies; a discussion board;  information about WINS; and a copy of SMECs annual  Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency  (EOWA) report. SMEC celebrated International Womens Day (IWD) on 8  March 2012. IWD recognises the economic, political and  social achievements of women. IWD events were twofold;  to celebrate IWD and to raise awareness of the gender  diversity challenges that exist. IWD events were held in  most Australian offices and certain international offices. SMEC submits an annual report to the EOWA. The  EOWA is a statutory authority within the Australian  Commonwealth Department of Employment and  Workplace Relations. SMEC achieved compliance with  the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Act  1999 for the 2010–2011 financial year. People (continued)  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  25 Remuneration SMEC endeavours to ensure employees receive  competitive salaries, taking into consideration market  conditions as well as an individuals performance,  education and experience. To ensure SMEC employee  salaries are in line with the market, SMEC conducts  annual salary reviews and compares these to analysis  of industry benchmarks. SMECs minimum wage levels  exceed legal requirements and employment contracts  conform to the relevant industrial requirements.  During this reporting period, the average male entry level  salary was $64,315 and the average female entry level  salary was $64,215. This is a significant improvement  on the last reporting period, whereby males received an  average of $6,000 more per annum than females.  The average overall male salary was $108,393 and the  average overall female salary was $73,212. The largest  salary difference between males and females was in the  professional band of employees; on average males were  paid $105,596 while females were paid $76,520.     SMEC recognises that male employees are, on average,  currently being paid higher salaries than their female  counterparts. This difference may be attributed to the  type of roles that female and male employees occupy  within SMEC as there is a much higher representation of  females in lower paying administration roles.  Figure 6: Employees by Gender and Age 0 50 15–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65+ 100 150 200 250 300 Age Number of Employees Male Female Figure 7: Employees by Gender and Employment Type 0 100 Professional Technical Administration 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 Employment Type Number of Employees Male Female  26  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Career Development SMEC understands that career development can help  employees have a stronger sense of purpose, achieve  greater fulfilment and have higher levels of satisfaction.  SMEC seeks to attain the highest possible standards  in the management and training of employees and is  committed to employee development. SMEC develops  the skills and expertise of employees and broadens the  experience of employees through a range of initiatives. Professional Development Program SMEC maintains an active Professional Development  Program (PDP). The PDP is administered internally and  developed in association with Engineers Australias  structured education and training program. The PDP  assists both graduates and emerging professionals  with career planning. During the reporting period, there  were 43 employees registered in the PDP; 83% were  graduates and 23% were female employees. Some Australian offices have Young Professional Groups.  These groups assist graduate employees to obtain  professional association qualifications and give graduates  the opportunity to improve member representation within  the Company.  Performance Appraisals SMEC conducts annual performance appraisals for all  employees using CareerTrac, an in-house performance  and development appraisal system. The CareerTrac  process allows employees and their manager to: discuss  achievements; discuss issues and challenges and  agree actions to resolve these; identify learning and  development needs; and develop a performance and  development plan. At the time of this report, completion  rate data was not yet available for the 2012 performance  appraisal process; the timing of the cycle was changed to  conclude in May (previously April). Career Recognition SMEC recognises the outstanding contribution made  by employees throughout the Company for technical  excellence and project management, as well as  contributions to the wider engineering industry. SMEC  launched a Career Recognition procedure during the  reporting period to formalise this process. Each year,  employees who achieve a career milestone of between  five and 40 years (at five year intervals) are acknowledged  for their commitment to the Company.  Annually, SMEC recognises the contributions of  employees through the SMEC Awards. Three award  categories are presented: the Project of the Year Award;  the SMEC Medal; and the Young Professional of the   Year Award. Training SMEC offers employees training in technical and  management areas as required. During the reporting  period, the average hours of training per employee in  Victoria and South Australia was 21 hours. In New South  Wales and the Australian Capital Territory it was 25 hours.  Training data for Queensland and the Northern Territory  was not available. SMEC will introduce reporting systems  for training within the next year to capture detailed data. SMEC has increased its investment in training for the  year ahead as part of SMECs Career Development  Framework and Succession Planning Program. The  objective of the Career Development Framework is to  provide employees with clear career paths within SMECs  global business. The Framework emphasises SMECs  commitment to employees, by providing a workplace  with targeted learning and development programs and an  equitable reward and recognition framework. A Succession Planning Program is currently being  developed. This program is designed for employees two  management levels below the Chief Executive Officer.  The program includes a framework for objective,   merit-based nomination and assessment of candidates.  The program will be launched in 2012. People (continued)  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  27 During the reporting period, SMEC developed and  implemented a revised onboarding and induction  process which included training, orientation and  e-learning components for all Australian offices. Skills Management SMEC provides a range of in-house programs (as well as  financial assistance for external training) which develop  lifelong learning and support continued employability.  Programs include time-management courses, training in  Microsoft Office and retirement preparation workshops. Employee Benefits SMEC understands that performance, motivation,  productivity and longevity of employees rely on the  Companys ability to provide a positive, flexible and  rewarding working environment. SMEC offers a range  of benefits that contribute to the wellbeing of Australian  employees. SMEC recognises that by providing a range  of benefits and programs that this will improve the lifestyle  of its valued employees, which is likely to positively affect  job satisfaction.  Parental Leave SMEC revised and significantly increased its parental  leave entitlements during the reporting period. Employees  who have been with SMEC for 12 months, and are the  primary care giver, can apply for 52 weeks of unpaid  parental leave and are now entitled to 18 weeks paid  leave on a full-time basis (comprised of the statutory paid  leave and topped up to the normal salary level by SMEC).  During the last reporting period, the entitlement was only  six weeks paid leave. Employees who are the secondary  care giver can apply for five business days at the time  of the birth. During this reporting period, 29 employees  utilised SMECs parental leave benefits; 93% were female  employees and 7% were male employees. Flexible Working Arrangements SMEC is committed to helping employees achieve  greater work-life balance. In 2011, SMEC introduced  a Flexible Working Arrangement procedure which  includes options to vary hours of work, part-time  working arrangements, job sharing, working from home  and gradual re-entry and exit arrangements. SMEC  has made available a range of toolkits and resources  on the Company intranet to assist employees to  establish flexible working arrangements. During the  reporting period, 21 employees utilised SMECs flexible  working arrangements; 76% were female. The majority  of employees who used SMECs flexible working  arrangements either reduced their employment from  full-time to part-time hours or worked from home. Tertiary Education Assistance SMEC provides Tertiary Education Assistance to any  continuing employee who has been employed by the  Company for a minimum of 12 months. SMEC provides  up to 50% of course fees, capped at $10,000 per annum,  and study leave for the purpose of exams or assignment  preparation. In April 2011, SMEC doubled the amount of  assistance available to employees. During the reporting  period, six employees accessed this assistance. Employee Assistance Program SMECs Employee Assistance Program (EAP) program  is provided by Davidson Trahaire. SMECs EAP aims to  improve the wellbeing of employees and their immediate  dependents whose lives and work performance may be  affected by personal or work-related problems. Through  the EAP, employees can access short-term confidential  counselling, online counselling and MoneyAssist (financial  advice). SMECs EAP includes a Manager Assistance  Program which deals with difficult people-management  situations. In 2011, 11 managers used the Manager  Assistance Program and 36 employees used the EAP. Corporate Health Plan SMEC offers all employees a corporate health plan  through BUPA (formerly HBA, MBF and Mutual  Community). The benefits include discounted insurance  rates and waived waiting periods. At the time of this  report, 109 SMEC employees were BUPA members.   28  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Health and Safety Principles SMEC is committed to promoting and maintaining a  culture and working environment in which risk to health  and safety is unacceptable. To meet this commitment,  SMEC (as far as is reasonably practicable) provides  healthy and safe working conditions for all people  associated with the Company including employees,  contractors, visitors and the general public. In order to meet these responsibilities, SMEC:    Develops safety awareness throughout the Company  through initial and ongoing education and training    Takes all practicable steps to eliminate hazards  within the workplace through risk identification,  assessment, control, reporting and monitoring     Sets business specific standards of health and safety  for all employees to follow     Ensures all managers, supervisors and employees  are aware of and accept their responsibility to  provide a safe work environment    Strives to continuously improve health and safety  management by setting objectives, plans and  performance measures and by regularly reviewing  progress against targets     Ensures all incidents are accurately reported,  recorded and root causes identified    Assists employees to achieve full recovery through  prompt treatment and active rehabilitation Health and Safety Performance  In 2011, SMEC changed the way its health and safety  hazards were recorded by implementing an online  system. SMEC set an initial target of 20 recorded  proactive alerts using this new system. Proactive  alerts involve routine, planned testing, inspection and  identification of possible hazards before an incident  occurs. SMEC surpassed its target in 2011, with a   total of 56 proactive alerts recorded. SMEC has set the  target for 2012 at 48 proactive alerts. Proactive   reporting accounted for 46% of all health safety reporting  in 2011, followed by reactive reporting (32%) and injury  reporting (22%). SMEC had a total of 120 reported incidents in 2011. This  is more than double the number of reported incidents  in the last reporting period. This is a positive sign  that the implementation of SMECs online health and  safety system is improving the way in which hazards  are recorded. There is now a much greater focus on  proactive reporting which (over time) should reduce the  number of injuries reported.  Near Misses accounted for 33% of all reported incidents  in 2011, followed by External Events (17%) and Drills and  Inspections (13%). Figures 8a and 8b display a breakdown  of reported incidents by region and profession. SMEC significantly reduced its Lost Time Injury (LTI)  frequency rate per million hours worked in 2011. In 2010,  SMECs LTI frequency rate per million hours worked was,  on average, 2.9 per month. In 2011, this was reduced by  50% to 1.45 per month. Health and Safety Objectives for 2012 SMEC actively monitors and reviews Company  performance in the area of health and safety to ensure  all objectives are met. SMEC takes all reasonable steps  to improve work safety conditions and strives to uphold  the Companys core values of safety, knowledge, integrity  and leadership in order to achieve the goal of zero harm.  SMEC has set a number of targets for the year ahead. Training SMEC will create a training matrix for workplace health  and safety training, specific to functional groups, field  work and working overseas. As a result of changes to health and safety laws in  Australia, SMEC will implement a range of new workplace  health and safety training initiatives in 2012 including:     A revised online training module    Safety in Design briefing sessions for project and  design managers    Bullying, sexual harassment and psychological injury  prevention courses People (continued)  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  29    Briefing sessions for senior management outlining  general duties under the new legislation    Refresher courses for workplace health and   safety representatives  Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment  In 2012, SMEC will increase its focus on hazard  identification and risk assessment procedures including:    Creation of Job Safety Analysis and Safe Work  Method Statements for typical project types     Progressive assessment of offices for Ready for  Safety Certification     Provision of medical assessments for functional  groups that are high-risk (such as field staff) at the  commencement of (and during) employment Safety Audits In conjunction with SMECs increased focus on proactive  health and safety reporting, safety auditing will be  improved in 2012. Office Managers and Workplace  Health and Safety Representatives will complete  comprehensive workplace inspections. SMEC will also  continue to undertake gap analysis against new codes  and legislation as they become available. Safety Committees and Communication SMEC understands that to improve workplace health  and safety, employee communication is vital. SMEC  will improve health and safety communication between  offices, regions and committees in 2012. Detailed reports  will be delivered to all levels of management to raise  awareness of hazards, incidents and proactive reporting. Sub-Contractor and Sub-Consultant Management SMEC will seek to ensure that sub-contractors and   sub-consultants conform to high levels of workplace   health and safety requirements. In 2012, SMEC will  investigate an online system and database to record  and keep up-to-date workplace health and safety  documentation for all sub-contractors and sub-consultants  including WorkCover Certificates of Currency as well as  Public Indemnity and Public Liability insurance certificates.  Figure 8a: Reported Incidents by Profession Figure 8b: Reported Incidents by Region   Lost Time Injury    Medical Treatment    First Aid  Property Damage    Motor Vehicle Accident  External Event Drill or Inspection Near Miss Number of Incidents 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 Administration Engineers Surveyors Profession Region Number of Incidents 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 QLD & NT VIC & SA NSW & ACT  30  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Community Engagement SMEC aims to partner in the economic development  of nations by meeting the needs of diverse clients and  communities through professional excellence. SMEC  operates in a manner which promotes community  engagement and sustainability. Through the adoption of  a localisation model, SMEC invests in local communities  and nurtures local talent. This improves the skills of  people in the communities in which SMEC operates and  increases SMECs capacity to deliver local projects. Human Rights SMEC supports and respects the protection of  internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that  the Company is not complicit in human rights abuses  through its operations. SMEC has policies in place to ensure that the Company  does not violate human rights. In the year ahead, SMEC  will review standard commercial agreement templates  to include anti-corruption, anti-bribery and human  rights protection provisions. SMEC will also review the  operations of suppliers, contractors and clients to help  keep human rights violations to a minimum. Child Protection Policy SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance policy in relation  to child abuse. Child abuse includes unacceptable  behaviour directly involving children or observed by  children. Child Protection Policy training is a mandatory  requirement for all employees. During this reporting  period, 79% of all new employees completed the Child  Protection Policy training within their first three months.  Forced and Compulsory Labour SMECs Code of Conduct, along with a variety of other  policies and procedures, seeks to ensure that ethical  employment and labour practices are implemented  across the Company. SMEC complies with national  employment legislation throughout Australia and is  committed to the elimination of all forms of forced labour  and the abolition of child labour.  Indigenous Rights SMEC works closely with clients to ensure that the rights  and heritage of Australias indigenous population are  protected. Where required, SMEC includes Indigenous  Heritage Assessments and Management Plans as a  component of Environmental Impact Assessments.  Wherever possible, SMEC ensures active participation,  skill development and increased long-term employment  opportunities for indigenous populations.  SMEC Foundation The SMEC Foundation was established in 2001 and  provides small-scale grant support to community groups  and development projects in countries where SMEC  operates. The aim of the SMEC Foundation is to deliver  the best possible social and development outcomes for  disadvantaged individuals and communities in Australia  and internationally. The SMEC Foundations principal  focus areas are: Health, Education, Environment,  Community Development and Emergency Relief. The SMEC Foundation has four key objectives:    To provide small-scale grant assistance to  community groups and development projects in  Australia and in countries where SMEC has   a presence    To consolidate links between SMEC and the  communities in which the Company operates    To create a more systematic process for SMECs  traditional corporate social responsibilities, ensuring  the best possible social and developmental impact    To create partnerships with non-government  organisations and community groups addressing  poverty, social disadvantage and environmental  protection The SMEC Foundation is registered as a Prescribed  Private Fund by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO).  Donations are tax deductible for Australian taxpayers and  organisations registered as Deductible Gift Recipients  with the ATO. Community  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  31 Year in Review In June 2011, the SMEC Foundation celebrated its  tenth anniversary. Over the past ten years, the SMEC  Foundation has progressed both in its development as  an entity and in relation to the increasing level of funds  it has donated within Australia and internationally. The  SMEC Foundation has donated approximately $700,000  to projects since it was established in 2001. During this reporting period, the SMEC Foundation  donated over $90,000 to 16 projects in ten countries:  Australia, Botswana, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Lao PDR,  Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, Tanzania and Zambia.  Figure 11 displays a breakdown of SMEC Foundation  donations. Of funds allocated this year, 51% were donated to  Emergency Relief projects, followed by Education (29%),  Community Development (10%) and Health (10%) as  displayed in Figure 9. During this reporting period, 56% of funds were  donated to projects in Australia, followed by projects in  Africa (22%), Asia Pacific (16%) and South Asia (6%) as  displayed in Figure 10. In September 2011, East Africa experienced the worst  drought in 60 years. More than 12.4 million people were  affected across Somalia, Ethiopia and Kenya. The United  Nations declared a famine in two regions of southern  Somalia. Due to the famine and ongoing instability  in Somalia, many refugees fled to Kenya, where the  northern part of the country was facing a humanitarian  crisis. Urgent medical and food supplies were required  across the region. The SMEC Foundation, together with  SMECs Nairobi office, launched the East African Drought  Relief Appeal which raised over $1,800. These funds  were donated to the Australian Red Cross. Figure 9: Expenditure by Sector Community Development Education Health Emergency Relief 0 10 20 30 40 50 Sector Expenditure (all figures in $000) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Africa Asia Pacic Australia South Asia Division Expenditure (all figures in $000) Figure 10: Expenditure by Division  32  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 SMEC Foundation Project Profiles Maunatala Combined Junior Secondary School Botswana The SMEC Foundation donated $5,000 to the Maunatala  Combined Junior Secondary School for the purchase of  new uniforms for 12 girls and boys sporting teams. The  school is a large co-educational facility with over 450  students in Botswana. The school fields teams in softball,  volleyball, netball, table tennis, badminton and soccer  in both regional and national competitions. Maunatala  village is adjacent to the Lotsane Dam project. SMEC is  part of a joint venture which is managing the construction  of the dam. Rio Tinto Ride to Conquer Cancer Queensland, Australia The SMEC Foundation donated $1,250 to Kevin  Golding, a Civil Drafter in SMECs Brisbane office, who  participated in the 2011 Rio Tinto Ride to Conquer  Cancer. The event raised funds for the Queensland  Institute of Medical Research, a world leader in cancer  research and one of the largest and most successful  medical research institutes in Australia. The 240km  bicycle ride through south-east Queensland took place  over two days. Kevins team of four cyclists raised  approximately $12,000 and the event raised $4.7 million. Australian Doctors International  Papua New Guinea Founded in 2000, Australian Doctors International (ADI)  is a not-for-profit, non-government health care and  development aid organisation working in remote regions  of Papua New Guinea (PNG). In 2011, ADI commenced  operations in the New Ireland Province of PNG where  there are only seven doctors for over 160,000 people.  The SMEC Foundation donated $5,000 to ADI for the  purchase of life jackets and safety equipment. This  equipment is used onboard boats that ADI uses to  transport supplies to the New Ireland Province. Gunawirra Breakfast Program  New South Wales, Australia Gunawirra is a not-for-profit organisation that provides  services for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children  from birth to adulthood. The organisation undertakes  many projects in the Australian outback and believes it is  every childs right to a sound education, a loving family  and a secure and safe community in which to grow. The  SMEC Foundation donated $2,000 to Gunawirra to fund  a breakfast program for indigenous pre-school children  in Gunnedah. The objective of the program is to promote  good nutrition.  Community (continued)  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  33 Figure 11: SMEC Foundation Donations in 2011–2012 Project  Location Sector Amount University of Queensland, Margaret Cribb  Childcare Centre Queensland, Australia Emergency Relief $32,000 Cardwell State School Queensland, Australia  Emergency Relief $11,000 Jeshi la Wananchi wa Tanzania Camp Tanzania Emergency Relief $2,001 Australian Red Cross – East Africa Drought  Relief Appeal Donation  Kenya Emergency Relief $1,800 Maunatala Combined Junior Secondary  School – Purchase of Sports Uniforms  Botswana Education $5,000 The Anganwadi Project  India Education $5,000 World Vision Australia – Construction of  Primary School Lao PDR Education $5,000 Chipua Institute for Social Transformation  Girls In Crisis Project Tanzania Education $5,000 Our Rainbow House Orphanage Zambia Education $4,000 Gunawirra Breakfast Program for Indigenous  Students New South Wales, Australia Education $2,000 Snowy Monaro Arts Council – Purchase of  Piano in Memory of John Laught New South Wales, Australia Community Development $5,000 Mongolian Quilting Centre Mongolia Community Development $2,500 Botaura Raiders Rugby League Club  Sponsorship  Papua New Guinea Community Development $2,000 Australian Doctors International – Integrated  Health Patrols Papua New Guinea Health $5,000 Friends of interPART – Wheelchair Project  Ethiopia Health $2,500 Ride to Conquer Cancer Queensland, Australia Health $1,250 TOTAL $91,051  34  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Environment Management Principles SMEC provides environmentally responsible, innovative  and practical project outcomes to clients and conducts  all activities in an environmentally responsible manner to  minimise adverse impacts on the environment.  Since 1999, SMEC has had a Corporate Environmental  Policy Statement and an Environmental Management  System (EMS). The EMS outlines SMECs commitment  to both its environmental responsibility and continuous  improvement on all projects and across all offices.  SMECs EMS complies with the requirements of the  International Standard ISO 14001:2004. SMEC has  been certified to ISO 14001 since 1999 by SAI Global  (Certificate No C10080). SMECs EMS is used to identify, manage and (where  possible) reduce SMECs impact on the environment. The  EMS provides a systematic and methodical approach  to planning, implementing and reviewing SMECs  environmental performance. Effective implementation of  the EMS has assisted in creating a culture that is focused  on sustainable practices that are explicitly incorporated  into SMECs everyday business decisions. Environmental Management Policy SMEC has a detailed Environmental Management  Policy which is reviewed annually by the Companys  Executive Committee. SMEC is committed to promoting  environmentally responsible behaviour through:    Implementing and continually improving its project  and office environmental management systems,  conforming to ISO 14001     Complying with legal requirements     Implementing environmental management programs  to achieve environmental objectives and targets    Conducting all activities in an environmentally  responsible manner to minimise adverse  environmental impacts    Enhancing beneficial environmental impacts of  any SMEC activities to improve the quality of the  environment for future generations    Preventing pollution    Providing environmentally responsible, sustainable  and practical options to clients    Monitoring, reviewing and auditing SMECs  environmental performance Environmental Aspect Identification and Assessment There are two main types of environmental aspects  for which SMEC has controls in place to manage and  (wherever possible) reduce potential environmental  impacts: environmental aspects of projects; and  environmental aspects of office activities. Project Managers and Regional Managers are  responsible for determining the potential consequences  of environmental impacts, using SMECs Environmental  Impact Assessment Scale, as displayed in Figure 13. Where the environmental impact rating is above  eight, SMEC employees are required to develop  appropriate risk treatments, objectives and targets in  an Environmental Management Plan. Where risk ratings  are above 15, the hazard is assigned to executive level  management for review, who ensure that the risk is  managed in a holistic manner across the Company. Training and Competency All SMEC employees complete mandatory environmental  awareness training during induction and on an ongoing  basis as required. Specialised training is provided to fulfil  job roles and comply with regulatory requirements as  required including: environmental auditor training and  native fauna trapping training. This training ensures all  employees have the necessary knowledge and skills to  effectively implement SMECs EMS. Sustainability & Environment  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  35 Carbon Management Initiatives SMECs long-term carbon management objective is  twofold: to assess Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions for  all offices; and to establish a GHG emissions baseline.  Based on this, SMEC will implement a company-wide  Energy Management Framework to improve energy  efficiency and reduce GHG emissions. As of 1 January 2012, SMEC commenced data collection  of electricity and paper usage across all Australian  offices. Based on these results (over 12 months) SMEC  will assess baseline usage and set measurable targets for  reduction of both resources. Carbon Offsetting GHG emissions generated by SMEC through air travel  within Australia were offset by high-grade Voluntary  Carbon Standard carbon credits at a rate of $7.62 per  tonne. Perenia (a firm which supports companies looking  to proactively respond to the challenges associated  with climate change) calculated domestic flight GHG  emissions using certified industry emissions coefficients;  an average of 115 tonnes CO2e per month (as displayed  in Figure 12). In 2011, Perenia retired 1,502 Voluntary  Carbon Units (under the international Voluntary Carbon  Standard) on behalf of SMEC at a cost of $11,445. This  offset 5,102,000km travelled by SMEC employees. These credits were provided to a biogas and bagasse  cogeneration project in Kinauni, India. The project  involves the construction and operation of an anaerobic  digester for wastewater from a distillery in Uttar Pradesh.  The project created jobs for local unskilled labourers  during construction. In 2011, SMECs printing company measured and offset a  carbon footprint of 4,245kg for the production of SMECs  annual publications at a cost of $103. The retired carbon  credits were invested in Climate Friendly, a carbon  management organisation which invests in renewable  energy projects such as wind, solar, hydropower or  renewable biomass generated power.  Figure 12: Emissions and Monthly Domestic Air Travel Impact 1 2 3 4 5 Insignificant Minor Moderate Major, but  reversible Catastrophic Likelihood 5 Almost  Certain 5 10 15 20 25 4 Above  Average 4 8 12 16 20 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 1 Very   Rare 1 2 3 4 5 Rating Treatment 1 – 6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. 8 – 12 Process decisions and treatments or controls are  assigned specific responsibilities within the process. 15 – 16 Process decisions and treatments or controls are  escalated to senior management for review. 20 – 25 Process decisions and treatments or controls are  escalated to executive level management for review. Figure 13: Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Domestic Air Travel (km) tCO2 Dec Nov Oct Sep Aug Jul Jun 0 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 250 200 150 100 50 Distance (km) Emission (tCO2)  36  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Environmentally Sustainable Offices Environmental Management Plans SMECs Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane offices  have Environmental Management Plans in place. The  plans describe the processes that SMEC will follow to  minimise harm to the environment as well as improve and  record progress in this area. Initiatives that have been  undertaken as part of these plans include:    Purchasing at least 70% recycled (from   post-consumer waste) or plantation paper    Purchasing biodegradable plates and cups    Purchasing green power in offices (10% in the  Melbourne office)    Providing employees with recycled alternatives to  work books (unused print-outs are stapled together  to form a booklet and left in stationery cupboards)    Defaulting all the printers to double-sided printing    Recycling all printer toner cartridges    Recycling all paper, glass and plastic    Installing water saving devices in office bathrooms  and kitchens    Educating employees about teleconferencing  facilities to minimise the use of domestic air travel     Using electronic modules in employee training (rather  than printing hard-copy material)    Encouraging employees to use public transport,  rather than taxis    Encouraging employees to fill petrol tanks  of company cars with E-10 petrol (a more  environmentally friendly petrol product)    Participating in Earth Hour    Enabling the power saver function on all printers Environmental Office Survey SMECs Adelaide office undertook an Employee  Environmental Survey to gain a better understanding  of employee perspectives on SMECs existing  environmental initiatives and areas for improvement.  As a result, the Green Star Award was implemented.  Employees were asked a series of questions to assess  their environmental footprint while at work. Survey  questions included: Do you turn your computer monitor  off at the end of each day? Do you read documents  electronically or print them? The responses were graded  and if employees achieved a score greater than 80%  they were awarded a Green Star. Employees who  scored below 80% were required to attend a workshop  to educate them on how to integrate environmentally  sustainable initiatives into their work day.  Paperless Board and Committee Meetings Historically, SMECs board papers were distributed in  a hard-copy format, using approximately 8,000 sheets  of paper each month. According to the Environmental  Protection Authority of Victoria, the GHG emissions  created by this office paper consumption equates to  approximately 85kg CO2e per month. In 2011, SMEC  implemented paperless Board papers, via electronic  distribution to Apple i-Pads. Australian Green Infrastructure Council SMEC Australia is an organisational member of the  Australian Green Infrastructure Council (AGIC). The  AGIC is a not-for-profit organisation formed to develop  a national sustainability rating scheme for the design,  construction and operation of Australian infrastructure.  SMEC is actively involved in the AGICs Technical  Support Working Group. AGIC represents over 70  Australian corporations and government departments  which employ over 57,000 people. Through AGICs  work, seven categories and 27 sub-categories have  been identified to measure sustainability across social,  economic and environmental aspects of infrastructure  project delivery and operation. Sustainability & Environment    SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  37 (continued) Environmentally Sustainable Services Natural Resources and Environment SMEC is committed to managing risks that may  adversely impact the environment. SMEC provides  socially and environmentally responsible advice for its  clients and develops project outcomes that best meet  sustainability objectives. SMEC provides sustainable  frameworks for land developments, infrastructure  projects, mineral and natural resources projects. SMECs services include Environmental Impact  Assessments and permitting studies, climate change  adaptation, water resource studies, strategic policy  advice on natural resources, sustainable waste  management, pollution control, ecological assessment,  conservation management, engineered solutions to  environmental problems (such as fish passages) and  contamination assessment and remediation.  SMEC has a strong capability in fauna crossings, wetland  rehabilitation, habitat restoration and the delivery of  offset strategies. A critical part of SMECs success in this  area is the Companys ability to integrate environmental  considerations across all disciplines and take a holistic  approach to the resolution of local issues. Climate Change Adaption Climate change adaption involves implementing  strategies to build resilience into landscapes so that  future climate changes can be accommodated while  mitigation efforts take effect. SMEC is building its  ecological knowledge base in the area of climate change  adaption, particularly in habitat connectivity, pest species  management, offset and reserve establishment, water  re-use and wetland and waterway rehabilitation. SMEC is Australias market leader in fish passage  construction and re-establishment. Soft treatments such  as artificial wetlands and vegetated drains for stormwater  runoff are increasingly being used in the urban setting as  an effective means to treat and re-use water. SMEC is at  the forefront of this environmental innovation.  SMEC has significant capability in the area of  environmental monitoring and evaluation. SMEC employs  highly skilled Geographic Information System and flood  modellers that examine and report on the benefits of  environmental flows released into river systems. In a changing climate, pest species are potentially a major  beneficiary. SMEC has employees skilled in terrestrial and  aquatic pest species monitoring and management; and  the interaction between exotic pests and predators and  threatened species and their habitats. Of key importance is the communication of the science  behind climate change adaption and impact minimisation  responses. SMECs employees are experienced in  stakeholder liaison and bridge the gap between science  and engineering and the public interest. SMEC   maintains a balance of academic and technical  employees in the area of climate change adaption to  ensure responsiveness. Renewable Energy SMEC is at the forefront of the renewable energy  sector, implementing projects that work towards  replacing diminishing fossil fuel resources and cutting  carbon emissions. SMEC has experienced engineers  undertaking research into the most efficient and   cost-effective ways to implement renewable   energy projects. SMECs areas of specialisation include geothermal,  photovoltaic and solar thermal, wind, biomass,   bio-fuels, mini and micro-hydro technologies and energy  efficient strategies.   38  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 Natural Resources and Environment Project Profiles Clayton Retarding Basin and Wetland Victoria, Australia Located approximately 20km south-east of Melbourne,  the wetland will: reduce the 100 year Average Recurrence  Interval flood level by removing the west levee bank;  extend the basin into Namatjira Park; and lower the  remaining embankments. The wetland will remove  1,850kg of nitrogen per annum and produce up to 92ML  of treated stormwater for irrigation. SMEC is providing  landscape architecture, detailed design, surveying and  ecology services. The project is being undertaken on  behalf of the Melbourne Water Waterways Alliance. Climate Change Vulnerability of Fisheries Pacific Islands SMEC collaborated with a team of over 80 international  scientists to assess the vulnerability of freshwater and  estuarine habitats as well as oceanic and coastal fisheries  to climate change in the Pacific. The project was led by  the Secretariat of the Pacific Community and produced  a resource book for Pacific governments and the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The project  identified habitats that are likely to be enhanced by  increased rainfall and river flows (due to climate change)  and have potential for increased fisheries production. Camden Valley Way Upgrade New South Wales, Australia The New South Wales Roads and Maritime Service is  planning to upgrade Camden Valley Way in Sydney.  SMEC deployed a Geographic Information System (GIS)  to provide a single point of access to over 130 layers  of spatial information including cadastre, geophysical,  environmental and heritage constraints and aerial site  photos. All designers are able to use the GIS to check  significant environmental constraints, facilitating efficient  issue resolution, improved risk management and a  design which minimises adverse environmental impacts. North Tuncurry Development Project  New South Wales, Australia SMEC (in partnership with Landcom) is undertaking  a project delivery agreement for the North Tuncurry  Development Project, a proposed major land rezoning  and subdivision. SMEC is providing: Coastal Hazard  Definition Study; River Flood Study; Hydrogeologic  Assessment; and a Surface Water Management Plan  including water sensitive urban design and water and  wastewater servicing strategies. These studies will  address key risks and provide a sound scientific basis for  mitigation measures as required for project approvals.  Sustainability & Environment    SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  39 (continued) Renewable Energy Project Profiles Kogan Creek Solar Pre-Heat Project  Queensland, Australia The project includes design of a 44MW solar thermal  addition to the existing 750MW Kogan Creek Power  Station in south-west Queensland. The addition will  augment Kogan Creek Power Stations feedwater  system, increasing electrical output and fuel efficiency.  The project scope includes: modelling of a solar field  to accommodate 14 solar steam generators; footing  designs; a stormwater management plan; and lightning  protection. SMEC is undertaking detailed designs for the  civil, environmental and mechanical components. Mufindi and Kilombero Rural Electrification Projects  Tanzania SMEC is undertaking a review of various electricity supply  project proposals in Mufindi and Kilombero in Tanzania.  Green Resources planned to build a 15MW Combined  Heat Power plant, while the Tanzania Electric Supply  Company proposed development of transmission lines  and rural electrification. SMECs services include: an  electrification plan to reduce electrification costs to rural  areas; detailed designs; capacity assessment of the  proposed electricity grid; review of hydropower options;  risk assessment; and stakeholder consultation.  Yandera Power Options Study  Papua New Guinea SMEC is undertaking a Power System Study on behalf of  Marengo Mining Ltd to identify power supply options and  recommend the most technically viable and cost effective  option for the Yandera Cu-Mo-Au Mine project. The  mine is in a remote mountainous region of the Madang  Province. SMEC assessed a variety of power options  including: thermal (open-cycle gas turbine generators,  gas reciprocating engine generators, diesel and dual fuel  systems), hydropower, renewable (biomass, geothermal,  wind and solar) and transmission and distribution.  Municipal Street Lighting  Sri Lanka The project aims to improve poorly maintained street  lighting and provide technical support to Ceylon  Electricity Board (CEB) and Lanka Electric Company  (LECO). SMEC is designing and implementing two pilot  projects to address existing street lighting deficiencies.  The successful pilot project will then be implemented  and funded by the Climate Change Fund for widespread  implementation. SMEC is also developing a Demand- Side Management program to help CEB and LECO  reduce electricity demands and minimise energy waste.   40  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 GRI  Indicator PI Description Comments Page  Number Strategy 1.1 Statement from the CEO. 4–5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 4–5, 21 Profile 2.1  Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited 2.2  Primary brands, products and services. Feasibility studies, detailed design,  tender and contract management,  construction supervision, operation  and maintenance, training and project management. 6–9 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 6–11 2.4 Location of organisations headquarters. 220–226 Sharp Street Cooma NSW 2630, Australia 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates. 30+ 6–9 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 6–9 2.7 Markets served. Transport; Water; Geotechnical, Mining  and Tunnelling; Natural Resources  and Environment; Energy and  Renewables; Urban Development;  Social Development; Government and  Advisory Services. 6–9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. 6–9, 22 2.9 Significant changes to size, structure or ownership  during the reporting period. Nil. 2.10 Awards. 18 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period. 1 April 2011 – 31 March 2012 2 3.2 Date of most recent report. April 2011 2 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual. 2 3.4 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 2 3.5 Process for defining report content. 2 3.6  Boundary of the report. 2 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other entities. 2 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 2 3.10 Explanation of restatements. Nil. 3.11 Significant changes in scope and boundary during the  reporting period. Nil. 3.12 Table identifying location of standard disclosures. GRI Table. 40–43 3.13 External assurance. SMEC has not used external  assurance for the report. This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B.   Core Performance Indicators (PI) are in bold. GRI Index  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012  41 GRI  Indicator PI Description Comments Page  Number Governance 4.1 Governance structure. 10–15 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 10–15 4.3 Independent and non-executive board members. 10–15 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to the  highest governing body. 10–15 4.5 Compensation and performance. 10–15 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 10–15 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and expertise. 10–15 4.8 Mission, values and code of conduct. 11 4.9 Processes for management of company performance. 10–15 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the  highest governing body. 10–15 4.11 Precautionary principle addressed. 4–5, 11 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and  social charters. 4–5, 18,  36 4.13 Memberships in associations. 18 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the  organisation. 16–17 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. 16–17 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 16–17 4.17 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 16–17 Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 19 EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities due  to climate change. 34–39 EC4 Financial assistance received from government. 19 EC5 Entry level wage compared to local minimum wage. 25 EC9 Indirect economic impacts. 30–33 Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption. 34–37 EN4 Indirect energy consumption. 34–37 EN5 Energy savings. 34–37 EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy services. 37–39 EN7 Reductions in indirect energy consumption. 34–39 EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 37–39 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 37–39 EN16 Greenhouse Gas emissions by weight. 35  42  SMEC Holdings Limited Sustainability Report 2011–2012 GRI  Indicator PI Description Comments Page  Number Environmental EN18 Greenhouse Gas reduction initiatives. 34–36 EN19 Ozone depleting substances by weight. 35 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. EN24 Weight of transported waste. Nil. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 34–39 EN28 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Workforce by type, contract, region and gender.  22–23 LA2 Employee turnover.  22 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees. The same benefits are provided to all  employees (part-time on a pro-rata  basis). 26–27 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective  bargaining agreements. Nil. LA7 Rates of injury and lost days.  28–29 LA8 Programs to assist with serious diseases. 27–29 LA10 Average hours of training per employee. 26 LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning programs. 26–29 LA12 Regular performance reviews. 26 LA13 Workforce diversity. 22–24 LA14 Basic salary of men to women.  25 Human Rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. HR5 Risks to freedom of association. All employees can join unions. HR6 Risks to child labour. 30 HR9 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. Society SO1 Programs that assess and manage the impacts of  operations on communities. 30–33 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour. Nil. SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. Product Responsibility PR1 Health and safety impacts of services. 28–29 PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. PR5 Practices related to client satisfaction. 16–17 PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. GRI Index (continued)