2011 GLOBAL  citizenship  RepORt  Forward-looking statements certain statements in this document are forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the rules and regulations   of the U.s. securities and exchange commission. these  statements are based on managements current expectations  and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.  Actual results may differ materially from those included in  these statements due to a variety of factors, including but   not limited to precautionary statements included in this  document. More information about these factors and other  factors that may affect citigroups future results is contained  in citigroups filings with the U.s. securities and exchange  commission including, without limitation, the Risk Factors  section of citigroups 2011 Form 10-K. precautionary state- ments included in such filings should be read in conjunction  with this document. global reporting initiative  this report follows the Global Reporting initiative sustain- ability Reporting Guidelines (GRi 3.1) as well as the Financial  services sector supplement. the report includes perspec- tives from our stakeholders and a GRI content index. citis  self-declared GRi Application level for 2011 is B. about this report this report covers the period January 1, 2011 to   December 31, 2011 (fiscal year 2011). the report   highlights the progress and goals of citigroup inc.   and its subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise, as   they relate to corporate citizenship and provides  supplemental information as published in our   2011 Annual Report. We report annually on our citizenship performance —   our last report was published in April 2011.  Reporting and performance data includes   information on citis owned and operated facilities. in 2012, citi celebrates our 200th anniversary.   Our principles — common purpose, responsible  finance, ingenuity and leadership — are the bridge  that connects our 200-year history with the future  we want to create. When these principles guide   our actions, we endure and thrive. Our special  anniversary provides us with an opportunity to  reflect on our history and prepare for the future. For more information on the citizenship  initiatives described in this report, please visit  Citis website or contact: tyler daluz Corporate and Sustainability Communications  citizenship@citi.com Citigroup Inc. 399 Park Avenue New York, NY 10022  citizenship Report 2011  1 in 2011 our annual employee satisfaction survey revealed   that citi employees highly value the quality of teamwork  throughout the company. common purpose drives our  internal collaborations and allows us to work as one team,   with one goal: to serve our clients and stakeholders. responsible Finance  Our priority in restructuring the company has been to return  to the basics of banking. And there is no more fundamental  banking service than responsible lending – providing capital  to support customers of all economic backgrounds and  projects that serve the public. Our participation in the United  nations Global compact reinforces this commitment by  binding signatories from around the world to the same  principles of responsibility. ingenuity citi was the first major American bank to open branches  abroad and weve built a reputation for innovation around   the world. today, customers at our smart Branches have  access to a range of digital services on demand, and the  digital wallet citi developed with Google eliminates the   need to carry cash and credit cards. through these and other  innovations we are on track to become the worlds digital bank  with services that are more accessible and more inclusive. Letter from Vikram Pandit citi is the leading global bank, connecting 1,000 cities in 160  countries and millions of people. since 1812 we have applied  our passion for innovation to help our clients progress from  ambition to achievement. During our 200 years we have  financed some of the worlds most transformative projects,  from the transatlantic cable to the jumbo jet. today we are poised to serve a new world in which the global  economy will continue to evolve, with growth in emerging  markets outpacing developed countries. More trade links and  freer capital markets will make it easier for capital and goods  to flow to where they are most productive. Government and  the private sector will have to work together, not just through  specific projects like infrastructure finance, but more broadly  through public-private partnerships. And more will have to   be done to ensure the safety and soundness of the financial  system while protecting the natural environment. in marking this special anniversary, we distilled the accumu- lated wisdom of our two centuries into the core principles that  have guided this bank since our founding. these values are  central to how we do business and what we describe as  corporate citizenship. Common purpose  Our common purpose is to always conduct business with  integrity, while ensuring the highest quality service to our  clients and customers. Our work must be guided at all times   by the best interests of the client, taking into account the  broader needs of society and the environment. Our emplo- yees prize that shared objective, and around the world we  work collaboratively to succeed in everything we do.  citizenship Report 2011  2 the combination of technology, finance and ingenuity  coalesces in our pioneering work to bring the commercial  microfinance sector to scale. We work across our businesses  and regions to provide products and services for microfi- nance institutions (MFis), networks and investors that lend   to the underserved. Beginning with five relationships in five  countries in 2005, citi Microfinance now serves more than  140 MFis in more than 40 countries.  leadership We have consistently shown leadership by embracing diversity  and meritocracy in the workplace, reducing our environmental  footprint, and helping our clients improve their sustainability  performance through our environmental and social Risk  Management policy. We are confident that we will achieve our  goal, announced in 2007, to direct $50 billion over 10 years to  activities that mitigate climate change — a major commitment  with tangible results.  vikram pandit  ceO citis global presence provides the responsibility and the  opportunity to contribute to solutions that help the environ- ment, strengthen the financial system, and build a better  future. Responsible finance is our focus — doing whats right  for clients, for communities, and for the financial system.   it is the key to restoring — and deserving — the trust of the  people we serve.  citizenship Report 2011  3 ties that address climate change, water scarcity, declining  biodiversity, human rights and other critical issues. We   remain dedicated to identifying and supporting solutions   that advance these goals. Our citizenship efforts are challenging conventional wisdom  and drawing on our core business competencies to make a  difference in peoples lives. We strive to find the most effective  ways to serve small business owners and underserved groups;  the best means of providing the tools individuals and families  need to build financial identities; and the smartest ways to  preserve and sustain our environment. these efforts have  positive impacts around the world, and, just as important,   this work makes good business sense — for our clients, our  shareholders, and our employees. this report — our twelfth — details specific achievements   and milestones from the past year. Our commitment to  transparent disclosure of relevant information, to meeting  global reporting standards, and to stakeholder responsive- ness remains strong. thank you for taking the time to learn  more. We look forward to an ongoing dialogue. Letter from Pam Flaherty and Bob Annibale At citi, the concept of corporate citizenship is a unifying   theme that is at the core of our operations and the way we   do business. in 2011, we continued our 200-year tradition of  responsible citizenship by leveraging our local presence in  virtually all corners of the world, along with the expertise   and commitment of our people. citis citizenship efforts are an extension of our goal to make  tactical business decisions that create shared value for those   we work with and those we impact. Our two citizenship focus  areas are financial inclusion and environmental sustainability.  We advance those priorities thanks to an unmatched global  footprint, deep local knowledge, coordination across business  lines, and a company-wide commitment to fostering innovation. Our efforts to expand financial inclusion are driven by col- leagues around the world, working together and with key  partners to connect those outside the financial system, fairly  and transparently, with products and services that are appro- priate and responsible. We combine citis core business  expertise with a global network of partners that introduces   us to different models and perspectives to promote economic  empowerment and broaden financial access and capability.  through strategic, high-impact funding, we are helping to   drive the global conversation about financial inclusion with  thought leadership, research, and pioneering initiatives that   are scalable for wider application.  citi also understands and embraces our role in promoting  environmentally sustainable growth, both in our own opera- tions and through support and advice to our clients. citis  commitment to environmental sustainability is based on three  pillars: 1) the management of the environmental footprint of   our own global operations; 2) the management of environmen- tal and social risk associated with projects we finance; and   3) our partnerships with clients to develop business opportuni- pamela Flaherty Director of corporate citizenship,  president & ceO of the citi Foundation bob annibale  Global Director, citi Microfinance   and citi community Development  citizenship Report 2011  4 tABLe OF cOntents INtRoduCtIoN CoRPoRAtE GoVERNANCE ouR SuPPLIERS  06 14 54 uN GLoBAL ComPACt   & GRI tABLES 72  citizenship Report 2011  5 ENVIRoNmENtAL   SuStAINABILItY ouR EmPLoYEES SERVING CommuNItIES   & CoNSumERS REGIoNAL CItIzENShIP   At A GLANCE 38 64 20 58 CItI AwARdS   & RECoGNItIoNS 2011 83  intRODUctiOn citizenship Report 2011  6 citi has been included in the Dow Jones sustainability  indexes (DJsi World and DJsi north America) since  2001 and the Ftse4Good index since 2002. Our  continued inclusion in these indexes reflects our  leadership in setting standards in sustainable growth  and in achieving noteworthy environmental, social and  economic performance. in 2011, citi also became a  component of the stOXX Global esG Leaders indices. Our full-year 2011 earnings of $11.1 billion represented  an increase of 4 percent over 2010. Citizenship Approach Our approach to citizenship is based on our commit- ment to responsible finance — how we define business  conduct that is transparent, prudent and dependable.  through our citizenship efforts, we aim to ensure that  our actions are in the best interests of our clients, are  designed to create economic value, and at the same  time are systemically responsible. Citizenship priorities Our citizenship priorities reflect our views, and those   of our stakeholders, along with the risks and opportu- nities of our business. We keep a watch on global and  local economic conditions which, at times, change  rapidly and unexpectedly. nevertheless, we maintain   a commitment to these priorities:   treat customers fairly and support them in times  of financial difficulty. this is embodied in our  commitment to responsible finance   provide access to financial services, plus knowl- edge and support to those who would otherwise  be excluded from the economic mainstream   Lead the industry in environmental performance—  reducing our operational impacts; developing   and implementing standards to manage the   environmental and social risks of banking activity;  and mitigating climate change through financing  alternative energy projects around the world   provide opportunity for our global and diverse   talent base to succeed; and strive to recruit   and retain diverse and engaged teams around   the world. We support our citizenship priorities with our products  and services, through lending and investing and the  expertise of our people. citis efforts are complemen-  ted by the citi Foundations strategic giving. measuring performance We measure our performance in each of our social   and environmental priority areas and continue to   report data to provide comparisons and show trends   over time. in 2011, we reviewed the way we report.   Our analysis and stakeholder feedback led us to more  closely align our reporting to the Global Reporting  initiative (GRi) Guidelines, which set down industry   best practice in sustainability reporting. the structure  and transparency of this report reflect our change   in methodology. ABout CItI citi serves individuals, communities, institutions and nations.   With 200 years of experience meeting the worlds toughest challenges  and seizing its greatest opportunities, we strive to create the best  outcomes for our clients and customers with financial solutions that  are simple, creative and responsible. An institution connecting over  1,000 cities, 160 countries and millions of people, we are your global  bank; we are citi.  intRODUctiOn citizenship Report 2011  7 Citigroup net revenues $100B $80B $60B $40B $20B 2009 2010 2011 $0B CitiCorp revenue 2011 Revenues: $64.6 billion bY region bY business Citigroup net inCome $12B $10B $8B $6B $4B $2B $0B 2009 2010 2011 ($2B) $11.1b $10.6b ($1.6b) $91.1b $86.6b $78.4b 36% 21% 24% 50% 16% 34% 19% Citizenship Challenges   & Achievements in 2011 Financial inclusion Achievements   in september 2011, citi committed to lend   $24 billion to small businesses over the   following three years   citi Microfinance supported more than 140  microfinance institutions in 40 countries and  helped initiate the first universal childrens  college savings program in the U.s.   the citi Foundation invested $78 million to  support the economic empowerment and   financial inclusion of low- to middle-income  people in communities where we operate   the citi Foundation contributed to financial  capability and asset building programs that will  enable more than 1.2 million people globally to  reduce their debt and/or increase their savings   citi community capital provided $2.16 billion   to finance affordable housing in the U.s.,   making citi the top lender according to   Affordable Housing Finance   citis communities at Work Fund deployed $100  million to 39 community development financial  institutions, creating over 1,400 jobs in highly  distressed U.s. communities.  Challenges   Achieving commercial, global scale for the   microfinance industry    helping revitalize communities and promote   small businesses in a poor economic climate    continue to enhance the citi Foundations impact  measurement methodology across its broad  portfolio in order to provide a comprehensive  view of impact and effectiveness. supporting Consumers Achievements   Launched a Disabled Veterans Mortgage Relief  program and a new mortgage information site  homeownersupport.com   instituted a new policy to process checks from  low to high, in sequence of the smallest dollar  amount to the largest, in order to help customers  avoid overdraft fees North America Global Consumer Banking Europe, middle East & Africa Global transaction Services Asia Securities and Banking Latin America citigroup currently operates, for management reporting purposes, via two  primary business segments: citicorp, consisting of citis Global consumer  Banking businesses and institutional clients Group; and citi holdings,  consisting of Brokerage and Asset Management, Local consumer Lending  and special Asset pool.  intRODUctiOn citizenship Report 2011  8   Directed $6.4 billion toward the $50 Billion  climate initiative in 2011, bringing the total to  $36.35 billion as we hit the halfway mark in this  10-year initiative. Financing included the Desert  sunlight solar Farm, which will be one of the  largest photo-voltaic (pV) facilities in the world   Launched a program to engage our employees on  environmental issues, through local green teams,  earth Week and a Green survey in which 9,000  employees participated. Challenges    Designing effective environmental and social risk  management strategies for unconventional fossil  fuel extraction   continuing to work with our clients on climate  change solutions in the context of continuing  regulatory uncertainty in the U.s. and the  complexities of foreign legislation   For citi and our clients, creating solutions for  financing energy efficiency initiatives that require  longer-term financing   Developing environmental products that appeal  to consumers.   in direct response to customer feedback, in the  U.s. we introduced the citi simplicity credit card  with industry-leading benefits: one ApR, a single  rate and no late fees. Challenges    continue to support affordable housing in poor  economic climate   Offering adequate practical support to customers  in financial difficulty. environmental sustainability  Achievements   exceeded 2011 goal to reduce greenhouse gas  (GhG) emissions by 10 percent from 2005 levels   Became a U.s. environmental protection Agency  energy star partner of the Year — the only  financial institution to receive such an honor —  which recognizes organizations that have made  outstanding contributions to protecting the  environment through energy efficiency   As the chair of the equator principles steering  committee, citi successfully took the association  through its most active year to date, including the  conclusion of a strategic review of the principles  and the subsequent launch of a comprehensive  update process every day, citi bankers work alongside of tens of  millions of clients to achieve progress — for individ- uals, families, and communities; businesses, institu- tions, and nations. it is the shared purpose of the citi  community, which spans over a hundred countries.  people laying plans, making decisions and taking  action with an abiding passion to make things better.  that was the character of the dozen people who  came together at a small building at 52 Wall street   in the summer of 1812 to found the bank that would  become citi. they pooled their resources to fund  each others ambitions, in new York city and beyond. EStABLIShING AN INStItutIoN dEdICAtEd to PRoGRESS  1850s 1812 1830s 1820s 1840s 1890s 1930s 1980s 1910s 1870s 1950s 2000s 1900s 1860s 1940s 1990s 1920s 1970s 1880s 1960s 2012  intRODUctiOn citizenship Report 2011  9 1850s 1812 1830s 1820s 1840s 1890s 1930s 1980s 1914 1870s 1950s 2000s 1900s 1860s 1940s 1990s 1920s 1970s 1880s 1960s 2012 today a tourist in Asia can use a citi card to with- draw money in 17 different countries, and a multina- tional corporation can make payroll in over 100.  these capabilities are far from commonplace today,  but they were unimaginable in 1914, when citi  became the first American bank to have a branch  overseas. the branch, in Buenos Aires, was almost  immediately profitable, affirming president Frank  Vanderlips instinct that there was pent-up demand  for borderless banking. Within four years, citi opened  branches in Rio de Janeiro, Jakarta, and Moscow,  laying the foundation for the unmatched global  presence it offers today. ENVISIoNING thE woRLdS FIRSt GLoBAL BANk our suppliers Achievement   Began developing a corporate responsibility  questionnaire and assessment form for sup-  pliers that will focus on securing acknowledge- ment and ratification of citis statement of  supplier principles. Challenge    engaging the 3,000 suppliers that have received  the statement of supplier principles in 2010 in   a way that raises the bar and helps promote  environmental and social best practices through  our supply chain. our employees Achievements   provided approximately 38 training hours   on average per employee worldwide   Offered child care and elderly care services   to more than 100,000 employees in europe   and the U.s.   supported 61 employee networks with 15,000  members across 18 locations, promoting diver- sity within our business — ten new networks   were launched in 2011, including six for   military veterans   Achieved 88 percent participation for our annual  employee feedback survey and a 73 percent  satisfaction score — the highest yet.  Challenge   Motivating and retaining employees, while  attracting top talent, during a time of uncertainty  for our industry and reduced financial incentives. volunteering  Achievements   More than 40,000 citi volunteers took part in  nearly 1,100 local services projects in 78 countries  during citis Global community Day.  Challenges    increase our impact by expanding skills-based  volunteering opportunities.   intRODUctiOn citizenship Report 2011  10 keY perFormanCe indiCators report Card 2010 0 0.5m 1.5m 1m 2009 2011 0 $20m $40m $60m $80m philanthropiC impaCt Global impact from fi nancial inclusion and economic  empowerment Citi Foundation grants annual strategiC giving total Annual Citi Foundation Giving FinanCial inClusion we ensure access to appropriate, affordable, high-quality  fi nancial products, services and asset-building  opportunities for individuals, families and communities. environmental  sustainabilitY we manage the environmental footprint of our global  operations, assess environmental and social risk in  projects we fi nance, and invest in environmental solutions. $65.8m $67.9m $78m emploYee volunteering total Volunteer hours Contributed training & development Average hours of training  valuing our emploYees A stimulating workplace helps our employees gain  knowledge and improve skills; and a diverse workforce  is key to our success.  Our classroom and online training programs cover: leadership and  management, business and product-specifi c content, new hire onboarding,  professional development, technology and compliance. 2010 2011 2011 38.4 hours 2010 36.2 hours 2009 21.1 hours 608,953 total hours 789,000 total hours $0B $10B $20B $30B $40B Clean energY  FinanCing & investment $50 Billion Climate Initiative Progress to date Our goal, announced in 2007, is to direct $50 billion over 10 years toward  activities that mitigate climate change.  $50B $9.4B base 2007 $50B goal 2017 $36.4B total  committed Credit Card e-statements Global Penetration Rates Citi, one of the worlds top credit card issuers, has  increased paperless statement penetration to 29%  of consumer credit card customers worldwide. 2011 29.3% 2010 25.2% 2009 20.4% 2008 15.6% $6.4B committed in  2011 480,000  individuals  have met their  fi nancial goals 1.1m working toward  their fi nancial goals =39,450   hours or  intRODUctiOn citizenship Report 2011  11 25% reduction  goal for 2015 global miCroFinanCe Impact from Citi Financing with oPIC* 2010 2010 2009 2009 2011 2011 0 $0B $7B 2011 $15B 2012 2013 goal $2B $4B $6B $8B 1,350,000 1,179,325 1,061,393 884,494 787,500 2005 baseline 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 environmental  & soCial risk management (esrm) transactions Receiving ESRm Review Europe, middle  East and Africa 146 uS and  Canada 55 Latin America  and the  Caribbean 120 Asia and  the Pacifi c 112 total transactions: 433 Cumulative three-Year Lending Goal (u.S.) $6b small business lending Recent Lending totals (u.S.) aFFordable housing lending Recent Lending totals (u.S.) $4.5b ghg emissions reduCtion Greenhouse Gas Footprint Goals and Actuals Citi was the top  affordable housing  lender in 2010  and 2011 Absolute Co2e  emissions (mt) 2010 2009 2011 0 20% 40% 60% 80% emploYee satisFaCtion Results from Citis Annual Voice of the Employee Survey diversitY networks Employee opportunities and Support 64% 67% 73% employee networks are employee-initiated and -led groups,  organized according to affi nity. they focus on cross-business networking  opportunities, and support employee growth and development. our annual Voice of the Employee Survey found  a 73% employee satisfaction rate. $290m  provided  by Citi &  oPIC* 32 mFis**  funded  across 18  countries *U.s. Overseas private investment corporation **Microfi nance institutions 10% reduction  goal for 2011 mFIs make  microloans  to 940,000  borrowers $2.2b $.55b $2.9b 18 locations 61 networks 13.6%  reduction 92% of  microloan  borrowers  are women $7.9b $7B goal for 2011 $24B 15,000 members  intRODUctiOn citizenship Report 2011  12 Stakeholder Group Communication Channel Examples Clients and  Customers We value the input of those who use our financial solutions and hold regular  meetings with key clients. Our client service department manages communica- tions with clients and customers, and our @Askciti twitter account provides  instant access to customer service representatives.  We also measure customer satisfaction through satisfaction surveys, as well as  comments submitted via email, phone, social media and written correspondence.  customer satisfaction survey  citis eMeA climate council hosted events for  institutional clients and other stakeholders on  renewable energy and energy efficiency. investors Our investor Relations department regularly informs and updates our investors  on the companys financial and operational performance.  We engage with our investors through our Annual  Report, proxy statement, sec filings, meetings and  our investor Relations website. emploYees citi employees value our dedication to citizenship. Our human Resources and  Diversity departments interact with employees through an intranet website. Voice of the employee survey citi Green survey  regulators   and eleCted  oFFiCials Our Global Government Affairs group interacts with elected officials and policy  makers globally through company outreach or industry association activities,  including lobbying, public policy forums, and public seminars.  public policy involvement suppliers We communicate with our 14,000-plus suppliers across 100 countries through  our procurement group. statement of supplier principles CommunitY  leaders Our citi community Development team, working closely with public Affairs,  Government Affairs and Legal departments, maintains communication with  community leaders locally and nationally, including: top staff of nonprofits,  elected officials and thought leaders. the community Development @ citi website houses information on our work to  expand financial inclusion and economic empowerment for the underserved. We also communicate via email and social media, and conduct periodic public  webinars to provide information on community development policy and practice.  Members of the citi community Development team serve on local and national  boards and policy groups working on community development. Asset Building policy network conference participation in center for Financial services  innovation innovators Roundtable We communicated progress on our national earned  income tax credit initiative to external stakeholders  via email. non-  governmental  organizations  (ngos) We collaborate with nGOs on issues relevant to each group including environ- mental sustainability, community development and human rights.  Our corporate sustainability group and community Development group manage  communications with nGOs. co-hosted the energy efficiency Finance conference  with the environmental Defense Fund Organized events with the climate council  in eMeA region equator principles update Various examples of our work with nonprofits on  financial inclusion and other community efforts,  locally and globally, through citi Foundation soCiallY  responsible  investors citis corporate Governance group and corporate sustainability group meet   in-person and schedule conference calls with sRis on an as-needed basis. in 2011, we met with Jantzi-sustainalytics, KLD  Research & Analytics, and christian Brothers  investments services to discuss citis performance   on a variety of citizenship topics including climate  change and human rights. media Our public Affairs department engages with the media through interviews,  forums, press releases, and reports.  citi press Room other FinanCial  institutions We communicate with competitors through industry events   and benchmarking activities. equator principles update Stakeholder Engagement  We engage regularly with individual stakeholders and institutions to share   information, listen to ideas and concerns, and refine our policies and practices. stakeholder engagement approaCh  intRODUctiOn citizenship Report 2011  13 Ceres Report Review While developing this report, we sought feedback from ceres,   a network of investors, environmental organizations and other   public interest groups working with companies and investors to  address sustainability challenges.  ceres convened an independent group of experts on environmental,  social and governance issues representing a global range of  Stakeholder Feedback Citi Response governanCe the issue of long-termism should be addressed in the  compensation/incentives section. On page 16, we discuss how our compensation philosophy  aligns with the citi Mission statement. We offer a link   to our full compensation policy on page 16. human rights how will citi implement the recently released Un Guiding  principles on Business and human Rights? Our human rights section on page 17 discusses our history  with the principles and our plans for implementation.  CommunitY how does this years community investment compare  with previous years? Our performance on serving communities and  consumers is on pages 10–11 and 37. regional Citizenship at a glanCe provide more discussion on market specific risks and key  sustainability issues. this topic is under consideration for inclusion in our   2012 citizenship Report. environment provide more information on your progress on energy  efficiency finance. this topic is under consideration for inclusion in our   2012 citizenship Report. What are the impacts and outcomes of citis $50 Billion  climate initiative so far? We discuss the impacts and outcomes of our investments  on pages 50 and 51 and show progress to date against  our goal on page 10. environmental and soCial impaCts provide more information on the impacts and outcomes  of your esRM process, both in case studies and generally. We expanded discussion on the details of our esRM  process on page 17 and on pages 43–45. Our case study on project financing an aluminum smelter  in india on page 47 demonstrates the impacts and  outcomes of our esRM process. stakeholders and constituencies. this group reviewed a draft of this  2011 citizenship Report and provided feedback on the materiality of  our reporting and on our 2011 performance. some of this feedback is  summarized in the table below and was used to develop this report to  the extent possible. Ceres report review FeedbaCk and responses  Common Purpose Responsible Finance Ingenuity Leadership our prinCiples are the bridge   that ConneCts our 200 Year historY  with the Future we want to Create.  cORpORAte GOVeRnAnce citizenship Report 2011  15 CoRPoRAtE  GoVERNANCE  Board Composition Executive Compensation Anti-money Laundering Program Ethics & Public Policy 16 16 16 17  cORpORAte GOVeRnAnce citizenship Report 2011  16 citi aspires to the highest standards of corporate  governance and ethical conduct by doing what we say  we will do, reporting results with accuracy and trans- parency, and maintaining full compliance with laws,  rules and regulations that govern our businesses. BoARd ComPoSItIoN As required by the new York stock exchange   (nYse), at least two-thirds of the members of citis  Board of Directors are independent directors.   At the end of 2011:   11 of 13 directors (85 percent) were independent  two directors were female, 11 male   Five directors — including the chairman and the  chief executive Officer — were Asian, African  American or hispanic. in 2011, the nomination and Governance committee  and the public Affairs committee merged. there are  now five standing board committees: Audit; Risk  Management and Finance; citi holdings Oversight;  personnel and compensation; and nomination,  Governance and public Affairs.  A charter for each committee outlines the mission,  membership qualifications and duties for com-  mittee members. the nomination, Governance and public Affairs  committee is responsible for assessing our policies  and programs on significant public issues, as well as  for reviewing stakeholder relationships and topics  that affect citis reputation. it also reviews political  and charitable contributions, citis business practices  (particularly as they relate to reputation), our environ- mental sustainability policies and programs, and our  human rights policies.  see more at: corporate Governance. ExECutIVE ComPENSAtIoN We have aligned our compensation philosophy with  citis Mission statement which defines our views on  how to achieve the long-term best interest of share- holders, clients and customers. Our approach to executive compensation is based   on the following guidelines:   enhance shareholder value through the   practice of Responsible Finance    Facilitate competitiveness to attract and   retain the best talent   promote meritocracy by recognizing   employee contributions   Manage risk through sound incentive   compensation practices   provide strong, independent oversight   of compensation practices   provide for transparency to employees,   shareholders, and other stakeholders.  the full citi compensation philosophy  is available online. citi provides for a recoupment of executive   compensation in appropriate circumstances. Our full  statement on recoupment of unearned compensation  and other recoupment rights is available online. ANtI-moNEY  LAuNdERING PRoGRAm  Money laundering undermines confidence in the inter- national financial system and presents a reputational  risk to citi. in support of its efforts to combat money  laundering and terrorist financing and to comply with  the Bank secrecy Act, the UsA pAtRiOt Act, and  other applicable legal and regulatory requirements,  citi maintains a global team of more than 300 global  Anti-Money Laundering compliance Officers around  the world.  citi supports detailed anti-money laundering policies  and programs and sophisticated technology to  monitor for possible suspicious activity for our  businesses globally. these programs are subject to  regular audits, both internal and external.  cORpORAte GOVeRnAnce citizenship Report 2011  17 EthICS & PuBLIC PoLICY Citi Code of Conduct the citi code of conduct outlines our principles,  values and standards of behavior. the citi Board of  Directors reviews and approves the code, which is  available in 26 languages here. it was revised in 2011  to reflect new rules, regulations, and best practice.  employees sign on to the code when they join the  company, and periodically complete training on it.   We rolled out new code training to all employees   in early 2012.  citi encourages employees to communicate their  concerns. We prohibit retaliatory actions against  anyone who, in good faith, raises questions about  ethics, discrimination or harassment; who reports  suspected violations of laws, regulations or policies;  or who participates in a subsequent investigation   of such concerns.  We operate a toll-free global hotline available 24  hours a day, seven days a week in multiple languages  for employees to raise ethical concerns. information  on how to raise a concern can be found here. complaints can be made anonymously, and all  contacts and investigations are treated as confiden- tially as possible.  A code of ethics for Financial professionals  supplements the code of conduct. it applies to all  Finance professionals and Administrative staff in   a finance role. human Rights We support the preservation of human rights and   are guided by fundamental principles such as those  described in the United nations Universal Declaration  of human Rights and the international Labour Orga- nization (iLO) core conventions. We reflect these  principles in our policies and our conduct toward  employees, suppliers, customers and the countries  where we do business. citis statement on human  Rights is available here.  Our environmental and social Risk Management  (esRM) policy states that esRM-covered transactions  in emerging markets should comply with the interna- tional Finance corporations performance standards  on environmental and social sustainability, covering  issues such as the involuntary resettlement of  affected people, and public consultation with affected  communities and vulnerable groups, including the  special protection and rights of indigenous peoples.  Our esRM policy prohibits financing transactions  involving harmful child labor and forced labor.  Reporting on human rights issues managed as part   of our esRM review process in 2011 can be found on  page 48.  in June 2011, the Un human Rights council endorsed  a document called Guiding principles on Business  and human Rights: implementing the United nations  protect, Respect and Remedy Framework proposed  by the Un special Representative on Business and  human Rights. citi proactively participated in the  consultation on the mandate, and we support the  Guiding principles and the protect, Respect and  Remedy Framework.  We are mindful of our many points of influence on  human rights across our value chain, from our  suppliers, to our employees and operations and to our  clients via our investments and transactions. We are  also aware of the need to continually assess human  rights risks and opportunities, and of the special  Representatives assertion that companies must  know and show — must know what their human  rights risks are, and must show what they are doing to  mitigate such risks through due diligence. As a next  step in implementing the Guiding principles, we plan  to reflect our support for it by updating our statement  on human Rights, which is included as an appendix to  the employee code of conduct and referenced in our  environmental and social Risk Management training.  As part of this process, we will conduct a review of our  practices across the value chain to ensure that key  areas of risk are being addressed. in 2011, we engaged with stakeholders on conflict  minerals and cluster munitions, as well as on human  rights issues related to the iFc performance stan- dards, equator principles and our esRM policy.  cORpORAte GOVeRnAnce citizenship Report 2011  18 Public Policy Involvement citi advocates public policies in the U.s and   abroad that value our business, our customers and  employees while furthering our efforts to have a  positive impact on society. Our Global Government  Affairs (GGA) staff actively lobby on issues that  impact the company and our ability to do business.  GGA professionals are required to attend training   on applicable laws and internal compliance policies,  and are expected to demonstrate the highest  standards of professional integrity. Our guidelines for lobbying can be found in our  political contributions and Lobbying statement. Below are three examples of how citi contributed   to public policy development in 2011:    International trade: citi coordinated efforts  to support passage of Free trade Agreements  with colombia, panama, and south Korea,  which became law in October 2011. support  activities included: co-chairing the U.s.-Korea  FtA Business coalition and the U.s.-Latin  America FtA Business coalition; hosting trade  panels and trade advocacy days on capitol hill,  participation in roundtable discussions, drafting  letters to congress and the Administration; and  leading fact-finding missions to Korea, panama,  and colombia.  Political Contributions citi makes contributions in accordance with estab- lished guidelines set forth in our political contributions  and Lobbying statement as permitted under federal,  state and local laws to help elect candidates whose  views and positions are favorable to citi, our industry,  and ultimately the free-market economy.  these contributions come from the voluntary,  employee-funded citigroup pAc or, when permitted,  from corporate funds. citi does not use corporate  funds for independent expenditures. to ensure  compliance with applicable laws and public disclosure  obligations all political contributions are reviewed and  approved by citigroups Global Government Affairs  (GGA) group and General counsel. citi makes available to its shareholders and stake- holders a list of all corporate political contributions  and contributions made by citigroups pAc. the U.s.  political contributions list for 2011 can be found here.  1850s 1812 1830s 1820s 1840s 1890s 1930s 1980s 1960s 1870s 1950s 2000s 1900s 1860s 1940s 1990s 1920s 1970s 1880s 1960s 2012 peacekeepers frequently find themselves serving in  very unsettled, and sometimes extremely remote,  locations. these places are often without banking  services and the difficulty of delivering payroll and  other vendor payments to such areas can impede  the peacekeepers work in bringing stability. Despite  not having a permanent presence in the countries  concerned, citi has been able to provide payment  services in many challenging situations. Working in  zones of civil unrest is not without its difficulties.   in one case the pilot of an aircraft had to deliver  overdue salaries to peacekeepers on the ground in   a very risky location. With the plane under threat,  peacekeepers quickly removed the cash shipment,  enabling the plane to be back in the air within 10  minutes. Meanwhile, the peacekeepers successfully  protected the town from threatening forces. CREAtING thE CoNdItIoNS FoR PEACE  cORpORAte GOVeRnAnce citizenship Report 2011  19 corporate tax reform is an area of interest due to  citis foreign earned income. Active financing  provisions provide citi and other U.s.-based financial  institutions with deferral of tax on foreign earned  income on a temporary basis. these provisions were  extended retroactively for 2010 and prospectively for  2011. Other U.s.-based industries have deferral on a  permanent basis.  Many corporations, including citi, are interested in   the idea of a territorial system that would only tax  profits in the countries where they are earned. We  support debate on possible change in this area and  are pursuing a two track approach with interest in  discussions on corporate tax reform and support for  another extension of the active financing provisions.   Patent Reform in the u.S.: citi teamed up  with the coalition on patent Fairness to support  the America invents Act, which became law in  september 2011. this will strengthen patent  quality and limit potential for poor quality patents  to thwart innovation or fuel costly litigation.    homeowner Assistance: citi has worked to  address the challenges of the weakened Amer- ican housing market by creating and supporting  programs to help borrowers stay in their homes.  We also advocate foreclosure prevention  measures. this work supports the citi Office of  homeownership preservation, which provides  outreach, education and assistance opportunities  to borrowers.  Corporate taxes Our approach to taxes strives to be straightforward  and transparent, and includes maximizing shareholder  value through tax planning and ensuring risk controls  are in place. in 2011, citi paid no federal income taxes  due to a U.s. federal net operating loss carryforward.  As part of the U.s. federal tax code, the use of losses  to offset earnings of prior or future years is available  to all businesses.  $2.16B    provided to FinanCe  aFFordable housing in the u.s.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  21 SERVING  CommuNItIES   & CoNSumERS Financial Inclusion Supporting Consumers Philanthropy Employee Volunteering Performance Snapshot Citi Community Capital provided $2.16 billion to finance  affordable housing in the u.s. Citi microfinance supported more than 140 microfinance  institutions in 40 countries. Citi launched the first-ever u.S. universal childrens   college savings account, with the City and County of   San Francisco, helping more than 3,300 kindergarten  students start to save for college. Globally, Citi Foundation contributed $78 million and  Citi Community development $16 million, primarily to  support financial inclusion in underserved communities  where we operate. Citi committed to lend $24 billion to small businesses  over the following three years. in 2011 22 26 29 35 37 citi and the citi Foundation have been funding supporters of neighborhood  housing services of south Floridas (nhssF) work in the community for  over 25 years. in addition to the development and rehab of affordable  homes, nhssF provides vital programs for financial capability training and  homebuyer education that serve residents like Mr. Aldin hanna, Jr.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  22 As a global financial institution, we have a responsibil- ity to build effective financial solutions that meet the  needs of both our clients and the communities where  we do business. We strive to work creatively and  collaboratively with our stakeholders to design and  support innovative solutions that address community  needs and opportunities aligned with public policy  priorities that positively impact the neighborhoods   in which we operate. We invest our talent, products, operating platforms  and financial resources in this endeavor. We work  together with community-based organizations   and public agencies to revitalize communities and  create economic opportunity for underserved   individuals, through:    Financial Inclusion: ensuring widespread access  to affordable, high-quality financial products,  services and asset-building opportunities for  individuals, families and communities    Supporting Consumers: increasing transparency,  affordability, and accessibility of our products,  services, and programs for all consumers, and  providing relief during times of hardship   Philanthropy: investing in asset building and  financial inclusion projects through the citi Foun- dation, participating in disaster relief and rebuild- ing efforts, and making corporate contributions   Employee Volunteering: encouraging our  employees to participate in skilled and unskilled  volunteering activities that complement our  community activity. FINANCIAL INCLuSIoN   Financial inclusion is the touchstone of Citis  community development efforts in the more   than 100 countries where we operate around   the world. Our unique local presence, unrivaled  business expertise, innovative approach and  committed partners, allow us to make a difference  in millions of lives through our community devel- opment and philanthropic efforts. —  Bob Annibale, Global Director, citi community  Development and citi Microfinance the financial sector fails its customers, shareholders  and society if companies do not do their best to  expand access to affordable, high quality and conve- nient financial services.  Financial inclusion is central to the way we do busi- ness and a key component of our commitment to  responsible finance. through citi Microfinance, citi  community Development, citi community capital   and the citi Foundation, we focus on working across  citi business lines, and with community groups,  governments, institutions and networks, to develop  initiatives that broaden access for traditionally  underserved communities. By investing capital   and expertise, we work with partners such as   microfinance institutions, community development  organizations and local governments to:   Make it possible for microentrepreneurs and  small business owners to start and sustain their  1850s 1812 1830s 1820s 1840s 1890s 1930s 1980s 1910s 1870s 1950s 2000s 1900s 1860s 1940s 1990s 1920s 1977 1880s 1960s 2012 ninety percent of the worlds population lives   within a fifteen-minute walk from an AtM, making  our 24-hour-a-day lives possible. We can go almost  anywhere in the world, at any time of the day or  night, and get instant access to cash — to make a  purchase, pay for a service, or cover a bill.   in 1977, when citi introduced the first AtM in new  York city, there was a miniscule number of such  machines anywhere in the world. Four years later, the  convenience of AtMs doubled citis share of deposits  in the market. today it has 26,000 worldwide. CREAtING ACCESS At ALL houRS oF thE dAY  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  23 Microfinance ExPANdING thE u.S. oPIC  PARtNERShIP INto NEw mARkEtS since 2006, citi and the U.s. Overseas private  investment corporation (Opic) have provided  more than $290 million in funding to 32  microfinance institutions (MFis) across 18  countries. the MFis have, in turn, created  microloans for more than 940,000 borrowers,  92 percent of whom are women. in 2011, citi and Opic announced the closing   of a $20 million term loan to fund the growth   of Bank Danamons microfinance program   to support microentrepreneurs and small  businesses in indonesia. this is the first loan  from citi and Opic for the microfinance sector  in indonesia and is part of citi and Opics joint  global initiative to support microfinance in  emerging markets worldwide. this funding supports Bank Danamons goal   to fortify lending from new offices across  indonesia, enhancing customer service and  expanding access to quality financial services  for indonesias underbanked. CItI PARtICIPAtES IN FIRSt EVER   BoNd ISSuANCE FoR PERuVIAN   NoN-PRoFIt mFI in 2011, citi mandated and executed an $85  million 10-year bond issuance for Grupo Acp,   a 42-year-old non-profit organization involved  in microfinance across Latin America. this  landmark transaction represented the first- ever bond issuance for a non-profit in peru and  was two times oversubscribed.  the bond proceeds will finance the growth of  Grupo Acps operations in peru, as well as its  microlender, Forjadores, in Mexico and the  microfinance business it recently launched   in Brazil. businesses and to create livelihoods for their  families and neighbors   enable young people to receive advanced educa- tions and prepare them for productive livelihoods   help consumers build their own financial   capability by pairing financial education with  access to appropriate products and services so  they can save, wisely manage their money, and  weather setbacks   Finance affordable housing and community  infrastructure projects that create a solid founda- tion for financial mobility. microfinance  Microfinance institutions (MFis) specialize in providing  financial services to traditionally underserved  communities. citi has invested philanthropically in  microfinance for 30 years. in 2005, we launched our  citi Microfinance business unit, with the goal of using  our on-the-ground presence and partnerships with  leading MFis to help the microfinance sector achieve  scale and sustainability.  Working across our businesses, product groups and  regions, citi Microfinance has grown to support over  140 MFis, networks and investors in more than 40  countries around the world.  the products and services we provide include:    Access to capital markets and hedging foreign  exchange risk   credit, savings, and remittances    encouraging transparency and proper risk  management across the industry   Financing and product development   with partners    Local currency funding and transaction   services, including innovations in branchless   and mobile banking. We strive to collaborate with partners on new finan- cial products, technology and expanded access with  the potential to break new ground in achieving greater  impact and increasing the geographic reach of  financial services.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  24 Financial Capability and Asset Building  citi also assists low-income households to build their  financial assets. We do this by pairing financial educa- tion with access to appropriate financial products and  services. At the policy level, we convene important  stakeholders with the ability to influence policies and  practices that can create greater asset building  opportunities for underserved households. in 2010, the U.s. Federal Deposit insurance corpora- tion (FDic) reported that there were approximately  nine million unbanked American households. this has  encouraged interest in microfinance as a driver of  economic empowerment in the U.s. citi is partnering  with leading MFis, community development financial  institutions (cDFis) and municipalities across the U.s.  to expand access to appropriate financial products  and services.  since 2009, we have partnered with Grameen  America, which provides small loans and encourages  savings for microentrepreneurs in financially under- served communities. in new York, citibank provides  savings accounts to Grameen Americas borrowers,  all of whom are women. At the end of 2011, more than  3,500 such accounts had been opened — often the  first the women had ever held. in late 2011, we announced our support for the  chicago Microlending institute, an organization  launched by Mayor Rahm emanuel with $1 million   loan capital from the city and support from citi and  the MFi, AcciOn chicago. citi provided the initial  funding to train new lenders, encouraging sustainable  growth in chicagos small business community. We work with industry leaders to establish sector  standards that ensure the quality of financial prod- ucts, strengthen clients financial capabilities and  improve transparency through partnerships and  initiatives such as the client protection principles in  Microfinance. We are a global sponsor of important  sector resources, such as the Microfinance informa- tion eXchange, which provides transparent data  services, analysis, research and monitoring informa- tion on MFis. citi is represented on the board of the  consultative Group to Assist the poor, an indepen- dent policy and research center housed at the World  Bank, dedicated to improving financial access for  poor and underserved communities. Financial capability and Asset Building  CItI PARtNERS oN FIRSt u.S.   uNIVERSAL ChILdRENS CoLLEGE  SAVINGS PRoGRAm  citi partnered with the city and county of   san Francisco in 2011 to introduce Kindergar- ten to college (K2c), the nations first universal  college savings program. Research has shown  that children with a savings account held in  their name are seven times more likely to  attend college than those who do not. One in  three public school families in san Francisco  had no savings before the K2c program. 3,300 accounts have been opened and by the  end of 2012 every kindergartner entering the  citys public schools will receive an account.  the city and county governments provided  seed deposits of up to $100 per child and eARn,  a san Francisco non-profit partner, matches  the first $100 contributed by each family. the groundbreaking K2c program combines  savings incentives with financial education in  the classroom, where kids learn to manage  their accounts online at a dedicated website.  the program illustrates the power of public- private partnerships and can be replicated   in other cities.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  25 Revitalizing Neighborhoods  citi invests in infrastructure that makes our neigh- borhoods attractive places to live and generates  opportunities for economic advancement for   residents. innovative financial solutions developed  through multi-stakeholder partnerships have the  power to generate scaled investment in services   that make all the difference, such as high quality  affordable housing and excellent schools. in 2011, citi community capital (ccc) lent and  invested more than $3.4 billion dollars in 147 trans- actions with communities in the United states.  Reflecting our strong commitment to affordable  homeownership, citi was ranked the number one U.s.  lender by Affordable housing Finance magazine in  2011 for the second consecutive year, with a lending  volume of $2.16 billion.   We are extremely proud of our affordable   housing financing achievements, and will continue   in our support of the preservation and revitalization  of our neighborhoods across the nation. — Vikram pandit, chief executive Officer, citi in 2011, we made the lead investment of $50 million   in the canyon-Agassi charter school Facilities Fund.  the first of its kind in the U.s., the fund will finance   the development of high quality educational facilities  in distressed urban communities. the fund aims to  finance the development of over 75 urban school sites  for best-in-class charter school operators, creating  new places for approximately 40,000 students over  the following three to four years. Revitalizing neighborhoods  BRINGING hoPE thRouGh   NEw homES the average household income is around  $16,000 in hunters View, a dilapidated public  housing site in southeast san Francisco. After  years of living in substandard homes built as  temporary shelter in the 1950s, local families  (200 of the 430 residents are children) are  finally getting new roofs over their heads  thanks to an ambitious regeneration effort.  the aptly named hOpe project is reviving the  22-acre site and 267 units, using funds from  banks, philanthropic organizations, a city bond  issue and the california housing and commu- nity Development Department. Building work  began in the fall of 2011. citi community capital has provided $41  million in construction loans. Using green  building materials, developers are rebuilding   a mix of public housing, rental and privately  owned units, along with public parks, a  childcare facility and retail outlets. the  development aims to be a model for mixed  use development that can dramatically boost  quality of life for residents by making impor- tant resources readily available. Financial capability and Asset Building  CItI hELPS FouNd ASSEt   BuILdING PoLICY NEtwoRk in 2011, citi became a founding member of a  new U.s. network of the countrys preeminent  organizations from the civil rights, financial  services, community and economic develop- ment and consumer advocacy communities.  the creation of the Asset Building policy  network was driven by concern over the  deepening challenge of achieving financial  inclusion for all U.s. citizens, especially minori- ties, in a challenging economy.  coalition members include the center for  American progress, corporation for enterprise  Development, Leadership conference on civil  and human Rights, national Association for  Latino community Asset Builders, national  coalition for Asian pacific American commu- nity Development, national council of La Raza,  national Urban League, policyLink and citi.  together, we are working to promote saving  and asset building among minority communi- ties, and lower income families. We also seek   to coordinate recommendations and other  efforts to promote public policy that achieve  these aims.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  26 Revitalizing neighborhoods  NEw SChooLS FoR NAtIoNS SECoNd  LARGESt INdIAN RESERVAtIoN nearly $30 million in citi community capital  lending and investing is helping to repair   and expand two dilapidated schools on the  Lakota pine Ridge indian Reservation in south  Dakota, one of the countrys most impover- ished communities.  each facility, one in Rockyford, and the other   in Batesland, will serve a growing school  population and provide modern facilities   and enhanced technology, helping to improve   the quality of education. students will benefit  from a new gymnasium, library, community  room and cafeteria. the school will house  classrooms for pre-school through 8th grade.  in an innovative financing approach, the  project is being financed through $46 million   of new Markets tax credit allocations and a   $5 million U.s. Department of education grant,  as well as citi loans. A non-profit, community  development corporation, GROW south  Dakota, has set up a subsidiary to construct  and own the schools, which will be leased   to the school district. U.s. senator tim Johnson described the  project, begun in 2011, as a model of how the  public and private sector can work as partners  to improve the education of our children and  provide a near-term boost to the economy.  the improved environment is expected to  reduce the turnover rate for teachers in the  shannon county school district, believed to be  as much as nine times the national average.  the new schools expect to create 20 new  permanent jobs. Serving Small Businesses, Creating Jobs small businesses and their owners drive job creation  and create opportunities for reinvestment in   their communities.  internationally, citis commercial Banking business   is dedicated to serving the needs of 100,000 small to  medium-sized companies in 32 countries. From 2010  to 2011, commercial Banking loans for such compa- nies rose by 19 percent globally, excluding the impact  of foreign exchange fluctuations. in the U.s., small businesses account for 57 percent   of total employment and more than half of gross  domestic product. serving small businesses is   fundamental to citis business strategy, and we have  significantly stepped up lending to entrepreneurs in  recent years, from $4.5 billion in 2009 to $6 billion   in 2010 and $7.9 billion in 2011. in response to the   U.s. small Business Administrations call to provide  access to lending and capital that will help create jobs  and speed economic recovery, in 2011 citi committed  to lending $24 billion to small businesses across the  U.s. over three years.  Recognizing that capital alone is often not enough  to grow a small business, we collaborate with local  technical assistance providers to offer expertise to  new and expanding small businesses as they work   to grow their companies, their incomes, and their  employee base. SuPPoRtING CoNSumERS   [Citi is] helping the customer have the least amount  of bounced checks and overdraft fees[This is] an  example of what Citi has done a lot of over the last  few years — taking care of their customers — Martin eakes, ceO, self-help the best interests of our customers represent the  best interests of our economy and lie at the heart   of our business practices. We understand that our  consumers financial needs and goals change over  time, and we listen to those changing needs and  respond to fulfill them.   seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  27 serving small Businesses, creating Jobs SmALL BuSINESS SoLutIoNS in October 2010, citi launched a new partner- ship with the new York city Department of  small Business services to help entrepreneurs  obtain the technical assistance and financing  they need to start, operate and expand   their businesses.  citi community Development provided  $385,000 in funding to enable nYc Business  solutions to extend the reach of their account- ing and loan packaging assistance, particularly  to those with low- to moderate-incomes. We  also provide ongoing mentorship and consulta- tion between citibank small Business bankers  or underwriters and nYc Business solutions  financing account managers.  in 2011, nYc Business solutions centers  connected business owners to nearly   $39 million in capital through more than   800 financing awards, a 25 percent increase   from 2010. CommuNItIES At woRk FuNd through the communities at Work Fund,  established with two nonprofit partners,  calvert Foundation and Opportunity Finance  network, citi leverages the expertise of  community development financial institutions  (cDFis) as last-mile providers of financing for  small businesses we may not otherwise have  been able to reach on our own.  As of January 2012, the Fund had deployed  over $100 million to 39 national and local  cDFis, which in turn lent to small local busi- nesses, creating over 1,400 jobs.  Regulatory Responsibilities  Doing our best for consumers begins with meeting  our regulatory obligations. We devote considerable  resources to meet and exceed our regulatory   responsibilities. citi has received the highest possible  community Reinvestment Act (cRA) rating for each   of our three registered banks in the U.s. Our fair  lending policy and standards comply with both the  letter and the spirit of fair lending laws. We have  received the highest ratings on all fair lending regu- lator exams and reviews since 2007. measuring Consumer Satisfaction  Our business depends on the long-term support   of our customers worldwide, and their opinions help  inform product and service development. citi uses  net promoter scores (nps) as our global metric   to measure customer satisfaction and advocacy —  defined as willingness to recommend us to others.  in 2011, citibank n.A. continued to focus on improving  nps. in direct response to customer feedback, we  instituted a new policy in July 2011 to process checks,  in sequence, from the smallest dollar amount to the  largest. the change reflects citis long-standing  position to never authorize overdrafts at AtMs or  through debit point-of-sale transactions. steady  progress through september saw our nps improving  3.3 percent (compared with the fourth quarter of  2010), and achieving our highest scores to date.  in the fourth quarter of 2011, citibank streamlined,  and announced changes to, its consumer checking  packages. this generated a high level of customer  inquiries and media attention, and as a result, our   nps scores declined in the fourth quarter to end   8.3 percent lower than 2010. in 2012, citibank n.A.   will continue its focus and investment to grow nps   scores among U.s. customers. in china, 89 percent of citiGold customers (the same  as in 2010) and 92 percent of citibank customers (up  from 88 percent in 2010) said they were satisfied or  very satisfied with our service and products. eighty- eight percent of citiGold customers (against 87  percent in 2010) and 88 percent of citibank customers  (compared with 89 percent in 2010) were willing to  recommend citibank to their friends and relatives.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  28 Supporting homeownership   Citis support for housing counseling and training  has been deep, and it has helped meet important  needs for communities around the country. Citis  partnership with NeighborWorks America has meant  that more counselors are in communities, helping  families avoid foreclosure and hold onto their dream  of homeownership. —  eileen Fitzgerald, chief executive Officer,   neighborWorks America  homeownership has the potential to enable families  to build wealth and assets over the long term, and   to support the development of stable, prosperous  communities. citis U.s. mortgage originations of   $63 billion in 2011 showed continued strong growth.  the recent economic and housing downturn has  affected millions of Americans, putting homeowner- ship beyond the means of many, and creating financial  hardship for some existing homeowners. We offer  several programs to support our customers in their  goals of achieving or preserving homeownership.  affordable mortgages  Knowing how much homeownership means to our  customers, we offer and maintain affordable, flexible,  and sustainable mortgages. We also assist borrowers  at risk of default by providing outreach and advisory  services. Wherever possible, we provide mortgage  modifications or other arrangements to struggling  homeowners, and our expert staff coach both  borrowers and nonprofit counseling organizations.   For the third consecutive year in 2011, our home  Affordable Modification program was a top   performer as measured by success rates in public  treasury reports. preserving homeownership citi is committed to keeping individuals and families   in their homes. to promote and preserve affordable  homeownership, the citi Office of homeownership  preservation (Ohp) works closely with our loss  mitigation units to assist U.s homeowners. to multiply  our impact, the Ohp partners with community and  nonprofit organizations to help citi borrowers in  distress find long-term housing solutions. We partici- pate in a variety of proprietary and government  assistance programs to help homeowners avoid  potential foreclosure. since 2007, citi has helped  more than one million homeowners in their efforts   to avoid potential foreclosure. Supporting Credit Card holders credits cards provide consumers and businesses   with a valuable financial tool for a wide range of daily  financial transactions. in 2011, citi was the top credit  card issuer in the world for the second year in a row.  We look to reward responsible cardholders. Our citi  Forward credit card shifts to a lower interest rate  if borrowers stay within credit and payment limits for  the Citimortgage road to recovery tour included  25 homeowner assistance events in locations across the  U.s., where hundreds of citiMortgage customers with  financial difficulties received private expert consulta- tions. the outreach effort provided successful outcomes  for many homeowners, including a large number of  borrowers we had previously been unable to contact.  citi also launched homeownersupport.com, which  provides answers to the question:   What can I do if Im having trouble paying my mortgage?  the site gives information on potential options and allows  consumers to get advice from fellow homeowners. the Citi disabled veterans mortgage relief program  was introduced in 2011 to allow qualifying veterans or  their surviving spouses to make reduced payments on  their citiMortgage-owned mortgages.   IAVA applauds Citi for its new Disabled Veterans Mort- gage Relief Program. This program is a solid step toward  helping our wounded warriors and their families who  have sacrificed so much for our country. Foreclosure and  unemployment have hit military families particularly  hard in this economic crisis. — paul Rieckhoff, iraq and Afghanistan Veterans   of America (iAVA) Founder and executive Director  kEY INItIAtIVES IN SuPPoRtING homEowNERShIP IN 2011  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  29 three months in a row. in direct response to customer  feedback, in the U.s. we introduced the citi simplicity  credit card, whose benefits are unique and industry  leading: one ApR, a single rate and no late fees. We have a range of programs in place to help card  holders who may be faced with financial difficulties.  these can be either long-term or short-term,  depending on individual circumstances, with options  that may include modifying the original loan terms,  reducing interest rates, or extending the loan term.   As of December 31, 2011, citi was assisting more than  1.1 million credit card holders to manage their card  debt through a variety of such programs.  We prefer to help people avoid delinquency and  provide support, such as financial calculators and  advice on money management at:   www.usecreditwisely.com Customer Privacy protecting our clients personal information is a criti-  cal priority for citi, as is maintaining our customers  trust and confidence. We protect this information by  maintaining physical, electronic, and procedural  safeguards that meet or exceed applicable law. We  also train our employees in the proper handling of  personal information. When other companies provide  services for us, we require them to protect the confi- dentiality of personal information they receive. information about privacy for consumers at citi and  our Online privacy statement are available online. Responsible marketing Communications Advertising and marketing materials for citis  consumer products are reviewed by product and  advertising lawyers or by compliance officers.   they ensure that such materials clearly and fairly  represent the offer, satisfy any product-specific  disclosure and contractual requirements, and   comply with all legal requirements. Beyond meeting  these requirements, we seek to communicate with  customers in a straightforward manner, using a tone  and vocabulary that is jargon-free and transparent.  Our principal regulators on these matters are the  consumer Financial protection Bureau (cFpB) and   the Office of the comptroller of the currency (Occ)   in the U.s. and local regulators worldwide. PhILANthRoPY   For 200 years, Citi has been giving back to the  communities where we operate, benefiting many  millions of people. Today, our commitment to  responsible finance extends to our philanthropic  efforts, as we strive to economically empower   low-income people and communities worldwide,   both through on-the-ground innovation testing   and global thought leadership.  —  Brandee Mchale, chief Operating Officer,   the citi Foundation Our responsibility as a global financial institution   is to put our money, talent, experience and products  to work in communities where access to financial  services is limited, and to strive to include more  people in the financial system. citis giving record has  spanned our 200-year history and benefited millions  of people around the world.  in recent years, we have aligned our philanthropy  strategy and financial inclusion objective. in practice,  this has meant selecting areas of focus where we can  contribute financial resources and business expertise  toward programs that help low- to moderate-income  people gain economic independence. in 2011, citi and  the citi Foundation gave more than $121 million to  support nonprofit organizations in communities  where our employees and customers live and work.  Citi Foundation  the citi Foundation supports the economic empower- ment and financial inclusion of low- to moderate- income people in communities where citi operates.  We work collaboratively with a range of partners to  design and test financial inclusion innovations with  potential to achieve scale, and we support thought  leadership and knowledge-building activities. through  a More than philanthropy approach, we put the  strength of citis business resources and people to  work to enhance our philanthropic investments and  generate measurable positive impact.  in 2011 the citi Foundation gave $78 million. the citi Foundation uses a results-oriented measure- ment framework, outlined in the citi Foundation Grant  Guidelines that informs the way we assess the impact  of programs we fund. Our approach, and the way we   seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  30 measure success, emphasize results for participants  rather than the grantees completion of funded  activities. every grant is tracked to identify ways to  ensure success and understand what works and why.  in 2011, 96 percent of the citi Foundations invest- ments were within our mission and focus. through  these efforts, we reached 1.6 million individuals  working toward specific financial inclusion and  economic empowerment goals. Of these, 30 percent  fully achieved their financial inclusion goals in 2011  while the remainder will make significant strides  toward improving their financial prospects. in addi- tion, approximately 40 percent of all investments are  aligned with our goal to support research and thought  leadership efforts that encourage practitioner innova- tion, shape the industry dialogue, and promote public  policy development.  to learn more about the citi Foundations giving in  2011, see performance.  Financial Capability and asset building A strong understanding of the basic principles of  financial products and how to use them is an essential  element in achieving financial inclusion. in 2011, we  invested more than $25 million in financial capability  and asset building programs that will enable more  than 1.2 million people globally to build their financial  knowledge and put that knowledge into action to  reduce their debt and/or increase their savings. Our  grants support programs that go beyond standalone  classroom-based financial education to promote  changing peoples financial behaviors. these  programs employ a comprehensive approach that  combines financial knowledge and skill building with  coaching and access to financial products and  services for low- to moderate-income people.  Financial capability and Asset Building dEVELoPING FINANCIAL SoLutIoNS   to BEttER mEEt thE NEEdS   oF Low-INComE AmERICANS With lead funding from the citi Foundation, the  Financial Access initiative at new York Univer- sitys Wagner Graduate school of public  service launched an innovative study in 2011   to better understand the financial lives of  low-income Americans. Other project partners  are Bankable Frontier Associates and the  center for Financial services innovation. the study uses the Financial Diaries methodol- ogy successfully applied in Bangladesh, india  and south Africa, to gain an accurate under- standing of household financial behaviors and  cash flow management. the study collects  highly detailed data from 300 families across  the U.s., allowing researchers to identify  often-overlooked strategies of financial  management, such as informal borrowing and  lending with neighbors and family.  this, the first study of its kind in the U.s., will  help financial institutions, government, and  nonprofits develop solutions to better meet the  needs of low-income Americans. GLoBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILItY  BuILdING FoR womEN  Womens World Banking (WWB), a microfinance  network of 40 Microfinance institution (MFi)  members, represents more than 24 million  low-income clients in 28 countries.  in 2011, the citi Foundation partnered with  WWB to test innovative approaches to combine  delivery of women-focused microfinance  products with financial education to improve  client use of asset building financial products,  and related outcomes. For example, through  product-linked financial education, WWB  anticipates 30 percent of dormant savings  account holders who receive training will begin  making regular deposits, and half of all active  account holders will increase their balances by  10 percent.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  31 Microfinance BESt PRACtICES FoR mICRoFINANCE  constraints in the quality of training and   staff performance in microfinance institutions  (MFis) are barriers to the sustainable and  responsible growth of the sector. in response,  the citi Foundation has partnered with  Grameen Foundation and its human capital  center of excellence, over several years, to  professionalize the human resource systems  of leading MFis worldwide.  For example, in 2011, major challenges faced  the sector in india. this prompted the citi  Foundation to increase its investment in  Grameen Foundations work in the country   to implement best practices and innovations.  ten indian MFis will receive human capital  advisory services to strengthen their products  and services. this program will serve as an incubator to  prove the importance of strategic human  capital management and to inform a global  implementation strategy. We will carefully  measure results and share them throughout  the sector. enterprise Development FoStERING A dIALoGuE   oN SuStAINABLE SuPPLY   ChAIN FINANCE  in 2011, the Rainforest Alliance, a long-time citi  Foundation partner, received funding to  develop and host a breakthrough workshop of  leaders driving sustainability in supply chains.  the market for providing sustainable trade  finance for farmers, and the small enterprises  that support them, is estimated to be $500  billion, with the potential to create millions   of jobs in low-income farming communities.  the workshop convened over 50 leading   actors in supply chains including multinational  buyers, trading companies, insurers, investors,  and certifiers to identify new barriers and  opportunities to provide financing throughout  the value chain. the findings were published   in a white paper that has been shared widely  and is leading to new industry dialogue around  innovative financing solutions.  enterprise development Micro and small enterprises create more jobs   than any other segment of the economy. in 2011, the citi Foundation invested more than   $10 million to support the creation or expansion   of 18,000 enterprises, and an additional 5,000  employment opportunities for low-income people.  Our investment strategy also includes supporting  membership organizations that coordinate the  activities of investors and intermediaries who   interact with small enterprises. We actively seek  opportunities to invest in activities that support   green enterprise development and result in a   triple bottom line benefit. microfinance Research has shown that households with access to  fairly priced and appropriate financial products are  more likely to save on a regular basis, and use credit  products to accelerate asset building. citi has been  supporting the microfinance sector philanthropically  for more than 30 years. We are distinguished in this  field by our commitment to working locally with  microfinance institutions (MFis) in 100 countries, and  by our efforts to help the microfinance industry  achieve scale and sustainability.  in 2011, the citi Foundation invested more than $8  million to build the institutional and management  capacity of MFis, intermediary organizations and  industry networks that are expanding the supply of  new asset building financial products and services.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  32 college success in the United states GuIdING StudENtS thRouGh   thE FINANCIAL AId mAzE the citi Foundation funds Financial Aid U,   a national effort to provide low- to moderate- income students and their families with the  information and assistance needed to access  financial aid for postsecondary education. Led  by the center for economic progress and its  national community tax coalition, Financial  Aid U helps families complete their tax returns  and the Free Application for Federal student  Aid (FAFsA).  in 2011, Financial Aid U served 2,892 students  and secured access to $22.6 million in federal  and state grants, plus an additional $11 million  in low-interest student loans. According to   the national student clearing house, nearly   55 percent of the students served in 2011  enrolled in post-secondary education and will  be awarded over $11.7 million in federal and  state grants to reduce their educational costs.  College success in the united states A college degree is critical to breaking inter-genera- tional cycles of poverty, increasing earning power   and contributing to the economy. But fewer than 10  percent of U.s. students from low- to moderate-income  families graduate from college by their mid 20s.  the citi Foundation supports programs that will  increase the number of first-generation college  students, and students from low- to moderate-income  families, who enroll in college and complete a degree.  Our investments support programs that provide  secondary students with academic preparation for  college and education for students and families  focused on how to finance a college career, from  starting college savings accounts to applying for  financial aid.  in 2011, the citi Foundation invested more than $8  million in programs that will ensure that close to 15,000  students are on the path to earning a college degree.  neighborhood revitalization in the united states the recession, rising utility costs, and significant   public sector budget deficits have deeply affected   the affordable housing delivery system in the United  states. emerging models of redevelopment, however,  are preserving affordable housing in places where  low- to moderate-income people can access jobs,  education, transportation, health care, and other  critical resources.  Leading community Development Financial institu- tions are demonstrating ways to provide responsible  financial services to the unbanked, and social entrepre- neurs are testing and validating new credit scoring  models. At the citi Foundation our goal is to find such  successes and invest in them.  in 2011 we invested close to $10 million in neighborhood  Revitalization programs. this support will help develop  or preserve more than 8,000 units of affordable  housing as well as build the capacity of 2,500 commu- nity development organizations to better serve the  needs of low-income clients. We also assist programs  that are testing these new stabilization models to build  and maintain economically vibrant communities.  enterprise Development PRomotING SuStAINABLE  dEVELoPmENt IN RuSSIA A changing Russian economy coupled with  deterioration in environmental quality and  degradation of natural resources has reduced  employment choices for low-income people.  As a remedy, the citi Foundation has part- nered with Fund Aid for community sustain- able Development (FsD) to support small  businesses that promote financial, social and  environmental returns.  FsD provides enterprise development   training on topics such as business planning  and accessing finance to 2,000 aspiring  entrepreneurs. in 2011, FsD united nearly   200 Russian officials to discuss how to  support green small enterprises.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  33 neighborhood Revitalization   in the United states SCALING uP NEIGhBoRhood  RENEwAL  Areas of vacant and poorly maintained  properties left in the wake of foreclosure  devalue nearby properties, reduce local  government revenues for basic services,  suppress job creation and drive people from  their communities. emerging models of  redevelopment that tackle these issues offer  the potential, with adequate investment, for  replication and scale.  to advance these emerging models, the citi  Foundation provided a two-year, $2 million  grant to the housing partnership network  (hpn) in 2011. the program will fund six to   ten leading housing nonprofits to design and  test scalable models for acquiring, rehabilitat- ing and returning to productive use, vacant  foreclosed properties, or those on the verge   of foreclosure.  hpn will disseminate learning from the  program with the goal of shaping public  policies that can more effectively promote  widespread revitalization. Youth education and Livelihoods SkILLS tRAINING SuPPoRtS YouNG  BRAzILIAN JoBSEEkERS in Brazil limited educational and professional  development opportunities can make it  difficult for low-income young people to  establish careers. Founded in 2004 with support from the   citi Foundation, instituto profissionalizante  paulista (ipp) is a pre-employment center   in sao paulo that combines basic academic   and professional training with hands-on  experience for low-income secondary   school students.  the program prepares young people for the  job market and increases access to career  opportunities, enabling them to generate  income and become productive members of  the community. this model aligns closely with  the Brazilian governments policy to reduce  unemployment by helping young people build  skills to get their first jobs. With continued citi Foundation support in  2011, ipp provided training and employment  support to 400 low-income students. mARkEt SkILLS BooSt JoBS   FoR YouNG INdIANS  indias rapidly growing economy has   resulted in an increased demand for skilled  workers, but the countrys capacity to meet  this demand is less than 30 per cent. in 2011 the citi Foundation forged a brand   new partnership with the American india  Foundations (AiF) Market Aligned skills  training program (MAst) to address this   gap by training unemployed youth for jobs   in high-growth service sector industries. to date, MAst has provided more than 65,000  low-income youth with the knowledge and  skills needed to enter the formal economy   and secure employment. Youth education and livelihoods there are over 81 million unemployed young people   in the world.  through our partners and investments, we have  learned that pathways to improving the learning  opportunities and economic outcomes for these  youth include acquiring the skills and resources  needed to start their own businesses, become  employed or obtain a post-secondary education.  in 2011, the citi Foundation invested more than $6  million in programs around the world that address the  specific needs, in each country, of low-income young  people, ages 13–25. Our investments will create  improved employment prospects for 15,600 youth,  providing them with the entrepreneurial training and  access to financing to start their own businesses or  complete secondary or post-secondary education.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  34 corporate contributions  ACCIoN 50th ANNIVERSARY in October 2011, AcciOn, a nonprofit pioneer  and leader in global microfinance, honored   citi ceO Vikram pandit at its 50th anniversary  dinner in new York city. By bringing the  benefits of financial services to the under- served and unbanked, AcciOn has lifted out   of poverty countless individuals, families and  communities, in 31 countries on four conti- nents. citi is AcciOns longest-tenured  corporate partner. citi and the citi Foundation  have been alongside them every step of the  way, providing $14.8 million in citi Foundation  grants and citi corporate contributions over  the past 45 years. the dinner raised an  additional $1.6 million for AcciOn.  disaster Response As a global bank, citi recognizes the positive impact  we can have on individuals and communities struck   by unexpected hardships. citi and the citi Foundation  have a long and proud tradition of providing support  to communities affected by disasters. in 2011, we  reexamined our disaster response strategy in order   to use resources to generate measurable impact and  align investments with our mission and focus. Our  new strategy employs a holistic approach to disaster  response: supporting preparedness, immediate  response, and rebuilding efforts that all contribute   to the long-term economic recovery of communities. Global disaster response efforts in 2011 included: haiti: citis community-related immediate relief and  long-term reconstruction programs following the  January 2010 earthquake continued. half of the  pledged funds were directed toward the recapitaliza- tion of three local microfinance institutions to help  stimulate the nations economy. citi continues to look  for opportunities to further invest in the economic  empowerment and financial inclusion of haitians.  horn of Africa: citi and the citi Foundation committed  $100,000 to support the World Food programme  (WFp) and the United nations high commission for  Refugees to alleviate a famine crisis stemming from  severe summer droughts. We also established a  donation site for citi employees and partners to  contribute to WFp.  Japan: immediately following the earthquake,  citi established a Disaster Relief Fund to support the  Japanese Red cross society, with an initial contribu- tion of $1.2 million from citis Asia pacific business.   in addition, the citi Foundation committed $1.2 million   to long-term disaster recovery partners. these  investments were supported with generous donations  from employees around the world and recovery  volunteering efforts by citi Japan employees. Corporate Contributions  We make financial donations to nonprofit organiza- tions in a range of disciplines including community  development, education, culture and the arts,   and diversity. in 2011, citi contributed $43 million in corporate  giving, outside the citi Foundation. citi seeks to support organizations and causes that  are important to our employees and to the communi- ties in which we operate. Where possible and appro- priate, we also seek to ensure consistency between  our community giving and our business goals and  operations. this means that we look to support  programs that fulfill citis legal or regulatory require- ments or public policy objectives, and/or programs  that align with our business objectives, corporate  culture, and strategic philanthropic goals.  While we financially support organizations in a wide  range of areas, a significant amount of our giving  assists partners and programs working to expand  financial inclusion and economic empowerment in  underserved communities.   seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  35 employee Volunteering CItI PoLANd VoLuNtEERS EARN   toP hoNoRS IN EuRoPEAN AwARdS  in poland, citi handlowys employee Volun- teering program placed first in the polish  competition of the european employee  Volunteering Awards program. the volun- teering program is coordinated by the Leopold  Kronenberg Foundation, which has imple- mented financial education programs   since 1996.  Run in 23 european countries by the european  commission, the european employee Volun- teering Awards aim to recognize the best  employee volunteering initiatives that benefit  individuals facing work barriers and those at  risk of being excluded from the labor market. EmPLoYEE VoLuNtEERING  Volunteerism has always been an important part of  citis culture and citizenship approach. We encourage  employees to become involved with nonprofits and  non-governmental organizations supported by the  citi Foundation. citi volunteer opportunities allow  employees to donate time and leverage their profes- sional skills and experience in their local communities.  supporting employees as they volunteer in their  communities builds stronger teams, fosters company  loyalty, and has a positive impact on the areas where  citi has a presence. We offer traditional and skill- based volunteering opportunities that make use of  the enthusiasm and professional expertise of our  employees. At the core of citi volunteerism are many  employee-led organizations, including employee  networks, business-specific outreach committees,  green teams and 25 Volunteer councils, which mobi- lize employees, and connect them to existing citi  community partners. Volunteer opportunities for employees include:   Volunteer day: We encourage all eligible  employees to take one paid day off each calendar  year to volunteer for an eligible organization of  their choice.    Volunteer management System: employees use  our online database to research, register for, and  track volunteer opportunities in their area.  in 2011, our employees reported 789,000 volunteer   hours. this number represents a 29 percent increase  over 2010.  Global Community day Many citi employees volunteer year-round, but Global  community Day provides an annual opportunity to  have company employees, along with their families  and friends, come together as a global volunteer  team. citis Global community Day took place on  October 22, 2011. More than 40,000 citi volunteers  and their families in 78 countries volunteered for  community projects focused on literacy, housing,  environmental protection, nutrition, health care and  disaster relief, among others. see map on the next page for examples.    Companies like ours which have managed to do   well in Peru have a responsibility to give back to  society part of what we have achieved thanks to   our presence here. In Peru, Citi employees value   the importance of social responsibility by helping  families living in extreme poverty take their first   step towards financial inclusion. — Jos Antonio Blanco, citi country Officer of peru  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  36 global CommunitY daY 3 1 2 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 north ameriCa 1  united states: citi was a national sponsor of Make a Difference Day,  the countrys largest day of service. employees took part in the  flagship event to revitalize an elementary school in Washington, D.c.  Florida: More than 1,300 volunteers took part in 72 events  benefitting 45 organizations, including efforts to support  active-duty military and veterans.  new York: in partnership with new York cares, citi volunteers  painted community spaces, created murals, planted gardens   and revamped play yards with maps and games. latin ameriCa 2  brazil: Across the country, more than 1,200 citi volunteers  worked on neighborhood revitalization projects, including   painting, organizing fundraisers to support the construction   of a sports center, teaching children, and donating blood. 3  el salvador: More than 2,800 volunteers cleaned up 18 schools,  orphanages and nursing homes throughout the nation. 4  honduras: employees cleaned up parks, hosted educational  workshops for children and restored houses in   impoverished communities. 5  mexico: Across more than 50 cities, citi volunteers promoted  literacy through reading activities with children in foster   care homes. europe, middle east & aFriCa 6  Jordan: Volunteers partnered with microfinance organization  FincA to help entrepreneurs improve their businesses. 7  kenya: citi volunteers restored the homes of displaced people  living in camps. 8  nigeria: Volunteers helped beautify surroundings and plant trees  for a community center for children living on the streets.  9  united kingdom: students in east London got help from citi  volunteers to design a Green Week campaign for their schools. asia paCiFiC  10  China: More than 45 citi volunteer activities took place in china,  including support for migrant worker families and children, and   a wetlands conservation project near shanghai. 11  hong kong: citi volunteers organized a charity climbathon  where employees, clients and other tenants ran up the stairs of the   50-story citibank plaza to raise funds for a long-time community  development partner.  12  india: More than 1,000 volunteers teamed up with community  partners across the country to teach disadvantaged children   about basic money management.  13  Japan: Recovery and restoration efforts nationwide were  supported by more than 250 citi volunteers, following the  devastating earthquake and tsunami that hit the nation   in March. 14  philippines: A series of typhoons in October ravaged the philip- pines and took more than 1,000 lives. citi volunteers provided  assistance to typhoon victims and helped restore an important  heritage site in Manila. An additional 1,700 volunteers helped with  community building and tree-planting restoration projects.  seRVinG cOMMUnities & cOnsUMeRs citizenship Report 2011  37 1,100,000 1,000,000 homeowners helped credit card holders assisted PERFoRmANCE SNAPShot 32% 11% 14% 11% 8% 13% 11% Citi Foundation FoCus Focus area total  Financial Capability & Asset Building  $25,308,000  microfinance  $8,791,500  Enterprise development  $10,611,000  College Success   $8,724,000  Youth Education & Livelihoods  $6,450,000  Neighborhood Revitalization  $9,865,000  Financial Insights & other  $8,285,000  grand total $78,034,500 supporting Credit Card holders  At the end of 2011, citi was assisting more than 1.1 million credit card  holders to manage their card debt. Citi miCroFinanCe  citi Microfinance supported more than 140 microfinance   institutions in 40 countries philanthropiC impaCt Global impact from financial inclusion and economic empowerment  citi Foundation grants preserving homeownership  since 2007, citi has helped more than 1 million homeowners   in their efforts to avoid potential foreclosure. For complete performance data, see our   key Performance Indicators Report Card. microfinance institutions supported 140 0 0.5m 1.5m 1m 480,000  individuals  have met their  financial goals 1.1m working toward  their financial goals  credit: First solar $6.4B direCted toward our $50 billion Climate initiative in 2011  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  39 ENVIRoNmENtAL  SuStAINABILItY exceeded 2011 goal to reduce greenhouse gas (GhG)  emissions by 10 percent from 2005 levels.  As Chair, led the Equator Principles Association through  its most active year to date, including the launch of a  comprehensive process to update the equator principles. became a u.s. environmental protection agency energy  star partner of the Year, in recognition of outstanding  contributions to protecting the environment through  energy efficiency. directed $6.4 billion toward the $50 billion Climate  initiative in 2011, bringing the total to $36.35 billion  as we hit the halfway mark in the 10-year initiative. Closed a landmark $67 million energy efficiency revenue  bond in the State of delaware. operations Environmental and Social Risk management Investing in Environmental Solutions Performance Snapshot in 2011 in 2011, citi financed First solars   550MW Desert sunlight solar photo- voltaic project, expected to be the  worlds largest solar energy project. 40 43 49 51  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  40 Our environmental sustainability strategy is based on  three pillars: the management of the environmental  footprint of our own operations, such as energy use  in our offices; the proactive assessment and manage- ment of environmental and social risk in projects we  finance; and our investments in solutions to climate  change and other environmental challenges. oPERAtIoNS We recognize that our greatest environmental  impacts are associated with the advice and financial  services we offer our clients. however, reducing our  own impacts is also important and builds credibility  with our employees and clients.  Our operational focus is to reduce our greenhouse  gas emissions through efficiencies. We take a three- pronged approach: investing in more efficient   equipment such as LeD lighting; improving the  performance of existing equipment through smart  building management; and carrying out special  projects to reduce emissions, such as using a refrig- erant additive that reduces our air conditioning  systems electricity consumption by 10 percent.  Additionally, we buy energy from renewable sources  to support our LeeD (Leadership in energy and  environmental Design) Green Building program and  because citi believes it is important to use cleaner  forms of energy. in 2011, we purchased 406 GWh of  green electricity in seven countries. We were ranked  27th in the environmental protection Agencys (epA)  Green power partnership list of Fortune 500 compa- nies for 2011. citi became an epA energy star partner of the Year   in 2011 — the only financial institution in that year to  receive this honor, which recognizes organizations  that have made outstanding contributions to  protecting the environment through energy effi- ciency. Over the past four years, there were 69 new  and 100 re-certifications of citi-managed buildings   in the U.s. earning the energy star label, the energy  efficiency symbol awarded by the epA. While energy  star is only recognized in the U.s., internationally   39 citi locations would also meet the energy star  certification criteria.  We design our new locations to minimize the   impact on the environment. We have embedded the  principles of the U.s. Green Building councils design  standard, LeeD, into our design and refurbishment  process and have 194 LeeD-certified projects   (4.1 million square feet) across 14 countries.  We are one of the first companies to take part in   the LeeD Volume Build portfolio program, which  strives for uniformity in the design, construction,   1850s 1830s 1820s 1840s 1890s 1930s 1980s 1910s 1870s 1950s 2000s 1900s 1860s 1940s 1990s 1920s 1970s 1880s 1960s 2012 Large infrastructure and industrial projects, such   as roads, power plants and mines, can have dramatic  impacts on the environment.  Until the early 2000s, there was no uniform way   to assess and manage the environmental and social  risks associated with the financing of big projects.   in 2002, citi and three other financial institutions  voluntarily developed a banking industry framework,  which became known as the equator principles, to  manage those risks. these were based on standards  used by the international Finance corporation in  emerging markets. the equator principles were launched in June 2003  and were initially adopted by ten global financial  institutions, including citi. the principles are now well  established with more than 70 signatories globally,  and have become the gold standard in environmental  and social risk management in project finance.  PIoNEERING ENVIRoNmENtAL ANd SoCIAL RISk mANAGEmENt FoR FINANCING 1812  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  41 Operations  FINdING thE PAPERLESS SoLutIoN electronic statements save resources, but  moving customers away from paper can   be slow and costly. citis businesses were  pursuing paperless statements with their   own software and programs, requiring many  people to manage the software and physical  infrastructure. everything changed with the integration of   a centralized platform called eDelivery that  streamlines e-statement creation and does  away with the need to reinvent the wheel every  time a unit wishes to shift to paperless delivery. eDelivery went live in 2011 and is being used   in citis credit card unit. it is also being tested   in our retail banking, mortgages and private  bank divisions. eventually all units will use the  system. At the end of 2011, 29 percent of citis  credit card customers were receiving their  statements electronically. CuttING wAStE IN South AFRICA Until recently citibank in south Africa had no  formal waste management program. But during  2011 it introduced:   A full-time person on site to sort waste and  ensure the separation of recyclable materials  such as paper, tin, plastics and glass    A collection system for batteries, old  computer equipment, and toner cartridges —  with cash received for the cartridges sent   to local charities    Recycle bins in parking basements that  encourage employees to bring recyclable  waste from home    collection of old cooking oil, the revenue  from which also goes to charity   As a result of these initiatives, more than   ten tonnes of waste was recycled in 2011, a  considerable improvement on previous years.  and management of buildings to achieve economies  of scale and reduce costs.  We follow the Greenhouse Gas protocol when  measuring our greenhouse gas (GhG) emissions.   We also measure our operational environmental  footprint — energy use, fuel consumption, water use  and waste (generated, recycled and electronic) —   and analyze the data to optimize performance. see  pages 49–51 for our 2011 performance. Our reporting includes more than 12,000 facilities  globally, from skyscrapers to data centers and AtMs.  Almost all of citis GhG emissions are indirect (scope  2), emitted during the generation of the electricity   we purchase.  in 2011, we improved energy efficiency by 6.6 percent  on 2005 levels. Additionally, citi has reduced its  carbon emissions by 109,263 tonnes from its 2005  base line year, which is the equivalent of conserving  12.25 million gallons of gasoline that would power over  21,400 cars for a year. this represents a 9.22 percent  reduction in emissions from 2005 levels brought  about by greater efficiency. When citis green power  for LeeD buildings is included, our carbon reduction  totals 160,191 tonnes, giving a 13.58 percent absolute  reduction. this surpasses our original goal to cut  absolute GhG emissions by 10 percent from 2005  levels, by 2011.  Our 2015 goals (baseline 2005) are:  25 percent reduction in absolute GhG emissions   40 percent reduction in waste to landfill   20 percent reduction in water usage    15 percent of our global real estate to be   LeeD certified   20 percent energy efficiency gains where   we have direct control of operations. Responsibility for managing the environmental  footprint of our operations rests with our Global  Operations Group Manager and Global head of  sustainability in the corporate Realty services unit.  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  42 Operations SAVING wAtER ACRoSS thE GLoBE Whenever we refurbish washrooms, kitchens,  and gyms in our facilities, we take the opportu- nity to install water efficient appliances   and fixtures. in some locations we go further by using  rainwater. in citis new Milan office, a rainwater  harvesting system is providing 344,000 liters  of water a year and has cut the use of municipal  water by 38 percent. in Brazil, treated rainwater is used to flush   all the toilets and urinals at our so paulo  citicenter, resulting in a 20 percent reduction   in municipal water consumption and estimated  savings of around $3,500 a month on water  bills. Rainwater is also harvested at our offices  in senatorska in poland and Yilmaz plaza in  turkey, while at citi sites in Argentina and   peru we have installed automatic water shut   off valves in every building to reduce the  amount of water lost because taps are acciden- tally left running. these and other water reduction initiatives  have helped citi to cut water use by 16.9 percent  across the globe since 2005. data Centers Around the world citis data centers support the  delivery of our products and services to our custom- ers. these large facilities house thousands of servers,  data storage, and networking equipment and account  for over 20 percent of citis total energy use globally.  Our focus is to optimize it equipment utilization,  virtualize and consolidate hardware, and reduce the  amount of energy required to support and cool this  equipment. to this end, in 2011, citi was able to elimi- nate one data center facility by increasing our percent- age of virtual servers to 40 percent, increasing global  server utilization to 35 percent, and increasing global  storage utilization to 70 percent. in 2010, citi an- nounced the return of water-cooled mainframes to   our facilities, with a 12 percent reduction in energy use  over standard air-cooled equipment.  Sustainable technology citi has moved on to its second phase of the Desktop  standardization initiative (Dsi). this will see two- thirds of employees using a Virtual Desktop solution  by mid-2014. By using less energy intensive machines  and moving to a cloud computing environment  through the Dsi, citi will consume less energy and  further contribute to our overall environmental  sustainability objectives. Additionally, our pc power management program   cuts energy usage, lowers cO2 emissions, and saves  money — partly through a product called night- Watchman which remotely manages and maintains  employees computers. the power management  program saved around $3.8 million, or approximately  $35 per pc, in energy costs during 2011, and is esti- mated to have reduced cO2 emissions by over 20  thousand metric tonnes in that year. We are also reducing environmental impacts through  our citi Work strategies program, which helps  employees work flexibly, including from home and   at client sites. this often cuts down on commuting   by car, which results in reductions in harmful tailpipe  emissions and fuel consumption, while less energy   is used in our offices.  Engaging Employees citi employees have formed 32 local Green teams   in many markets to work together on sustainability  efforts for our businesses and our communities.  these teams increase employee awareness of envi- ronmental issues, reduce the impacts of operations   at their sites, and volunteer to improve the sustain- ability of the communities where citi operates.  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  43 engaging employees  GREEN tEAm SNAPShot: St. LouIS  citis Green team in st. Louis, Missouri earned  the st. Louis Business challenge Award of Merit  for Greatest Gain.  the Green teams efforts throughout 2011  demonstrated its commitment to support citis  environmental sustainability goals and included:   creation of a supply room for collecting and  redistributing excess office supplies saving  the office nearly $10,000   hosting quarterly Green Days where they  organized presentations by local sustainable  community organizations for colleagues   collecting pledges from over 700 employees  to be more responsible consumers. the team  helps colleagues uphold these commitments  by providing information and sustainability  tips regularly   conducting new hire sustainability training   coordinating a wireless phone drop off,  clothing drives and regular environmentally  focused volunteer opportunities. ENVIRoNmENtAL & SoCIAL   RISk mANAGEmENt We use our environmental and social Risk Manage- ment (esRM) policy to manage risks in the projects   we finance, help our bankers advise clients, and to  promote environmentally and socially sound ways of  doing business.  ESRm Policy and management Approach   to Screening transactions established in 2003 and updated periodically, citis  esRM policy is built on managing risk at the project  level. the policy covers a broad range of financial  products in various sectors where the use of proceeds  is known and tied to a specific physical project or  asset, and which meet certain financial thresholds.  these are: $5 million for equity investments;   $10 million for project finance transactions; and   $50 million for corporate loans, acquisition finance,  and debt and equity placements or underwritings.  For transactions in emerging markets, the policy  requires adherence to:   the international Finance corporation (iFc)  performance standards which cover a range of  cross-sector issues such as biodiversity, resettle- ment, indigenous peoples, community health,   and labor conditions, and    iFc environmental, health, and safety (ehs)  Guidelines, which provide pollution prevention,  safety and best-practice guidance to 63 industry  sectors.   incorporated into the esRM policy are a number   of citi-specific sector standards, including:  sustainable Forestry sector standard  nuclear-Related transactions sector standard   Mountaintop Removal Mining environmental  Diligence process   carbon principles (for Us coal-fired power plants). the esRM policy gives guidance on transactions   in Areas of high caution and special Focus, which  include critical habitats and areas of high conserva- tion value, significant cultural and heritage value,  indigenous peoples, and large scale resettlement.   it prohibits the financing of transactions involving  forced labor, harmful child labor and illegal logging.  the esRM Unit is responsible for review, advice and  consultation on new transactions, as well as internal  training, communications, policy implementation,  tracking and reporting. supporting the unit are esRM  champions — credit risk officers with additional  esRM review and advice responsibilities — located   in each region. citis environmental and social policy Review   committee (espRc), made up of senior managers  from across citi business units, provides guidance   on esRM issues and related environmental issues.  the Director of corporate citizenship and the Vice  chairman of Global Banking co-chair the committee.   enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  44 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 14 24 9 112 146 120 157 150 161 111 129 91 56 68 55 23 26 21 18 24 18 2 4 5 transaCtions reCeiving esrm review in 2011 ESRm Review Process  We have developed a thorough process for ensuring  compliance with our esRM policy. First, at the initial  greenlight (marketing) stage, citi bankers and risk  managers around the world identify transactions  subject to the esRM policy, via appropriate trigger  points found in citis credit risk policies and proce- dures. Once a transaction is identified, the esRM Unit  reviews it and determines which risk category it falls  into, using the following criteria (as defined by the iFc):   A — expected to have significant adverse social  and/or environmental impacts that are diverse,  irreversible or unprecedented   B — expected to have limited adverse environ- mental and/or social impacts that are few in  number, generally site-specific, largely reversible  and readily addressed through mitigation  measures   C — expected to have minimal or no adverse  impacts. the esRM Unit then lays out requirements to meet  international good practice, and thereby comply with  citis esRM policy. if a deal goes ahead, the team  works with the bankers to help the client properly  identify risks, mitigate and manage impacts, and meet  all esRM requirements. if needed and relevant, the  total  Category A total  Category A transaCtions reCeiving esrm review: bY region since 2009 esRM Unit and client agree on an Action plan —   a formalized to-do list of environmental and social  actions with firm deadlines and persons responsible.  this Action plan becomes a binding covenant of the  loan agreement and compliance with it is monitored,  either by an independent consultant or internally by  the clients environmental team members. in addition, within citi, portfolio managers conduct  annual credit reviews of all transactions, ensuring  client compliance with covenants, including those on  environmental and social matters. citis internal Audit  team selectively audits transactions across citi to  ensure due diligence and compliance with all citi  policies, including the esRM policy. 500 400 300 200 100 0 total 433 52 Latin America and  the caribbean europe, Middle east  and Africa Asia and the pacific Us and canada  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  45 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 157 210 168 total  total  Category A Category A esrm training data since 2009 transaCtions reCeiving esrm review:   bY produCt tYpe 2011 transaCtions reCeiving esrm review:   bY seCtor 2011 over 4,000 Citi employees have been trained on environmental  and social risk issues since the ESRm Policy was released in 2003. training esRM policy training is an important part of   preparing our bankers and risk managers around   the world to take the first steps in implementing our  policy. We use online and in-person training to famil- iarize employees with esRM policy and procedures.  Approximately 168 citi employees received esRM  training in 2011, including in-person training sessions  in china, France, U.K., U.s. and Vietnam. 0 20 40 60 80 100 94 4 75 19 76 14 70 11 42 2 21 0 15 0 17 2 23 0 0 50 100 150 200 250 18 4 250 23 11 0 12 0 4 0 24 2 44  6 37 1 project Finance infrastructure   & transportation project Finance   Advisories Metals & Mining corporate or   Government Loans Oil, Gas &  petrochemicals Debt & equity   Underwriting power (including 32  renewables  projects) private Bank   transactions Manufacturing   & industrials Forestry AR Other equity Forestry,   pulp & paper Acquisition   Finance Agribusiness   (including palm oil) Other   (letters of credit,  derivatives, etc.) telecom-  munications 33 16  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  46 total reviewed: 33  total Funded: 10   total Cost: $22.5b 2011 ep-Covered proJeCt FinanCe deals 20 15 10 5 CategorY a CategorY b CategorY C 0 0 * power deals included one solar project, one wind project, one natural  gas project, and one transmission project. a b C total Power* 1 3 0 4 oil and gas 3 1 0 4 mining and metals 1 0 0 1 water 0 1 0 1 total 5 5 0 10 2011 Funded proJeCt FinanCe deals bY seCtor total reviewed: 18  total mandated: 11 2011 ep-Covered proJeCt FinanCe advisories 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 CategorY a CategorY b CategorY C 0 1 1 0 the Equator Principles —   Sharing Good Practice Beyond Citi citi was a co-founder of the equator principles (ep),  the gold standard for managing environmental and  social risks in project finance. From ten initial  members at the 2003 launch, the ep Association  membership has grown to more than 70 financial  institutions from around the world. in 2011, citi continued its role as chair of the ep  Association steering committee, successfully  leading the association through its most active year  to date. in May 2011, the Association completed a  strategic review of the ep with the public release of  its conclusions available here. throughout the summer and fall of 2011, citi, as chair,  helped the ep Association organize and launch an  ambitious and comprehensive process to update the  principles, using existing working groups on climate  and social risks, and establishing task forces to  address additional areas emerging from the ep  strategic Review, for example reporting, transpar- ency and scope. the ep Association will conduct  public consultation on the proposed equator prin- ciples updates in 2012. 14 9 4 Reviewed mandated 16 5 $19.3b $3.2b 5 17 Reviewed Funded  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  47 BIodIVERSItY FoR BANkS During 2011, as co-leader of the equator principles  Biodiversity Working Group, citi developed an  innovative biodiversity capacity building program  for the finance sector in partnership with the World  Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Business and Biodiver- sity Offsets program. the program aims to help equator principles  financial institutions and the wider banking and  investment community incorporate biodiversity   and ecosystem services into their lending and  investment decisions. A full-day workshop on the  program, held in Washington, D.c. in October 2011  following the equator principles AGM, was attended  by more than 20 financial institutions. the success  of the first workshop has opened opportunities for  further engagement with clients and financial  institutions on biodiversity. the coalition plans to  replicate the workshop in 2012 in Brazil, singapore,  south Africa, and the U.K. INFRAStRuCtuRE IN tuRkEY in 2011 citi became financial advisor to an infrastruc- ture project in turkey that had potential impacts on  archaeological remains.  We helped our client comply with the equator  principles by hiring a renowned archaeological   team to contribute to an environmental and social  impact assessment.  A predictive model was developed to calculate  possible impacts on the environment, and archaeo- logical sites within 200 meters of the project were  mapped so that they could be protected. ASSESSING LENdING FoR   ALumINum SmELtING IN INdIA in 2011, citi structured a project finance deal for   a $1 billion greenfield development of an aluminum  smelter in india, including related infrastructure.  the project required the acquisition of 1,500  hectares, the resettlement of 1,400 families,   and impacts to native forests. citis esRM Unit determined this was a category   A project subject to the equator principles,   and required a robust independent Review of   the projects environmental and social impacts   by a qualified firm acceptable to citi against   iFc performance standards and relevant   iFc environmental, health and safety Guidelines. the client was very open and responsive — and   was willing to answer any questions the consultant  had. Resettlement and land acquisition were largely   on track, and no scheduled tribes were affected.   Any gaps identified with iFc standards were ad- dressed through the projects environmenta l and  social Action plan, and agreed on by the client.  For example, the independent Review identified   the need for further consideration of the replace- ment value given to resettled families under the  existing project resettlement policy. the project   was required to provide additional benefits to  resettled families to fill gaps between indian laws  and iFc standards, and to report regularly to   lenders on continued progress with resettlement  and compensation. the equator principles — sharing Good practice Beyond citi  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  48 uses MtR as an extraction method. Read about citis  MtR environmental Due Diligence process here. One of the four MtR transactions we reviewed and  closed was subject to a high level of stakeholder  scrutiny. citi closely engaged the client on sustain- ability matters throughout the due diligence period,  and after financial closure. human Rights Reporting citis esRM policy incorporates many human rights  issues, including labor risks, security risks, indigenous  peoples, and resettlement, via the iFc performance  standards and the equator principles. the iFc perfor- mance standards, which are consistent with relevant  international Labour Organization core Labor stan- dards and conventions, were further updated in 2011.  the ep Association supported the iFcs inclusion of  strengthened human rights language and appropriate  triggers in the updated performance standards, in  order to reflect emerging good practice consistent  with the Un Guiding principles for Business and  human Rights. Further information on citi and human  rights can be found in the ethics and public policy  section of this report. in 2011, citi closed 13 transactions where our human  Rights statement was relevant or invoked. the esRM  team identified those transactions with human rights  risks during the initial due diligence phase and  ensured, prior to close, that the risks were properly  mitigated and managed by our clients.  due diligence on mountaintop   Removal mining Mountaintop removal (MtR) coal mining is a surface  mining method used particularly in the central  Appalachian region of the U.s. in 2009, citi imple- mented a robust MtR environmental Due Diligence  process that has been incorporated into our credit  risk policies and procedures. the Due Diligence  process is triggered when engaging any client that  2011 transaCtions subJeCt to the mtr proCess transactions reviewed and closed  4 transactions reviewed that did not proceed 1 total 5 liFetime thermal power plant   proJeCt FinanCed emissions reporting Year 30-Year plant life 60-Year plant life 2011 7.4 mmtCo2 14.8 mmtCo2 2010 0 0 total 7.4 mmtCo2 14.8 mmtCo2 the total in the chart above adds up to up more than 13 because one  transaction may have more than one human right risk. human rights issues managed   in 2011 transaCtions  Resettlement Security Risks Indigenous People Labor Risks 5 2 4 3 Carbon Principles   & Project Finance Carbon Emissions citi is a founding signatory of the carbon principles,  which are relevant when citi is leading any transac- tion for a client that is constructing, or planning to  construct within six months, a coal-fired power plant  in the U.s. that will generate more than 200 mega- watts of electricity. this applies whether the plant is  new or an expansion. in 2011, citi participated in one  bond transaction subject to the carbon principles. citi reports annually on the aggregate lifetime carbon  dioxide emissions from thermal power plants (new  builds and expansions) that it finances globally  through project finance. project-specific emissions  are calculated for both a 30- and 60-year plant  lifetime, and are derived from the plants capacity   and heat rate, the carbon content of the fuel, and  projected capacity utilization. We report the  percentage of lifetime emissions equivalent to the  percentage of total project costs financed by citi. in  2011, we project financed one thermal power plant  (the other three power sector project finance deals  were for solar, wind, and transmission projects).   enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  49 emerging Markets, emerging issues hELPING to dEVELoP SuStAINABLE  BANkING PRINCIPLES FoR NIGERIA  the nigerian central Bank, working with  commercial banks, announced plans in 2011 to  introduce sustainable banking principles for  nigeria. citi nigeria was nominated to be part   of the working group for this project, collaborat- ing with other nigerian banks to develop new  nigeria sustainable Banking principles. the  working group is focusing on a few priority  development areas, including issues around oil  and gas, renewable energy and agriculture. the  standards are in the early stage of development  and are intended to encourage environmentally  responsible lending in nigeria. SuStAINABLE PALm oIL 2011 was the first full year of citis membership  of the Roundtable on sustainable palm Oil  (RspO), a not-for-profit association of stake- holders throughout the palm oil supply chain —  palm oil producers, processors and traders,  consumer goods manufacturers, retailers,  financial institutions, and nGOs. the RspO  develops global standards for sustainable palm  oil production to address, for example, biodiver- sity impacts of the sector.  citi requires clients involved in the palm oil  industry to commit to a time-bound Action plan  to achieve, over time, RspO certification, or  certification by an equivalent credible third  party body acceptable to citi.  INVEStING IN   ENVIRoNmENtAL SoLutIoNS   Over the past two years, EDF has been working with  Citi as part of a multi-stakeholder process to create  markets that finance energy efficiency projects. EDF  is encouraged by Citis commitment to issues that  may not provide immediate revenue opportunities,  but will provide long-term economic and environ- mental solutions. —  Brad copithorne, environmental Defense Fund (eDF),  energy and Financial policy specialist citi seeks opportunities to use its products and  services to help develop solutions to major environ- mental problems, including climate change, threats   to biodiversity, and water scarcity. We are doing this  through our traditional business channels but also   by setting up units dedicated to environmental  business development.  climate change in particular presents significant  challenges to our global economy, national security,  infrastructure and public health. it also creates risks  associated with our facilities, some of which are in  areas that could be affected by severe weather  resulting from climate change. Our clients face  climate-related risks from regulatory, physical and  other business impacts. such risks are referenced in  our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  citi supports market-based policy solutions to tack- ling climate change. such solutions need to be   applicable across various countries and regions, but  we also support existing and emerging regulation as  important building blocks for a global framework on  tackling climate change. through our transactions, we have a degree of poten- tial influence over activities that contribute to climate  change. We work with clients to reduce their carbon  footprint, and to finance low-carbon initiatives in the  energy and other sectors. At the project level, we help  clients to assess their vulnerability to climate change  and implement adaptation measures. For example:   We provide financing and investments that help  our clients to develop projects, technologies and  services to reduce emissions  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  50   We develop innovative clean energy financing  structures to help clients access new sources   of capital   We conduct research on climate change, clean  energy, water and green building and convey the  findings to our clients. We pursue these activities through teams in citis  business units. For example, we have a global alterna- tive energy finance group and a municipal securities  renewable energy team. An energy efficiency group   is developing and implementing ways to unlock,  catalyze, and scale the market for energy efficiency  and building retrofits.  During 2011, we helped clients and stakeholders  understand and overcome barriers to accessing  energy efficiency finance. citi served as the sole  underwriter for a landmark issuance of $67 million  worth of energy efficiency revenue bonds in the   state of Delaware to finance the development of   local energy efficiency projects and create an esti- mated 1,000 jobs.  We became the first major financial institution to sign  up as an inaugural ally of president Obamas Better  Buildings initiative, which aims to reduce by 20 percent  the energy consumed in commercial buildings in the  U.s. by 2020, through a combination of new financing  models and tax incentives. citi co-hosted an energy  efficiency finance conference with the environmental  Defense Fund at our headquarters in new York. this  was attended by over 200 bankers, clients, govern- ment officials, nGOs, and real estate owners.  We have an internal climate council, which is made up  of senior bankers and line managers and is chaired by  Alberto Verme, the chairman of eMeA (europe, Middle  east and Africa) banking. the purpose of the climate  council is to develop citis climate change strategy  across the eMeA region, assess government policies  on climate change, and identify related business  opportunities at the regional level. it had three meet- ings in 2011, and hosted two events for clients and  stakeholders — one on alternative energy finance,   and another on energy efficiency.  We engage regularly with stakeholder groups —  including from the nGO and socially responsible  investment communities — to discuss climate change  impacts and challenges, to talk about our role as a  financier of the energy sector, and to learn about  emerging issues and trends. in particular, we collabo- rate with nGOs and research organizations such as   the center for climate and energy solutions (formerly  the pew center on Global climate change), environ- mental Defense Fund, natural Resources Defense  council, ceres, Renewable energy and international  Law policy network and the clinton climate initiative.  in June 2011, we met with the Rainforest Action  network and the Union of concerned scientists to  discuss the financing of coal-fired power plants, a topic  we also discussed with Jantzi-sustainalytics,   the socially responsible investment research firm.  $50 Billion Climate Change   Investment Initiative We are confident that we will achieve our goal,  announced in 2007, to direct $50 billion over 10 years  to activities that mitigate climate change. these  actions include internal operational projects as well   as financing alternative energy, investing in clean tech- nology and researching carbon reduction strategies  on behalf of our clients. We have directed $36.35  billion into such initiatives so far; a process that has  investigating in environmental solutions CItI CREAtES NEw ESG-FoCuSEd  SoLutIoN FoR INVEStoR CLIENtS in 2011, citi launched OpenLend for socially  Responsible investors, a program that enables  clients to tailor cash collateral investments in  accordance with environmental, social and  governance (esG) factors. participation in this  solution enables investor clients to optimize  portfolio returns while satisfying commitments  to sustainability goals.  Developed in partnership with sustainalytics, an  award-winning esG research firm, citi applies  customized multi-dimensional esG screens to  create a universe of eligible securities for  investment by the collateral management team  pursuant to the clients investment guidelines.  OpenLend was developed after discussions with  key stakeholders, including ceres.  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  51 included increased internal coordination, additions   of new talent, and development of new products   such as financing for portfolios of residential rooftop  solar installations. in the U.s., citi has the largest market share   (28 percent) of U.s. Department of energy section  1703/1705 Loan Guarantee program financings for  Alternative energy, and we are the leader in such bond  transactions. Our Alternative energy practice  completed the largest alternative energy finance deal  of 2011, for the $2.3 billion Desert sunlight project in  california, which will provide enough solar energy to  serve the needs of about 160,000 california homes by  2015, displacing around 300,000 tonnes of carbon  dioxide per year — the equivalent of taking 60,000  cars off the road. While the Alternative energy practice serves as a  coordinator of activity across the bank, many other  units within citi — including Municipal securities,  Global transaction services, community capital,  Microfinance, and consumer and commercial   Banking — are active in the area of alternative energy. the citi investment Research and Analysis (ciRA)  sustainable investment team conducts equity research  into climate change, carbon trading and clean energy  (including identifying a global climate change  universe of stocks), water, and green buildings. Our sustainable investment team also provides clients  with environmental and social risk analysis for listed  companies. these research streams reflect demand  from an increasing number of investors who are  seeking more broker research on esG (environmental,  social and governance) issues.  Carbon disclosure Project (CdP) citi has responded to the cDp since it began in   2003. in 2011, we scored 70 out of 100 on disclosure   of emissions, which means we were judged to be  showing increased understanding and measurement  of company-specific risks and opportunities related   to climate change. We were placed in band B on  performance, which indicates that integration of  climate change is recognized as a priority for strategy,  but that not all initiatives are fully established. Our  response to the cDp is available here. Cumulative total direCted   to $50 billion targets $5.49b 2007 $5.11b 2009 $6.4b 2011 $4.29b 2008 $5.67b 2010 $9.4b base 2007 goal 2017 $36.35B total committed $50b $40b $0b PERFoRmANCE SNAPShot leed projects 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 projected  for 2012 data Centers 1 1 2 0 0 0 dC File Storage 0 0 3 0 0 0 office Buildings 0 4 14 6 8 18 operations Centers 1 1 1 3 0 1 Branches 0 52 65 16 16 49 total 2 58 85 25 24 68 Cumulative total 2 60 145 170 194 262 leed proJeCts bY building tYpe leed CertiFiCation bY region & level aChieved asia pacific emea north  america total Certified 2 0 145 147 Silver 4 2 11 17 Gold 12 3 13 28 Platinum 1 1 0 2 total 19 6 169 194  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  52 PERFoRmANCE SNAPShot operational environmental goals   & perFormanCe sinCe 2009 indicator 2005 (baseline) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Absolute Co2e  emissions (mt) 1,198,195 5.0% 11.9% 9.7% 1.7% -4.8% -13.6% Green energy  procurement* 9,704 mwh 40,988 mwh 60,154 mwh 132,175 mwh 125,899 mwh 233,377 mwh  406,000 mwh 2 countries 3 countries 5 countries 6 countries 7 countries 7 countries 7 countries data center   consolidation 51 42 37 32 27 22 20 *  citi does not count 100% of green energy purchases towards carbon offsets. Only certified energy purchases  meeting strict standards based upon the GhG protocol are calculated as an emissions offset. operational environmental results 2009 goals perFormanCe complete eneRGY stAR  benchmarking of 1,500 branches  and expand major buildings  portfolio to over 100 sites 1,600 branches benchmarked in  eneRGY stAR, over 100 major  buildings benchmarked Achieve eneRGY stAR   certification in at least 20 new   sites and re-certify all 2008  recipient facilities All 11 2008 eneRGY stAR facilities  recertified and 43 new facilities  certified in 2009, totaling   54 certified facilities expand LeeD training program   to assist employees in earning  LeeD Accreditation LeeD training organized and available  in all regions — resulting in 35 percent  increase in number of LeeD  Accredited staff members 2010 expand eneRGY stAR   benchmarking to over 6,000  facilities globally completed benchmarking of over  4,500 facilities globally, earned  eneRGY stAR label for 64 Us  facilities to date, achieving a 7.3  percent reduction in energy  consumption across entire portfolio 2011 Achieve 10 percent reduction in  absolute levels of GhG emissions  globally from 2005 base year surpassed goal, to achieve 13.58  percent absolute GhG emissions  reduction from base year 2005 2015 Achieve a 25 percent reduction in absolute GhG emissions   from 2005 base year (building upon current 2011 goal of 10 percent) Achieve a 40 percent reduction in waste stream to landfill   from a 2005 base year Achieve a 20 percent reduction in water usage from a 2005 base year 15 percent of global real estate portfolio will be LeeD certified improve portfolio energy efficiency by 20 percent from 2005 base   year as measured in eneRGY stARs portfolio Manager  Business Air travel citi reports annually on its scope 3 GhG emissions from our  employee travel on commercial airlines. these emissions tend   to fluctuate with the growth of our business, and we continue to  implement it solutions such as video conferencing to help   reduce our business travel footprint. sCope 3 ghg emissions   From business air travel 150,000 125,000 100,000 75,000 50,000 25,000 0 Co2e  emissions   (mt) 2008 2009 2010 2011 119,179 100,243 87,000 127,000 For complete performance data, see our   key Performance Indicators Report Card.  enViROnMentALsUstAinABiLitY citizenship Report 2011  53 2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010 2011 RSF1 85,696,201.70 86,525,074.36  91,137,792.36  89,225,486.75 82,624,643.50  78,774,466.80 75,413,960.00 Seats  391,601.19  398,349.11  441,709.95  447,658.08  413,410.67  391,576.42 378,872.92 headcount 383,100.94 381,960.94 423,866.44 406,618.29 392,619.15 386,867.17 394,015.08 absolute indiCators2 Electricity (Gwh)  2,153.09 2,311.14 2,465.89 2,471.33 2,269.11 2,106.75 2,062.79 district heating   (Steam & Chilled water) 86.68 86.26 91.45 66.50 76.65 77.35 61.63 Energy Purchased (Gwh)   Scope 2  2,239.78 2,397.40 2,557.34 2,537.83 2,345.76 2,184.10 2,124.42 Natural Gas (Gwh)  179.21 163.55 170.02 156.44 167.42 161.25 141.69 Fuel oil (Gwh)  53.02 56.41 54.54 51.59 70.00 52.17 42.95 Energy Consumed (Gwh)  Scope 1  232.23 219.97 224.57 208.03 237.42 213.41 184.64 total Energy (Gwh)  2,472.01 2,617.36 2,781.91 2,745.86 2,583.18 2,397.51 2,309.05 Recycled office Paper (mt)  18,981.22 21,727.33 21,569.15 23,340.52 22,796.98 22,644.17 22,005.83 Refuse and other (mt)  72,227.41 73,384.08 75,371.00 68,760.38 58,463.24 49,542.80 46,985.92 total waste (mt)  91,208.63 95,111.41 96,940.16 92,100.90 81,260.22 72,186.96 68,991.75 total water Consumption (m)3  7,416,842.86 7,628,724.44 7,638,214.04 8,321,462.49 7,097,694.30 6,165,322.99 6,165,483.29 Co2e emissions direct Co2e (GhG Scope 1)  46,151.62 44,162.72 44,865.51 41,639.14 48,326.58 42,660.97 36,750.52 Indirect Co2e (GhG Scope 2)  1,139,036.75 1,215,623.59 1,260,568.85 1,246,700.60 1,137,158.67 1,065,729.08 1,039,178.20 total Co2e (mt)  1,185,188.37 1,259,786.31 1,305,434.37 1,288,339.74 1,185,485.25 1,108,390.05 1,075,928.72 Green Power offsets (Co2e)  5,953.00 25,904.00 30,223.00 57,084.00 47,309.00 42,084.00 56,881.67 Net Co2e (mt)  1,179,235.37 1,233,882.31 1,275,211.37 1,231,255.74 1,138,176.25 1,066,306.05 1,019,047.05 relative indiCators total Energy Consumed kwh / RSF  28.85 30.25 30.52 30.77 31.26 30.44 30.62 kwh / Seat  6,312.56 6,570.52 6,298.04 6,133.83 6,248.46 6,122.71 6,094.54 kwh / headcount 6,452.63 6,852.43 6,563.17 6,752.92 6,579.35 6,197.24 5,860.32 Net Co2e metric tons / RSF  0.0138 0.0143 0.0140 0.0138 0.0138 0.0135 0.0135 metric tons / Seat  3.01 3.10 2.89 2.75 2.75 2.72 2.69 metric tons / headcount 3.08 3.23 3.01 3.03 2.90 2.76 2.59 1.  RsF is rentable square footage. this value is a 12-month average of the  total owned/leased portfolio, excluding sublet space in which utilities are  consumed by non-citi tenants. 2.  All absolute indicators and cO2e emissions are rounded to whole  number values. Citis environmental Footprint 3.  Data in this table will differ from prior years reports due to accuracy  improvements in historical consumption data, as well as the recalculation   of all emissions using the most up-to-date eGRiD (United states) and WRi  (non-Us) GhG conversion factors for purchased electricity. Adjusted to normalize for business acquisition and disposition changes in real estate portfolio.  14,000  across 100 countries we enCourage best praCtiCes among   our diverse base oF suppliers, whiCh   in 2011 numbered more than  OUR sUppLieRs citizenship Report 2011  55 ouR SuPPLIERS  Citi began developing a Corporate responsibility  Questionnaire and assessment Form for suppliers  that will focus on securing acknowledgement and  ratification of Citis Statement of Supplier Principles. in 2011 Sustainable Purchasing Supplier diversity 56 56  OUR sUppLieRs citizenship Report 2011  56 Our size and geographical reach provides a tremen- dous opportunity to address ethical, social, and  environmental challenges through the way we man- age our core business operations. As one of the largest financial services institutions in  the world, we want to lead by example. citi aims to  advance human dignity, reduce waste, improve  efficiency, and reduce our carbon footprint. We  encourage these best practices among our diverse  base of suppliers, which in 2011 numbered more than  14,000 across 100 countries.  Our sustainable supply chain initiative is anchored by  the guidelines we have set out in our statement of  supplier principles. We also encourage adoption by our suppliers of their  own codes or statements of best practice. Statement of Supplier Principles the statement of supplier principles, introduced in  2010, is communicated to existing and potential  suppliers when we contact them about contracts and  as part of our normal supplier relationship manage- ment. it is also available to suppliers through our   citi procurement services public website. During 2011 we began developing a corporate respon- sibility questionnaire and assessment form that will  focus on securing supplier acknowledgement and  ratification of the statement of supplier principles.  We aim to have this fully implemented in 2012.  Sustainable Purchasing citi has developed a supplier rating system to select  products based on environmental performance,  leading to reduced energy use and landfill waste,  while providing an incentive for our vendors to   make sustainable improvements to their products   and operations.  in 2011, we developed a questionnaire for suppliers   on their sustainability practices. the 26 questions  focus on whether suppliers have policies on areas  such as climate change, waste management and  human rights, but also seek details on topics such   as whether they have been guilty of breaches of  environmental regulations.  the information is used to create a score for each  supplier. this helps with decisions on whether or not  to use suppliers, as well as identifying areas where   we can encourage them to improve.  Supplier diversity it is important to work with a wide range of diverse  suppliers and consultants in the communities we  serve. citi has had a supplier diversity program since  1977, and spending with diverse suppliers is tracked  and reported quarterly by category, although not  published publicly for commercial reasons. since 2008, our spending with first and second tier  suppliers has decreased. Despite this, we boosted our  efforts to improve supplier diversity, increasing our  internal focus and requiring sourcing managers to  identify areas of opportunity. Additional actions we  will take include:   establishing a senior sponsor/champion   to promote Diversity supplier spend   strengthening Diversity supplier language in   our standard contracts to increase tier 2 spend  and implementing more effective monitoring of  tier 2 Diversity supplier spend   identifying additional categories for near-term  Diversity supplier spend opportunities  OUR sUppLieRs citizenship Report 2011  57   continuing to leverage supplier connection   (see below) across all categories of spend   Re-communicating the citi supplier Diversity  program internally to raise awareness   supporting citi community Developments  partnership for small Business Development   and other similar programs. We work with various business groups that introduce  us to diverse suppliers, including:   Supplier Connection: in 2011, citi became a  founding member of the group, which provides   a free internet service to small businesses to  apply to become suppliers for big businesses.   citi tracks the number of buyers that are trained  in and use supplier connection, as well as the  number of small businesses we contract. (see  case study)   Centers of Excellence, National minority  Supplier development Council (NmSdC):  this small group of companies implements the  nMsDcs minority business development best  practices, developing relationships with select  minority-owned businesses over a period of up   to two years   Small Business Services Corporate Alliance  Program: in 2011 citi became a founding member  of the program which brings together large  companies and minority and women-owned   firms. citi serves as the leading corporate  member on the programs corporate skills and  training initiative, with four citi representatives  coaching small business participants.  We help small diverse businesses expand their  customer base. each year we host a networking/ matchmaking event for our suppliers. in 2011, for the  fourth year, we hosted a Doing Business with citi  workshop for potential suppliers and co-sponsored  the seventh Annual Broker Dealer Breakfast in new  York, where suppliers receive a briefing on citis plans  for the upcoming year. Our goal is to find ways to continue to improve our  spend with diverse and small businesses wherever  possible. this will require us to share best practices  not only among those within our industry, but with  other corporations who share our commitment in   this area. supplier Diversity SuPPoRtING JoB GRowth thRouGh  A dIVERSE SuPPLY ChAIN havens & company is a new hampshire-based,  five-person company that negotiates life,  disability and accidental benefits programs.  After trying unsuccessfully for 15 years to sell  its services to large corporations, the company  registered with supplier connection (see  above) in March 2011. Within four months,  havens & company was invited to meet with   citi to discuss its expertise in non-medical  benefits.    Supplier Connection provided us with a  connection point at Citi that we wouldnt have  been able to gain without the portal. —  Lynne noel, Vice president of Underwriting  and technical services, havens & company  1,000 cities in   160 countries  and millions   of people. Citi is a global   bank ConneCting  evelyn, a successful microentrepreneur in Venezuela,  was a finalist in the 2011 citi Microentrepreneurship  Awards. the Awards, which aim to highlight best  practice among microentrepreneurs and microfinance  organizations, took place in 28 countries around the  world in 2011. ReGiOnAL citizenship At A GLAnce citizenship Report 2011  59 REGIoNAL  CItIzENShIP   At A GLANCE Citi is a global bank doing business in more than 160 countries,  with approximately 200 million customer accounts. In every  country and jurisdiction we are committed to being good  corporate citizens. outside of the u.S., we organize and assess  our citizenship efforts by region: Asia Pacific; Europe; middle  East and Africa; and Latin America. we work in partnership   with organizations that strive to improve economic conditions,  enhance the financial inclusion of communities, and protect the  environment in these areas. this section provides a selection   of our citizenship work in these regions over the past year.  Asia Pacific Europe Latin America Africa and middle East 60 61 62 63  ReGiOnAL citizenship At A GLAnce citizenship Report 2011  60 CItIzENShIP IN ASIA PACIFIC citi has been in Asia pacific for more than a century, and has around 60,000   employees across 19 markets. As 1.5 billion adults in the region lack access to   basic financial services, citi Asia pacific has steadily increased its support for  initiatives that increase financial inclusion. in 2011, nearly 80 percent of its   grant portfolio was invested in financial capability and microfinance initiatives,  representing $9.6 million in funding for 72 programs. Citizenship in Action: 2011 Around 270 senior policymakers and financial educa- tion experts from 33 countries gathered in Jakarta for  the eighth annual citi-Ft Financial education summit,  sponsored by the citi Foundation, in november 2011.  Discussions focused on how financial capability can  be used to boost financial inclusion and better protect  microentrepreneurs, migrant workers, and out-of- school youth.  in 2011, citi Foundation funding supported the   Apec Business Advisory councils Financial inclusion  Advisory Group through sponsorship of the second  Apec Financial inclusion Forum held in tokyo, which  provided a chance for policy dialogue on expanding  Financial Access through Regional public-private  cooperation.  in september 2011, the citi Foundation announced   a $1 million commitment to habitat for humanity   to support a three-year, multi-country micro-savings  and financial education initiative. the program aims  to help 3,000 low-income homeowners in disaster- prone areas of the philippines, thailand and Vietnam  to save a total of $2 million to help strengthen   their homes. in 2011 we launched the citi-AsKi Overseas Workers  Financial stability program in partnership with AsKi  Global, a subsidiary of a leading microfinance institu- tion in the philippines. the program helps Filipino  workers in singapore build small businesses. awards and recognition Our 2011 citizenship efforts were recognized by  various external parties. highlights include:   singapore compact named Citi Singapore as Best  community Developer, recognizing its sustained  citizenship efforts in financial education and  youth development   For the second year in a row, Citi thailands  achievements in corporate citizenship were  honored, earning the 2011 corporate social  Responsibility excellence Recognition award   from the AMchAM thailand csR committee   For the third consecutive year, Citi Philippines  was recognized by the philippine Department   of energy through the Don emilio Abello energy  efficiency Awards program   Citi taiwan was awarded Appreciation for partici- pation in Financial education in communities and  schools by the Financial supervisory commission    Rotary club shanghai awarded Citi China a  Leadership Award for Building communities.  ReGiOnAL citizenship At A GLAnce citizenship Report 2011  61 CItIzENShIP IN EuRoPE citi employs nearly 30,000 people and has a presence in 30 countries in europe.  We have maintained a strong presence in the region despite economic problems.  in addition, we have kept up our commitments to engage with communities,  particularly on encouraging financial responsibility and entrepreneurship. czech Republic, hungary, and slovakia. the program  has reached more than 460,000 people and enabled  57 percent of social enterprises to meet or exceed  their financial goals. awards and recognition citi businesses across europe were recognized in   2011 for citizenship accomplishments. here is a  sample of awards:   Citi Poland came first in the Financial institutions  category of the national corporate Responsibility  Leaders competition. the competition is organized  by the corporate Responsibility coalition, headed  by the Association of polish employers   Citi hungary won third place in the Best Bank for  corporate social Responsibility category in the  2011 Mastercard Bank of the Year Awards. citi was  recognized for its focus on financial education,  building social enterprises and spreading environ- mental awareness among clients   Citi Russias enterprise development training  program, run with the Fund for sustainable   Development, won a Leaders in corporate philan- thropy award for Best program Facilitating the  Development of Local communities. the program  provides business development training to around  300 residents in the nizhniy novgorod and sverd- lovsk regions   Citi Italy earned LeeD Gold certification for  its new headquarters in Milan. Citizenship in Action: 2011 Our climate council, headed by Alberto Verme, the  chairman of europe, Middle east and Africa banking,  held three meetings in 2011. the council then devel- oped an environmental scorecard, made available to  all employees, which charts progress on our reduction  targets in carbon emissions, energy, waste and   water usage. citibank and WWF Russia celebrated cedar Day in the  primorye region, part of a project aimed at restoring  pine-broadleaved forests in the Russian far east. WWF  volunteers planted one million Korean cedars on  behalf of citibank Russias one million clients.  in partnership with the tomillo Foundation, citi spain  runs a financial education program for children aged  10 to 12. Lessons on responsible consumption and  money management are delivered using vehicles such  as comic books and theater productions. More than  1,000 children in 11 schools in Madrid took part in 2011,  bringing the number educated through the program  to 9,500 since 2007. in the U.K., the citi Roots employee diversity network  partnered with Leaders in community, a London  charity run for and by young people to cultivate  community leaders. citi volunteers ran cooking  sessions with 16 to 18 year-olds, providing an informal  opportunity to talk to young people about careers   and aspirations.  since 2006, the citi Foundation has supported the  nonprofit enterprise & self-sustainability team  (nesst) in central and eastern europe. the citi-nesst  social enterprise competition encourages the devel- opment of social enterprises and nonprofits in the   ReGiOnAL citizenship At A GLAnce citizenship Report 2011  62 We developed an adherence strategy for Brazils  Green protocol and are establishing a similar plan for  the protocol in colombia. these protocols are national  initiatives under which financial institutions commit to  institute policies, launch products and services, and  promote risk management strategies that take  account of social and environmental considerations.  awards and recognition several citi Latin America businesses were recog- nized externally for their work in citizenship. Awards  and recognition included the following:    manuel medina-mora, chairman of citi Latin  America and ceO of Global consumer Banking,  received the Microfinance supporter of the Year  award from pro Mujer, the international womens  development and microfinance organization   the American Chamber of Commerce in  Guatemala bestowed the Award for employee  and community Development on citi for efforts   in employee training; attention to health, security,  freedom of association and working conditions;  diversity programs; employee engagement in  decision making; and community development   Citi El Salvador was recognized by UsAiD for  its diversity programs to support employees   with disabilities. Citizenship in Action: 2011 throughout 2011 we promoted citizenship integration  strategies to better align our work with citi Latin  Americas business goals and stakeholder expecta- tions. We now have five leadership committees  focusing on citizenship activities in key countries in  the region: Brazil, colombia, costa Rica, ecuador and  Guatemala. We have also set up specialized groups,  such as volunteer councils, womens councils, and  green teams, which report to the leadership commit- tees in these countries.  in 2011, citi sponsored and participated in the XiV  Foromic in costa Rica, the regions most prominent  microfinance and microentrepreneur event, orga- nized by the inter-American Development Bank  (iADB). Leaders from citi met delegates from local  government and multilateral agencies to promote  financial inclusion in Latin America. At the event we  launched a program to promote savings, developed in  partnership with the iADB and the international  Development Research center. the program will  provide $6 million over three years for the develop- ment and evaluation of savings products adapted for  welfare recipients. the citi Foundation supported womens entrepre- neurship in collaboration with Junior Achievement in  Argentina, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, paraguay,  and peru. CItIzENShIP IN LAtIN AmERICA  With operations in 23 countries and more than 70,000 employees, citi Latin America  serves more than 29 million retail accounts (including Mexico). At citi Latin America,  our focus is on executing our responsible finance mandate — a collaborative effort  between citi Foundation and the local businesses in the region.  ReGiOnAL citizenship At A GLAnce citizenship Report 2011  63 Citizenship in Action: 2011 africa During 2011, citi introduced initiatives in Africa to help  disadvantaged communities that have limited access  to banking. citis Opportunity international program,  which provides financial education, is helping one  million people in the Democratic Republic of congo,  Ghana, Kenya, tanzania and Uganda make more  informed choices on financial products and adopt  positive financial behaviors such as saving regularly.  We strive to increase the number of small, sustainable  enterprises that can provide employment opportuni- ties for people with low incomes, while making envi- ronmental improvements. in 2011, we partnered with  the Kew Foundation in Kenya to develop plant nurs- eries, generating incomes while protecting plant  diversity and the environment. Our $150,000 grant  enables the Kew Foundation to determine which native  trees offer the best business opportunities, as well as  to identify markets and train microentrepreneurs.  in south Africa, we partnered with endeavor, a non- governmental organization, to help entrepreneurs  open a chain of internet cafs which employs 65  people across seven townships and offers affordable  it training for locals. middle east in 2011, we re-evaluated our citizenship strategy in the  Middle east and now focus on four key areas:    Entrepreneurship training: We worked with  academic centers, including the American Univer- sity of Beirut, American University cairo and the  University of Dubai, to train entrepreneurs and  members of family-owned firms to become busi- ness leaders    Financial Capability and Youth Education:  We improved the employability of young people   in Algeria, egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,  Morocco and UAe by providing access to educa- tion programs and entrepreneurial training  through Junior Achievement programs     microfinance and microentrepreneurship  Support: since 2005, we have committed  $8 million to the Middle east region, building   up microfinance institutions that have helped  more than 8,000 people   womens Empowerment: We partnered with  AMiDeAst, a non-profit organization providing  education and training programs in the Middle  east and north Africa, to expand our womens  entrepreneur training model, which was developed  with the University of Dubai in 2005. the expan- sion will reach another 80 women in Dubai,  Kuwait, Lebanon, and Morocco, to add to the   162 women who have graduated from the program  at the University of Dubai. awards and recognition citi pakistan (in our Middle east region) won the  poverty Alleviation category at the 2011 Asian corpo- rate social Responsibility Awards for its community  initiative in partnership with thardeep Rural Develop- ment, a non-profit organization that helps rural  communities develop more sustainably.  citi pakistan also won Best community program in the  Gold category at the Global csR summit 2011 — for  their work on microfinance and vocational training. CItIzENShIP IN AFRICA ANd mIddLE EASt in Africa and the Middle east, citi employs more than 3,600 people, and does   business in 24 countries. Across this varied region, community and business needs  differ according to locality. this is why we supplement our regional citizenship   approach with country-specific activities. Our focus in Africa is to promote financial  inclusion and to build financial capability in rural communities. in the Middle east,   we encourage youth employment and economic empowerment for women.   38h oF training provided   on average per emploYee  students attend an MBA preparatory program  hosted by citi and Management Leadership for  tomorrow (MLt), one of our strategic partners.  Raymond J. McGuire, head, Global Banking,  institutional clients Group (pictured), was a  keynote speaker.  OUR eMpLOYees citizenship Report 2011  65 ouR EmPLoYEES diversity Engagement & training health, Safety & wellness Performance Snapshot Provided approximately 38 training hours on  average per employee worldwide. Supported 61 employee networks with approximately  15,000 members across 18 locations. Achieved 88 percent participation in 2011 employee  survey and a 73 percent satisfaction score. in 2011 66 68 69  70  OUR eMpLOYees citizenship Report 2011  66 RECoGNItIoN IN 2011 FoR CItIS  LEAdERShIP oN womEN employer of choice for Women 2011   Equal Opportunity for Women in the   Workplace Agency, Australia Gender equity Model certification   National Womens Institute, Mexico  top 50 companies for executive Women  National Association for Female Executives,  United States Citi women More than half of citis workforce is female, including  44 percent of managers and executives. supporting  womens advancement is very important to us, and  includes, among other elements, the following leader- ship development programs.  women Leading Citi, launched in november 2009,  is a sponsorship program designed to promote and  accelerate the advancement of high-performing  women in senior management positions. participants  gain opportunities to network and to broaden their  leadership skills with a three-person support team —  their manager, a talent professional and a senior  advocate who serves as their sponsor.  citi is a global community of people. We operate in  160 countries and value each and every employee.  We provide a safe and stimulating workplace while  helping our employees gain knowledge and improve  their skills. A vibrant, diverse workforce that reflects  our global client base is key to our success.  dIVERSItY  Diversity and inclusivity are business imperatives   for citi, and are vital to our future.  We promote a work environment where diversity   is embraced, where people are promoted on their  merits, and where colleagues treat each other with  respect and dignity. We seek to make career develop- ment opportunities widely available and encourage  employees to fulfill professional and personal goals.  put simply, our goal is to be a company where the   best people want to work.  Our diversity strategy focuses on four areas: manage- ment accountability, attracting talent, workforce  development, and work environment.  priority objectives are defined annually and   implemented through the citi diversity operating  committee, comprised of diversity and human  resources professionals, as well as local business   and regional diversity councils. the citi board of  directors reviews progress annually. programs and  initiatives are in place across our businesses and  functions to support and foster citis diversity  strategy. these include, among others, leadership  development programs, employee networks and  diversity-focused recruitment programs.   Citis diversity efforts are central to who we are.  Through them, we aspire to be viewed as a  respectful, equitable and inclusive workplace by  our employees, our clients, our business partners  and our communities — everywhere we operate  around the world. —  Ana Duarte Mccarthy, chief Diversity Officer,  citigroup inc. womens Leadership development, designed and  launched in conjunction with the UcLA Anderson  school of Management in 2008, combines lectures,  discussions, small group work and assignments. the  program helps high-performing director-level women  prepare for executive roles, become champions and  role models within our company, and nurture profes- sional networks. to date, 298 women have attended.  Coaching for Success, designed for mid-level  emerging female talent, is offered by several citi  businesses. the program is delivered through work- shops and engages senior management as coaches.  Goals include improving retention, promotion and  internal mobility among participants.   OUR eMpLOYees citizenship Report 2011  67 Diversity and Recruitment PIoNEERING PARtNERShIPS since 2004, citi has achieved 100 percent   on the human Rights campaigns (hRc)  annual corporate equality index. this bench- mark measures an organizations ability to  provide a safe and welcoming environment  for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender  employees and customers. citi employees  also sit on hRcs national Board of Directors  and Business council. diversity week  Diversity Week is a longstanding and important  vehicle for increasing awareness of diversity among  our employees, and 2011 was no exception. in europe,  the Middle east and Africa 52 countries took part, with  278 events around the thought-provoking theme of  perception: Do You see What i see? Among the  highlights, the center for talent innovation shared  their research on Generation X — children of the post  World War ii generation — in the workplace.  in Latin America activities included conferences,  panel discussions, and an art exhibition where  horacio Franco, a world famous flutist, shared part of  his autobiography about his personal experiences as   a musician, the flute as an instrument, and being gay.  the week ended with more than 23,000 employees  and their families attending a private event at the six  Flags amusement park in Mexico city. Attendees were  invited to express themselves using color on a Diver- sity Wall. the wall will be displayed at different  corporate buildings.  Employee Networks citis size and workforce diversity lends itself to  affinity groups across locations and borders.  employee networks are initiated and led by  employees, and are open to all. At the close of 2011,  there were 61 employee networks representing some  15,000 members across 18 locations in canada, the  Republic of ireland, the United Kingdom and the  United states. in 2011, we launched ten new employee  networks. these included six for military veterans,  two for women, one pride network, and the first U.s.  disAbility network.  diversity and Recruitment citi makes significant efforts in all the regions where  we operate to attract diverse candidates by part- nering with targeted colleges and universities and  external organizations that foster workforce diversity. examples include: Asia: in india, the citi Women Leader program encour- ages future women business leaders by recognizing  one female student selected from each of nine  premier business schools who demonstrates exem- plary leadership potential and has attained excellence  in both academics and extra curricular activities. Europe, the middle East and Africa: in the United  Kingdom, citi brought together university disability  officers and career advisors to agree on strategies   to target students with disabilities for employment;  the learning from the event will be used across the  eMeA region.   Latin America: in Brazil, citi has an internship  program with zumbi dos palmares University where  more than half the places are reserved for African  Brazilians.  united States: in the United states citi partners with  organizations to attract diverse talent, including the  consortium for Graduate studies in Management, the  executive Leadership council (eLc) and Management  Leadership for tomorrow (MLt). For more about diversity at citi, please see our   Diversity Annual Report 2011.  OUR eMpLOYees citizenship Report 2011  68 ENGAGEmENt & tRAINING We work in a fast moving, competitive and   skill-centered industry, where listening to employees,  helping them constantly to develop their skills, and  building strong workplace partnerships are integral   to our success.  Providing opportunities  Learning and development is a strategic investment  for citi. excellent learning supports our business  strategy by increasing job satisfaction, building a  common culture and developing our companys   future leaders. in 2011, 98 percent of citi employees  took advantage of training opportunities, averaging  approximately 38 hours of training across our   four regions. Our classroom and online training programs cover:  leadership and management, business and product- specific content, new hire onboarding, professional  development, technology and compliance.  in 2011, we also introduced new flagship executive  development programs, and our core leadership and  management programs were scaled up to reach over  9,000 mid-level managers. to foster inclusion, we  added training on unconscious bias in the workplace  for executives. in 2012, we will launch a new learning  center in the new York area to further our goal of  making our training programs a key source of compet- itive advantage.  understanding our Employees We do our best to keep abreast of, and responsive   to, employee opinions. We gather feedback in many  ways, including periodic pulse surveys and our  annual confidential opinion survey, the Voice of the  employee (VOe). the survey is available online in  almost 30 languages and to employees in 100 coun- tries. topics covered include job satisfaction, recogni- tion and rewards, work-life balance, innovation,  partnership and client focus.  this employee feedback is critical to our business. it  helps us monitor workplace trends, measure key man-  agement practices, and target areas of opportunity.  Our most recent survey, in september 2011, garnered   a global response rate of 88 percent. employee satis- faction hit a new high of 73 percent. employees reported that their skills and abilities were  put to good use, and that they see a clear link between  their daily activities and company objectives. they   also praised the quality of teamwork at citi and had   a favorable view of their managers. Evaluating Employees An effective performance management process is  critical to our companys success. All employees,  including executives, are evaluated annually.  in measuring employee performance we seek to  promote a culture of meritocracy and strong risk  1850s 1812 1830s 1820s 1840s 1890s 1930s 1980s 1916 1870s 1950s 2000s 1900s 1860s 1940s 1990s 1920s 1970s 1880s 1960s 2012 citi alumni go on to become chiefs of multinational  corporations, ministers of finance, governors of  central banks, ambassadors of nations — even heads  of state. citi has a rich history as a training ground  for future leaders. in 1916, as the bank continued to  expand internationally, president James Vanderlip  formalized that role in citis first official learning and  development curriculum — dwelling not only on the rigors  of banking, but also on the tools of general management  and the study of foreign languages and cultures. it  equipped the programs graduates with the skills and  sensibilities necessary to serve a new kind of worldly  clientele. this was the precedent for the reputation that  citi still enjoys today as the university of banking. SEttING uNIVERSAL StANdARdS FoR LEAdERShIP  OUR eMpLOYees citizenship Report 2011  69 health, safety & Wellness FoCuS oN wELLNESS RECoGNIzEd physical inactivity doubles the risk of heart  disease. since many people spend most waking  hours at a desk, the American heart Associa- tion (AhA) works with employers to promote  workplace activities and cultures that cut this  risk. in 2011, citi was awarded the AhAs Gold  Level Fit-Friendly company Award, given to  employers who go above and beyond in  promoting employee health. EmPLoYEES ANd SuStAINABILItY  in spring 2011, for the second year, we asked  employees to take a Green survey. the result   was encouraging, with a 178 percent increase   (to 9,388) in staff taking part. employees were  virtually unanimous (92 percent) in their belief  that citi has a business responsibility to protect  the environment. Among specific initiatives,   there was big support for local recycling efforts  and for citi to act on climate change. however,  fewer than half of employees were aware of some  citi green initiatives, demonstrating a need for  more internal promotion.  voiCe oF the emploYee surveY 2011 2011 88% Response  Rate  per Year 2010  85% 2009 85% 2008 84% 2007 89% 2006 94% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% management. employees are evaluated not just on   end results but on how business goals are achieved.  Managers provide comprehensive feedback to clarify  employee expectations, inform pay and promotion  decisions, and highlight individuals strengths and  areas on which they need to work. Engaging unions corporate citizenship includes embracing workplace  rights for employees. citis statement on human  Rights (see page 17) supports freedom of association  for employees and the right to organize and bargain  collectively, as expressed in the international Labour  Organizations core conventions. in some citi offices  around the world, employees have joined or estab- lished trade unions and works councils.  hEALth, SAFEtY & wELLNESS Our employees are mainly office-based, and face few  direct occupational health and safety risks. We focus  on issues related to sedentary workplaces, helping our  employees to improve their health, fitness and  productivity. We also provide travel health assistance  for employees globally.  each region develops programs that meet employee  needs, local regulations and best practice standards,  including on-site medical and fitness facilities. For  example, in the U.K. and U.s. employees receive online  ergonomic training and assessment tools. in Vietnam,  we responded swiftly to a workplace communicable  Satisfied Neutral dissatisfied 73% 67% 20% 13% 16% 17% 17% 13% 13% 15% 64% 63% 70% 70% 20% 22% 16% 11%  OUR eMpLOYees citizenship Report 2011  70 2011 global emploYee training asia pacific emea latin america north america total Population 61,745 38,095 73,314 93,272 266,426 web-based trainings 630,612 362,288 1,324,302 1,665,946 3,983,147 Instructor-led trainings 1,316,720 960,143 1,047,292 2,392,683 5,716,838 other (External training, Virtual Classroom) 30,159 23,157 40,557 243,041 336,914 total trainings Completed 1,977,491 1,345,588 2,412,150 4,301,669 10,036,899 total number of training hours delivered 2,021,458 1,346,298 2,560,925 4,305,836 10,234,517 average hours of training per employee 32.74 35.34 34.93 46.16 38.41 PERFoRmANCE SNAPShot this data does not include non-employees. Data may seem different from  prior reporting years due to our global data cleanup initiative to improve  accuracy of learning-related data in our Learning Management system.   in 2011, 98 percent of citi employees underwent an average of approximately  38 hours of training. Our strong support for work/life effectiveness  programs has earned us recognition from Working  Mother Magazine as one of the 100 Best companies  in the U.s. for 20 consecutive years. Our web portal provides information about employee  options and gives managers the tools to implement  the program. it also hosts online training courses   to assist employees and managers to operate in a   flexible work environment, supporting our commit- ment to transforming our corporate culture. in  January 2012, we launched an enhanced global  program with an improved website, more resources  and comprehensive training for managers and  employees. Over 12,000 employees are formally  registered in our flexible work program. We also support employees in their responsibilities  outside work. For example, we offer childcare   and elderly care services to more than 100,000  employees in europe and the United states. disease outbreak in 2011 with a targeted health educa- tion and prevention program. in the U.K. a wide  variety of health awareness programs and screenings  include cholesterol and mole checks. promoting healthy lifestyles is a priority. We offer  programs including flu shots, smoking cessation,  nutrition counseling, oral and skin cancer screenings,  mammography and biometric screening. in the U.s.  and puerto Rico, for example, employees were offered  free flu shots in 2011, while citi Mexico encouraged  staff to follow a workplace exercise program.  Promoting work/Life Effectiveness  Flexible working arrangements support employee  well-being and help us attract and retain talented  people. it can also reduce our real estate costs and  enhance productivity.  through our flexible work program, citi Work strate- gies, all employees may request a flexible schedule,  such as remote work, a compressed work week or   flexible start and stop times, via our online system,   for their manager and hR representative to consider.   OUR eMpLOYees citizenship Report 2011  71 PERFoRmANCE SNAPShot global Female workForCe Over the period of three years, citis global female   representation fell from 55 percent at the beginning   of 2009 to 53 percent in December 2011. emploYee satisFaCtion in 2011, we achieved an 88 percent global response rate   for our annual employee survey.  the survey found a 73% employee satisfaction rate.  u.S. workforce diversity data Over the period from 2009 to 2011, the U.s. employee population  declined by 13.4 percent. During that period, total representation of  women declined by 1.9 percent and for minorities 0.8 percent. the  representation of women in official and management positions  2011 Citigroup Consolidated emploYer inFormation report (eeo-1)*  declined by 1.0 percent, by 0.9 percent for professionals, by 8.6  percent among technicians and by 4.3 percent for sales workers.  Minority representation among officials and managers grew by   1.2 percent and declined for professionals by 0.3 percent. *Data as of July 2011 2010 2009 2011 0 20% 40% 60% 80% 64% 67% 73% Job Category white black hispanic asian native  hawaiian/  other pacific  islander native  american multi-racial total by  gender total  number   of people Executive/  Senior  managers Female 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 28 male 19 1 1 1 0 0 0 22 First/mid-Level  managers Female 4,862 755 883 805 3 19 17 7,344 16,750 male 6,579 493 867 1,435 3 15 14 9,406 Professionals Female 5,271 1,016 1,020 1,590 6 22 36 8,961 22,249 male 8,155 834 1,206 3,006 16 29 42 13,288 technicians Female 676 179 175 197 5 3 5 1,240 2,923 male 996 177 213 287 1 5 4 1,683 Sales workers Female 4,251 1,118 1,593 719 14 37 21 7,753 13,443 male 3,464 557 960 667 6 19 17 5,690 Administrative  Support Female 12,493 5,160 4,644 1,456 47 129 96 24,025 32,460 male 4,398 1,546 1,791 603 31 31 35 8,435 Craft workers Female 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 8 male 1 3 1 2 0 0 0 7 operatives Female 136 62 27 94 0 0 0 319 665 male 119 74 54 96 3 0 0 346 Laborers &  helpers Female 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 male 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 Service  workers Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 total Female 27,696 8,291 8,342 4,861 75 210 175 49,650 88,528 male 23,731 3,685 5,094 6,097 60 99 112 38,878 For complete performance data, see our   key Performance Indicators Report Card.  Un GLOBAL cOMpAct tABLe citizenship Report 2011  72 u.N. GLoBAL ComPACt tABLE GRI INdEx Principle Information in Report human rights principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed  human rights; human Rights principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. human Rights environmental   and social Risk Management labor standards principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the  right to collective bargaining; engaging Unions principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; human Rights principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and human Rights principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Diversity environment principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; environmental   and social Risk Management investing in environmental solutions principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and environmental   and social Risk Management investing in environmental solutions Operations principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. investing in environmental solutions Operations anti-Corruption principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. corporate Governance Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location strategY and analYsis 1.1 core statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about  the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy  Yes Letter from ceO 1.2 core Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities  Yes Letter from ceO environmental   and social Risk  Management proFile 2.1 core name of reporting organization Yes citigroup inc. 2.2 core primary brands, products and/or services Yes About citi 2.3 core Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operat- ing companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures Yes Annual Report  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  73 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location 2.4 core Location of organizations headquarters Yes proxy statement 2.5 core number of countries where organization operates and names of countries  with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustain- ability issues covered in the report Yes Annual Report 2.6 core nature of ownership and legal form Yes Annual Report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types  of customers/beneficiaries) Yes Annual Report 2.8 scale of the reporting organization, including:  number of employees  net sales   total capitalization broken down in terms or debt and equity  Quantity of products or services provided Yes Annual Report 2.9 significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or  ownership, including:   Location of, or changes in operations, including facility operations, closings  and expansions   changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation,  maintenance and alteration operations Yes Annual Report 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Yes citi Awards &  Recognitions 2011 report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Yes About this Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Yes About this Report 3.3 Reporting cycle Yes About this Report 3.4 contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Yes About this Report Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 process for defining report content, including:  Determining materiality  prioritizing topics within the report   identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Yes citizenship  Approach stakeholder  engagement 3.6 Boundary of the report Yes About this Report 3.7 state any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Yes About this Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, out- sourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect compara- bility from period to period and/or between organizations Yes About this Report 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including  assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compila- tion of the indicators and other information in the report Yes Operations 3.10 explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in  earlier reports and the reasons for such re-statement Yes no such   restatements 3.11 significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary  or measurement methods applied in the report Yes no such   restatements  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  74 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location GRI Content Index 3.12 table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report Yes this index Assurance 3.13 policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the  report. if not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainabil- ity report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided.  Also, explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the  assurance provider. Yes citi does not  currently seek  external assurance  for citizenship  reporting.  governanCe, Commitments and engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the  highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting  strategy or organizational oversight Yes corporate  Governance 4.2 indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also   an executive officer (and if so, their function within the organizations  management and the reasons for this arrangement). Yes Annual Report 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number   of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or  non-executive members. Yes corporate  Governance 4.4 Mechanisms for stakeholders and employees to provide recommendations  or direction to the highest governance body  Yes proxy statement 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance  body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements)  and the organizations performance (including social and environmental  performance Yes proxy statement 4.6 processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts   of interest are avoided Yes proxy statement 4.7 process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members   of the highest governance body for guiding the organizations strategy on  economic, environmental and social topics Yes proxy statement 4.8 internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct   and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance,  and the status of their implementation Yes Letter from ceO citizenship  Approach  citi code of  conduct ethics and   public policy 4.9 procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organizations  identification and management of economic, environmental and social  performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence   or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct   and principles  Yes corporate  Governance 4.10 processes for evaluating the highest governance bodys own performance,  particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance Yes corporate  Governance  Guidelines  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  75 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle   is addressed by the organization Yes environmental   and social Risk  Management investing in  environmental  solutions 4.12 externally developed economic, environmental and social charters,  principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or  endorses Yes Various, including:  the carbon  principles  the equator  principles United nations  Universal   Declaration of  human Rights 4.13 Members in associations and/or national/international advocacy organiza- tions in which the organization:  has positions in governance bodies  participates in projects or committees   provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues  Views membership as strategic Yes Various, including:  the equator  principles 2011 Global  Diversity Report Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization, e.g., communities,  civil society, customers, shareholders and providers of capital, suppliers and  employees, other workers and their trade unions Yes stakeholder  engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage includes process for defining stakeholder groups and for determining the  groups with which to engage Yes stakeholder  engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement  by type and by stakeholder group. examples of approaches include: surveys,  focus groups, community panels, corporate advisory panels, written  communication, management/union structures and other vehicles. say  whether any engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report  preparation process.  Yes stakeholder  engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder  engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics  and concerns, including through its reporting. Yes stakeholder  engagement Due Diligence   on Mountaintop  Removal Mining perFormanCe: eConomiC disclosure on management Approach provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the  following economic aspects: economic performance, market presence and indirect economic impacts. Yes corporate  Governance citizenship  Approach eConomiC perFormanCe indiCators Aspect: Economic Performance ec1 core Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues,  operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community  investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and  governments Yes Annual Report  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  76 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location ec2 core Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organiza- tions activities due to climate change Yes investing in  environmental  solutions ec3 core coverage of the organizations defined benefit plan obligations Yes Annual Report ec4 core significant financial assistance received from government Yes citi does not  receive financial   assistance from  government Aspect: market Presence ec5 Additional Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum  wage at significant locations of operation not Reported ec6 core policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at  significant locations of operation not Reported ec7 core procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from  the local community at locations of significant operation not Reported Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts ec8  core Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services  provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or   pro-bono engagement Yes investing in  environmental  solutions serving communi- ties and consumers ec9 Additional Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts,  including the extent of impacts Yes investing in  environmental  solutions serving communi- ties and consumers perFormanCe: environmental disclosure on management Approach provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the  following environmental aspects: materials, energy, water, biodiversity, emissions, effluents and  waste, products and services, compliance, transport and overall. Yes environmental  sustainability environmental perFormanCe indiCators Aspect: materials en1 core Materials used by weight or volume not Reported en2 core percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials not Reported Aspect: Energy en3 core Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Yes citis environmen- tal Footprint en4 core indirect energy consumption by primary source Yes citis environmen- tal Footprint en5 Additional energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Yes Operations en6 Additional initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based   products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result   of these initiatives partial environmental  sustainability en7 Additional initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Yes environmental  sustainability  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  77 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Aspect: water en8 core total water withdrawal by source Yes citis environmen- tal Footprint en9 Additional Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water not Applicable en10 Additional percentage and total water volume of water recycled and reused not Reported Aspect: Biodiversity en11 core Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to,  protected areas and areas of high biodiversity outside of protected areas Yes not material   to citis own  operations.  environmental   and social Risk  Management  with regard to  lending and project  financing policies en12 core Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on  biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside  protected areas Yes not material   to citis own  operations.  environmental   and social Risk  Management with regard to  lending and project  financing policies en13 Additional habitats protected or restored not Applicable en14 Additional strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on  biodiversity not Applicable en15 Additional number of iUcn Red List species and national conservation list species with  habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk not Applicable Aspect: Emissions, Effluents and waste en16 core total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Yes citis environmen- tal Footprint en17 core Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Yes citis environmen- tal Footprint en18 Additional initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Yes citis environmen- tal Footprint en19 core emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight not Applicable en20 core nOx, sOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight not Reported en21 core total water discharged by quality and destination not Reported en22 core total weight of waste by type and disposal method Yes citis environmen- tal Footprint en23 core total number and volume of significant spills not Applicable en24 Additional Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed  hazardous under the terms of the Basel convention Annex i, ii, iii, and Viii,  and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally not Applicable en25 Additional identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and  related habitats significantly affected but the reporting organizations  discharges of water and runoff not Applicable  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  78 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Aspect: Products and Services en26 core initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services,   and extent of impact mitigation Yes environmental   and social Risk  Management en27 core percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are  reclaimed by category not Applicable Aspect: Compliance en28 core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Yes citi did not receive  any significant fines  for non-compliance  with environmental  laws or regulations en29 Additional significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods  and materials used for the organizations operations, and transporting  members of the workforce Yes Business Air travel Aspect: overall en30 Additional total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Yes investing in  environmental  solutions perFormanCe: labor praCtiCes and deCent work disclosure on management Approach provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the  following labor aspects: employment, labor/management relations, occupational health and safety,  training and education and diversity and equal opportunity. Yes Our employees labor praCtiCes and deCent work perFormanCe indiCators Aspect: Employment LA1 core total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region Yes performance  snapshot Regional citizen- ship at a Glance LA2 core total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender   and region not Reported LA3 Additional Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary  or part-time employees, by major operations not Reported Aspect: Labor/management Relations LA4 core percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements not Reported LA5 core Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether  it is specified in collective agreements not Reported Aspect: occupational health and Safety LA6 Additional percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management- worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on  occupational health and safety programs not Reported LA7 core Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number   of work related fatalities by region not Reported  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  79 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location LA8 core education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in  place to assist workforce members, their families or community members  regarding serious diseases Yes health, safety,   and Wellness LA9 Additional health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions not Reported Aspect: training and Education LA10 core Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Yes engagement   and training LA11 Additional programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the  continued employability of employees and assist them in managing their  careers Yes engagement   and training LA12 Additional percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career  development reviews Yes engagement   and training Aspect: diversity and Equal opportunity LA13 core composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per  category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and  other indicators of diversity partial Diversity Board composition LA14 core Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee  category, by significant locations of operation not Reported perFormanCe: human rights disclosure on management Approach provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to   the following human rights: investment and procurement practices, non-discrimination, freedom of  association and collective bargaining, abolition of child labor, prevention of forced and compulsory  labor, complaints and grievance practices, security practices and indigenous rights. Yes human Rights citi code of  conduct human rights indiCators Aspect: Investment and Procurement Activities hR1 core percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that  include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights  screening Yes human Rights  Reporting hR2 core percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone  screening on human rights and actions taken not Reported hR3 Additional total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning  aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the  percentage of employees that are trained not Reported Aspect: Non-discrimination hR4 core total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken not Reported Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining hR5 core Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association  and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to  support these rights Yes engaging Unions Aspect: Child Labor hR6 core Operations identified as having a significant risk for incidents of child labor,  and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory  labor not Applicable engaging Unions  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  80 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor hR7 core Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or  compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced   or compulsory labor not Applicable Aspect: Security Practices hR8 Additional percentage of security personnel trained in the organizations policies   or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to  operations not Reported Aspect: Indigenous Rights hR9 Additional total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous   people and actions taken Yes human Rights  Reporting hR10 Additional  percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to   human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Yes the equator  principles—sharing  Good practice  Beyond citi hR11 Additional number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved  through formal grievance mechanisms Yes human Rights  Reporting perFormanCe: soCietY disclosure on management Approach provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to   the following society aspects: community, corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behavior   and compliance. Yes public policy  involvement citi code of  conduct human Rights soCietY perFormanCe indiCators Aspect: Community sO1 core percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement,  impact assessments and development programs not Reported Aspect: Corruption sO2 core percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related   to corruption not Reported sO3 core percentage of employees trained in organizations anti-corruption policies  and procedures Yes citi code of  conduct sO4 core Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption not Reported Aspect: Public Policy sO5 core public policy positions and participation in public policy development and  lobbying Yes public policy  involvement sO6 Additional total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties,  politicians and related institutions by country partial political   contributions Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior sO7 Additional total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and  monopoly practices and their outcomes not Reported Aspect: Compliance sO8 core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations not Reported  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  81 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location perFormanCe: produCt responsibilitY disclosure on management Approach provide a concise disclosure on the management approach items outlined below with reference to the  following society aspects: customer health and safety, product and service labeling, marketing  communications, customer privacy and compliance. Yes supporting  consumers produCt responsibilitY perFormanCe indiCators Aspect: Customer health and Safety pR1 core Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services  are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and  services categories subject to such procedures not Applicable pR2 Additional total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary  codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and service during  their life cycle, by type of outcomes not Applicable pR3 core type of product and service information required by procedures, and  percentage of significant products and services subject to such information  requirements not Reported pR4 Additional total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary  codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of  outcomes not Reported pR5 Additional practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys  measuring customer satisfaction Yes Measuring  customer   satisfaction Aspect: marketing Communications pR6 core programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes concerning  marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsor- ship Yes Responsible  Marketing  communications pR7 Additional  total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary  codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising,  promotion and sponsorship by type of outcome not Reported Aspect: Customer Privacy pR8 Additional total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer  privacy and losses of customer data not Reported Aspect: Compliance pR9 core Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and  regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services not Reported FinanCial serviCes seCtor speCiFiC disClosure on management approaCh Fs1  core policies with specific environmental and social components applied   to business lines Yes environmental   and social Risk  Management Fs2 core procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks   in business lines Yes environmental   and social Risk  Management Fs3 core processes for monitoring clients implementation of and compliance with  environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions Yes esRM Review  process  GLOBAL RepORtinG initiAtiVe inDeX citizenship Report 2011  82 Number type GRI Guideline Inclusion Location Fs4 core processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental  and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines Yes esRM training Fs5 core interactions with clients/investors/business partners regarding   environmental and social risks and opportunities Yes environmental   and social Risk  Management the equator  principles stakeholder  engagement  Approach produCt and serviCe impaCt indiCators Aspect: Product Portfolio Fs6 core percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and by  sector Yes Annual Report Fs7 core Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social  benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Yes Financial inclusion Fs8 core Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific  environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Yes investing in  environmental  solutions Aspect: Audit Fs9 core coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmen- tal and social policies and risk assessment procedures Yes  esRM Review  process Aspect: Active ownership Fs10 core percentage and number of companies held in the institutions portfolio with  which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social  issues not Reported Fs11 core percentage of assets subject to positive and negative social and environ- mental screening not Reported Fs12 core Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over  which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on  voting not Reported Aspect: Community Fs13 core Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas Yes Financial inclusion Fs14 core initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people Yes Financial inclusion Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Fs15 core policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services Yes Financial inclusion supporting  consumers Fs16 core initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type and beneficiary Yes Financial capability  and Asset Building  50 Best Companies for Latinas to work in u.S.   Latina Style Magazine top Companies for diverse managers   Diversity MBA Magazine  Employer of Choice Award for women 2011   Equal Opportunity for Women in the   Workplace Agency, Australia Best Companies for hispanics   Hispanic Business Magazine Gilberto Rincn Gallardo Inclusive Company Award  Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, Mexico AhEAd disability Inclusion Award   AHEAD, Ireland Gender Equity model Certification   National Womens Institute, Mexico  Great Companies   Expansin Magazine Best Companies for kids   Working Mother Magazine  Good Employer Certification   Good Employer Association & American   Chamber of Commerce, Peru CommunitY top Affordable housing Lender   Affordable Housing Finance Magazine outstanding Supporter Award   Community Services of Nevada CRA Community Impact Award   CRA and Fair Lending Colloquium, Baltimore organization of the Year   Community Housing Council of Fresno Corporate Citizenship FtSE4Good Index Since 2002  dow Jones Sustainability world Index Since 2001 dow Joes Sustainability   North America Index Since 2001 Stoxx Global ESG Leaders Index Since 2011 environment Newsweek Green Rankings: #1 u.S. Bank  Newsweek Magazine top Green It users 2011: #8   Computer World Magazine Greenest Banks in the world: #5   Bloomberg Markets EPA ENERGY StAR Partner of the Year   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency St. Louis Green Business Challenge:   Award of merit, Greatest Gain, owner Category  Saint Louis Regional Chamber   and Growth Association  Green Globe Banking Special Prize for   direct Impacts Green Globe Banking, Italy diversitY 100 Best Companies for working mothers   Working Mother Magazine  Best Companies for multicultural women   Working Mother Magazine 100% Corporate Equality Index Company   Human Rights Campaign Corporate Inclusion Index Rating 95   Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility top 50 Companies for Executive women   National Association for Female Executives CItI AwARdS & RECoGNItIoNS 2011 citi AWARDs & RecOGnitiOns citizenship Report 2011  83  www.citigroup.com  2012 citigroup inc.    citi and Arc Design is a registered service mark of citigroup inc.