Connecting Sustainably Report 2011  Sustainability needs change 75 years of Frankfurt Airport – this is certainly the time for Fraport to salute its heritage  and look to the future. Germanys biggest airport has been connecting up cities and   people that are far apart for three generations. It links up business centers and markets.  As a sustainability-centric company, we also want to harmonize contradictory objectives  such as individual mobility and global environmental protection, and responsibility for  the people we employ and the residents living in the region. Corporate responsibility  demands action all the time, the requirements are undergoing continual change.  By rising to the challenges, we too undergo a gradual process of change. Rolf Hornung,  Senior Fire Supervisory,  Traf c and Terminal Management,  Corporate Safety and Security,  Fraport AG Stefan Grimm, Fire Supervisor,  Traf c and Terminal Management,  Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG Dominic Jennewein,  Fire supervisor undergoing advanced training, Traf c and Terminal Management,  Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG Roman Sommer,  Trainee Fire Supervisor,  Traf c and Terminal Management,  Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG Contents   2 Foreword   4   Strategy and  stakeholder engagement   9 Acting responsibly   10 For our customers 14 For our employees  22 For our environment 30 For our community  36 For our owners  38   Sustainability management  and corporate compliance I-XII Sustainability program 2011 41 Appendix 41 Principles of Reporting 42 Content overview of GRI and    UN Global Compact principles 48 Glossary 49 Publishing information The sustainability report can be accessed online by going to  www.sustainability-report.fraport.com. The online version   includes all the  information in this report and also provides more   in-depth, detailed information. We refer you to additional infor- mation at the appropriate places in the document with numbered  quick links 1  2  3 . You will  nd an overview in the list of quick  links on the home page. Click on the relevant link to go directly  to the information you require. Any use of the male form is for purposes of readability and   includes female and male genders throughout.    Connecting Sustainably Report 2011  Pro le Pro le Our business activities are repre- sented by four segments:   Aviation, Retail & Real Estate,  Ground Handling and External  Activities & Services. Aviation The Aviation segment is responsible for the business acti- vities traf c and terminal operations, and airport safety  and security at Frankfurt Airport. This segment is also   responsible for expansion of the airport. EBITDA for the   segment is 187.8 million, representing a contribution  of 23.4 %.  Retail & Real Estate The Retail & Real Estate segment pools all activities and   expertise of Fraport AG for commercial development and  marketing of  oorspace not used for  ight operations at  Frankfurt Airport. EBITDA amounted to 305.3 million in  2011. This segment has the biggest margins and earnings  and contributed a share of 38.1 % to Group EBITDA. Ground Handling The business of the Ground Handling segment covers ser- vices revolving around passengers, baggage and cargo in  Frankfurt. Groundhandling services are a very personnel- intensive area subject to international competition. Margins  are modest. However, the high quality of the services pro- vided from a single source represents a major competitive  advantage for the quality of the hub at Frankfurt. EBITDA  amounted to 54.5 million and this corresponds to a share  of 6.8 % in the Group EBITDA. External Activities & Services The External Activities & Services segment is responsible  for Central Infrastructure Management, and IT and facility  management services at the Frankfurt site. It also bundles  all Fraport activities outside Frankfurt. Global marketing of  airport know-how and the operation of 13 Group airports  have now become a signi cant factor for revenue and ear- nings. The segment generated EBITDA of 254.7 million and  this represents 31.7 % of the corresponding Group value.  1  Products & Services 2  Fraport Worldwide Lima Frankfurt Varna Burgas Antalya St. Petersburg Jeddah Delhi Xian Riyadh Cairo Dakar Hanover Majority shareholdings in airports * Employees for the Group in Frankfurt ** Annual average according to IFRS Fraport statistics Employees (annual average, persons/2011 share in %) Fraport Group Aviation Retail & Real Estate Ground Handling External Activities  & Services 29.6 % 2.9 % 43.2 % 24.3 % 2010 19,792 6,074 606 8,564 4,548 2011 20,595 6,088 596 8,899 5,012 Revenue ( million/2011 share in %) 2010 2,194.6 693.9 403.1 658.6 439.0 32.7 % 18.8 % 27.6 % 20.9 % 2011 2,371.2 774.9 444.7 655.5 496.1 EBITDA ( million/2011 in %) 2010 710.6 131.6 294.7 44.1 240.2 23.4 % 38.1 % 6.8 % 31.7 % 2011 802.3 187.8 305.3 54.5 254.7 Burgas, Bulgaria Passengers (persons) 2,253,320 Airfreight (metric tons) 5,991 Antalya, Turkey Form of shareholding Majority holding Shares in the company 50 % Number of employees ** 211 Passengers (persons) 24,964,219 Airfreight (metric tons) – Frankfurt *, Germany Frankfurt Airport with around 56 million passengers was one of last years the Top  10 airports in the world. On a European comparison, it was ranked in third place for  the year 2011 after London Heathrow and Paris Charles de Gaulle. Frankfurt is the  only airport worldwide which – including the volume of cargo transported – ranks  among the worlds biggest hubs. It also ranks among the Top Ten here.  Number of employees** 18,124 Passengers (persons) 56,443,657 Airfreight (metric tons) 2,251,618 Varna, Bulgaria Form of shareholding  Majority holding Shares in the company   60 % Number of employees **  1,084 Passengers (persons) 1,181,832 Airfreight (metric tons) 41 Lima, Peru Form of shareholding  Majority holding Shares in the company 70.01 % Number of employees ** 503 Passengers (persons) 11,795,862 Airfreight (metric tons) 286,641   Additional investments in airports  Dakar,  Hanover,  Cairo,  St. Petersburg,   Jeddah,   Riyadh,  Delhi,  Xian,      Senegal  Germany  Egypt   Russia   Saudi Arabia   Saudi Arabia  India   China      Form of shareholding  Management contract  Shareholding  Management contract  Shareholding   Management contract  Shareholding  Shareholding    Shares in the company  –  30 %  –  35,5 %  –    10 %  24.5 % Number of employees **  3  659  3  3,658  23    1,326  2,215     Passengers (persons)  –  5,341,017  13,021,395  9,610,767  –    35,063,961  21,163,130   Airfreight (metric tons)  –  16,956  281,253  –  –    596,239  172,568      Connecting Sustainably Report 2011  Foreword in Antalya, Turkey, was awarded the Airport Car- bon Accreditation Level 2 in 2011. The terminals  are  saving energy and the advanced district heat- ing power station operates at a much higher level  of ef ciency compared with conventional power  plants. It also generates signi cantly lower levels  of CO2.  The objective of the expanded infrastructure in  Frankfurt is to generate a positive effect for our cus- tomers in every respect. The airlines are our main  customers. The Operational Excellence  project  has been tailored to their needs. Major  efforts have  been made to increase our operational ef ciency  and maintain this level even when airtraf c volu- mes increase in the future. The project Great to  have you here! takes account of the expectations  of air passengers and develops the faci lities in our  terminals and the processes associated with air   traf c.  Our Service from a Single Source plays an impor- tant role here. This is why we are de nitively oppo- sed to the plans of the EU Commission to separate  grounds services at the airport from the parent  company in legal terms. They are an integral part  of the transport chain at the airport and they are  also important for the job security of the people  who work there. In 2011, we grouped our targets together in an   expanded sustainability program. They have now  been documented for all 17  elds of action in the  Fraport sustainability matrix. Parallel to this, we  have also driven forward the integration of our  go vernance procedures, as well as our systems for  risk and compliance management. They ensure  that Fraport AG complies with national and inter- national standards for good governance and they  will gradually be introduced for our subsidiary  companies. This process of integration also fosters  compliance with our in-house commitments, par- ticularly our compliance with the principles of the  UN Glo bal Compact. Our ambitious programs and targets can only be  achieved if our employees perceive us to be an at- tractive employer. It is important that they want to  work for us. We hold regular surveys of employee  satisfaction to identify the areas and issues that we  need to work on. The demographic development  A majority of people in Hesse who were recently  surveyed gave an assessment for Frankfurt Airport  as very important for employment and the eco- nomy.  These positives are balanced against the impact of  the start-up of the northwest runway in October  2011 on local residents who are experiencing more  noise or coping with noise for the  rst time. We  take the concerns and complaints of local residents  very seriously and we understand if they are angry  about the situation. We also take action. Measures  for passive noise abatement are given top priority.  The Casa Program offers residential owners the   opportunity to sell us their homes if they are living  very close to the runway and aircraft  y low over- head. We also work intensively with air traf c con- trol, the airline companies and the Government  to develop proactive noise avoidance. The Airport  and Region Forum is also involved in this work.  The aim is very clear. Any action the airport can  take to reduce the impact on residents is imple- mented. We support the expansion of Frankfurt Airport  with the aspiration to maintain high environmental  standards. We have invested some 160 million  in mitigation measures. After this action has been  taken, we will focus on achieving our goal of redu- cing CO2 emissions caused by the operation of the  airport to the level of 2005 by 2020, despite the   increase in the volume of air traf c. We achieved  the demanding Level 3 in the Airport Carbon   Accre ditation Scheme at the beginning of 2012.  This demonstrates that we are on the right track.  We also decided in 2011 to introduce systematic  CO2 controlling. The groundwork has already been  completed. Over the course of 2012, the concept  will be re ned and implemented. Buildings and facilities that have been made  maximally energy-ef cient contribute signi cantly  to  reducing CO2 emissions. External critics and  experts are also invited to discussions at round  table groups which aim to structure the planned  Terminal 3 to be as energy-ef cient as possible.  We are also continuing the systematic conversion of  our vehicle  eet to electric utility vehicles and cars.  Our foreign companies are also making substan- tial progress on environmental issues. Our airport  Herbert Mai  Dr. Matthias Zieschang Dear Readers, The year 2011 marks the launch of a new runway  at our main location in Frankfurt. This is an impor- tant milestone on our future roadmap. We also  looked back on our heritage last year to salute  75 years of this global airport. Our landmark cel- ebrations fo  cused on the sustainable development  of our company. Our fundamental principle is  more appro priate than ever before: We continue  with things we do well but we are committed to  innovation and change where improvements are  necessary to develop further. As we expand our capacities, we are acknowled- ging the importance of Frankfurt Airport as a key  factor for the economy. The prosperity – and of  course the academic research, art and culture of  the Rhine-Main Region, the State of Hesse and  the entire Federal Republic – all derive signi cant  bene t from the strength of the international air- transport hub in Frankfurt. This is tangibly evident  for many people. Indeed, it is a vital asset for many.  Frankfurt Airport is Germanys biggest workplace  with a workforce of some 76,000 1 employees. In  2011, Fraport alone recruited employees for 645  new jobs, and many people found a new job at  one of around 500 companies based at the airport.  There are also positive spin-off effects in the region.  Foreword from left: Herbert Mai  Member of the Executive Board  and Executive Director Labor Relations Dr. Stefan Schulte  Member of the Executive Board  and Chairman of the Executive Board Peter Schmitz  Member of the Executive Board  and Executive Director Operations Dr. Matthias Zieschang  Member of the Executive Board and  Executive Director Controlling and Finance is inexorable and we will have to continue recrui- ting personnel in the future. We therefore additio- nally conducted an age structure analysis in 2011  and the results will be channeled into personnel  development. Concrete goals have been derived  from the  ndings. They include measures for   structuring work to meet the demands of older   employees and a workforce that is aging in general.  They will help people to learn over their entire life  cycle, assist in increasing the proportion of women  in management positions, and promote the careers  of employees with a background of migration. We are well aware that our drive to change and   improve must be a continuous commitment. If we  are to compete successfully over the long term, we  must remain a company that is open-minded and  engages in meaningful dialog with its stakeholders.  This is something we have been doing for a very  long time, but we also developed new forms of  communication in 2011. We celebrated the land- mark 75 th anniversary under the slogan 3 x 25  with young employees of Fraport. The celebration  focused on a debate about the issue of sustainabi- lity and our future-proof capability. This publica- tion also re ects the views of the members of our  workforce – across all age groups through to our  retirees.  We view 75 years of Frankfurt Airport as a commit- ment. We are dedicated to putting the right buil- ding blocks in place for the next generation so that  our position at the Frankfurt hub and all our invest- ments abroad remain a beacon of progressive   governance for our sector. I commend this report  to you and hope that you will  nd it informative  and an enjoyable read. We look forward to recei- ving constructive criticism and positive ideas. Dr. Stefan Schulte  Peter Schmitz  1  Including 4,800 employees in The Squaire, Gateway Gardens  and Mnchhof-Gelnde. 2  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 3  Strategy and stakeholder engagement Over the long term, the upward trajectory of air  traf c looks set to continue. This was the conclu- sion reached, for example, by the Global Traf c  Forecast 2010 – 2029 of the Airports Council   International (ACI). The global annual growth rates  are estimated at 4.1 % for passengers and 4.8 %  for airfreight. Against this background, safety and  security in air traf c, noise abatement and climate  protection remain the key challenges for our in- dustry. The in uence of Fraport as an airport ope- rator is  limited when it comes to noise abatement  and climate protection. Nevertheless, as part of  the airtraf c industry we believe that we have a  responsibility to be a good role model when it  comes to activities within our direct sphere of in-  uence. We also want to make use of our leading  position in the airport sector in order to contri- bute to development focused on sustainability.  Since sustainability has already been established  as one of our core corporate principles with the  Agenda 2015, we summarized our objectives and  the measures that have been taken to achieve  those goals for the  rst time in a sustainability  program in 2010. Our strategic alignment has  Strategy and  stakeholder engagement Sustainability  program The sustainability program includes  the schedules for the de ned measures  as well as listing the current status.  This information is used by the  Sustainability Board for purposes of  monitoring and controlling. The  sustainability program is accessible in  the public domain and is published in  this report and on the Internet (see  Sustainability Program, p. I-XII). Key  critical measures on targets such a  noise abatement, CO2 reduction and  enhancing employee satisfaction are  presented in the individual sections of  this report. been developed in an interactive process inclu- ding important stakeholders groups. Internal and  external experts reviewed and rated various as- pects which were identi ed from guidelines on  sustainability reporting in the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) and in stakeholder dialogs. The re- sult is a Materiality Matrix with 17  elds of action.  These matrix shows that Fraport is taking a balan- ced approach to social, ecological and economic  dimensions of corporate governance. Each of  the aspects is described by its position within  the two dimensions Relevance for Fraport and  Rele vance for Stakeholders. An additional as- sessment of the signi cance trend was imple men- ted for each aspect to take account of the fact that  the relevance of these aspects changes over time.  3  Strategy and targets of Fraport AG 4  Global Reporting Initiative While this matrix continues to be relevant, we  supplemented the program drawn up in 2010.  This only related to the  elds of action with the  very highest priority: safety and security in air  traf c, noise abatement, climate protection,  customer satisfaction, appeal as an employer and  pro tability of the investments. Over the course  of 2011, targets and measures were formulated  for all other  elds of action. These include air  quality, conservation of nature and resources,  retaining and creating jobs, occupational health  and safety. The Sustainability Board of Fraport AG  adopted the targets and measures at the end of  2011. A comprehensive overview of all the issues  is provided on pages I to XII of this report inclu- ding the associated targets and measures.  Creating long-term value is a strategic goal of  Fraport. This is where the Materiality Matrix makes  a contribution to assessing the future opportuni- ties and risks for Germany and monitoring the  approach taken.  The opportunities for Fraport are in increasing  air traf c, in particular long-haul  ights, which  will increasingly be de ned by positive economic  development. The dynamic growth of emerging  economies like Brazil, Russia, India and China will  be particularly important and the increasing glo- balization will increasingly be key determining  factors. This statement is generally applicable for  the airport sector but is particularly apposite for  Fraport. The diversity of its business and locations,  and the strength of Frankfurt Airport mean that  Fraport is likely to bene t from this trend.  This trajectory could be put at risk by additional  regulations which are initiated by the players on  the political stage against the pressures being   exerted by noise pollution and climate change.  This could impose  nancial burdens and distor- tions in the competition. The demands for airport  operators to become more energy-ef cient could  also increase. However, Frankfurt Airport is already very well  positioned from this perspective. Firstly, many  long-haul  ights depart Frankfurt and the pro por- tion of passengers travelling on inter continental   ights is around 40 %. There are no alternative  methods of transport available for these  ights  and large aircraft are the primary means of trans- port. These aircraft are signi cantly quieter be- cause they have advanced engines and they are  particularly energy-ef cient with their greater  passenger capacity and airfreight capability.  Long-haul aircraft transport around 50 % of all  the freight that leaves Frankfurt (known as co-  loaded and belly freight) and this further enhan- ces their ef ciency as a means of transport.  We take the burden of aircraft noise seriously and  address it working together to some extent with  politicians and players in the airtraf c sector to  formulate measures contributing to the reduction  of noise (see section For the community, p. 31 ff).  We enter into this debate with a nuanced approach  Materiality matrix low high Intensity of current discussion In the future  increasing high Relevance for stakeholders Reelevaance for Fraport  Noise abatement very high high very high Pro tability of investments Appeal as employer Climate protection Training and career development Retaining and  creating jobs Customer satisfaction Intermodality Procurement Air quality Sustainable  construction Diversity Compliance/governance Regional  commitment Occupational  health and safety Conservation  of nature and  resources Focus on –  strategic development –  risk control Safety and security Projected growth rates for global air traf c each year over  the period years 2010 – 2029   4.1 % Passengers 4.8 % Airfreight estimated by the Airports Council International (ACI) 4  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 5  Strategy and stakeholder engagement to the information available. The Internet portal  www. ughafenregion.de is new and was set up  speci cally to address this issue. It went online in  February 2012 and supplemented the range of  information available, including Fraport noise  monitoring. Expansion of the airport has been a  continual subject of dialog with a range of diffe- rent advocacy groups for many years. The Forum  Airport and Region plays a signi cant role in facili- tating constructive engagement with the burdens  imposed by expansion through its committees  and the Environmental and Neighborhood House.  Following the launch of the new runway, these  institutions are continuing to serve as platforms  for dialog and the development of initiatives to  create solutions. 5  Forum Airport and Region The buildings of Fraport AG are planned and  built to high standards. The criteria of sustainable  con struction are increasingly being incorporated.  They are intended to ensure energy ef ciency,  functionality and a comfortable environment  for our customers and staff. This is also in the   eco nomic interest of the company because the  Real Estate and Retail business contribute signi - cantly to safeguarding the earnings of the Fraport  Group. and are impacted negatively by aircraft noise are  particularly important. And  nally, we have a big  commitment to more than 70,000 employees  who work at Germanys biggest workplace. These  naturally include members of staff at Fraport who  we are directly responsible for. Fraport builds on a wide spectrum of well-establi- shed forums which engage in a regular exchange  of ideas and opinions. These are supplemented by  informal events. In 2011, the landmark 75th anni- versary of our airport formed a particular focus of  attention. The sustainability management asked  25 young employees for their ideas on sustaina- bility and asked them to comment on their expec- tations of Fraport in this respect. It is particularly  important for young people that we chart the right  course for the future and for the coming ge nera- tions. A six-part poster series was created from  these ideas. Each poster shows three 25-year-old  Fraport employees. These posters were then dis- played at the airport. At the same time, a video  clip with the statements was shown on the Fraport  Intranet.  6  Campaign 3 x 25 Our employees also have the opportunity to ex- press their opinions in the annual employee sur- vey. The majority of staff make good use of this  opportunity. Fraport uses this Opinion Barometer  as a basis for introducing improvement measures,  for example in relation to staff promotion and  management development (see section For our  employees, p. 16 ff). The airlines are our most important customers  and we maintain numerous contacts on an insti- tutional level for regular exchange of information  and to implement operational measures. The  dialog with passengers and customers from the  retail sector takes place through joint Advisory  Boards and surveys. The objective of the engage- ment is to develop packages tailored to needs  and to enhance customer satisfaction. The German Federation of the Air Traf c Industry  (BDL) was launched in 2011 and this has provided  a new, integrating voice for the air traf c industry.  The airlines, airports – including Frankfurt – and  air traf c control are represented in this organiza- tion and the objective is to establish common   positions and present them in the public domain.  The Federation engages in a constructive dialog  with opinion formers, political decision-makers,  and the public domain. In particular, it focuses on  initiating cooperation between the members.  7   Federation of the German Air Traf c Industry An innovative platform for dialog between acade- mic institutions and business was created a few  years ago with the House of Logistics and Mobi- lity (HOLM). Fraport AG has supported this initia- tive since it was founded. HOLM is dedicated to  interdisciplinary and applications-based project  work, research, and training and further training  related to the issues of logistics and mobility. This  platform provides universities, companies and  other institutions with access to excellent know- how and new joint ventures. The special structure  of HOLM provides the platform for networking  between companies, public institutions, acade- mia and educational facilities that is needed in   order to address these social issues of the future.  The HOLM Laboratories represent the user  groups. They serve as project and knowledge   incubators and generate quanti able, accelerated  knowledge transfer. A dedicated building with   oor space up to 20,000 square meters is being  constructed in Gateway Gardens at Frankfurt   Airport and is scheduled for completion by 2013. 8  House of Logistics and Mobility The Stakeholder Engagement table on the  Fraport Home Page provides a comprehensive  overview of the existing contacts and types of  stakeholder forums.  9  Stakeholder engagement Fraport AG The vehicle  eet is gradually being converted to  run on energy-ef cient power units. Already 10 %  of the Fraport vehicles operating at Frankfurt   Airport run on electricity and this includes a large  number of energy-intensive special vehicles.  As demographic changes continue, the competi- tion for good skilled employees and managers  will increase signi cantly. Fraport must offer at- tractive conditions so as to attract and retain the  employees to deal with the anticipated growth.  Our staff are therefore also a top priority for the  targets and measures in our sustainability pro- gram (see section For our employees, p. 15 ff).  Our Annual Report 2011 provides an overview of  the economic risks and the Risk Management at  Fraport on pages 69 ff. Planning, implementing and  nancing of meas- ures within the framework of our sustainability  program and Risk Management are the responsi- bility of the specialist sections. Fraport has esta- blished structures and processes that promote a  strategic, coordinated approach. The Central Unit  Sustainability Management and Corporate Com- pliance was set up in 2010. It has identi ed the  sustainability issues that are crucial for Fraport  and is focusing on progress in these areas. This  Central Unit is also responsible for environmental  management, sustainability reporting and moni- toring, coordination of stakeholder dialogs, and  compliance management. The Sustainability  Board is headed by the Executive Director Labor  Relations and includes senior managers from all  divisions. The Board is responsible for the central  controlling function associated with rolling out  the sustainability program (see section Sustaina- bility Management and Corporate Compliance,  s. 38 ff). Systematic communication with our most im- portant stakeholders supports Risk Management  and generates initiatives for the strategic direction  of our company. We believe that this exchange is  a necessary precondition to make us  t for the  future. As a learning organization we want to  focus on progress in science and technology and  learn from the debate with internal and external  stakeholders. Our key stakeholder groups include  passengers and airport visitors, airline companies,  business partners, investors, Supervisory Board,  the community, politicians and government agen- cies. Those people who live near to the airport  Stakeholder dialogue 114 Forums In 2011, Fraport organized forums with  internal and external stakeholders for  young people to swap more ideas and  opinions than in previous years (+18).  Stakeholder dialogue Sustainability?  We asked:  Campaign 23 x 25  Under this slogan, young people joined together  in expressing their opinions on Sustainability in  general and speci cally the extent to which our  75-year-old company was  t for the future. The  debate was held with the General Secretary of the  Council for Sustainable Development, Members of  the Executive Board and the Sustainability Board.  The exchange of views focused on the issues of  training and further training, management deve- lopment, job security and social engagement.   Concrete proposals were also made on how opera- tions could be made more ef cient and resources  could be conserved. The event was an initial step  and the aim is to continue the dialog with mem- bers of staff and expand it further. Stakeholder dialogue Customer  Service Index  Fraport systematically and continuously  records the customer satisfaction of  passengers, airlines, and retail and  realestate customers. 6  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 7  Acting responsibly Acting responsibly We want to create value added for our  customers, employees and neighbors.  We need to avoid impacts on the  environment and nature or keep them  as low as possible. 10  For our customers 11  Safety and security in air traf c 12  Customer satisfaction 14  For our employees  15  Attractive employer 17  Retaining and creating jobs 17  Diversity 19  Occupational health and safety 21  Training and career development 22  For our environment 23  Climate protection 27  Air quality 28  Conservation of nature and resources 30  For the community  31  Alliance for more noise abatement 31  Noise abatement 34  Community responsibility 36  For our owners Structuring the future with diversity  An airport leaves an impression on everyone. Whether you are a traveler,  neighbor or employee, everyone has their ideas and aspirations on how  you can make an airport better and on what exactly is meant by sustainable.  Thats where opinions start to differ and become contradictory. All the different opinions are important for Fraport – including critical opinions.  75 years of Frankfurt Airport provided an excellent occasion for asking  employees and retirees as well about their opinions on what makes  us future-proof from their perspective. Three generations of Fraport and  lots of different opinions – some of those opinions are expressed here. Peter Schmitz, Executive Director Operations Ute Pohl, Head of Airport Retailing,  Retail and Properties, Fraport AG Sandra Naumann, Head of Group  Reporting, Controlling, Fraport AG Patrick Spijkers, Deputy Traf c Manager, Traf c and  Terminal Operation, Traf c and Terminal Management,  Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG 9  As an airport operator, we are confronted with a  large number of partly diverging aspirations and  ideas from our various customer groups. Airline  companies expect to be given adequate capaci- ties in terms of slots, fast handling and ef cient  processes so that aircraft spend as little time on  the ground as possible. Passengers hope that  their journey will be free of stress. They look  forward to a streamlined start and end to their  journey and an enjoyable stay at the airport.  And the operators of the businesses and restau- rants at the airport, our retail customers build  their business on buoyant customer numbers  and a decent amount of time spent at the  airport to generate good sales. We aim to ensure  that all our customers have a high level of satis- faction. However, the safety and security of all  our customers and air traf c is the top priority  in accordance with our Materiality Analysis. Safety and security in air traf c A high level of internationally recognized safety  and security is provided at Frankfurt Airport.  Our objective must be to retain this. Against the  background of continuously rising passenger  numbers, it is particularly important to incor po- rate security checks in the traf c  ow in such a  way that travelers are inconvenienced as little as  possible and there are no delays in the operation  of  ights – with passenger numbers of up to  150,000 people daily this is a big challenge.  The requirements for security checks are increa- sing because the danger of terrorist attacks on  airports has not receded. The employees working in this area are subject to  high levels of stress. Apart from the responsibility  for conductions careful security checks, they have  to work in shifts, their job is physically tiring, and  the stress levels caused by loud ambient noise  should not underestimated. Even though they  have to cope with all these demands, avia tion se- curity assistants have to remain friendly  at all times and work in a very concentrated way.  A stress study was commenced in 2010 with the  aim of gathering evidence-based  ndings about  the burdens involved and using the results to  reduce stress levels, if possible. The institute  Humans in Complex Systems (MikS) at the  University of Applied Sciences and Arts Northwest  Switzerland was commissioned to conduct the  study under Adrian Schwaninger, a well-known  authority on issues of aviation security. The con- cept comprises preparatory analyses on structure,  processes and staff, visual inspection of the spe- ci c workplace situation, also in the form of par- ticipatory observation, and surveying all the staff  at the security checkpoints. The physical and men- tal responses given by de ned groups of people  and activity groups were also investigated on the  basis of cortisol levels taken at regular intervals  during working hours. The  rst results from the  study are expected in July 2012. Parallel to this, we are continuing to work on  our self-imposed targets of achieving a maximum  waiting time of 10 minutes for 90 % of security  checks and a minimum 80 % level of passenger  satisfaction with the friendly approach of our   personnel. As analyses in the summer of 2011  demons trated, short waiting times result in much  higher levels of satisfaction with travelers (com- pare Sustainability Program, Safety and security  in air traf c, p. II ff). It is also important that the personnel teams  working at the security checkpoints are adjusted  to  re ect the varying levels of passenger volumes  throughout the day. The  uctuations must be   anticipated so that terminal processes operate   ef ciently and waiting times and interruptions are  avoided. The PAARIS simulation and forecasting  software – initiated in the area of air safety and  security but developed for all process points –  is intended to support the appropriate planning.  PAARIS uses historical and current traf c data  (volumes of  passengers for departures, transit  and arrivals, etc. based on  ight number), in order  to predict process points with spare capacity or  overloaded points in advance, etc. Harmonization  with sensor systems (counter units, capacity  displays, Bluetooth measurements, etc.) can faci- litate proactive measures to increase processing  capacities or control the  ow of passengers. The  software is  already being tested. All security measures in air traf c are de ned  by EU regulations. EU Regulation 300/2008 and  the associated implementation speci cations  form the basis for all the functions that have to  Acting responsibly For our customers For our customers    Frankfurt Airport is big and intriguing.  Embarking on a journey is an exciting  prospect for a lot of people. We can  contribute to ensuring that everyone has  a great travel experience by providing  support, for example helping people  to find their way around, at check-in  and when they go through the security  checkpoints. Herbert Khn, Terminal Duty Manager, Traf c an Terminal  Management, Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG   High quality and low prices – these are  the expectations of our customers. There  is a great deal of pressure but we have  always come out on top so far. I like   playing my role in the logistic challenge  of a Global Airport, in the Ground   Services Team. Jan-Philipp Somogyi, Controlling Ground Handling,  Ground Services, Fraport AG   Great to have you here! is an exceptio- nally successful project. We are achieving  our goal: Our passengers are more satis- fied. This can be quantified and expe- rienced through sentiment. I also think  it is great that this is having an effect on  our employees. They are more motivated  than they were previously. Annegret Reinhardt-Lehmann, Manager Passenger Experience,  Fraport AG Target attainment 2011: Satisfaction with  security check Waiting time  74 % (target 72 %) Friendly approach of personnel  76 %  (target 80 %) 10  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 11  be carried out by airport operators in Germany  in accordance with Article 8, Air Security Act  (Luftsicherheitsgesetz). These include access  checks, personnel and goods checks, allocation  of airport ID cards, training for employees, and  patrolling and securing the airport perimeter.  The implementation of this function involves the  Corporate Safety and Security Department of  Fraport AG continuously monitoring the training  status of the personnel deployed, the quality of  the security measures provided and the long- term suitability of the technology being used.  An innovative perimeter fence was built around  the new northwest runway, which registers every  attempt to penetrate the perimeter and triggers  an alarm  automatically. Contactless readable  chips in RFID technology have been integrated in  airport ID cards. These can be securely checked  using recently introduced portable ID reader  devices without inconvenience to customers. Under EU regulations, lawmakers give suppliers  to the airport the opportunity to put their airport  deliveries through security checks themselves  before shipment (for example all deliveries for  DutyFree shops, retail businesses, restaurants and  buildings). Companies like this must comply with  standards de ned under statutory regulations  and be designated as known suppliers of airport  deliveries. When these conditions have been  complied with, their deliveries are not subject to  any other physical security checks at pedestrian  and vehicle access points. Starting on 29 April  2012, all other supplies have to undergo extensive  checks at pedestrian and vehicle access points.  The necessary preparations to ensure smooth   operation at the checkpoints after the reference  date have been a focus of operations for Airport  Safety and Security for several months. 10  Safety and Security services  Customer satisfaction The satisfaction of our annual volume of more than  56 million passengers also has a top priority in our  materiality analysis. By 2015, we want to increase  the general satisfaction of passengers with Frank- furt Airport by 10 percentage points to 80 % (base- line 2010). Our aim is also to create a distinct and  clearly de ned service pro le. The structure of this  service pro le will match the high proportion of  Another  eld requiring essential improvements  was clearly revealed during the harsh winter of  2010/2011. Improvements are needed in the   ope rational processes both inside and outside  the Terminal. We have initiated a package of  measures to ensure that we continue to meet  our obligations to provide regular  ight opera- tions even  under extremely adverse conditions.  Additional winterservices vehicles were pur- chased and auxi liary personnel were recruited.  Other employees received supplementary trai- ning to qualify them for emergency duties such  as fuelling, snow clearance and deicing opera- tions. This was implemented under the specially  deve loped Winter Ops simulation. Aircraft  deicing operations,  surface clearance and taxiing  were simulated in a game scenario geared to   prepare employees for real problem situations.  Fraport and Lufthansa joined forces to develop a  concept that will help passengers from all airline  companies to cope well when the Terminal is ex- periencing extreme situations. This new concept  was tested for the  rst time on 16 November 2011.  Color codes are going to be used in the Terminals  and on monitors in emergency situations. The  Blue Zone, for example, is reserved for the check- in area and rebooking of business class  ights  within the EU. Employees in appropriately colored  waistcoats will assist passengers, others will help  to direct passengers to the right queues or assist  them at the self-check-in machines. Passengers  will also receive clear information on posters,    yers and from training personnel about orga ni- zation and operational processes under extreme  conditions. Key factors for overcoming dif cult situations as  well as during routine everyday operations at the  airport are motivation and a professional approach  to dealing with passengers. We are launching a  comprehensive training program to promote a  customer-centric approach among all our mem- bers of staff. The events organized in the Service  Academy are intended for all levels of the hierar- chy, in order to enable managers and employees  to develop a common understanding of the ser- vice concept. In 2011, a total of 1,087 colleagues  from Fraport and the Group subsidiary Fraport  Security Services (FraSec) GmbH participated in  114 training and personal development measures.   Progress on our route to exemplary service quali- ty is now discernible. For the  rst time, Frankfurt  connecting passengers in our passenger pro le.  We have also de ned concrete service targets for  many individual aspects, such as waiting times at  security checkpoints, friendly approach of per- sonnel, and design of waiting areas (see Sustaina- bility Program, Customer satisfaction, p. III ff). We have pooled the corresponding activities in  the initiative Great to have you here since  2010. The focus of action in 2011 was to reduce  waiting times at security checks and baggage  collection by optimizing processes and infras- tructures. We also deployed additional personnel.  A number of different pilot projects were laun- ched in order to improve the ambient conditions,  for example two new rest and waiting areas.  More of these Leisure Zones are planned for the  future. Our WC facilities will also be gradually  equipped with a new quality system star ting in  2012. Over the next two years, a large number  of new childrens play areas will be created, for  example in Area B of Terminal 1 and in the transit  area of the new A-Plus Pier. The Pilot Plus project  will simplify the signage system and routing.  These are measures that will make it much easier  for passengers to  nd their way around. E-shuttles  are also being introduced to take passengers free  of charge to the C/D pier in a smooth and relaxed  journey. This will enable connecting passengers  to reach their connecting  ight quickly and with- out any  hassle. At the moment six e-cars are used  to make this journey. And the new FRA Airport  App gives smartphone users the opportunity to  have their very own personal airport guide at  their  ngertips. 11  Great to have you here! Fraport is committed to optimizing work ows  within its area of responsibility and additionally  to support speci c groups of passengers. Since  May, 2011, we have been taking part as project   coordinators in planning and preparing the inte- grated project Personalized Assistance System  and  Services for Mobility for the Elderly (PASS).  The objective is to bring about a permanent  enhancement of the mobility of retirees within  the complete travel chain, i.e. from their home  to their destination – and back home again, and   improve it sustainably overall. The project was  launched on 1st February, 2012. It will run for  30 months and was recently granted government  sponsorship by the Federal Ministry of Education  and Research (BMBF). Airport moved several places up the ranking in  the quarterly survey of passenger satisfaction  data which also compares us with our main com- petitors. The projected increase in passenger volumes at  Frankfurt Airport will present a major challenge  over the coming years. The Operational Excel- lence project will prepare all those members of  staff likely to be affected so that we will be able  to guarantee our main customers – the airline  companies – streamlined processes even though  passenger volumes are increasing. A total of  16 core processes were identi ed – for example  vehicle movements on the apron and runway  system,  aircraft positioning, personnel at the  gate, conveying baggage, and security checks.  They were analyzed in close cooperation with all  the process partners and redesigned as necessary.  Comprehensive training measures were intro du- ced and the level of success is being quanti ed.  Apart from recording quality indicators, for  example punctuality, connectivity, or customer  satisfaction, we are also de ning benchmarks  for process details compared with other major  airports in the Operational Excellence project. Acting responsibly For our customers Frankfurt Airport:  Each month,   2,000 passengers are surveyed about their  level of satisfaction and asked about  options for improvement. By 2015, we  want to raise customer satisfaction  by 10 percentage points to 80 %  50 % of the passengers at Frankfurt Airport  are transfer passengers and this   represents the higher proportion at  a European hub airport. Passenger complaints on an annual comparison (absolute / % share)   2010   2011 Safety procedures  1,114  861 Personnel  573  526 Infrastructure  318  213 Information / Orientation  392  338 Passenger service  320  324 Retail/Parking  294  234 Passenger  ow/Waiting times  453  388 Miscellaneous  408  396 16.0 % 6.5 % 10.3 % 9.9 % 7.1 % 11.8 % 12.1 % 12  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 13  Fraport is one of the biggest employers in the  Rhine-Main region. It also has 16 sites on four  continents. We are therefore committed to ap- plying ethical principles when dealing with our  employees and we are dedicated to complying  with international standards, guidelines and  principles. This relates in particular to the prin- ciples of the UN Global Compact, the ILO core  labor standards and the OECD guidelines for  mul tinational companies (see section Sustaina- bility Management and Corporate Compliance ,  p. 38). 95 % of the employees at Fraport are   employed and paid under collective agreements.  For example, the payscale agreement for public- service workers applies to our parent company  Fraport AG. Cooperation with the local works  councils and the Group Works Council is a key  element of the proactive communication with  our employees. Fraport employs temporary workers through the  Groups own subsidiary company Airport Personal  Service (APS) in order to accommodate  uctua- tions in traf c volume during the day and over  the course of the year. The APS employees are paid  on the basis of a company agreement concluded  with the ver.di United Services Union. The pay  development in this agreement is linked to the   collective agreement for public service workers  (TVD) that applies to the workforce employed in  our parent company. The employees also receive  voluntary non-payscale bene ts, such as the Job  Ticket for free public transport between home  and work and subsidized meals in the canteen.  50 % of the employees have a permanent employ- ment contract, new appointments are on a  xed- term basis du ring the initial years. APS is very  committed to providing long-term jobs for its   employees and supports the sections in Fraport  using their workers in providing further career  training opportunities.  12  Working conditions and co-determination Five  elds of action in the Materiality Matrix  relate to our employees: the appeal of Fraport  as an employer is and remains the top priority.   Other important areas for action identi ed were  retaining and creating jobs, diversity, occupatio- nal health and safety, and training and career   development. Appeal as an employer  As far as Fraport is concerned, its appeal as an  employer is one of the key aspects for ensuring  the long-term achievement of business success.  We will only be  t for the future if we succeed in  being perceived as an attractive and fair employer  in the competition for quali ed and motivated  employees. Against this background, the project  Act today – Fraport 2015 was launched in 2011.  This is a basic building block for developing  our personnel strategy. It deals with future  challenges taking particular account of demo- graphic change. An age structure analysis was  done in 2011 as an initial step. This was intended  to provide a comprehensive picture of the com- position of the workforce and deliver a projection  for personnel requirements over the next  ve to  ten years as well as identifying potential problem   areas. Strategic concepts were developed for  three  elds of action. One of these concepts addressed the fact that   the next  ve years will already see every second  employee at Fraport being over the age of 50.  Structuring work to meet the needs of older  people and an aging workforce therefore has a  high priority. The work conditions must meet the  requirements of a workforce that is aging overall.  Concepts such as mixed work and job rotations,  and hybrid-age teams will be introduced in 2012  to facilitate knowledge transfer. Programs for  maintaining the health of older managers will  also be tested. Acting responsibly For our employees For our employees   I started my time at Fraport with a   training as an automobile mechanic,  now Im Team Leader in the bus and   transit section responsible for drawing  up roster plans. The opportunities for  career training have been a considerable  help in advancing my career. Bettina Kindgen, Team Leader Passenger Transport,  Ground Services, Fraport AG   My job is extremely physically  demanding. But Fraport offers  me opportunities to keep fit and  provides someone for me to talk  to if I have any problems. Ahmet H. Taskin, Loading Service, Ground Services, Fraport AG   Ive experienced a lot of changes  at  Fraport during my time here,  but one aspect has been entirely  consistent: The company does a lot  for its employees. Heide Zibner, former employee now in retirement, formerly  secretary to the Executive Director Labor Relations, Fraport AG Fraport Group: Employees   (Average annual number of persons according to IFRS    and shares for 2011 in %)     2010  2011  Fraport Group (total)  19,792  20,595  Fraport AG subsidiaries,  11,122  11,226  af liated companies  8,670  9,369 in Frankfurt  17,479  18,124  outside Germany  2,046  2,204  54.5 % 45.5 % 88.0 % 10.7 % In 2011,  300  employees were taken on at APS  on the basis of the quali cations  they had obtained. Specialist and  safety training is provided by the  specialist areas taking on the  employees. The content of the training  is the same as the training provided  for core employees.  14  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 15  The second focus is a concept for learning based  on life cycle. The aging of the workforce means  it is increasingly important to recognize the fact  that learning behavior changes over the course  of a lifetime. Appropriate quali cation measures  and platforms for knowledge transfer are neces- sary to ensure that people remain employable in  their different life phases. The personnel strategy is also directed towards  ensuring that we will be able to cover our need  for expertise and human resources in the future  if the number of people in the job market declines  along the lines that have been forecast. Streng- thening the employer brand is a key factor in  this equation. Attractive remuneration, innovative  working-time models and exciting opportunities  for further training and career development are  some of the factors that are being pursued inten- sively by human resources.  The annual survey of all Fraport employees   (Barometer 2011) measuring the latest status of   employee satisfaction indicated a slight upward  trend in the overall score. This meets one of the  objectives in the Sustainability Program 2010.  The responses by 59 % of the workforce mea su- red employee satisfaction at Fraport AG at 2.96  compared with 3.06 in the previous year (grade  system with score 1 (best) and score 6 worst).  The result of the survey therefore fell slightly  short of the target value of 2.90. Improvements  were achieved in a series of assessment aspects;  job security achieved the highest score. Pay is an  aspect that achieves a low score in the Barometer.  Satisfaction with the Group increased from 2.94  in the previous year to 2.76. by individual members of the Executive Board  to different company sectors promote direct   com mu nication with employees on the ground.  The page Questions to Schulte on the compa- nys dedicated Intranet provides a direct line to  the Chief Executive Of cer. Employees can ask  their questions anonymously or giving their  name. The  answers are then published online.  Retaining and creating jobs As the airport expands, up to 25,000 new jobs  will be created at Frankfurt Airport as capacities  become fully utilized. 6,000 of these jobs will  be created at Fraport alone. If an event in a crisis   situation put jobs at risk, our Company Agree- ment for Emergency and Preventive Measures  for Crisis Events with Disruption at Work has   created a mechanism for retaining these jobs  and avoiding redundancies.   The Pact for the Future 2018 is extremely im- portant for our employees in this context, parti- cularly in the area of ground services. The agree- ment reached here was able to circumvent the  loss of jobs and guarantee secure jobs until 2018.  The intention of the European Commission to fur- ther deregulate the market for ground services  again puts jobs at risk. If the draft regu lation,  which is currently before the European Parliament  is passed, this will lead to Frankfurt Airport being  opened up to other competitors. This would  make operating processes relating to  passengers,   aircraft and airfreight more compli cated and   Fraport AG believes it would also be a safety risk.  Frankfurt Airport is particularly dependent on  streamlined, networked and integrated work ows  due to the relatively small apron area. Opening  up the market further in the area of ground ser- vices would also mean more compe tition for em- ployees, deterioration of working conditions and  pressure on salaries. This is demonstrated by the  experiences with Directive 96/67/EC adopted  by the EU in 1996 whereby at least two service- providers have to be licensed for ground services  at the airport. The detailed results indicated a need for the deve- lopment of additional measures. As far as pay is  concerned, Fraport has been working for some  time on achieving a position that meets the requi- rements of employees and the marketplace. For  example, Fraport AG is increasingly making pay  re ect individual performance. Payments amoun- ting to 3.7 million above the payscale were made  in 2011. During the coming years, this approach is  to be expanded continuously. The pay scale budget  is being doubled incrementally from 1 % of annual  pay to 2 % during the period 2010 to 2014. All the employees of Fraport AG and many subsi- diaries also receive additional bene ts such as  the Job Ticket for free use of public transport for  commuting between home and work, through  the family service, to company health manage- ment. Staff also receive bonuses linked to the suc- cess of the company. Fraport provided bene  ts to  employees amounting to 9.4 million through the  Cafeteria System. 13  Our bene ts The Barometer Survey also includes an assess- ment of the management expertise of supervisors.  Although these scores improved by comparison  with the previous year, we are continuing to pro- vide managers with systematic support in devel- oping their management skills because we believe  this factor plays a key role in the satisfaction and  motivation of our staff. Managers at levels 1 to 5  are required to undertake appropriate measures  to improve management and communication  skills in their personal attainment target if their  scores fall below de ned limits. This turns mana- gement skills and their perception into an increa- singly important factor for variable pay elements  in managers pay packages. In 2011, 360 feedback was also introduced for  the mana gement levels 1 to 4. This requires  super visors, colleagues and employees to provide  systematic and nuanced feedback on individual  strengths and development areas of people hol- ding mana gement responsibility.  Open and proactive communication is another  key factor for employee satisfaction. In addition to  written and electronic media, and an eight-page  staff newspaper published every two weeks,   Fraport is committed to promoting personal com- munication including supervisors. Regular visits  Diversity The platform for diversity management at Fraport  is the Group Company Agreement entitled The  Conduct of Partnership, Diversity and Equality at  the Workplace. This agreement states that the  company is committed to principles such as no  discrimination, equal opportunities and coope- rative behavior with the aim of promo ting future- proof development of global business and foste- ring a culture of motivated employees. The  Of cer for Diversity and General Equal Oppor- tunities was created as a function to highlight  the importance of this area. Claudia Briem was  appointed to this post on 1 November 2011. Her  function is to guide the strategic direction of  diversity management, promote its conceptual  development, provide the Executive Board with  appropriate advice, and support the divisions  when it comes to implementing measures. As a  quali ed lawyer, Claudia Briem is also a contact  for complaints from employees in cases of discri- mination, disadvantagement and harassment  based on the provisions of the General Equal   Opportunities Act. These provisions also include  gender, ethnic origin, race, religion, beliefs,   sexual orientation, disablement and age.  The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been  de ned by strategic development to promote   diversity. Fraport AG intends to use these indica- tors for target attainment, monitoring success  and controlling. The corresponding KPIs are  being  adopted during the course of 2012 (see Sustaina- bility Program, Diversity, p. V). A top priority of diversity management is to   increase the proportion of women in manage- ment positions at Fraport AG. Over the next  ve  to seven years, this percentage is to be increased  at Fraport AG from around 20 % to 25 to 35 %.  The change process required for this will concen- trate on selective training of women, proactive  mediation to higher management positions and  optimization of the framework conditions.  These framework conditions also include getting  the work-life balance right between career and  family. We offer our employees a broad spectrum  of appropriate services. They range from support  in structuring parental leave and various packa- ges for childcare through family-friendly working  time models, to advice on issues relating to run- ning their household. This is a win-win situation  The employee share program provides an  opportunity to participate in the  nancial  success of Fraport:  60 % of staff at Fraport AG and  65 % of the employees of the subsidiaries taking part  in the scheme again participated in 2011. Workplace survey 2011  75,800  There are 75,800 jobs at Frankfurt  Airport including 4,800 staff at The  Squaire, Gateway Gardens and   Mnchhof site. Acting responsibly For our employees 16  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 17  for employees and company because the em- ployees bene t from favorable working condi tions  and the company strengthens its position in the  competition for good employees and valuable  knowledge.  14  Brochure Equal opportunities bene t       everyone 15  Work-Life Balance Workplaces at home constitute an initiative for  providing a family-friendly structure for work.  In 2011, 127 employees were already spending  some of the time working from home. Positive  experience means that Fraport will be promoting  this form of working in the future.   15 nursery places were available to support fami- lies with small children in 2011. The Fluggi Land  childcare facility also provides emergency child- care support for twelve to 15 children between  the ages of one and twelve years. The acquisition  of quotas in communal nurseries and an increase  in the number of nursery places in existing faci- lities is intended to increase the childcare capacity  available by 25 % in 2012. Since July 2011, parents  have also been able to make use of the packages  provided by our partner pme Familienservice  GmbH to obtain information about the best form  of childcare available for them. They can access  provided with a special  nancial allowance in  special circumstances such as marriage, birth  or death. Employees are also able to select from  different company bene ts available in the  Cafeteria System. They have a  xed budget  de ned by the company and they can select a  private health or life insurance for themselves  and their relatives. Permanent integration of people with health and  physical impairments in all areas of employment  is an objective of our corporate policy. For many  years, a 7.1 % ratio of disabled employees has  placed Fraport signi cantly above the minimum  statutory rate of 5 %. A total of 1,460 disabled  people and employees with equal status to disa- bled people were employed within the Fraport  Group in 2011. Strategic measures ensure that  staff with impairments have the same opportuni- ties as other employees to develop their skills and  be promoted to appropriate positions. For exam- ple since 2011, we have been offering special ca- reer training courses for visually impaired people.  Similar courses for people with hearing impair- ment will follow in 2012. 17  Integration agreement Occupational health and safety  Fraport is committed to preventing accidents and  illness in the workplace. We want to structure the  work of our employees so that health, well-being  and motivation are fostered. Two goals are a top  priority here: steady reduction in accidents at  work and expansion of health care programs to  increase the attendance ratio (see Sustainability  Program, Occupational health and safety, p. V ff.). 18  Occupational health and safety The extensive construction work being carried out  in the course of expanding the airport demands  increased focus on health and safety. Building work  is always associated with an increased risk of acci- dent and special protection measures need to be in  place. The generally binding construction site direc- tive provides regulations for occupational safety  on building sites and also de nes rules for general   sa fe ty and health care. These regulations have been  providing the Occupational Health and Safety De- partment at Fraport with support and guidance  throughout the construction period and all ongoing  this information from their workplace or using  their home PC, and the Internet portal offers a  comprehensive overview ranging from the options  for support available to mediation of support   places for children and relatives needing care. An increasing number of people pursuing a career  are being confronted by a rising burden of care   for relatives. Our employee survey at Fraport AG  indicates that 15 % of employees are involved in  the care of a relative or even perform this role  with no support. Recent years have seen infor- mation events and advice packages on the issue  of  Career and Family being provided for em- ployees of Fraport AG. These were intensi ed in  2011: An Info Market Care event took place in  November. The Network Care initiative was  launched at the end of the year. It brings together  people affected and promotes exchange of  experience. In 2012, Fraport is organizing a care  seminar in  ve modules in cooperation with the  charity Caritas Frankfurt. The philosophy of the family-friendly company  is also being pursued throughout the Group. For  example, Fraport operates the three terminals  at Antalya Airport in Turkey and various options  for  exible working times and different part-time  employment packages are making it easier for  people to combine work and career. Families are  projects. Health and Safety Coordinators are de- ployed at all our own construction sites. They look  after the construction activities and scrutinize pre- ventive and precautionary measures when the con- struction work is being organized. They also ensure  safe operation of machinery by keeping an eye on  service, maintenance and repair. Safety measures are agreed where Fraport cooper- ates with external construction companies. Causes  of accidents are jointly analyzed and investigated  as well as exploring opportunities to prevent and  avoid accidents.  The responsibility assumed by Fraport for occupa- tional health and safety is also clearly de ned in  connection with temporary staff. They have equal  priority alongside permanent employees when it  comes to occupational health and safety and they  undergo a quali ed induction phase. If there are  nevertheless any accidents subject to noti cation to  the authorities, an accident analysis meeting is held  as in the case of permanent employees in order to  determine the causes of the accident and introduce  appropriate protective measures. Accidents are frequently the result of behaviors  that have not been adequately modi ed in unaccus- tomed situations. The extreme winter at the begin- ning of 2010 resulted in a signi cant increase in   accidents. The negative effect of the adverse wea- ther on ground conditions was a signi cant factor  here. The winter service was therefore restructured  for 2011. As well as improving logistics – provision  of more grit and snow-clearing vehicles – patrol   of cers were appointed to inspect the footpaths  and roads in the zone. They are responsible for   coordinating with the winter service. A comparison  between the accident  gures for 2010 and 2011  showed positive results (see chart Accidents at  work, below). Each year, Occupational Health and Safety joins  forces with Health Management, Medical Services  and the specialist operating areas to carry out a  health campaign lasting several months. The cam- paign adopted the motto Safety First in 2011. The  main goal is to provide information on acting safely  in their area of work. Information about the risks of  having an accident in leisure time and at home are  also part of the campaign. Since Fraport AG is con- tinually working on reducing potential hazards, safe  driving conditions in the operational areas of the  airport were a continual theme throughout 2011.   Fraport-Konzern: Kennzahlen Diversity   (Personen zum 31.Dezember und Anteile 2010 in %)     2009  2010  bis 30 Jahre  3.899  4.622  31–50 Jahre  11.280  12.640 ber 50 Jahre  3.500  3.863  Konzern in Deutschland  Deutsche Nationalitt  14.853  14.961  Andere Nationalitt  5.635  4.097 Schwerbehinderte,  Gleichgestellte und  1.297  1.392 Mehrfachanrechnungen Frauen in Fhrungs- positionen, Ebenen 1-5  166  223 Frauen  4.705  4.903  Mnner  15.783  16.220 Beschftigte  20.488  21.124 (zum Jahresende) 23,2% 23,2% 76,8% 78,5% 21,5% 21,9% 59,8 % 18,3 % 7,1 % Fraport Group: Diversity indicators   (Number of persons on 31 December and shares for 2011 in %)     2010  2011  up to age 30  4,622  4,471 31–50  12,640  12,890 over 50  3,863  4,301 Group in Germany German nationality  14,961  15,490  Other nationalities  4,097  4,339 Disabled employees, em- ployees with equal status  1,392  1,460 to disabled employees  and employees with  multiple credits disability Women in management positions, levels 1–5  223  225 Women  4,903  5,060  Men  16,220  16,602 Employees  21,124  21,662 (at year-end) 23.4 % 31.3 % 76.6 % 78.1 % 21.9% 20.6 % 59.5 % 19.9 % 7.1 % Claudia Briem, Lawyer. Of cer for  Diversity/General Equality. Grew up in China,  Singapore and Argentina, studied law in Bonn. Fraport has signed the  Charter of Diversity,  a corporate initiative  under the patronage  of the German Chancellor   16   Charter of Diversity   Our targets for 2012:  Reduction in the number of  accident-related days of absence by  5 % Increase in the attendance rate by  1 % point Acting responsibly For our employees 18  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 19  The issue of safety is also systematically pursued  within the Group. For example, risk factors in the  workplace environment were recorded at the  Group Airports at Varna and Burgas in Bulgaria.  A risk management program was derived from this  survey and an action list was prepared for 2012.  In 2011, a training exercise was carried out for  supervisors in order to sensitize them to the risks.  A program for increasing traf c safety was also  implemented on the apron. 19  Health management The project Increasing the Attendance Rate was  launched in 2011. The objective was to identify  operational constraints, resources and measures  to promote health and motivation throughout  the company and with proactive integration of  employees. The goal set in 2010 was to achieve  an increase of 1 percentage point in 2010. We  were unable to reach the goal and we therefore  extended the time horizon by one year. 60 health  workshops are planned for 2012 and the aim is to  counteract factors causing absences. In Varna and Burgas, all employees received a  medical examination in 2011 and workplaces  were analyzed for speci c risks. The results were  used to identify risk groups for speci c illnesses.  The health care status of these employees is regu- larly monitored. From 2012, insurance bene ts  for staff members will also be improved with the  aim of improving therapeutic and rehabilitation  services, care in hospital and health checks for  individuals in the risk groups. Training and career development Vocational training is regarded as a valuable tool  for recruiting the next generation of employees  and is  rmly established as the  rst stage in per- sonnel development in the Group. A total of  around 350 apprentices were given training in  21 vocations on a budget of some 8.5 million    during 2011. 116 of these were new. The number  of new apprentices will increase to 138 in 2012 to  take account of the future requirement for skilled  workers. 20  Our training packages A company-wide survey on the need for skilled  workers has been conducted annually to improve  our focus on vocational requirements since 2010.  A thorough selection process for applications  and comprehensive training concepts form the  platform for a high level of training quality. This  process aims to arrive at an effective  t between  specialist quali cation and personal develop- ment. Foreign internships with our companies in  Europe, Africa, Asia and South America also offer  additional incentives and opportunities for expe- rience. In 2011, 33 apprentices spent an average  of eight weeks on internships. Consistently good  examination results and a drop-out rate of less  than 3 % bear testimony to the excellent quality  of training at Fraport. After apprentices have   completed their training, these young people  are guaranteed further employment for at least  a year, while appropriately quali ed employees  continue to work longer in the company if an   opportunity is available.  Career training is also a big focus at Fraport. The  aim is to provide an average of 2.9 career training  days for each core employee in all sections and at  all levels.  A pilot project was implemented in parking-space  management. This area is responsible for mana- ging all parking areas at Frankfurt Airport. After  an improvement in customer satisfaction was  achieved some years ago through workshops and  follow-up measures, an increase in the absence  ratio again emerged in 2010. A second workshop  series was therefore held from January to March  2011 in order to analyze the operational cons- traints and health issues. Proposals for impro ve- ments were then worked out. Since stress was   frequently cited as a cause for absences, we used  an impulse test to record speci c stress. This test  is a proven questionnaire used across sectors and  activities to evaluate working conditions on the  basis of the potential for generating stress. The  results  owed into the workshops. Other pro jects  to improve the attendance ratio include an inter- net-based points and bonus system. The aim here  is to enhance motivation through participation in  health care measures, provide individual advice  packages for people with mental illnesses, and  setting up a hotline for staff and managers who  are subject to particularly high levels of stress.  Trainee programs and international management  training are also extremely important if we are  to meet our goal of  lling three quarters of our  management positions in levels 1 to 4 from our  own ranks. The Fraport Academy offers around  70 courses to prepare skilled specialists for mana- gement functions each year. The Integrated  Mana gement Development Program also offers  the opportunity for more advanced quali cation.  Regular Potential Assessment Centers are carried  out with managers to facilitate further career de- velopment. 21  Personnel development Intercultural learning is becoming increasingly   important for us as a Group with an international  perspective. A representative of the training  program at Fraport AG has again led seminar  programs in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The delegates  are interested in the issues addressed by the  seminar – customer orientation, communication  and intercultural competence – and also like to  take the opportunity to  nd out about Western  perspectives. Additional seminars are planned  for this year. 22  Promotion of cultural diversity Apart from the specialist training  packages offered at Fraport College  and Fraport Academy, employees  are also able to participate in a large  range of seminars. Each employee has  a personal budget of 600 that they can use for personal career  development at a wide range of  seminars dealing with issues beyond  their immediate area of employment.  In 2011, 1,186 members of staff took advantage  of this offer. In 2011,   70 % of apprentices were given a permanent  job in the second year after completing  their training. A further  14 % were employed again on a  xed-term  contract, the remaining  16 % left their job on their own request. Around     2,200  employees were  provided with training in  89    courses to promote safety  awareness in 2011. Acting responsibly For our employees Accidents at work Fraport Group Accidents *  per 1,000 employees *  with fatal consequences Days of absence * 2010 669 31.7 0 11,826 2011 644 29.3 0 9,189 Fraport AG Accidents *  per 1,000 employees *  with fatal consequences Days of absence * * noti able 2010 361 30.16 0 7,960 2011 292 24.16 0 4,763 Sickness rate and occupational diseases Fraport Group Sickness rate (in %)  due to illness  due to accident at work * Occupational diseases (number) 2010 6.33 6.09 0.24 1 2011 5.93 5.79 0.14 0 Fraport AG Sickness rate (in %)  due to illness  due to accident at work * Occupational diseases (number) 2010 6.49 6.19 0.30 1 2011 6.45 6.27 0.18 0 Fraport provides  nancial support for  18 company sports clubs with around   950  members. The company also organized  special events and makes a sports hall available  to the clubs. The sports include ball game sports,  water sports, cycling and naturally aero-sports. * without accidents involving sport, commuting to and from work,    and private activities 20  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 21  Acting responsibly For our environment Flying and airports impact negatively on our en- vironment. There is no doubt about that. Up to  now, these impacts have been inseparably lin ked  to the aspirations of our society for mo bi lity and  economic prosperity, alongside the increa sing  globalization of our life at all levels. Fraport is  an airport operator with commitment on four  continents and its main location at Frankfurt   Airport, one of the worlds most important air- traf c hubs. Fraport is therefore confronted with  the challenge of meeting the demand for rising   ight capacities and the justi ed need to protect  our environment. As far as we are concerned,  this means minimizing environmental risks,  while at the same time meeting the needs of our  customers and the commercial requirements as  far as possible. Our efforts are focused on the  priorities that we have set in the Sustainability  Program (see p. VII-IX ff of this report). 23   Environmental management Climate protection Climate protection is one of the top priorities for  Frankfurt Airport and this is also increasing in   importance at our locations outside Germany.  One target is at the foreground of all our efforts  at Frankfurt: the reduction of CO2 emissions per  passenger and per 100 kilograms of airfreight.  Another target is to avoid the generation of ad- ditional CO2 emissions as a result of airport ope - rations in spite of the expected increase in pas - senger and freight volumes (see Sustainability  Program, Climate protection, p. VII). The aim is to  achieve this with a package of different programs.  A third objective has already been attained. At the  beginning of 2012, Frankfurt Airport achieved  Level 3 Airport Carbon Accreditation, a climate  protection program run by the umbrella associa- tion of the European airport operators Airports  Council International Europe (ACI Europe).  The objective of this program is to encourage as  many European airports as possible to engage in  comprehensive CO2 management and ultimately  achieve carbon-neutral operation. More than 50  European airports are currently already actively in- volved in the program. Apart from Frankfurt, they  include London Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle,  Amsterdam, Munich, Istanbul Atatrk and London  Gatwick – overall seven of the Top Ten European  passenger airports. The accredited airports repre- sent approximately 50 % of total European passen- ger traf c. In 2009, Frankfurt Airport was the  rst airport ever  to be accredited under the program. Reporting  was expanded for the upgrade to Level 3 by inclu- ding information on emission sources which have  to be allocated to Scope 3 in accordance with  the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Pro to col):  Operation of aircraft on the ground (engine r un- ups and test runs, operation of Auxiliary Power  Units) and in the landing and take-off cycle up to  3,000 feet, operation of buildings and ground  handling vehicles of third parties, supply of air- crafts with ground power supply, travel to and  from the airport by passengers and employees,  and business trips (see Sustainability Program,   Climate protection, p. VII).  24   Greenhouse Gas Protocol Antalya Airport started the accreditation process  in August 2009 and was accredited for Level 1 in  2010. Antalya was then accredited with Level 2  for the measures described in the Carbon Mana- gement in 2011. The targeted management of  CO2 emissions and their reduction and appro- priate monitoring are a prerequisite. 25   Airport Carbon Accreditation In 2008, Fraport already packed all activities di- rec ted toward climate protection in a single pro- ject that focused on three  elds: energy-saving  measures in the existing portfolio of buildings  and infrastructure, ef cient energy use in new  buildings, and reduction of energy consumption  in the companys own vehicle  eet. Potential energy savings were identi ed in the   existing building portfolio totaling around 66 mil- lion kilowatt hours, i.e. nearly 10 % of the total  energy consumption of Fraport AG. This corres- ponds to some 21,000 tons of CO2 which are to  be saved by 2020. 40 % of these will come from  refurbishment of the ventilation systems in Termi- nal 1. The potential savings were adjusted from  17,500 tons to 8,300 tons in the course of detailed  For our environment   The best way of reducing environmen- tal pollution caused by air traffic is to   cooperate with the airline companies  and all the other players in the  transport sector. Erich Voss, Facility Management Fraport AG   I think that environmental protection  starts with small things: using the Job  Ticket, switching off lights at lunch time,  closing down your computer after work. Vera Steinmller, Retail and Properties t, Real Estate Management ,  Fraport AG   The environmentally friendly airport  first needs to be invented. But we need  to make a contribution to keeping the  impacts on people and nature as low  as possible. Bernd Beuchert, Facility Management Infrastrukture /  Grounds and Facilities Engineering, Fraport AG Ambitious climate target Reduction of CO2 emissions  per traf c unit (one passenger  or 100 kg airfreight) by  -30 %  in relation to the infrastructure  of Fraport AG from 3.7 kg  in 2005 to 2.6 kg in 2020. Higher ranking Frankfurt now at ACA Level  2     3 Antalya at ACA Level  1     2 22  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 23  planning. Savings of 3,000 tons of CO2 have alrea- dy been made, and savings of 1,300 tons of CO2  are currently being implemented. The energy required for heating and cooling will  be signi cantly reduced by renovation of the tran- sit baggage hall of Fraport AG. The baggage con- veyor facility on the lower level has a large num- ber of electric motors and their heat is cur ren tly  being conducted away throughout the year by  electrically operated cooling machines. Air from  the outside is continually entering the buil ding at  ground level through the opening of quick-action  rolling gates so that heating is required at certain  times. Optimization of energy use in the building has  been planned with the assistance of a dynamic  building simulation. The new energy concept en- visages temperature control for the hall at ground  level using the heat generated from the baggage  conveyor system located in the underground le vel.  The heat generated in the conveyor facility loca- ted will be transported by a fan pumping 50,000  cubic meters per hour from the underground   level to the ground level. Air-curtain systems  (air jet from above with external air as air gate)  will be installed there in order to prevent the  ingress of cold external air when the hall doors  are ope ned. This will also minimize any draught  effect in work places. Compared with the original  conventional planning system, savings of around  3.5 million of investment costs could be made  with the assistance of re ned building simulation  and the resulting measures. Signi cant savings in  opera ting costs are also anticipated. The operation of aircraft Auxiliary Power Units  (APU) accounts for a proportion of approximately  10 % of the CO2 emissions in the take-off and lan- ding cycle. Use of APUs is virtually unavoidable in  speci c short phases of the cycle, for example  when starting the main engines. However, they  frequently continue to run at the gate positions in  order to supply electricity and provide air-condi- tioning. Switching off the APUs could signi cantly  reduce emissions of CO2 and other air pollutants,  or indeed avoid them altogether. However, in or- der to achieve this, aircraft also need to be supplied  with air-conditioning when they are  stationary –  alongside the universally available supply of elec- tricity supplied to aircraft on the ground from the  terminal. A pilot project is to implement this system on a  test basis. The new A-Plus pier is to be equipped  with a pilot system which supplies Pre-condi- tioned Air (PCA) to the aircraft at their parking  positions. The  ndings from this PCA pilot system  will be integrated in plans for Terminal 3 and the  ongoing development of existing plants. All 28  piers at Antalya have already been equipped with  supply units for electricity and PCA and the ex pe- rience gained from this system can be utilized. In new buildings a maximally high level of ef - ciency is an integral element of all planning   mea sures. Innovative systems for a reduction of  around 10,000 tons of CO2 or around 40 % per  year by comparison with  conventional systems  are being introduced for the building section   A-Plus Finger at Terminal 1, which is scheduled to  come onstream in 2012. The aim is to make elec- tricity savings for lighting and air-conditioning  units, as well as energy savings for cooling and  heating.  Maximally ef cient lights save energy, contribute  less to heating in buildings, and reduce the need  for cooling in certain parts of the year. The coo- ling system was also optimized so that the energy  volume required for cooling the air could be  halved in the ventilation control center.  The new building for ground-handling services  provides another example of successful imple- mentation of potential energy savings in new  buildings. Since July 2011, all key operational  centers controlling the equipment for handling  aircraft on the ground have been located here.  Fraport employees coordinate the deployment of  baggage, freight and aircraft tow-tractor, buses  and other service vehicles from this control cen- ter. Since these are primarily computer work- stations generating heat, centralized computer  technology was used to reduce the cooling   requirement, i.e. only screen and keyboard are  located at the workplace itself. The computers  themselves are located in the server room, which  can be cooled much more ef ciently. Extensive  roof landscaping also contributes to reducing   energy consumption. In the winter it improves  heat insulation and in the summer it serves as a  heat shield. At the same time, it also improves the  environmental performance of the building by   ltering out air pollu tants and  ne dust, by pro- viding water-retention capacity, and as a habitat  for animals. The contribution to saving energy is  Acting responsibly For our environment For new buildings Energy ef ciency: The Fire Station achieves a  90 % energy saving compared with conventional building methods Vehicle  eet Targets for electromobility in 2015:   20 % share of electric tow tractors in baggage handling 20 % share of electric pallet forklift loaders 100 % share of electric conveyor-belts Building portfolio Reduction of around  21,000  tons of CO2 by 2020  Climate protection strategy – How we are going to reduce energy consumption   2005 2006 2007 2008 2009  2010  2011 Relative energy consumption  (kWh/traf c unit) 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 Total energy consumption at Fraport AG Fuels for  combustion  plants District  cooling District  heating Electricity kWh/ traf c unit 1,000 750 500 250 0 Absolute energy consumption (GWh)   2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010  2011 Fuels for  combustion  plants District cooling District heating 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Absolute CO2 emission (1,000 tons) CO2 emission at Fraport AG Relative CO2 emission (kg/traf c unit) 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0 kg CO2/ traf c unit 1   66.3 %  Electricity consumption Fraport AG (Scope 2) 2   13.7 %  District heating Fraport AG (Scope 2) 3   14.9 %  Operation of vehicles and equipment (Scope 1) 4   3.9 %  District-cooling consumption Fraport AG (Scope 2) 5   0.5 %  Operation of standby power supply system (Scope 1) 6   0.1 %  Operation of  re brigade exercise facility (Scope 1) 7   0.7 %  Operation of fossil- red facilities (Scope 1) CO2 footprint for 2011 at Frankfurt Airport A   2.1 %  Scope 1 (own consumption Fraport AG) B   10.9 %  Scope 2 (purchased electricity Fraport AG) C   87.0 %  Scope 3 (third parties at the airport including air traf c in landing and take-off cycle) 000.000 t 2 4 1 CO2 footprint for 2011 Fraport AG (Scope 1 and 2) CO2 footprint at Frankfurt Airport and Fraport AG C 6 5 7 1,738,500 t  225,600 t  B A 3 24  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 25  worthwhile in itself. The energy consumption for  this new building is 50 % below the speci cations  for the Energy Directive EnEV 2007 and 20 %   below EnEV 2009 (see Sustainability Program,  Clima te protection p. VII). Certi cation of the new Terminal 3 is planned in  accordance with the Gold Standard of the German  Sustainable Building Council and potentially fur- ther speci cations de ned by international stan- dards. A Round Table discussion forum was   established to achieve an optimum result. This   includes internal and external experts – including  representatives from environmental authorities –  to achieve the best possible energy ef ciency in  the new building. We established an appropriate  specialist department in 2011 with the aim of  building sustainably and we are conducting out  life cycle analyses there. This department is a   de dicated area of action in the sustainability   program (see Sustainability Program, Sustainable  construction, p. VII).   26   German Sustainable Building Council The new Terminals constructed after Fraport took  responsibility at Antalya in 1998 feature good heat  insulation, the use of roof areas for solar energy,  and automated shading systems which reduce the  need for cooling in the summer. Sensor-controlled  lighting and automated systems for heating / cool- ing along with other technical systems contribute  to additional energy savings. In other ways too,  energy saving measures are deployed at this air- port. Energy is generated at an advanced block  heating power station which has a signi cantly  higher level of ef ciency compared with a conven- tional power station due to the use of waste heat.  It also has signi cantly lower CO2 emissions.  Since the beginning of October, Fraport has been  using a fuel-cell system for the  rst time to back up  its electricity supply. It supplies emergency power  to the complex around the CD/CC car park in front  of Terminal 1. If the power supply fails, this backup  ensures that operation of parking ticket machines  can continue uninterrupted and the availability of  the IT and power supply is ensured for the control  facility located in the vicinity.  The dedicated company  eet is responsible for  around 15 % of the CO2 emissions caused by  Fraport AG. Apart from the procurement of   energy-ef cient vehicles, alternative power units  are also used to reduce energy consumption.  Electromobi lity is the key word because electri- cally powered  vehicles are ideal for use at airports  with the large number of short journeys entailed  here. They also contribute to limiting the burden  of air pollutants (see Air quality). This power  technology is a particularly important option for  the specialist vehicles used in aircraft handling,  such as tow-tractors, conveyor-belts and pallet  loaders, particularly since these vehicles make up  a major proportion of CO2 emissions generated  by the Fraport vehicle  eets. Around 10 % of all  apron vehicles are already electrically powered.  90 % of all conveyor-belt vehicles are electric   vehicles. The electric drive is ecologically and  commercially superior to the diesel-operation   versions. An electrically operated pallet loader has  been successfully used in ground handling since  2010. During the second half of 2011, the  rst tow  tractors in baggage handling  tted with serial hy- brid technology were integrated in the transport  system. By 2015, the proportion of battery ope- rated electric vehicles of both types is to make up  20 % of the total.  Fraport is also planning to procure electric cars for  its vehicle  eet over the coming years. Their suita- bi lity as company cars is being tested in a pilot  project for an e-car pool. The main objective in  setting up a car pool is to reduce the proportion  of vehicles kept available over the medium to long  term. This goal is initially focused on a central ad- mi nistration building. An innovative usage concept  will also  improve the utilization of the vehicles,  which will exert a positive effect on their com mer- cial ef ciency. This initiative is supplemented by  possibilities to supply electric vehicles with elec- tricity using a solar car port. Solar cells installed  on the roof of a penthouse facility deployed as a  garage either supply electric cars directly with  electricity or the electricity generated is fed into  the energy supply grid. Parallel to this project, an  adequately dimensioned supply network of char- ging stations at easily accessible locations is gra- dually being established at the airport complex. The importance of systematically recording and  monitoring the activities and investments for re- ducing CO2 emissions is increasing due to the high  priority of climate protection for Fraport and the  increasing complexity of these systems. Fraport  has therefore started to establish a comprehensive  system of CO2 monitoring. This concept was deve- loped in 2011 and introduction at Frankfurt Airport  will gradually be implemented from 2012 on (see  Sustainability Program, Climate protection, p. VII).  Networking with other transportation modes –  intermodality – is also a climate-protection objec- tive of Fraport, in order to ensure that the airport  can be accessed by as many passengers and em- ployees as possible by public transport. We are  cooperating closely with other transportation  modes on this objective. We are also implemen- ting initiatives for a more optimum freight logis- tics chain in CargoCity based on key ecological  and commercial principles. Transfer of the air- freight feeder service from road to rail is another  priority. This is because the delivery and collection  of airfreight is rising with increasing volumes –  particularly using road-based transport. The aim  of handling the traf c volumes in and around the  airport ef ciently with minimum environmental  impact means that all processes need to be increa- singly coordinated between all the players invol- ved –  cargo lines, freight forwarders, handling  agents, customs, etc. For this purpose, Fraport has  launched a pilot project with a number of partners  directed toward developing an IT-based Cargo  Community System. In 2011, the transport  ows  were analyzed with a view to potential for optimi- zation, and the pilot project with full routine, eve- ry day operation was started up at the begin ning  of 2012 (see Sustainability Program, Intermodality,  p. XIII). 27  Climate protection Air quality Fraport pursues an ongoing process of maintai- ning or improving air quality to enhance the lives  of residents living around the airport and staff  working there. The objective is to reduce air-  pollutant emissions from the operation of aircraft  and the airport.  We are only in a position to in uence the aircraft  emissions indirectly. Fraport levies emission-based  airport charges on nitrogen oxides and hydrocar- bons to give the airline companies  nancial incen- tives to use aircraft with lower emissions.  28   Airport charges  Another way of reducing the emissions from air- craft is to switch off the APUs at parking positions.  This would be facilitated by provision of statio- nary Pre-conditioned-Air, and testing of this  facility is planned at the A-Plus pier (see section  Climate protection, p. 24). We are also working continuously on reducing  taxiing and waiting times for aircraft. Airport Col- laborative Decision Making (A-CDM) is one of the  measures directed toward this. The procedure in- volves better coordination of the ground-based  processes. The latest and most advanced mobile  work machines are used for aircraft handling on  the ground. New software tools are planned for  optimizing the handling processes and helping to  avoid empty runs in future. Converting the vehi- cle  eet to low-pollutant and electric vehicles also  offers further potential. Maintaining systematic inventories of relevant air- pollutant emissions is important for planning and  monitoring additional measures, as for CO2. An  appropriate methodology is being developed  with the objective of regularly and systematically  recording emissions from individual locations,  most importantly at Fraport AG. These methods  Acting responsibly For our environment All  28 piers at Antalya  are equipped with  Pre-conditioned Air systems (PCA). Intermodality is one of the key success factors  at the Frankfurt site Long-distance railway station 174  high-speed trains each day  Regional railway station 223 regional and metropolitan trains each day  Bus station 240 departures each day in public regional  and suburban traf c 39     41 % of all passengers used  bus and train to travel  to and from the airport  in 2011. 26  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 27  will be based on modeling approaches de ned  in external expert reports on expansion, internal  initiatives, and the latest relevant operational  data. The aim is to analyze a level of detail that  permits any potential for minimization to be  quanti ed and the success of all measures to be  displayed. The conceptual phase started in Octo- ber 2011. Some initial results are expected in 2012  (see Sustainability Program, Air quality, p. IX). 29  Air quality Conservation of nature and resources The expansion and operation of the airport is  closely associated with impact on the natural   environment over a large area. This is why one of  our corporate goals is to preserve and promote  biodiversity at the airport location and in the   immediate surroundings. The airport is also a   location where resources are used extremely in- tensively since it functions as a platform for tens  of thousands of people, as a take-off and landing  site for hundreds of aircrafts and as a transport  hub for thousands of tons of goods each day.  Using resources as ef ciently as possible also  forms part of our objectives. Our objective is to  conserve the resource of water as much as possi- ble over the entire airport as well as reducing the  generation of waste and achieving a high recove- rability rate within Fraport AG. The environmental compatibility study during  the course of the zoning procedure resulted in a  detailed record of the  ora and fauna living at  Frankfurt Airport and in the surrounding envi ron- ment. Population studies have also been done for  some years including the various species of bird.  Since 2011, Fraport AG has participated in a vo- luntary Biodiversity Check, which has been con- ducted out by the Lake Constance Foundation  and the Global Nature Fund. Their assessment is  based on our environmental and sustainability  reports and our answers to numerous searching  and in-depth questions. The check yielded a series  of recommendations which we are che cking and  implementing. We have already imple mented  some of the results in many areas.  30   Brochure Ecological Measures for Airport   Expansions – proactive for nature  31   Biodiversity Check Our Environment Fund also promotes various  projects in the region to preserve and promote  biodiversity. Managing the resource water involves control- ling the consumption and the quality of water  which enters the ecosystem at the airport com- plex. Fraport has decided to adopt quali ed  drainage with innovative drainable systems for  the new northwest runway. The water from rain  and snow on the runways and taxiways  ows  along slotted channels con  gured at the sides  into a network of drains 23 kilo meters in length  to three pumping stations. The water is then  pum ped from there into two underground reser- voirs each with a capacity of 12,500 cubic meters.  Subsequently, the water passes through  lters  with a total area of 20,000 square meters and  deicing agents are removed during the winter  months. Online measuring instruments conti- nually monitor the quality of the precipitation  water. If the strict quality speci cations are com- plied with, the water can be drained away through  two in ltration trenches with a capacity of more  than 600 cubic meters. This system allows around  4,300 cubic meters of treated precipitation water  to be channeled into the groundwater each day.  Fraport invested a total of 22.75 million alone  for the drainage systems at the new north-west  runway. Water from winter rain and snow at the airport  can be contaminated with deicing agents used  for aircraft and surface deicing agents. The chemi- cals used are biologically degradable. From 2012  on, precipitation water with a Chemical Organic  De mand (COD) of 200 mg of oxygen per liter will  be retained and treated in the communal water- treatment plants. The construction work nece ssa- ry for this is currently being implemented. While optimizing the existing drainage system  and expanding the airport, the retention capacity  for precipitation water will be increased overall  from 89,590 cubic meters in 2004 to 204,190 cu- bic meters in 2013. Fraport operates a water treatment plant in the  southern section of the airport and the capacity  of this facility will be increased by 2013 from  11,000 population equivalents (PEs) for a waste- water volume of around 540,000 cubic meters  a year to 100,000. In future, treatment will occur  here for wastewater from the entire southern  section including the planned Terminal 3, the  buildings located there, and precipitation water  with deicing agents from the aircraftmovement  areas. In Lima, Peru, the quality of the groundwater  and drin king water is regularly monitored. Water   savings – 2 % were planned for 2011 – are a key  environmental objective which has been achieved  with 8 % less consumption per traf c unit. We are also implementing measures for separa- ting and treating deicing agents at our airports in  Varna and Burgas, Bulgaria. In addition to setting  up special deicing areas and development of  technical systems, building modi cations are also  being implemented, such as the construction of  a runway drainage system in Varna. 90 % of this  system has already been completed. New methods  for runway deicing are being introduced at both  airports in 2012 as part of the environmental  program and waste management program.  New measures and systems are being developed  for the roll-out of a future-oriented waste strategy  geared to conserving resources. Statutory regu- lations required Fraport AG to introduce an elec- tronic veri cation system in Frankfurt for disposal  of hazardous materials. Parallel to this, a special  waste database was installed for all waste gene- rated at Fraport AG and for waste taken from   aircraft cabins (no catering waste). In future, this  database will hold records and evaluate detailed  information on materials  ow for waste. This sys- tem will avoid large amounts of waste over the  long term and improve the recycling of valuable  materials. 32   Environmental Statement 2011 33   Nature and resource conservation  34   Brochure From Waste to Raw Material 35   Latest data on waste  Acting responsibly For our environment Waste The waste recycling quota at Fraport AG remains  at a very high level around  83 %  State-of-the-art drainage  of the north-west runway Source: Frankfurter Societts-Medien GmbH Recoverability rate (%) 100 80 60 40 20 0 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Absolute amount of waste (1,000 tons) Absolute amount of waste*/ Recoverability rate for Fraport AG Recycling  quota *excluding soil and building rubble   2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010  2011 28  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 29  Not in my backyard! This is the slogan often   applied when discussion in the community turns  to the topic of new technologies and facilities.   Airports are also part of this debate. Our world can  no longer exist without them and for many people  a big airport like Frankfurt remains an  exciting and  positive experience – whether you happen to be a  traveler or a visitor. Criticism and proactive involve- ment set in most frequently where airport neigh- bors experience the negative impacts of air travel  on a permanent basis. This is where Fraport exists  in a field of tension between the responsibility for  tens of thousands of jobs, the importance of the  location for Germanys  export-oriented economy,  and the prosperity of the Rhine-Main region on  the one hand, and the negative impacts of aircraft  noise that the neighboring residents have to live  with on the other. This conflict creates a particular  commitment that we owe to our neighbors. 36  Airport and region Alliance for more noise abatement When the northwest runway started operating  on 21 October 2011, Frankfurt Airport expanded  its runway system by a fourth runway. A new utili- zation concept was introduced at the same time.  In the previous three runway system, the two par- allel runways had been used equally for take-offs  and landings. Now, the two outer runways are  normally used for landings and the middle paral- lel runway and runway 18 are used for take-offs.  This made it necessary to harmonize the system  of approach and take-off routes. The shift in  downwind approach routes implemented in  March 2011 resulted in new groups of people   being affected as the year progressed. When the new runway started operations, air traf-  c did not increase initially but locally there were  signi cant increases in negative impacts. An increa- se in aircraft noise pollution is primarily experien- ced in the vicinity of the new southern  y-round  routes (westerly wind: Rsselsheim South East,  Nauheim, Trebur) and under the approach ground  lines of the new northwest runway (easterly wind:  Flrsheim North, Hochheim South, Gustavsburg,  parts of Mainz; westerly wind: Frankfurt South, in  particular Lerchesberg, parts of Offenbach). The situation of people affected by aircraft noise  is taken extremely seriously. Representatives of  the air traf c industry, the state government and  the region presented a further package of meas- ures at the end of February 2012. The objective  of these measures was to reduce the effects of   aircraft noise, especially for those most seriously   affected, bring down the number of people expe- riencing negative impacts, and reduce the level  of aircraft noise experienced: Together for the  region – Alliance for more noise abatement 2012.  A regional fund totaling some 265 million was  set up primarily to  nance passive noise abate- ment in private households and public institu- tions eligible for protection. Fraport also con tri- butes around 70 million to the voluntary real  estate program Casa. A total of 19 individual  measures from a spectrum of active noise abate- ment initiatives like Fly higher, create noise  breaks, quiet  ying and intensifying research  were agreed with the objective of reducing noise  and diminishing the number of people affected.  Some of these measures had already been imple- mented by 2012 or were launched in that year.  Another development in this context was the   expansion of aircraft noise monitoring by the   Environmental and Neighborhood House to   include airline-based performance monitoring.  This system creates transparency demonstrating  how good individual airline companies are at  maintaining low-noise approach and take-off   procedures. 37   Press release from the state government Noise abatement The complex situation of Frankfurt Airport needs  to be taken into account when looking at all the  measures. The high traf c density combined with  the absolute priority of safety mean that each pro- posal has to be carefully reviewed, the  t within  the bigger picture analyzed, and a  nal evaluation  arrived at. For example, all the changes in Frank- furt have to be assessed in the context of harmoni- zing European air space. Deutsche Flugsiche rung  GmbH (DFS) is responsible for air traf c control in  Germany. DFS is working closely with the Benelux  countries, France and Switzerland on this project.  Acting responsibly For the community For the community   Our comprehensive program on passive  noise abatement and ongoing further  development of measures for active noise  abatement mean that we do our utmost  to mitigate the impact from aircraft noise  on the people affected. Max Conrady, Head of Environmental Impacts Noise and Air, Traf c  and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG   Sponsoring and donations from companies  to support social causes are important. But  each individual, whether working or retired,  can make a difference to another individual  with a commitment. Shivadas S. Pattanath, retired member of staff, Marketing, Fraport AG.  He was awarded the Federal Order of Merit for his commitment to old  people and the disabled in 2007.   I believe that Fraport gives more to the  region than is evident from the public   debates about the airport. At any rate,  Im proud when I see all the good causes  that Fraport supports. Maximilian Hoef er, Rescue Assistant, Traf c and Terminal Manage- ment, Corporate Safety and Security, Medical/Rescue Service, Fraport AG 30  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 31  Alongside the measures for active noise abate- ment taken when the new runway was opened,  new noise-reducing  ight procedures were   introduced for the region around the airport al- ready from the beginning of 2011. They were de- veloped by a group of experts based within the  Forum  Airport and Region (FFR) made up of  repre sentatives from local communities, airline  companies, air traf c control, and the airport, as  well as poli ticians and academics. The aim of ac- tive noise abatement is to reduce noise directly  at its source, to reduce the noise pollution on the  ground particularly in areas severely impacted,  and to ensure improved distribution of noise.  An initial package of measures included seven  procedures for redu cing noise. Alongside ongo- ing cooperation in the expert group Active Noise  Abatement, we took responsibility for develop- ing the conceptual design and implementation  of two of the measures.  DROps – Dedicated Runway Operations  The procedure envisages bundling of take-offs  on de ned runways or departure routes depen- ding on the direction of operations so that the  residents experience the minimum feasible noise  impact and noise breaks are created. This proce- dure was used before the prohibition on night   ights in the period from 2300 to 0500 hours.  DROps early morning is the extension of the  original procedure until 0600 hours. Realization  of the operational conditions is likely to be at the  end of 2012. Raising the approach glide angle by 0.2 degrees  compared with the previous angle increases the dis- tance to the residential areas at the northwest run- way with the aim of reducing the impact of noise. Fraport has already had the necessary instrument  landing system installed at the northwest runway.  The necessary licenses still have to be approved and  veri cations have to be provided that the increased  approach glide angle does not put safe operation  at risk. Our objective is to start opera ting with the  increased glide angle during the course of 2012. 38   Active noise abatement In October 2011, the Hessian Ministry of Econo- mics, Transport, Urban and Regional Development  de ned abatement zones based on the strictest  limits applicable under statutory regulations  where residents have a claim to passive noise  abatement. Taking account of the new north- west runway and the changed operating condi- tions, this de nes noise abatement zones which  allow around 86,000 households to make claims  for passive noise abatement protection for their  homes. Fraport offered to bring forward measu- res that were only applicable later under statutory  regulations for residential areas that were in the  approach zone for the new northwest  runway  and had not previously been in a  ight path. 39   Passive noise abatement People who purchased or built a house or apart- ment before there was any discussion of expan- sion and whose homes are now directly in the   ight path are adversely affected by the expan- sion of Frankfurt Airport and changes in operation.  Their homes are now directly below the  ight path.  Fraport purcha ses residential property through  the Casa Program where planes  y particularly  low – at an altitude of less than 350 m – or it pays  the owners compensation. The purchase price of  the proper ty is assessed by independent experts  on the basis of conditions in the district before the  expansion of the airport. The alternative of com- pensation is  determined by the position of the  pro perty and its distance from the core zone af- fected by the incoming  ights.   40   Fraport Casa Program Fraport has also expanded the system of noise  monitoring to record the new circumstances.  In September 2011, the network of measuring   stations was increased by two additional measu- ring stations to 28 in total. The new measuring   stations are located close to the approach ground  line on the new northwest runway so that they  are in a position to monitor the development  of the aircraft noise and the effect of the noise-  reduction measures there. Mobile measurements  in the communities around the airport supple- ment the monitoring. Fraport AG has been   providing comprehensive information about  the measuring  results from its own aircraft  noise measuring stations, route con gurations,  distri bution of ope ra ting direction and much  more for many years (see Sustainability Program,  p. X, Noise abatement). Like all other information,  monitoring makes a contribution to rendering  the debate more factual and hence creating the  platform for our efforts to  nd practical solutions  or improvements for the current impacts. As a complement to noise monitoring carried  out by Fraport AG, the Environmental and Neigh- borhood House in the Forum Airport and Region  (UNH) offers a broadly based package of infor- mation. The data measured by the airport, com- bined with the data from the local-authority  stations, the stations operated by the UNH and   ight-movement data are visualized on the Inter- net. Monitoring is particularly important in pro- viding information to the local population. Inter- ested residents are able to trace where planes  are  ying and at what altitudes. They are able  to ascertain what noise levels will be reached in  virtually real time.  We developed our own monitoring system to do- cument the development of aircraft noise pollu- tion in the neighborhood of the airport. It is based  on the standard international noise dimension for  a day and night level of 60dB (A). This value is   applied to aircraft noise in the same way as noise  generated by road or rail traf c. This is a 24-hour  level where the noise impact at night is weighted  by a factor of 10. The monitoring system de nes an  aircraft noise contour within which Fraport is able  to calculate the number of residents each year.  The contours can vary as a result of operational  changes (traf c development, aircraft mix, use of  runways and  ight paths). They can also be affec- ted by measures for active noise reduction and by   uctuations in the operating directions for the  take-off and landing systems. When we are doing  monitoring measurements, we use long-term ave- rage distribution for operating direction in order  to eli minate the in uence of weather conditions  on the calculated aircraft noise contours. You can   nd precise information on the development of   statistics in our accounting section on the Fraport  home page.  41   Aircraft noise monitoring In view of the intensive discussions on the issue  of aircraft noise, Fraport has been intensifying its  efforts to engage more intensively in personal   dialog with the people affected by the noise.  We take our Infobus around the towns and local  communities located near the airport and listen  to the questions asked by the local residents.  Represen tatives of the company regularly take  part in platform debates and citizens meetings.  The Fraport Infofon hotline is available through- out the week 24/7.  42   Infoservice aircraft noise We would like to engage in more in-depth dis- cussion and address the factual issues more fully.  The effect of aircraft noise on the health and well- being of individuals has not been researched as  much as would be desirable. Fraport AG is there- fore sponsoring a comprehensive noise impact  study by the Forum Airport and Region in the  Rhine Main region and at comparable sites around  the airports in Berlin, Cologne/Bonn and Stutt- gart. The study has the purpose of providing a  maximally representative, evidence-based and  scienti c description of the effects of noise from  aircraft, rail traf c and road traf c on the health  and quality of life of the people affected. The data  Acting responsibly For the community Over the next few years,  Fraport AG will spend around   270million on measures for  passive noise abatement  and the Casa Program. Representatives of the airtraf c industry, state  government and the region contributed a total of  265million under the package of measures entitled  Together for the region – Alliance for more noise  abatement 2012. The lions share of the funds  was used to pay for passive noise abatement.  Fraport also contributed a further 70million to the voluntary Casa Program. 32  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 33  1 4 5 7 3 2 Our value added 6 will be processed by research and specialist institu- tions in the areas of medicine, psychology, social  sciences, acoustics, and physics. The study has  been designed as a long-term venture and the  rst  results are anticipated in 2013. Community responsibility Fraport plays a signi cant role in the community  as a major employer and international company  with ambitions of growth in the dynamic air traf c  sector that is so important for the economy. By  generating economic value added we make an  important contribution to private incomes and to   nancing public services. In 2011, we paid out  around 900 million for wages and salaries and  contributed some 100 million in direct taxes  (for details see chart Our value added). In 2011,  55,148 orders with a volume of 926.4 million  were allocated for purposes including the expan- sion of Frankfurt Airport and around 58 % of them  went to companies in the Rhine-Main area. 43   Community responsibility We also play our role in the community with a  comprehensive commitment of donations and  sponsoring. In 2011, we sponsored around 580  projects through donations. Most of the projects  were educational or promoted some form of inte- gration. They included programs for educating  children and teenagers speci cally from low in- come families and measures for preventing subs- tance abuse and violence. We have also sponsored media initiatives like  Newspapers in Elementary Schools, a project  run by the media-skills IZOP institute and news- paper Frankfurter Neue Presse, and the school  childrens competition Youth researches –   future-proof air transport  in cooperation with  the newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  (FAZ). The latter received an award as a decade  project Training for sustainable deve lopment  and was  nanced through resources from our   Environmental Fund. 44   Project Teenagers researches  45  Environmental Fund  46   Promotion of environmental education Apart from projects related to environmental edu- cation, this sponsorship tool is used speci cally  to maintain and develop biodiversity in the Rhine- Main region and  nance projects on climate pro- tection and climate change. One example of this  type of project is a cooperative venture with the  Max-Planck Institute for Chemistry. Over the past  14 years, funding for around 30 million has been  provided for such initiatives. The biggest indivi- dual project to receive funding is the Rhine-Main  Regional Park. In 2011, we set ourselves the goal  of raising awareness of the pro le of the  regional  park. A campaign of activities was laun ched   immediately and a large number of projects is  planned for 2012 (see Sustainability Program,   Regional engagement, p. X). 47   Rhine-Main Regional Park In future, the environmental fund will place even  more emphasis on the issues of biodiversity and  climate protection. More than half of the  nancial  resources available have already been planned  for appropriate projects for the period until 2014.  The fund will continue to sponsor the environ- mental education package for schools and other  institutions. Aside from donations, an array of activities and  associations in the region surrounding Frankfurt  Airport bene t from our sponsorship activities.  For example, we have been the main sponsor of  the German Jazz Festival for many years, we sup- port the Rheingau Music Festival, the Weilburg  Palace Concerts, the Old Opera House (Alte Oper),  the Schauspiel theater and Frankfurt Opera. We  also maintain partnerships with the museums  Stdel, Schirn and Liebighaus to promote educa- tional art programs for children and teenagers.  We sponsor a large number of recreational sports  clubs with many of them in youth leagues. 48   Engagement and sponsoring  Relationships as a good citizen are also important  to as at other Group sites. Our subsidiary compa- ny in Peru, Lima Airport Partners (LAP), decided  in 2011 to pool all its resources and support the  personal commitment of management and em- ployees to the Westnell kindergarten. The focus  of this program is on paying the school costs for  some of the children. They come from two of the  poorest districts in Lima and receive preschool  teaching at the kindergarten. This opens up the  opportunity of obtaining a good education at  school. The LAP commitment is already planned  for 2012. Building work and repairs are planned  for the kindergarten facilities and medical checks  are scheduled for the children. Many of our em- ployees perform important volunteer work in  charitable projects – at sites including the Group  airports Antalya, and Varna and Burgas. Their  commitment ranges from collecting donations to  fostering activities in local citizens  initiatives and  organizations.  49  Employee engagement Apart from these initiatives by Fraport and our  employees, Fraports own Erich-Becker Founda- tion founded in 1986 also does non-pro t work.  The purpose of the foundation is to promote   research and academic work. The income from  the endowed assets is used to  nance grants for  scienti c studies on issues relating to air traf c,  for promoting other projects and for allocating  awards for special scienti c achievements.  A scholars meeting was held for the  rst time on  24 November 2011 and papers were given on a  number of subjects including sustainability in air  traf c. Fraport established the ProRegion Foun- dation in 1999 and the work of this institution   focuses on integrating young people into the  world of work. 50   Erich-Becker Foundation 51  ProRegion Foundation  Acting responsibly For the community Continuing the tradition of previous  years, Fraport AG sponsored around  400 clubs, events and initiatives  during the course of 2011. In 2011, Fraport employees packed some   5,173 Christmas packages for children  in orphanages, homes for disabled  children and low income families  in Romania and Hungary. 1 62.1 % 906.3 million Employees (wages, salaries, social deductions) 2 13.1 % 191.7 million Lenders (interest expense) 3 7.0 % 102.0 million Public sector (dedications, taxes) 4 0.6 % 8.6 million Expenses for the common good  (donations, sponsoring, etc.) 5 7.9 % 115.4 million Shareholders (dividends) 6 0.7 % 10.4 million Share of profits for minority shareholders 7 8.6 % 125.0 million Company (retained earnings) Regional park 13.7 45.7 % Environmental and  nature protection  7.6 25.5 % Environmental  education 5.8 19.3 % Research 2.9 9.5 % Total sponsorship for Environment Fund 1997 –  2011  ( million/share in %) 34  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 35  Fraport AG is a stock company (Aktien ge- sellschaft) in accordance with German law.  The shares are listed on the Frankfurt Stock   Ex change and in the MDAX, the index for   me dium-sized German joint-stock companies.  The biggest shareholders are the State of Hesse  (31.49 %) and Stadtwerke Frankurt am Main  Holding GmbH (20.11 %). As outlined in our  Sustainability Program (see p.XI ff), we have a  speci c duty to our shareholders to safeguard  the economic viability of the company and our  investments, to achieve pro table growth, and  to generate value added over the long term  that is higher than the cost of capital. Investments made in the future of the company  during 2011 amounted to 1,440.2 million  (2010: 1,033.9 million) and were once again  at a high level. A signi cant milestone for the   development of Frankfurt Airport was achieved  on 21 October 2011 when the new runway was  opened. The launch of operations on the new  runway was already exerting a very positive  effect on traf c  gures in Frankfurt by the end  of the year – the number of passengers alone at  56.4 million was 6.5 % above the count for the  previous year – and this demonstrates how  important this investment is for the ongoing  development of the business location. The A-Plus  Pier will also be starting up operations in October  2012. This pier offers the most advanced terminal  facilities and multifaceted retail and gastronomy  outlets for up to six million passengers a year. 52  Investments More investments will be required over the com- ing years in order to meet the future needs for a  forecast passenger volume of around 90 million  passengers. A new passenger terminal will be  built in the south of the airport. The  rst section  of the modular Terminal 3 is scheduled to come  into operation in 2016/2017 and construction  work looks likely to start in mid-2013. 53  Development at Frankfurt Airport Our owners expect us to generate an appropriate  return to reward their  nancial commitment.  The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board  are planning to submit a proposal to the Annual  Gene ral Meeting for 2012 that a dividend amoun- ting to 1.25 per share should be paid for the  business year 2011. This would retain the dividend  level from the previous year. If the earnings trend  continues in accordance with the forecast plans  and the long-term positive prospects for pro t are  taken into account, the Executive Board intends  to keep the dividend per share stable for the busi- ness year 2012.  Retained earnings are used to  nance additional  investments and hence increase corporate value.  Fraport manages development of the company in  accordance with the principles of value-based ma- nagement with the key core parameter of Fraport  value added. A detailed explanation of value-based  controlling and development of value added is  provided in the Annual Report 2011, p. 47 ff. 54   Fraport value added 55  Financial information and Annual       General Meeting  The Fraport share is listed in various sustainability  indexes not least due to this strategy directed  consistently to the long term. In 2011, Fraport  was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index  World (DJSI World) for the  fth time in succession.  This index ranks us in the 10 % best in the sector  for sustainability performance among a total of  2,500 companies listed in the Dow Jones Global  Total Stock Market Index. Membership in the  FTSE4Good and in the Carbon Disclosure Leader- ship Index (CDLI) was con rmed. The sustaina- bility rating agency oekom research awarded   Fraport Prime Status in the oekom Corporate  Rating. At the beginning of 2012, Fraport was  awarded SAM Bronze Class in the Sustainability  Yearbook published by the SAM Group (Sustaina- ble Asset Management, a global asset manager)  and KPMG. 56  Indices and awards Acting responsibly For our owners For our owners   The Fraport share remains an attractive  investment through our future-oriented  business model, with strong potential for  growth within Germany and abroad, and  our stable earnings power even during  phases of economic downturn. Christian Schramm, Corporate Finance, Treasury,  Finance and Investor Relations, Fraport AG   Making the new runway in Frankfurt a  reality is another high point in my pro- fessional career. In a fiercely competitive  environment, this expansion of capacity  is essential in giving us the opportunity  for enjoying further successful years as  an international air-traffic hub. Horst Amann, Vice President Airport Expansion South,  Corporate Infrastructure Management, Fraport AG   Our investments strengthen the Frankfurt  site and safeguard the future of a large  number of businesses around the airport. Alida Gnther, Investment Controlling,  Corporate Infrastructure Management, Fraport AG The new runway: around   2.5 years construction time,  construction costs of  600 million 36  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 37  Sustainability management and corporate compliance Sustainability is one of the key corporate  targets at Fraport. This target is represen ted  in the organizational structure through the  establishment of the Central Unit Sustainabi- lity Management and Corporate Compliance  since January 2010. The Central Unit identi es  key strategic sustainability issues across the  company and initiates further development  as necessary. The unit is also responsible for  environmental management, sustainability  repor ting and monitoring, and coordination  of stakeholder dialogs. The compliance mana- gement system and internal controlling system  are among the areas of responsibility. Its ma na- gement reports directly to the Executive Direc- tor Labor Relations. 57  Organizational structure 58  Sustainability management 59  Understanding of sustainability The Sustainability Board is the executive body with  responsibility for sustainability management. It is  headed by the Chief Executive Of cer. Board mem- bers include the Executive Director Labor Relations,  the senior managers of all divisions, and some   senior managers in the Central Units of Fraport AG.  Sustainability  management and  corporate compliance The Sustainability Board develops the Sustainabi- lity Program. The annual survey on the success  of mea sures and  ndings from our stakeholder   dialogs form the basis of this program (see section  Stra tegy and stakeholder engagement, S. 4).  60  Sustainability Board Sustainability management at Fraport is based  on compliance with internationally recognized  standards such as the principles of the UN Global  Compact, the OECD principles for multinational  companies and the ILO Labour Standards.  Fraports own principles and internal guidelines  are also applicable. You will  nd a detailed corpo- rate governance report, the report of the Super- visory Board on corporate governance, and the  declaration on corporate governance pursuant to  Article 289a German Commercial Code (HGB) in  the  Annual Report 2011, p. 35 ff. 61  UN Global Compact 62  OECD principles 63  ILO Labour Standards We interpret compliance to mean observing laws  and internal rules. In 2011, we started to imple- ment an integrated system for compliance mana- gement, risk management and the Internal Con- trolling System. The preventive character of the  Values Management System (introduced in 2003)  is complemented by the more compre hen sive  Compliance Management System (CMS). The fur- ther development of the CMS is based on the new  auditing standard promulgated by the Insti tute  of German Auditors (Institut der Deutschen Wirt- schaftsprfer, IDW) PS 980, which de nes the  conditions for an appropriate framework and   provides the necessary fundamental elements.  Over the course of 2012, the further development  of the CMS at Fraport AG is likely to be completed.  This will be followed by gradual implementation  in the most important Group companies.  Fraport pursues an integrative, risk-based ap- proach in developing solutions for more in-depth  links bet ween the subsystems Compliance Ma- nagement, Risk Management and Internal Con- trolling System. This approach is based on the   internationally reco gnized COSO II Framework.  Fraport AG is looking to introduce a supporting IT  Tool by the end of 2012. Networking of the indi- vidual subsystems in orga nizational terms will be  guaranteed by the bodies Risk Management Com- mittee and Com pliance Board. The latter will for- mulate uniform speci cations and will address  concrete compliance incidents. The Compliance  Board reports to the Executive Board, which also  regularly recei ves an overview of the material  Group risks. The Executive Board uses this infor- mation to inform the Super visory Board.  You will  nd information and details of the Risk  Management System and Internal Controlling in the Annual Report 2011, p. 69 ff. The Values Management is an integral  element  of the CMS. It is used to prevent and track any  corrup tion. Since 2005, it has been an integral   element of any agreements on employment   contracts bet ween employees and managers at   Fraport AG. Over recent years, it has been gra- dually introduced at national and international  Group sites where there is a majority sharehol- ding. Our investment Northern Capital Gateway  LLC in St. Petersburg, for example, adopted a  Code of Conduct in 2011 which de nes the rules  for dealing with suppliers, customers and govern- ment agencies and speci es clear anti-corruption  rules. An important tool for preventing breaches is an  ef cient information and reporting system. In  2009, Fraport introduced an electronic whistle- blower  system (BKMS System) at the parent com- pany. Employees of Fraport, business partners  and customers can submit information on any  perceived irregularities in an Internet-based   communications platform. Access is provided on  the Fraport home page. Con dential information  on corruption, business crime, and breaches of  standards of conduct can be submitted anony- mously worldwide and 24/7. The electronic  whistleblower system guarantees the anonymity  of the whistleblower on the  system side. The facts  in each report are subject to intensive analysis  and scrutiny, and sanctions are introduced as   appropriate. The whistleblower  system was im- plemented at TwinStar in Bulgaria in 2009, at our  Antalya Group site in 2010, and at Lima in 2011. 64  Values management We also appointed an external ombudswoman  on 1 December 2011. The key function of the   ombudswoman is to receive con dentially any   information about serious breaches of statutory  regulations and to subject the information to  intense legal scrutiny. The expert in criminal law  is available to anybody inside or outside the  company. We also have an internal con dential  contact at Fraport for our employees since 2003. 65  Homepage ombudswoman  Sustainability management at Fraport goes   beyond the de nition and implementation of  standards and quality processes for internal use.  Minimum social and ecological standards are  maintained alongside the principle of pro tability.  Protection of human rights is a top priority with- in our company and in all our global activities.  In 2009, we signed the Business Conduct Rules  of the biggest European purchasing association,  the German Association of Materials Manage- ment, Purchasing and Logistics in order to  rmly  esta blish human rights in our investment and  procu rement practices. The guideline is based on  the principles of the UN Global Compact and in- cludes fundamental anti-corruption rules, anti- trust agreements, rules on child labor and forced  labor, and compliance with human rights, envi- ronmental protection and health promotion, and  fair working conditions. The companies signing  the agreement have also made a commitment  In  2011 we started to implement an integrated system  for compliance management, risk management  and the Internal Controlling System. 38  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 39  to promoting compliance with the Business  Conduct Rules with their suppliers with the aim  of achieving the best possible effectiveness. You  can  nd more information about the targets and  measures for the  eld of action Procurement in  the Sustainability Program, p. XII. 66  BME Compliance Initiative The Integrated Management system (IMS) is in- tended to guarantee high quality and continuous  improvement for all internal business processes.  Environmental management, job safety and qua- lity management are handled under the umbrella  of the IMS. The IMS has been certi ed in com- pliance with the ISO 9001 international standard.  A number of measures including internal audits  are required for this, and they are directed toward  maintaining the high level of service quality and  implementing any improvements necessary with  the responsible process owners.  Fraport AG has an Environmental Management  System for the activities at Frankfurt Airport. Since  1999, this system has been validated in confor mi- ty with the European directive on the Eco-Mana- gement and Audit Scheme (EMAS). Fraport AG  and most of the airports with a majority share- holding have received certi cation under the   international environmental standard ISO 14001  (see chart Validation in accordance with EMAS  certi cation in conformity with ISO 14001).   Further information on Frankfurt Airport is also  provided on the environmental impacts and  achievements through the Environmental State- ment. 67  Management certi ed by the Germany       Technical Inspectorate (TV) 68  EMAS/ISO 14001 In autumn 2011, Fraport AG was awarded the   ISAGO certi cate by the International Air Trans- port Association (IATA). The ISAGO certi cate –  IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations – de nes  uniform safety and quality standards for ground  handling services for the  rst time ever and is an  internationally recognized system for assessing  ground services providers. The objective of ISAGO  is to improve safety on the ground and reduce the  risk of accidents and injury. Process documenta- tion, implementation, occupational health and  safety have top priority and are subject to very  strict regulations. The relevant process areas of  Fraport AG were successfully certi ed, including  loading, ground movements of aircraft, and pas- senger, baggage and aircraft handling.  Ground handling services receive  ISAGO certi cate from IATA as con rmation  of internationally recognized  safety and quality standards  on the ground. Sustainability Program 2011 Area of action Responsible business unit Customers Safety and security Traffic and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security Customer satisfaction Customer Experience  Employees Appeal as an employer Human Resources Retaining and creating jobs  Human Resources Diversity Human Resources Occupational health and safety Human Resources Training and career development Human Resources Environment Climate protection Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance Sustainable construction Corporate Infrastructure Management Intermodality Retail and Properties Traffic and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security Air quality  Traffic and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security Conservation of nature and resources Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance Community Noise abatement Traffic and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security Regional commitment  Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance; Corporate Communications Owners Profitability of investments Controlling Sustainability  management Compliance/Governance Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance;  Internal Auditing Procurement Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance; Central Purchasing and Construction Contracts Structure Sustainability program 2011 Airports Subsidiary companies Validated according to Frankfurt  Airport Fraport AG EMAS/ISO 14001 N*ICE Aircraft Services &  Support GmbH EMAS/ISO 14001 Fraport Cargo Services  GmbH EMAS/ISO 14001 Lima  Airport Lima Airport Partners S.R.L ISO 14001 Antalya  Airport Fraport IC Ictas Antalya  Airport Terminal Investment  and Management Inc. ISO 14001 Varna and  Burgas  Airports Fraport Twin Star Airport  Management AD Environment  management  system Validation according to EMAS  certi cation in conformity with ISO 14001 I 40  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011  Customers Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Retention of the high  level of safety and  security standard at  Frankfurt Airport Training and career development ongoing Professional training by FraSec GmbH (provided by  training providers certified by the German Technical  Inspectorate TV Sd) at the Fraport Training Center.   Quality management ongoing Internal quality assurance concept for operation,  procedures and training and career development. Employee motivation to 2013,  initial  analysis  results in  2012 Commissioning an external analysis on the mental  and physical stress at the airport security control  checkpoint with the target of identifying and  eliminating stressful elements in routine work.  Engineering/research and development ongoing Development of a Future check in two committees: _ Task force with Federal Police and airline companies _ German Air Transport Initiative  Increase in operational safety ongoing Hazard identification/minimization is carried out in  conformity with ICAO Annex 14. New version of  manual Safety Management System published.  Safety Committees established. Improved integration  of air security checks  in the passenger flow.  Target parameters:  guaranteeing a waiting  time of max. ten minutes  in 90 % of security checks  and passenger satisfaction  of at least 80 % with the  level of friendly approach  of our personnel Process analysis and optimization ongoing Testing of process improvements is currently being  done in cooperation with the Federal Police and the  airline companies, Results include: motorized infeed  conveyor, changed tray system, quality circle. IT-based personnel deployment planning and  passenger management (PAARIS) 2012 First module of the new IT system came into  operation in 2011. Improvements in deployment  planning and passenger management implemented. Throughput and waitingtime measurements ongoing Internal targets on waiting time and customer   satisfaction adopted by the main customer Lufthansa  within the framework of a Memorandum of  Understanding. Preparation of KPI Report with the  Federal Police on waiting times for passengers and  friendliness measurement parameters, as well as  throughputs and productivity for checkpoints.  Project Security with a smile 2009 – 2011 Training sessions for operational managers expanded  by focus on Customer satisfaction and transferred  to the project Great to have you here! (see area of  action Customer Satisfaction). Safety and security Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Increase in global satis- faction of passengers by  10 percentage points to  80 % by 2015 (determina- tion of global satisfaction  within the framework of  monthly surveys among  customers with the  question: How satisfied  were you with Frankfurt  Airport?) Service program Great to have you here! to  increase customer satisfaction. The focus is on the  fields of action identified in continuous passenger  surveys: to 2015 Program launch in 2010. An improvement of 7 percentage points was achieved in 2011 by comparison with 2010. _ Reduction of waiting times at check-in and  baggage reclaim through improvements in  processes and infrastructure, and additional  personnel 2011 ff. Measure being implemented. _ Simplification of the connecting processes by  improving the infrastructure to 2015 In 2011, additionally six e-cars introduced free of  charge and numerous service employees deployed. _ Facilitating orientation by a site-wide, new  signage system throughout the terminal and  reduction of perceived transit times 2012 Measure being implemented. _ Increase in satisfaction with surrounding  ambience, relaxation areas, cleanliness  of sanitary areas by redesigning them 2012 – 2013 Pilot system set up in relaxation zone for test  purposes with passengers. A further 5 relaxation areas  are being planned. New sanitary model facility being  tested in 2011. Launch of new facilities in Terminal  zone A and B by 2012. _ Increasing the friendliness and service attitude  of personnel by service training at all levels  and programs where executive management  is integrated in operating process within the shift  operation 2011 ff. Initiative Management operative is being  implemented with deployment of senior manage- ment level in the shift operation on the ground.  Launch of specified service training sessions is being  implemented in all areas with passenger contact in  the 2nd half year of 2011. _ Optimization of service and product quality for  retail, gastronomy and services by expanding the  range of products and services, training sessions  and quality management ongoing Measure being implemented. Customer satisfaction Sustainability program 2011 III II  Sustainability program 2011  Employees Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Creation of a further  25,000 jobs at Frankfurt  Airport by expansion of the  airport, overall calculations  by experts estimate that  the expansion will create  around 100,000 jobs. Realization of the planned airport expansion ongoing  Operation of new runway launched in October 2011. Workplace survey done annually ongoing  Next survey planned for 2012. Study on direct and indirect employment effects  of Frankfurt Airport 2013/2014 Measure is being planned. Retaining and creating jobs Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Continuous reduction in  the number of accidents  at work: A reduction in the number of accidents was achieved  in 2011 by 37 % compared with 2010. _ Target 2011: reduction of  5 % compared with 2010 _ Target 2012: Improvement  compared with 2011  (basis: total number  of accident days at  Fraport AG) Implementation of damage and injury analyses,  risk assessments and derivation of prevention  measures ongoing The process of risk analysis has been established for  many years and anchored in the internal procedural  regulations for the quality management system in  conformity with ISO 9001. The focuses for prevention measures in 2011 were on  increasing safety in transport and traffic within the  company. Continuous training of managers and employees  in job safety ongoing In 2011, Fraport again implemented a program of  training sessions on health and safety that exceeded  the statutory requirements. The focuses of the  training sessions in 2011 included the responsibility  of managers for occupational health and safety and  raising the level of awareness for Mental problems,  stress and illness. Regular facility inspections and derivation of  measures ongoing Safety facility inspections were implemented  regularly with the focus on the operating areas. Accident analysis meetings between  managers and employees ongoing In 2011, retrospective accident analysis meetings  were done for all reportable accidents with  the responsible manager, the employee suffering  an accident and the safety officer. Increase in the attendance  rate for 2012 by 1 percen- tage point compared with  the count for 2011 Implementation of Steering Committee for  health care management ongoing Steering Committee with at least four meetings  implemented in 2011. Joint project between company medical officer  and special needs officer on providing individual  support for staff with mental illness 2012 Project launched in 2011, the new advice package  received a positive response from employees. At the  end of 2012, a decision on continuing the program  will be taken on the basis of an experience report. Occupational health and safety Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Further developments  of personnel strategy Strategic project with the aim of identifying areas  of action and working out solutions taking particu- lar account of demographic change, special design  of working conditions tailored to specific ages,  empowerment of women, integration of migrants  and management of mixed-age teams to 2015 In 2011, age structure analysis drawn up taking  account of demographic developments for  Fraport AG. The derived fields of action for the  personnel strategy area as follows: _Safeguarding appeal as an employer _Recruiting and retaining skilled staff / managers _ Retaining employment capability through structure  of working practices and lifelong learning. Gradual implementation by 2015. Increase in employee  satisfaction measured  by the Group Barometer  from 3.06 to at least 2.90  (grade system from 1  (best) to 6 (worst)) Annual employee survey and derivation  of potential improvements ongoing Improvement in employee satisfaction within the  Group from 2.94 in 2010 to 2.76 in 2011, Group  target value of 2.90 therefore exceeded in the  reporting year.  Employee satisfaction in the parent company  Fraport AG was 2.96 in 2011, the target value of 2.90  was not achieved. Social benefits above the collective payscale and  participation in company success ongoing Continuation and as necessary adjusting to current  requirements. Staff receive a special payment to celebrate the  landmark 75th anniversary of Frankfurt Airport in 2011. Gradual expansion of performance-based salary  components 2011 – 2014  Adjustment of payscale budget of 0.25 % p.a. from  2011 (for 2010) to 2014 (for 2013). Adjustment of salary ranger and variable remunera- tion of non-payscale staff and executive employees is  planned starting 2013 (retroactive for 2012). Integration of the workforce within the structure  of the new corporate headquarters   2012 Integration of the workforce through an expert  team Designing the Corporate Headquaters.  Additional communication measures are proactively  implemented. Development of a concept for increasing employee  satisfaction with personnel services by setting up a  Service Point in the new corporate headquaters 2012 Formulation of a conceptual approach with  integration of key employee groups. Link between variable remuneration of managers  to assessment criteria for management expertise  ongoing Improvement in management skills on the basis of  the results of 360 feedback evaluations is included  in the target agreement process. Ongoing development  of management expertise  based on the results of the  Group Barometer and in  360 feedback Implementation of 360 feedback for executive  managers 2011/2012 360 feedback for management levels 1 – 4 imple -  mented in the year 2011 (approx. 330 managers). Implementation for management level 5 is planned  for 2012. Implementation of a group development program  IMEPplus (Integrated Management Development  Program) for managers in levels 3 and 4 to 2015 Project launched in 2011. Appeal as an employer Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Promotion of Diversity  and equal opportunities Development of Key Performance Indicators for  measurement and control of diversity and equal  opportunities 2012 Measure being implemented. Increasing the proportion  of women in management  positions to 25 – 35 % by  2018 within Fraport AG Continuation of the initiative  Women and Management  to 2018 2011: Formulation of a Business Case and internal  communication of the target within the company.  Starting 2012: Development of additional specific  training measures for women and adjustment of  recruiting processes and succession plans. Improvement in getting  the work-life balance right  between career and family Acquisition of additional entitlement rights for  kindergarten places near the workplace 2012 Measure is being planned. Acquisition of quotas in communal kindergartens 2012 Increasing the number of kindergarten places in  existing facilities by 25 %. Expansion and promotion of additional utilization  of alternative telework (alternating work in the  company and the home environment) ongoing  Transfer of pilot project to the line organization in  2012. Continual increase in users is currently being  experienced. Packages for combining care and job ongoing  2011: First Infomarket Combining Care and Job  implemented. Promotion of staff with a  background of migration Development of a concept for skilled staff and  managers 2012 Measure is being prepared. Diversity  Sustainability program 2011 V IV  Sustainability program 2011  Environment Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Increase in the attendance  rate for 2012 by 1 per- centage point compared  with the count for 2011 Pilot project advice hotline for staff and managers  subject to specific mental stress 2012 An expansion to the entire company is planned in the  spring of 2012 on the basis of the planned pilot test in  spring 2012. At the end of 2012, a review of success  will be done and a decision will be taken on the  possible continuation of the measure. Expansion of health workshops based on a pilot  project implemented in an operating area ongoing In 2011, the pilot project was successfully completed.  In 2012, the expansion of the health workshops were  continued as planned. Establishment of reporting on the monitoring of  health care measures 2012 Project being implemented. Strategic development of measures for prevention,  promotion of awareness and the role of managers  in health care issues to 2015 Measure being implemented within the scope of  the internal project Increase in Attendance.  A continuous process of preparation and follow-up  is also being implemented with managers within  the framework of health workshops. Integration of increase in attendance rate in goal  agreement process 2012 Included in the goal agreement process for defining  goals in 2012 for the management levels 1 to 2. Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Further development of  the concept Sustainable  Building and integration  in the business processes Definition of principles and scope for Sustainable  Building in new buildings and portfolio  2011 Principles with focus on climate protection regulated  in an internal guideline of Fraport AG.  Establishment of organizational unit Sustainable  Building within the Corporate Infrastructure  Management of Fraport AG 2012 Organizational concept completed in 2011. Conceptual approach for Life-Cycle-Costing (LCC)  to provide planning and decision-making support,  and implementation of an IT solution to 2013 Conceptual approach currently being processed. First IT-based tests completed for LCC assessment  of selected buildings. Involvement in research project Life-Cycle Benchmar- king, supported by the Federal Ministry for Transport,  Construction and Urban Development (BMVBS) to 2014 Project launched with partners. Optimization of building planning processes on  the basis of dynamic building simulations ongoing Use of dynamic building simulation established. Development of KPIs to 2013 Measure currently being planned.  Sustainable building    Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Reduction of CO2 emis- sions per traffic unit  (TU: one passenger  with baggage or 100 kg  of  airfreight) by 30 %,  from 3.7 in 2005 to  2.6 kg / TU in 2020  (Fraport AG, Scopes 1  and 2 GHG Protocol) Avoidance of additional  CO2 emissions by  expansion project  in 2020 (Fraport AG,  Scopes 1 and 2 GHG  Protocol, based on 2005) Energy optimization of portfolio buildings  to 2020 _ Refurbishment of ventilation control centers in  Terminal 1: total potential about 8,300 t CO2,  potential of 3,000 t CO2 has been implemented,  a further 1,300 CO2 are being implemented. _ Energy optimization in service and administration  buildings, total potential about 5,000 t CO2,  potential being implemented about 380 t CO2,  about 650 t CO2 already implemented. Energy-optimized planning of new buildings 2012 Energy optimized plans completed in four buildings  (Fire station 4, Pier A-Plus, administration center, service  buildings, groundhandling services) for Terminal 3 in  preparation. Establishment of CO2 controlling  2011/2012 Measure being implemented und project duration  of the measure extended to 2012 compared with the  previous year. Use of alternative drive technologies to 2015 Gradual implementation is planned until 2015.  The overall potential amounts to a projected  1,360 t CO2. Previously deployed: _ an electric pallet loader  (approx. 1 percentage point of the planned 20 %) _ four serial hybrid tow tractors in baggage handling (approx. 3 percentage points of planned 20 %) _ 81 electric conveyor-belts  (approx. 86 percentage points of planned 100 %) _ four electric cars for trial operation Attainment of Level 3  in the Airport Carbon  Accreditation Scheme  of ACI Europe Expansion of CO2 reporting in accordance with  Airport Carbon Accreditation 2012 Verification for Level 3 has been successfully achieved.  For this purpose, we have developed CO2 modeling  in relation to  _ the arriving and departing traffic for passengers  and employees _ the emissions of aircraft in the LTO cycle up to  3,000 ft. _ the energy consumption of the traffic caused by  third parties at the site  _ the business trips by employees of Fraport AG  Intensification of Stakeholder Dialog ongoing Various Stakeholder Dialogs were held at Frankfurt  Airport, for example the Energy Saving Week or  exchange of ideas in the fields of deployment for  electromobility. Climate protection Occupational health and safety (continued) Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Needs-oriented training  and guarantee of at least  110 training places each  year to 2018 Differentiated training package for apprentices  coming from all types of schools with guarantee  of one years work after completion of the  apprenticeship to 2018 2011: 21 vocations, 2012: increase planned to  26 vocations. 2011: 110 training places, 2012 increase planned  to 138 training places. Formulation of a concept for integration of young  people with learning difficulties 2012 In preparation.  Trial of a model for training rescue assistants 2014  Launched 2011. Further employment rate  of 70 % in the second  year after completion of  apprenticeship training Development of a concept for integrating  qualified graduates in technical training vocations 2013 Concept will be completed in 2012, implementation  will continue. Further employment rate for 2011: Over the five-year period under review, the targeted  rate has been achieved for commercial training  vocations, but the targeted rate was not achieved for  technical training vocations. The expanded training  requirement from 2012 leads to expect that this target  will be achieved in all vocations over the medium term. Promotion of skilled staff  and managers in the  Group with an internal  recruitment of the requi- rement to provide staff  replacements in levels  1 – 4 of 75 % Implementation of Potential Assessment Center for  management levels 2 – 4 every two years  ongoing  Potential Assessment 2010 and Check-up Assessment  2011 have been completed.  Launch of international rotation program for  candidates for potential program  2012  Development plans being implemented. Implementation of training program 2011  ongoing  Program with 16 trainees launched in autumn 2011. New regulation of study grant allocations  including on the basis of sustainability criteria  for post-graduate courses of study 2012 ff. Measure being planned. Further development of specialist careers in the  company 2013 ff. Measure is being prepared (already implemented  in a systematic approach in individual areas). Continuous career  training with the target:  ensuring an average of  2.9 career training days for  each permanent employee  of Fraport AG Specialist and interdisciplinary career training and  preparation for certified qualifications in the Fraport  College and Fraport Academy  ongoing  Measure being implemented. Package of seminars for all employees to obtain  personal qualifications beyond their immediate area  of activity with provision of an annual qualification  budget of 600 for each employee at Fraport AG ongoing  In 2011, a 35 % increase in the acceptance of the  package by employees of Fraport AG was achieved  compared with the previous year. Training and career development Sustainability program 2011 VII VI  Sustainability program 2011  Target Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Certification of the new  building for Terminal 3 in  conformity with the DGNB  Gold Standard (German  Sustainable Building  Council) and possible  international standards Preparation of energy concepts taking account of  renewable energy 2011 Conceptual approaches were drawn up in 2011. Completion inspections and evaluations were  initiated for a final version. Stakeholder Dialog on the energy concept with  university researchers, politicians and NGOs 2011 Important stakeholders were involved in drawing up  and evaluating the concept within the framework of  a Round Table Discussion. Implementation of sustainability criteria to  support planning and construction of the new  building for Terminal 3 for purposes of certification to 2016 Bidder selection launched for supporting the  certification process. Target  Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Continuous improvement  in environmental perfor- mance through manage- ment systems which are  audited by environmental  auditors Continuation of validation in accordance  with EMAS and certification in conformity  with ISO 14001 at the Frankfurt site and selected  Group sites   ongoing In 2011, the parent company Fraport AG and the  subsidiary companies N*ICE and FCS operating at  Frankfurt Airport again received the ISO 14001  certificate and were awarded with the EMAS site  registration by the Chamber of Industry and  Commerce. The Group airports Lima and Antalya  are also certified in conformity with ISO 14001. Reduction of the volume  of waste produced. Main- taining the high recovera- bility rate for unavoidable  waste at Fraport AG Implementation of strategic status analysis of  volume of waste with derivation of potential  options for waste reduction and for recycling  materials from unavoidable waste 2012 Measure currently being planned. Reduction of paper   consumption per member  of staff at Fraport AG by  25 % by 2015  (based on 2009) Implementation of a central printer concept and  a project for electronic document administration  at Fraport AG to 2015 Central printer concept has been successfully  implemented. Project for electronic document administration was  started in 2011. Reduction of the con - suption of drinking water  by higher usage of not  potable water in Terminal 1  (38 % by 2014) and  in the southern area  (50 % by 2020) Expansion of usage of service water in Terminal 1  and in the southern area  to 2014 / to 2020 Measure in Terminal 1 and in the southern area  is being implemented. Maintenance and if possi- ble increase in biodiversity  on Fraport grounds Implementation of a status analysis on biodiversity  on Fraport grounds at the Frankfurt Airport site to 2013 Measure is being prepared. Implementation of a Biodiversity Check (European  Business and Biodiversity Campaign, Global  Nature Fund) and review/implementation of  recommendations 2011 – 2014 Biodiversity Check was carried out in 2011.  Final evaluation envisaged for 2012. Conservation of nature and resources Target  Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Improvement in inter- modal services and  services for passengers  Redesign of signage and routing tools  to 2013 Concept for new signage and routing has been  completed, introduction of new signage in the area  AiRail Terminal has been commenced. Further development of AiRail Check-in 2012 Number of airlines offering the AiRail Check-in at  Frankfurt Airport increased by 5 % in 2011. Expansion of ICE Rail & Fly and Code Share links in  cooperation with German Rail (DB) and the airlines 2012 Code Share Agreement by 5 airlines with German Rail  (DB) in 2011, increase in service package by 2 further  airlines planned for 2012. Improvement in inter- modal package for airport  employees Review of improvements in rail and bus services,  in particular in the marginal nighttime hours for  shift workers 2012 Early ICE from Hamburg/Cologne (arrival FRA 4.45 am)  timetabled on a test basis by German Rail (DB).  Review of utilization of capacity by German Rail in  mid-2012. Introduction of an additional local bus  route (OF 67) from the Offenbach district via Gateway  Gardens to the airport in the marginal daytime hours  in 2011. Expansion of the  compe  titive position of  the intermodal hub at  Frankfurt Airport in the  long-distance passenger  rail travel Initiatives with important joint-venture partners  for expanding the integration of the airport in the  Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan  to 2015 Study commissioned under the German Air Transport  Initiative for usage evaluation currently being  processed, Presentation of results planned for 2012. Optimization of airfreight  logistics chain for Cargo  City with ecological and  commercial perspectives Support for developing a Cargo Community  System to improve the workflows in airfreight  handling  to 2013 First conceptual phase completed in 2011.  Result: Launch of a pilot application with a new data  platform for accelerating workflows in airfreight  handling planned starting spring 2012. Feasibility study: Active management of traffic  processes within Cargo City for purposes of traffic  optimization and emission reduction   2012 Project launch with establishment of a Cargo City  Frankfurt Freight Task Force was implemented with  the inclusion of important stakeholders. Transfer of the airfreight  feeder service from road  to rail  Implementation and completion of the research  project Air Cargo Rail Center (ACRC) 2011 Research report shows: Airfreight volume alone is  not adequate for a cost-effective shifting of freight  transport to and from the airport from truck to rail. Opportunity: A potential shift might exist if landside  goods traffic, which has not been shifted to date due  to a technical solution, is included in attractive rail  packages combined with the airfreight volume.  Project completed. Intermodality Target  Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Reduction of emissions of  air pollutants due to the  operation of the airport  Review of gradual introduction of stationary  air-conditioning supply for (PCA) in new buildings  (A-Plus Pier, C-Finger, Terminal 3) 2012 – 2013  Reviews started in the course of a pilot project 2011. Introduction of electric ground handling equipment to 2015 See Sustainability Program for climate protection.  Continuous monitoring of air hygiene  at Frankfurt Airport ongoing Continuous measurements of air quality and annual  publication in an air hygiene report on the Internet.  Development of a prototype for modeling air  pollutant emissions for  a) infrastructure and ground handling b) landside traffic 2012 – 2013 Concept phase commenced in 2011. Maintenance of incentives  for the airlines to use aircraft with lower  emission levels Levying of airport charges for nitrogen oxides  (NOx) and hydrocarbons (HC) beyond the trial  phase 2012 System of airport charges established. A signal effect  for aircraft manufacturers and operators is anticipated  from the jointventure project with the German Air  Transport Initiative. Air quality  Sustainable Building (continued) Sustainability program 2011 IX VIII  Sustainability program 2011  Owners Community  Target  Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Support for community  development in the region,  in particular in the areas  education, integration,  compensation for social   disadvantage, and health  care Promotion of projects with financial support: a)  Education inside and outside school  (e.g. ZING – Newspaper in Elementary School,  youth and children centers) b)  Integration measures (e.g. disabled workshops,  Theater Laboratory Darmstadt) c)  Compensation for social disadvantage  (e.g. charities Die Tafel Frankfurt (round table),  Arbeiterwohlfahrt Frankfurt (workers welfare)) d)  Strengthening of self-help groups and provision  of information (e.g. assistance with needs of  everyday life, Aids support) continuous In 2011, around 500 individual measures in the  region received financial support from Fraport AG. Continuation of comprehensive package of  environmental education from the Environment  Fund for kindergartens, schools, associations, etc. 2011 ff. In 2011, Fraport AG supported approximately  300 environmental education events for education  in the region. Alignment of the sponsor- ship focuses for environ- mental and nature projects  from our Environment Fund  on climate protection and  biodiversity with a sponsor- ship share of more than  50 % to 2014 Starting in 2012, the sponsorship focuses for our  Environment Fund will be intensified on climate  protection and biodiversity over an initial period  of three years to 2014 Measure currently being planned. Implementation of a competition for designing  projects with Beacon Effect within the sponsorship  focuses of climate protection and biodiversity to 2013 Measure currently being planned. Ongoing development of  regional park as a contri- bution to increasing the  appeal of the local recrea- tion area and raising the  level of awareness among  the population (target  review by survey) Promotion of projects for regional park development  and measures for increasing the level of awareness of  the regional park. 2011 ff. Project promotion realized for 2011. Conceptual  approach for increasing the level of awareness of the  regional park is being implemented in cooperation  with the Regional Park Society. Regional commitment Target  Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Achieving a lower number  of people impacted by  the aircraft noise than  specified in the plan for  an expansion in capacity  with 701,000 aircraft   movements Support for measures relating to active noise  abatement in the Airport and Region Forum ongoing Monitoring for the first package of measures has  already been done. Preparatory work on developing  the second packages has been started. Establishment  of the task force for air route optimization with  involvement of Fraport. Selected rail and route use  (Dedicated Runway Operations, DROps) 2011 ff. Test operation has been implemented. Monitoring is  also completed within overall monitoring for active  noise abatement.  Increasing the approach glide angle to 3.2 with  ILS (Instrument Landing System) on the new  northwest runway 2011 ff. Study on safety and feasibility completed. Installation  of an additional ILS (Instrument Landing System) was  completed. Measure is to be implemented according  to plan in 2012. Support for noise impact study by the  Environmental & Community Center  2011 ff. 2011 first surveys completed according to plan.  The preparations for the next study period in  mid-2012 have commenced. Further development of noise measurement and  monitoring, and expansion of information  provided on aircraft noise for citizens ongoing Operation of two new aircraft noise measuring stations  was implemented according to plan and included in  regular reporting. The provision of information relating  to passive noise abatement was supplemented. Improvement in the noise  situation for the residents  affected Bringing forward reimbursement of expenses for  passive noise abatement to be paid to residents in  the areas affected 2011 ff. Bringing forward the reimbursements was officially  announced and the entitled households were  informed. Noise abatement  Target  Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Achievement of profitable  growth as a platform for  the future viability of the  company Investments tailored to demand in the expansion  of Frankfurt Airport to 2016 _ Start-up of operations at the northwest runway  in October 2011. _ Realization of A-Plus Pier for an additional 6 million  passengers planned in 2012. _ Schedule adapted to take account of capacity for  Terminal 3 with landside link through Passenger  Transfer System (PTS). _ Restructuring of Pier C being planned. Expansion of Airport City Mall Frankfurt, Level 0  Redesign of the arrivals level Terminal 1 Reconfiguration and expansion of retail floor  spaces Terminal 2  to 2014 Measures being planned. Enhancement of value added from real estate  marketing and development at Airport City to 2016 In 2011, additional land purchase contracts with  around 92,000 m2 closed and hence a marketing  status of around 364,000 m2 has been achieved  since 2007. Further development of external business ongoing  See Annual Report 2011,  section Business development, p. 50 ff Generation of long-term  value added above the cost  of capital Value-based controlling of business activities ongoing  See Annual Report 2011,  section Value Management, p. 47 ff Raising landing fees  to 2015 Government agency contracts and contracts with  airlines and airline associations concluded. Program Fitness@Fraport2011 for optimizing  business processes and cost reduction to 2014 Focus for 2011: Establishment of a new organizational  unit Corporate Infrastructure Management for  improving efficiency in all phases of development and  maintenance of infrastructure at Frankfurt Airport. Future Contract 2018 for improving the cost  structure and hence the competitiveness of the  Frankfurt site to 2018 Contracts concluded with employee representatives  and Future Contract being implemented. Pro tability of investments Sustainability program 2011 XI X  Sustainability program 2011  XII   Sustainability program 2011 Sustainability management Target  Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Ensuring cost-effectiveness  and compliance with  social and ecological  standards through  allocation processes Review of major suppliers on the basis of social  and ecological aspects  2011 / 2012 Supplier structure analysis carried out for major  suppliers. Self-assessment procedure being prepared. Inclusion of social and ecological minimum standards  in general contractual conditions of Fraport AG   2011 / 2012 Measure is being formulated.  Definition and implementation of sustainability  criteria for individual product groups 2012 / 2013 Segmentation of the procurement portfolio on the  basis of defined sustainability criteria was commenced  in 2012 with the objective of generating a risk and  prioritization matrix. Formulation of a road map is  planned on the basis of this platform for implemen- tation of the relevant sustainability criteria. Values management system for ensuring business  relationship based on integrity ongoing  Values management system introduced in 2003. Aspects relevant to procurement: _ Dialog with business partners _ Inclusion of anti-corruption formula in consultant  contracts and integrity declaration in the supple- mentary contractual conditions for construction,  architectural and engineering services _ Standard operating procedure for order embargo  of contractors for construction, supply and service  providers _ Information about new ombudswoman to all  suppliers  _ Compliance assessment for selected supplies on  their status relating to introduction of a values  management or compliance system. Support for overarching initiatives and coope- ration in these initiatives for implementation of  standards ongoing _ Commitment of Fraport AG to comply with the most  important, international recognized principles relating  to a code of conduct principles promulgated by the  UN Global Compact, OECD guidelines, ILO core labor  standards at all Group sites. Review of compliance  within the framework of quality management. _ Signature of the Business Conduct Rules of the German  Association Materials Management, Purchasing and  Logistics e.V. in 2009. _ Cooperation in the project Hesse: Pioneer for  sustainable and fair procurement. Duration of the  measure to 31 December 2012. Procurement Target  Measure Duration of  the Measure Status Implementation of an  integrated system for  risk and compliance  management and Internal  Controlling System for  improving the strategic  impact of opportunities  and risks Preparation of a conceptual approach for  integration of subsystems 2012 Technical concept based on the internationally  recognized COSO II Framework and initial implemen- tation of the concepts have been started. Introduction of new IT for system-side integration  of both subsystems to 2013 IT selection completed for 2011 and implementation  phase commenced for parent company Fraport AG. Further development  of consulting offers   concerning compliance  for all employees Introduction of external  ombudsman /ombudswoman 2011 Measure was implemented and communicated to  all employees by publication on the Intranet.  Further enhancement  of awareness for our   compliance culture  among all employees Training for managers in levels 3 – 4 within an  Integrated Management Development Program  on compliance  to 2013 Continuous training established and launched within  the framework of the program.  Introduction of e-learning tools at Fraport AG  for training focuses on specific target groups and  increase in the appeal of training sessions to 2014 Planning and IT selection completed in 2011. First training module is being implemented. Compliance/Governance This eighth Sustainability Report is intended  to give our stakeholders and any interested  members of the public information about our  activities, progress and targets in the area of  sustainable development in the Fraport Group.  We communicate the information that is neces- sary in order to be able to assess our performance  on the route to sustainable development for  the de ned scope during the period under  review in the report.  Report contents and stakeholders The content of the report is based on regular  communication and exchange of ideas with our  stakeholders. We derive fundamental aspects of  our strategic direction from this information and  develop speci c measures.  The systematic de nition of our strategy was  implemented in 2010 on the basis of a materiality  analysis in accordance with the principles of  mate riality, inclusion of stakeholder interests  and sustainability context (see section Strategy  and stakeholder engagement, p. 4). As a result  of this analysis, we have set targets for strategi- cally important areas of action as a company  with a long-term future perspective and de ned  measures necessary to achieve these targets.  This report describes their effectiveness and  further development   Alignment of reporting This report is based on the guidelines of the   Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Version G 3.1.  The Airport Operators Sector Supplement  dealing speci cally with airport operators was  taken into account. Compliance of the GRI indi- cators is presented in the GRI Content Index.  The report meets the requirements for Applica- tion Level A+ and therefore ful lls the highest  level of the GRI guidelines. Appendix We respect and support the ten principles of the  UN Global Compact, we develop and implement  measures to make them a reality and we contri- bute to recognition of the principles, also beyond  the horizon of our company. This report is our  progress report within the framework of the UN  Global Compact. You will  nd more in-depth information and  supplements at www.fraport.com/content/ fraport-ag/en/sustainability. The contents are   updated on the Internet during the course of  the year.  Publication cycle and reporting periods The report is published annually in German and  English and covers the reporting period from  1 January to 31 December of the relevant year.  The last report was published on 4 May 2011.  Scope of reporting The information in the Sustainability Report  covers the following areas _all activities, products and services _ all companies that we included in the Group of  consolidated companies in accordance with the  applicable rules for purposes of  nancial repor- ting on the relevant balance sheet date. We record any deviations that we believe to be  relevant for assessment of our performance. Cautionary note regarding forward-looking  statements If this report contains statements of future fore- casts or expectations, they are based on a series  of assumptions about future events and are sub- ject to unknown risks and uncertainties, and   other factors, many of which are outside the  sphere of in uence of Fraport and which may  result in the actual events differing signi cantly  from the statements made here in the report. Principles of Reporting Appendix Principles of Reporting 41  Data collection The  nancial  gures correspond with the data  provided in the Annual Report 2011. Fraport AG  prepared the consolidated  nancial statements  for the accounting period ending 31 December  2011 in accordance with the standards published  by the International Accounting Standards Board  (IASB). Data on the development of personnel  gures is  recorded and evaluated using standardized per- sonnel software solutions. Pursuant to the mate- riality principle, the circle of consolidated Group  companies is reconciled to  nancial reporting for  purposes of determining the personnel indica- tors. Accordingly, we include the parent company  Fraport AG and all the af liated companies in full,  and jointventure companies are included on a  proportionate basis; minority holdings are not  included in the calculation of the Group personnel  data.  The environmental data are collected for the  consolidated companies in the Group comprising  Fraport AG, the fully consolidated subsidiaries at  the Frankfurt site exerting relevant environmental  impacts and the signi cant Group airports (2008:  Hahn, Varna, Burgas, Lima, Antalya; from 2009:  Varna, Burgas, Lima, Antalya). The environmental  data is systematically surveyed at the Frankfurt  Airport site in conformity with EMAS-VO and  DIN EN ISO 14001 and is subject to external veri-  cation by an accredited environmental auditor.  The data is collected from the Group airports   included in the survey using systematic reporting  procedures. The presentation of the reporting data is imple- mented using the standard methods, calculations  and estimates we believe to be appropriate and  as used in standard business practice. However,  it is not possible to exclude the possibility of  individual GRI indicators being associated with  some degree of uncertainty. An overview of all  indicators is provided in our accounting. 69  Indicators and facts The following table provides a structured  overview of where information on individual  topics and aspects of sustainability reporting can  be found. The structure of the tables is based on  the GRI Guideline.  70  Annual Report 2011  71   GRI Content Index  72   Fraport Website Sustainability  The table also includes a column GC with de- tails indicating where information referring to  the ten principles of the UN Global Compact can  be found. Since 2007, Fraport has been commit- ted to the principles of the UN Global Compact.  We are working continuously on integrating the  internationally acknowledged standards and prin- ciples in the areas of human rights, work, environ- mental protection and combatting corruption. Legend black  = GRI core indicator grey  = GRI additional indicator References SR  = Reference to a page in the Sustainability Report 2011 AR  = Referent to a page in the Annual Report for 2011   = Reference to a text on the Fraport Website GC  = Global Compact Principle Status    = Aspect completely covered ()   = Aspect partly covered –   = No information available  n.r.  = not relevant for Fraport   Pro le 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Foreword by the Executive Board SR 2 – 3, SR 4 – 7, SR I–XII   1.2 Effects of the business activity, opportunities and risks SR 3, SR 4 – 7, SR X–XII, SR 23–29, SR 31–35, AR 69  2 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization SR Profile  2.2 Brands, products and services SR Profile  2.3 Organizational structure SR Profile  2.4 Head office of the organization SR Profile  2.5 Countries with business activities SR Profile  2.6 Ownership structure GRI Content Index  2.7 Markets SR Profile, GRI Content Index  2.8 Size of the organization SR Profile,  Indicators and facts,  GRI Content Index  2.9 Changes in the size, structure and ownership constellation AR 50, AR 98  2.10 Awards received Indexes and awards  3 Reporting period 3.1 Publication of the last report SR 41   3.2 Verffentlichung des letzten Berichts SR 41   3.3 Reporting cycle SR 41   3.4 Contact for issues relating to the report SR 49  3.5 Definition of report content and stakeholders SR 4, SR 41  3.6 Reporting thresholds SR 41   3.7 Restrictions on scope of reporting GRI Content Index   3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced activities GRI Content Index  3.9 Data collection SR 42  3.10 New presentation of information from old reports GRI Content Index  3.11 Changes compared to previous years GRI Content Index  3.12 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index  3.13 External audit of the report SR 42  4 Governance, obligations and commitment 4.1 Management structure  AR 35,  GRI Content Index  4.2 Independence of the Supervisory Board Chairman GRI Content Index  4.3 Independent members of the highest management body GRI Content Index  4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee recommendations  to the Executive  GRI Content Index  4.5 Link between remuneration of the Executive Board and performance  of the company AR 36   4.6 Mechanisms for avoidance of conflicts of interest GRI Content Index  4.7 Qualification of the members of the Executive Board in relation to  sustainability issues AR 36,  GRI Content Index  4.8 Statements on mission or values, codes of conduct and principles 1 – 10 SR 39  4.9 Procedure at the level of the Executive Board for monitoring  sustainability performance 1 – 10 GRI Content Index  4.10 Procedure for assessing the sustainability achievement of the  Executive Board 1 – 10 AR 35,  GRI Content Index  4.11 Precautionary principle 7 SR 11– 12, SR 19, SR 23, SR 39  4.12 External agreements and principles 1 – 10 GRI Content Index  4.13 Memberships SR 7,  Stakeholder engagement Fraport AG  Aspect according to GRI GC Reference Status Appendix Content overview of GRI and UN Global Compact principles Content overview in accordance  with GRI and UN Global  Compact Principles 43 42  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011  EN21 Wastewater discharges 8 Indicators and facts  EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 8 Indicators and facts () EN23 Significant spills 8 Indicators and facts  AO5 Air quality Indicators and facts  AO6 Airfield surfaces and aircraft deicing agents Indicators and facts  EN24 Hazardous wastes according to the Basel Convention 8 GRI Content Index n.r. EN25 Impacts of wastewater discharges on biodiversity GRI Content Index n.r. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 7 – 9 SR 23 – 27, SR 31 – 34, SR VII – X  EN27 Packaging material 8 – 9 GRI Content Index n.r. EN28 Sanctions for environmental non-compliance 8 GRI Content Index  EN29 Environmental impacts of transport and traffic 8 Indicators and facts  EN30 Total expenditure and investments for environmental protection 7 – 9 GRI Content Index – AO7 Change to residents in areas impacted by aircraft noise  Indicators and facts  Social performance indicators:  Working practices and decent working conditions Management approach 1 – 6 SR 14 – 21,  GRI Content Index  LA1 Total workforce Indicators and facts  LA2 Employee turnover 6 Indicators and facts () LA3 Benefits for full-time employees  6 SR 16  LA15 Return to work after parental leave 6 Indicators and facts  LA4 Employees with collective wage agreements  1, 3 Indicators and facts  LA5 Minimum notice periods for significant operating changes   3 GRI Content Index  LA6 Employees represented in job safety committees 1 Indicators and facts,  GRI Content Index  LA7 Occupational diseases and absences 1 SR 19 – 20,  Indicators and facts () LA8 Further training on serious diseases 1 GRI Content Index  LA9 Work and safety agreements with unions 1, 3 GRI Content Index  LA10 Training and furthertraining time per employee 1 Indicators and facts () LA11 Programs for knowledge management and lifelong learning 1 SR 21   LA12 Percentage of employees with regular performance assessment Indicators and facts  LA13 Composition of employees 1, 6 Indicators and facts  LA14 Relationship of basic salary between men and women 1, 6 GRI Content Index  Social performance indicators: Human rights Management approach 1– 6 SR 15 – 18, SR 38 – 40,  GRI Content Index  HR1 Investment agreements with human rights clauses 1 – 6 GRI Content Index  HR2 Suppliers who have been screened on human rights aspects 1 – 6 GRI Content Index () HR3 Training sessions on aspects of human rights 1 – 6 GRI Content Index () HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 1, 2, 6 GRI Content Index  HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 1 – 3 SR 15, SR 38,  GRI Content Index  HR6 Principles and measures for prevention of child labor 1, 2, 5 GRI Content Index  HR7 Principles and measures for prevention of forced labor 1, 2, 4 SR 38 – 40,  GRI Content Index  4.14 Stakeholder groups   SR 6  4.15 Selection of stakeholders SR 6  4.16 Inclusion of stakeholders SR 6 – 7,  Stakeholder engagement Fraport AG  4.17 Issues and concerns of stakeholders SR 4 – 7  Economic performance indictors Management approach 1, 4, 6 – 9 SR 35, SR 37, SR VI, SR 42, AR 69  EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Indicators and facts  EC2 Financial consequences of climate change 7 – 9 GRI Content Index  EC3 Scope of the companys social benefits Indicators and facts,  GRI Content Index  EC4 Significant financial government grants and subsidies SR 37,  Indicators and facts  EC5 Relation between standard entry salaries and local minimum wage 1, 6 GRI Content Index  EC6 Site-specific selection of local suppliers 6 SR 39,  GRI Content Index  AO1 Passengers Indicators and facts  AO2 Aircraft movements Indicators and facts  AO3 Cargo tonnage Indicators and facts  EC7 Site-specific selection of personnel 6 GRI Content Index  EC8 Investments in the infrastructure and services primarily provided  for public benefit SR 34 – 35,  Indicators and facts  EC9 Indirect economic effects GRI Content Index  Ecological performance indicators Management approach 7 – 9 SR 24 – 31,  GRI Content Index  EN1 Materials used 7 – 9 Indicators and facts  EN2 Recycled materials 7 – 9 GRI Content Index n.r. EN3 Direct energy consumption  8 – 9 Indicators and facts  EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8 – 9 Indicators and facts  EN5 Energy saved 8 – 9 SR 23 – 27,  Indicators and facts  EN6 Initiatives for structuring products with higher energy efficiency 7 – 9 SR 23 – 27  EN7 Initiatives for reducing indirect energy consumption 7 – 9 GRI Content Index  EN8 Total water consumption 8 Indicators and facts  AO4 Quality of precipitation water Indicators and facts  EN9 Effects of water consumption 8 GRI Content Index n.r. EN10 Recycled and reused water 8 – 9 GRI Content Index n.r. EN11 Land used in or on the edge of protected areas 8 Indicators and facts,  GRI Content Index  EN12 Impacts on biodiversity  8 GRI Content Index  EN13 Protected or reinstated natural habitats 8 GRI Content Index  EN14 Strategies for protecting biodiversity 8 SR 23, SR 34 – 35  EN15 Endangered species 8 GRI Content Index  EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 8 Indicators and facts  EN17 Other greenhouse gas emissions 8 Indicators and facts  EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions   7 – 9 SR 5, SR 23 – 27  EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 8 GRI Content Index n.r. EN20 NO2, SO2 and other air emissions 8 Indicators and facts  Aspect according to GRI GC Reference Status Aspect according to GRI GC Reference Status Appendix Content overview of GRI and UN Global Compact principles 44  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 45  HR8 Training of security personnel 1, 2 GRI Content Index  HR9 Violation of rights of indigenous population 1, 2 GRI Content Index n.r. HR10 Business activities that have assessed for human rights aspects 1, 2 GRI Content Index  HR11 Number of grievances relating to human rights 1, 2 GRI Content Index  Social performance indicators: Society Management approach 10 SR 31 – 35, SR VII – X,  GRI Content Index  SO1 Effects on the community SR 7,  SR 32 – 34,  GRI Content Index  SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts  on local communities  GRI Content Index  SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented GRI Content Index  AO8 Persons who were displaced by the airport operator and  compensation measures GRI Content Index  SO2 Percentage/number of departments analyzed for corruption risks 10 GRI Content Index  SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption 10 GRI Content Index  SO4 Corruption incidents and actions taken 10 GRI Content Index  SO5 Public policy positions and lobbying 1 – 10 SR 6 – 7,  Stakeholder engagement Fraport AG  SO6 Contributions to political parties or politicians 10 GRI Content Index  SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior GRI Content Index  SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI Content Index  Social performance indicators: Product responsibility Management approach 7 – 9 SR 11 – 13, SR II – III,  GRI Content Index  PR1 Health and safety impacts along the product life-cycle 7 – 9 SR 11 – 13, SR 31 – 34  PR2 Breaches of health and safety standards 7 GRI Content Index  AO9 Wildlife strikes Indicators and facts  PR3 Statutory information required for products SR 38 – 39  PR4 Breaches of standards for labeling products   GRI Content Index  PR5 Customer satisfaction   SR 12 – 13,  GRI Content Index  PR6 Standards relating to advertising GRI Content Index  PR7 Breaches of advertising regulations  GRI Content Index  PR8 Infringement of protection of customer data GRI Content Index  PR9 Sanctions relating to products and services regulations GRI Content Index  Aspect according to GRI GC Reference Status Appendix GRI-Certi cate  46  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 47  Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA)  ACA is a program of ACI  Europe which assesses the measures taken by European air- ports to manage and reduce their CO2 emissions  Biodiversity  The variety of living creatures, organisms and  plants on earth. Science distinguishes between four aspects  of diversity: genetic diversity, species diversity, diversity of  habitats, and diversity of biological interactions.  CO2 Footprint  The CO2 footprint is a measure for the total  amount of carbondioxide emissions which are caused direc- tly and indirectly by an activity or which are generated over  the life stages of a product. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol  forms the basis for this calculation.   Compliance  According to the interpretation of the German  Corporate Governance Code, compliance relates to confor- mity with laws and internal rules. Corporate compliance is  interpreted to mean maintaining conduct within a company  in conformity with the laws and rules by means of a Compli- ance Management System. Preventive, organizational mea- sures are intended to minimize the liability risk for the com- pany, its management bodies and each individual employee.  COSO II  The COSO Enterprise Risk Management Framework  (COSO II) is a model for qualitative improvement of  nancial  reporting through ethical actions, effective internal checks  and balances, and good corporate governance. It is used for  the establishment and assessment of riskmanagement and  internal control systems. COSO II was developed by the  Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway  Commission (COSO) in 1985, a voluntary private organiza- tion based in the USA.  Council for Sustainable Development  Rat fr nachhaltige  Ent wicklung (RNE). This council is an advisory body set up  by the German federal government with the commitment to  promote the national sustainability strategy, to designate ar- eas of action, and to make sustainability an important public  concern. The council is made up of 15 leading public  gures. Diversity  Variety among the employees of a company in rela- tion to gender, ethnic origin, nationality, age, religious af li- ation, beliefs, physical impairment and sexual orientation. Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)  This important index  for sustainability only lists companies which act as an exem- plary role model for their sustainable corporate governance  in accordance with the criteria of economy, ecology and  commitment in the social and cultural sphere.  EMAS  The Eco Management and Audit Scheme is a system  developed by the European Union for voluntary environ- mental management and environmental performance. This  is an instrument for companies and organizations who want  to continuously improve their environmental performance. Forum Airport and Region  Forum Flughafen und Region  (FFR). This forum addresses issues connected with the   expansion of Frankfurt Airport, the airtraf c industry and  the development of noise. The objective is to engage in   establishing a constructive dialog with the region about  the development of the airport. FTSE4Good  One of the most important sustainability inde- xes, launched by the Financial Times and the London Stock  Exchange in 2001. Companies are listed in this index if they  demonstrate above-average performance in the  elds of   human rights, social standards and environmental protec- tion and continually improve their performance.  German Energy Saving Directive  Energie-Einspar-Verordnung  (EnEV).This directive is part of German building legislation  and de nes standards for property developers relating to   energy-saving heat insulation and energy-saving system  techno logy in buildings. The last amendment came into force  on 1 October 2009.  German Sustainability Building Council  Deutsche Gesells- chaft fr nachhaltiges Bauen (DGNB). The mission of this  council is to develop and promote initiatives and solutions  for sustainable construction, use and planning of buildings.  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and Scopes  The Greenhouse  Gas Protocol develops internationally recognized reporting  standards for reporting greenhouse gas emissions generated  by companies. The emissions are classi ed into three so-called  Scopes on the basis of their origin. Scope 1: Emissions that  are generated and controlled directly as part of the business  activity of the company (e.g. by the combustion of fuel in   company vehicles). Scope 2: Emissions that are generated   indirectly by third parties for the company (e.g. electricity   generated by utility companies). Scope 3: Indirect emissions  that are outside the direct control of the company but are   generated because they play an important role in the business  activities of the company (e.g. travel by passengers to and  from the airport). ISAGO Certi cate  The IATA Safety Audit for Ground Opera- tions Certi cate issued by IATA (International Air Transport  Association) de nes worldwide uniform safety and quality  standards for providers of ground handling services for the   rst time ever. ISO 14001  The international environmental management  standard ISO 14001 formulates requirements which are inten- ded to support companies when building a system of envi- ronmental management embedded in management. The  central focus is a continuous improvement process directed  toward implementing de ned environmental targets. ISO 9001  The ISO 9001 standard de nes speci cations for a  quality management system which can be used for internal  applications by organizations or for certi cation or contrac- tual purposes. ISO 9001 is directed toward promoting the  effectiveness of the quality management system in ful lling  customers requirements. OHSAS 18001  Internationally recognized speci cation for  occupational health and safety management systems. This is  compatible with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, and supports the  company in ef ciently ful lling its commitments to occupa- tional health and safety in the workplace. Ombudswoman  The key function of the ombudswoman   (external lawyer) is to receive con dentially any information  about criminal activities relating to the company and inad- missible business practices to the detriment of the company.  The ombudswoman provides an additional contact partner  outside the company for a whistleblower, who would not  necessarily like to take his or her concerns to the inhouse   of ces responsible for such matters. The ombudswoman is  committed to the attorney client privilege and therefore has  an obligation to con dentiality. Photovoltaics  Direct conversion of radiation energy, primar- ily solar energy, into electrical energy. Photovoltaic cells are  used to generate electricity and are found mainly on roofs,  at parking meters, in pocket calculators, at noise abatement  walls or in open spaces.  Population equivalent  Represents the amount of oxygen   required by the wastewater produced by one person in one  day (measured as the BOD or Biochemical Oxygen Demand). 73  Glossary  Print compensated Id-No. 1218596 www.bvdm-online.de Publisher Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide 60547 Frankfurt, Germany Telephone:  0180 5 3724636* or:   01805 FRAINFO* From abroad: +49 69 690-0 Internet:  www.fraport.de   Contact Sustainability Management Jrg Kmer Senior Vice President Sustainability Management  and Corporate Compliance  Telephone:  +49 69 690-60636 Fax:  +49 69 690-60288  Email:   j.kaemer@fraport.de Specialist consultation and design phorbis Communications AG, Basel, Switzerland English translation Tristam Carrington-Windo, Oxford, England Print Burger Druck, Waldkirch, Germany Photography Olaf Becker, becker lacour GbR, Frankfurt am Main Erhard Blatt, Hessian State Chancellery Of ce,  Wiesbaden Sabine Eder, Fraport AG  Helmut Hofmann, Fraport AG Andreas Meinhardt, Fraport AG Stefan Rebscher, Fraport AG  Hubert Zimmerhakl, Fraport AG  Fotoarchiv, Fraport AG Julian Salinas, Basel Ralph Larmann, Ralph Larmann Company,  Hadamar ICF Airports, Antalya Rhine-Main Regional Park, Flrsheim am Main *  14 cents a minute from a German landline;  maximum of 42 cents from a mobile phone. Nicole Scheer Senior Executive Manager  Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Telephone: +49 69 690-20429  Fax:   +49 69 495-20429  Emaill:   n.scheer@fraport.de The Fraport Sustainability Report 2011 was   ma nufactured from 100 % recycled paper  paying particular attention to environmental  conser vation and climate protection. It has  been awarded the Blue Angel environmental   certi cation (RAL-ZU 14), one of the worlds   strictest environmental labels. The Enviro Top paper used for this report was  manufactured from 100 % recycled paper in a  carbon-neutral process without the additional  of any optical brighteners and without bleach  containing the element chlorine. The paper is  FSC certi ed and has also been awarded the  Blue Angel label. Fraport has neutralized the CO2 emissions  generated in connection with the printing and  production of this report. The corresponding  quantity of emission rights (EU Allowance) were  eliminated on 23.04.2012 with the transaction  ID-No. 1218596. Publishing information Glossary Appendix Publishing information 48  Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 49