Responsible energy CSR Report 2010 R esp o n si bi l i ty i s a t the  he art of  e ve rything  the  PGNiG Grou p a n d  it s  em p l o yees do . I t i s our core  value . In  a l l o u r a cti vi ti es, we  strive  for balance  and a s moot h  c omb in a t ion  of  bu s i ness, so ci al  and e nvironme ntal obje ctive s. 2/ 207  Our m i ssi on in the  are a of  sustainable  d ev elopmen t  is  t o b e a  res pon s ib le a c t or  on  t h e  Po l i sh  en e rg y  marke t, one  that unde rst a n d s  a n d  res pec t s  t h e n eed s  a n d  expec t a t ion s  o f k ey stake holde rs and the  natural e nv iron men t ,  a n d  promot es  in n ov a t iv e a n d  en v i ro nm e nt-f rie ndly solutions and te c h n ologies .  1. Mission and values is the  foun d a t ion  of d a y -t o-d a y  w or k  of ea c h  PGN iG e mp loy ee,  ir res pec t iv e of t h eir  job ;  it  is  also a cha llen ge mot iv a t in g u s  t o w or k  t ow a rd s  our common  good . We understand responsibility as:   care for our economic, social and natural environment    joint efforts designed to build the Companys value and reputation    care for the security of our business partners and customers   avoiding confl icts of interest   refraining from accepting and offering gifts and undue fi nancial benefi ts Responsibility is the  foun d a t ion  of d a y -t o-d a y  w or k  of ea c h  PGN iG e mp loy ee,  ir res pec t iv e of t h eir  job ;  it  is  also a cha llen ge mot iv a t in g u s  t o w or k  t ow a rd s  our common  good . We understand responsibility as:   care for our economic, social and natural environment    joint efforts designed to build the Companys value and reputation    care for the security of our business partners and customers   avoiding confl icts of interest   refraining from accepting and offering gifts and undue fi nancial benefi ts Responsibility is the  buildin g of lon g-t er m rela t ion s h ips ,  base d on mut u a l t r u s t  a n d  b en efit in g a ll pa r t ies  involve d, bot h  w it h in  P GNiG –  w it h  ou r  employ ees  and trade  un ion s ,  a n d  ext er n a lly  –  w it h  ou r  custome rs, loc a l c ommu n it ies  a n d  ot h er  ma r k et  play e rs. We understand partnership as:   creating conditions conducive to cooperation   care for the interpersonal relations among employees   tolerance for diverse views and expectations at the workplace   dialogue with the Companys stakeholders and responsiveness to their  needs Partnership is the  build in g of lon g-t er m rela t ion s h ips ,  base d on mu t u a l t r u s t  a n d  b en efit in g a ll pa r t ies  involve d, b ot h  w it h in  P GNiG –  w it h  ou r  employ ees  and trade  u n ion s ,  a n d  ext er n a lly  –  w it h  ou r  custome rs ,  loc a l c ommu n it ies  a n d  ot h er  ma r k et  play e rs. We understand partnership as:   creating conditions conducive to cooperation   care for the interpersonal relations among employees   tolerance for diverse views and expectations at the workplace   dialogue with the Companys stakeholders and responsiveness to their  needs Partnership 3/ 207  is a long-t er m a n d  c on s is t en t  effor t  a imed  t o  foste r a cu lt u re of c ommu n ic a t ion ,  b a s ed  on  dialog ue  an d  in s pir in g t r u s t  a mon g a ll ou r  stake holder s . We understand reliability as:   maintaining confi dentiality of information and protecting business secrets   ensuring transparency of operations and information    acting on our commitments   fair and responsible competition   transparency of sponsorship, grants and CSR programmes Reliability is the  cons t a n t  per fec t in g of ou r  prod u c t s  and se rvic es  b y  implemen t in g in n ov a t iv e  te chnologies ,  s t rea mlin in g ma n a gemen t  s y s t ems  and cre ati n g et h ic s -d r iv en  en v iron men t  a t  P GNiG  S A, in line  w it h  t h e a s pir a t ion s  of ou r  c u s t omer s ,  e mploye e s  a n d  pa r t n er s .  We understand quality as:   building our relations with customers and business partners    ensuring high standards of advertising    focus on development   making good use of our employees potential Quality  We understand reliability as:   maintaining confi dentiality of information and protecting business secrets   ensuring transparency of operations and information    acting on our commitments   fair and responsible competition   transparency of sponsorship, grants and CSR programmes Reliability is the  cons t a n t  per fec t in g of ou r  prod u c t s  and se rvic es  b y  implemen t in g in n ov a t iv e  te chnologies ,  s t rea mlin in g ma n a gemen t  s y s t ems  and cre ati n g et h ic s -d r iv en  en v iron men t  a t  P GNiG  S A, in line  w it h  t h e a s pir a t ion s  of ou r  c u s t omer s ,  e mploye e s  a n d  pa r t n er s .  We understand quality as:   building our relations with customers and business partners    ensuring high standards of advertising    focus on development   making good use of our employees potential Quality  4/ 207 0. Tytu  La di es a nd G en tle me n, I t i s a p l easure for me  to pre se nt anothe r R es pon s ib le  energ y  rep o rt, which showcase s the  social a n d  env i ro nm en ta l  involve me nt of  PGN iG and its en t ire Grou p.  2. Letter from the President It is no coincidence that we have decided to keep  the title adopted two years ago, which is at the  same time the name of a series of conferences  dealing with the issue of sustainable development  in the energy industry, organised every year in  June. The energy sectors responsibility cannot be  overestimated in the face of the shrinking natural  resources, energy shortages, or even energy pov- erty affecting many families, and – on the other  hand – the growing challenges of counteracting  climate change and reducing CO2 emissions.  For this reason, PGNiG is determined to mobilise  the energy industry around the idea of sustainable  development – we do believe that we are able to  cooperate in this field to the benefit of all. Hence  our ideas of the Responsible Energy Conference  and the Declaration on Sustainable Development  in the Energy Sector in Poland, which has already  been signed by 20 companies in Poland. We are all  the more eager to get involved in initiatives under- taken by our partners, including the Responsible  Business Forum, the Employers of Poland and the  Warsaw Stock Exchange – sponsor of the RESPECT  Index. We attach as much importance to their pro- jects as to our own initiatives aimed at developing  and increasing the value of PGNiG and the entire  PGNiG Group, in line with the sustainability princi- ples. Our participation in the United Nations Global  Compact initiative proves that the PGNiG Group is  part of the global business community, which is  concerned with fostering values and making pro- gress for the sake of the future social and natural  environment, and not just to maximise profits.  5/ 207  gas production from the Norwegian Continental  Shelf in 2011. Our German subsidiary, POGC Trad- ing, whose business activity will involve trading in  natural gas, is also due to commence operations  in 2011. The 2010 financial performance was the  best since the Company floated its shares on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange – with sales revenue at a  record-breaking level.  I am all the more pleased that we managed to con- tinue all along with the implementation of our Sus- tainable Development and Corporate Responsibility  Strategy, including work on the Code of Ethics, as  a result of which we were able to formally appoint  the Ethics Officer in 2011 and develop the appropri- ate system, which has recently been put in place in  the entire Company.  Once again, PGNiG was named the most socially  responsible company from the fuel and energy  sector in the Ranking of Responsible Companies  published by the Dziennik Gazeta Prawna daily.  We have also been included in the RESPECT Index  of the Warsaw Stock Exchange since its inception.  These are all reasons for satisfaction, but also a  stimulus to improve further. 2010 was the first year  in our history when the PGNiG Group operated  in accordance with the Sustainable Development  and Responsible Business Strategy. This is the right  way to move the Company closer to its stakehold- ers – customers, business and social partners,  state authorities and local governments. I am truly  grateful to all employees of PGNiG and the whole  Group for their commitment, professionalism, and  creativity. I believe that by conducting our business  in a sustainable way we are laying the most solid  foundation to successfully build the PGNiG Groups  long-term value, in line with the aspirations of our  shareholders, management staff, employees and  all partners.  I encourage you to read the Responsible energy  report and share your opinions, doubts, and ideas.  Together we can achieve more.  Yours faithfully, Micha Szubski President of PGNiG SA In 2010, we carried out a number of business  projects of great importance for the PGNiG Group.  First of all, we successfully concluded negotiations  with our Russian partner, gaining confidence that  we will be able to meet our fundamental objec- tive, which has always been to provide secure and  reliable energy supplies. In addition, we completed  work on the underground storage facility for  nitrogen-rich gas in Bonikowo and carried out the  first projects that will allow PGNiG to become one  of the key players of the power sector. The latter  included the construction project, executed jointly  with Tauron, for Polands biggest natural gas-fired  CHP plant in Stalowa Wola, as well as agreements  concluded with Lotos and KGHM. The assets of  the PGNiG Groups existing assembly and con- struction companies were used to establish a new  company, PGNiG Technologie, which will enhance  our competitiveness in this area. In 2010, PGNiG  Norway acquired interests in new exploration  licences on the North Sea, and work was continued  to enable PGNiG to launch crude oil and natural  6/ 207 2. List Prezesa Zarzdu  Natural gas production 4.22 billion cubic metres Crude oil production 501 thousand tonnes Natural gas imports 10.07 billion cubic metres Natural gas sales 14.42 billion cubic metres Length of the distribution network 117 thousand km 3.  PGNiG   company  profile: key results in 2010 7/ 207  Gaseous fuel distribution PGNiGs sales of natural gas to industrial customers in 2010 Structure of natural gas sales to industrial customers in 2010 Nitrogen processing plants 26.1% Power and CHP plants 7.3% Heat-generating plants 4.0% Refining and petrochemical industries 11.3% Food industry 9.3% Iron and steel works 6.2% Glass works 8.2% Producers of building materials and ceramics 6.5% Other industrial customers 21.1% DSG GSG KSG MSG PSG WSG Total No. of customers (million) 0.75 1.3 1.4 1.5 0.75 0.9 6.6 Volume distributed (million cubic metres) 1078 1466 1924 2132 992 1688 9280 Length of distribution network,  excluding connections (thousand km) 7.74 20.88 44.76 18.90 9.59 15.49 117.36 8/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010  Households 28% Nitrogen processing plants 15% Heat and energy producers 9% Other industrial customers 34% Trade and services 11% Others 3% Volume of gas sold in 2010 Headcount as at the end of 2010, by segment (persons) 2010 2009 2008 PGNiG Head Office 840 833 837 Exploration and Production 11,592 10,800 10,725 Trade and Storage 3,809 3,836 3,793 Distribution 13,881 13,851 13,746 Other Activities 2,296 2,073 2,044 Total 32,418 31,393 31,145 9/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010  In 2010, PLN 6,000,800 was donated by the PGNiG  Head Office to finance various purposes, includ- ing the activity of PGNiGs Ignacy ukasiewicz  Foundation. In 2010, the Group recorded the best financial  results since the first listing of its stock on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange. Sales revenue reached  a record-high level of PLN 21.3bn and net profit  amounted to 2.5bn. Such robust results can be  attributed mainly to a record-breaking volume of  natural gas sold, but also to higher revenues from  sales of crude oil, as well as geological, geophysi- cal and exploration services.  The PGNiG Group is the leader of the Polish natural  gas market. Companies of the PGNiG Group em- ploy approximately 30 thousand people, deployed  in Belgium, Belarus, Denmark, Egypt, Norway,  Pakistan, Russia, Ukraine and, primarily, Poland,  where we are one of the largest employers. Our core business consists in the production and  sale of natural gas and crude oil. Both domestically  and abroad, we are engaged in geophysical and  geological research, exploration for and produc- tion of hydrocarbons, as well as preparation of  products for sale. We operate in Denmark, Egypt,  India, Yemen, Kazakhstan, Mozambique, Pakistan  and Uganda. PGNiG is also involved in projects re- lated to the production of hydrocarbons from the  fields on the Norwegian Continental Shelf.  The Group sells natural gas produced in Poland,  as well as imported gas. To secure stable and  continuous supplies of natural gas, the PGNiG  Group stores gas in eight modern underground  gas storage facilities. Our gas is supplied through  thousands of kilometres of pipelines, owned and  operated by our six regional gas companies, to  households, small and medium-sized businesses  and large industrial plants.  PGNiG has been listed on the Warsaw Stock Ex- change since September 2005. The PGNiG Group  has enjoyed growing confidence of the capital  market and has been assigned excellent credit  ratings. Our stature is confirmed by the fact that  PGNiG shares are included in WIG20, the blue-chip  index of the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Since Octo- ber 2009, the shares have also been included in  the Respect social responsibility index.  Financial highlights of the PGNiG Group  [PLNm]  2010 2009  2008 2007  2006  2005  Sales revenue 21 281  19 332  18 432 16 652  15 198  12 560  Net profit (loss) 2 457 1 237  866  916 1 328  881  Assets 34 316 31 074 29 745  28 402  30 677  30 364  Equity 23 519  21 435 20 716  21 022  21 153  20 768  * Data sourced from the annual Consolidated Financial Statements  10/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010  3.2. PGNiG on the stock exchange  T h e year 2010 marke d the  f if th anniv er s a r y  of P GNiG s  IP O  on  t h e Wa r s a w  Sto ck  Exchang e . The  ye ar was notabl e for  y et  a n ot h er  rea s on  –  in  Ju ly  t h e  C o m p anys f re e  f loat incre ase d f rom 1 5 %  t o 2 7 % . PGNiG is one of the largest Polish companies listed  on the Warsaw market. The Company enjoys the  blue-chip status, and its shares are listed as part  of the WIG20 index (since December 15th 2005) and  the prestigious index of socially responsible com- panies. Alongside nine other names from the fuel  sector, PGNiG is included in the WIG-Fuels sectoral  index. On January 25th 2011, for the second time the WSE  announced a list of companies to be included in  the RESPECT social responsibility index. PGNiG was  again among the select group of 16 names listed  as part of that index. The Company stock was  also included in the new WIGdiv index, listed since  January 3rd 2011. WIGdiv comprises 30 stocks with  the highest dividend yields and regular dividend  payments. 12/ 207 More on PGNiG   on the stock exchange in 2010  3.3. Corporate governance C o mp l i ance wi th corporate  gove rnance  prin c iples  is  o f vi tal  i m p o rtance  to the  PGN iG Group. We t rea t  a ll  o ur sha reho l de rs in a f air, e q ual and hone st  ma n n er,  ma k i n g  every e f fort to build e xce lle nt re lat ion s  b et w een  i nv esto rs and the  Company s gove rning  bod ies . General Shareholders Meeting The General Shareholders Meeting is the supreme  body of PGNiG, exercising shareholder rights.  Through the General Shareholders Meeting share- holders perform their corporate rights, by exam- ining and approving Directors Reports, taking  decisions as to the amount, method and date of  dividend payment, and more. The GSM grants dis- charge to members of the other governing bodies  in respect of their performance of duties, appoints  members of the Supervisory Board, and takes  decisions concerning the Companys assets. Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board exercises continuous su- pervision over the Companys activities in all  areas of its operations, pursuant to the Rules of  Procedure for the Supervisory Board. The Supervi- sory Board is composed of five to nine members,  including one independent member, appointed  by the General Shareholders Meeting for a joint  three-year term. The State Treasury is entitled to  appoint and remove one member of the Supervi- sory Board for as long as it remains a shareholder  of PGNiG. In addition, two members are elected by  PGNiGs employees if the Supervisory Board con- sists of up to six members, and three if there are  from seven to nine Supervisory Board members. Until July 19th 2010, the Supervisory Board  was composed of eight members, including  Stanisaw Rychlicki, Grzegorz Banaszek, Agnieszka  Chmielarz, Marek Karabua, Mieczysaw Kawecki,  Marcin Mory, Mieczysaw Puawski, and Jolanta  Siergiej. Currently, the Supervisory Board has  seven members, as Mr Marek Karabua was ap- pointed Vice-President of the Management Board  for Petroleum Mining.  The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr  Stanisaw Rychlicki, does not perform any execu- tive or managerial functions at the Company. 13/ 207  Management Board The Management Board is the executive body  managing the Companys business and represent- ing the Company in all actions before and out of  court. The Management Board is composed of  two to seven members, with the precise number  defined by the Supervisory Board. Members of  the Management Board are appointed for a joint  three-year term. The powers of the Manage- ment Board include all matters pertaining to the  management of PGNiGs business which have not  been reserved for or delegated to other governing  bodies of the Company by any applicable laws or  the Companys Articles of Association. The Man- agement Board operates on the basis of applica- ble laws, including in particular the Commercial  Companies Code, as well as on the basis of the  Companys Articles of Association and the Rules of  Procedure for the Management Board. Currently, the Management Board is composed  of five members: Micha Szubski – President,   Radosaw Dudziski – Vice-President, Strategy;  Sawomir Hinc – Vice-President, Finance; Marek  Karabua – Vice-President, Petroleum Mining; and  Mirosaw Szkauba – Vice-President. PGNiG has appropriate procedures in place to  prevent conflicts of interests for members of its  supreme supervisory body. The process of pre- venting such conflicts is part of the public recruit- ment procedure: a job opening is announced on  the website of the Ministry of State Treasury. In 2009, the PGNiG Group introduced Management  by Objectives (MBO), a system whereby it is pos- sible to measure employees performance, rather  than compensate them for their working time.  MBO was initially implemented for management  boards of subsidiaries, heads of branches and  heads of departments at the PGNiG Head Office.  After one year, the managerial staff was obliged  to report on the progress with the objectives as- signed to them. If they were attained, a bonus was  granted to well-performing managers. This man- agement system provides great support for the  PGNiG Management Board in the pursuit of objec- tives set in the Groups strategy, by linking the ob- jectives set before individual organisational units  with the broad framework of strategic objectives. Micha Szubski – President  (a ppoin t ed  t o t h e M a n a gemen t  Boa rd  on  M a rc h  1 2 t h 2 0 0 8 ,  re- a ppoin t ed  for  a n ot h er  t er m of  offic e on  M a rc h  1 3 t h 2 0 1 1 ) Mr Micha Szubski graduated from the Faculty of  Law and Administration at the University of War- saw. He completed postgraduate courses in man- agement of energy companies and natural gas  transport and distribution. He joined PGNiG in 1994  and was first employed as Head of the Presidium  Office of the Company. He later held the position  of Head of the Legal Office and then served as  Head of the Corporate Office. Since October 2000,  he worked at the Mazovian Gas Distribution Divi- sion, the Warsaw Gas Sales Unit, first as Deputy  Director for Restructuring and then as General  Director. Between 2003 and 2007, he was Presi- dent of the Management Board of gas distribution  company Mazowiecka Spka Gazownictwa Sp. z  o.o. From July 2007 to March 2008 he served as  advisor to the Management Board of PGNiG. Cur- rently, Mr Micha Szubski holds the position of  Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of System  Gazocigw Przesyowych EuRoPol GAZ SA and  serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of  PGNiG Norway A/S.  14/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010  Audit Committee The Audit Committee has been a standing commit- tee of the Supervisory Board since November 27th  2008. It consists of at least three members of the  Supervisory Board, including at least one member  who is independent of the Company and of enti- ties having significant links with PGNiG and who  is elected by the General Shareholders Meeting  pursuant to PGNiGs Articles of Association. Such  a person has to be competent in accounting and  finance. Members of the Audit Committee are ap- pointed by the Supervisory Board. Best practices The Management Board of PGNiG is strongly com- mitted to compliance with the principles of cor- porate governance. Since its debut on the stock  exchange in 2005, the Company has followed the  recommendations of the Warsaw Stock Exchange  contained in Best Practices for WSE Listed Com- panies. PGNiGs corporate governance reports  have been published on the Companys website  at www.pgnig.pl in the Corporate Governance  section.  Culture of dialogue PGNiG is engaged in a broad-based dialogue with  the market. The Company meets its disclosure  obligations towards shareholders and other stake- holders of the capital market by publishing reports  on its current operations and financial reports, and  by organising press conferences devoted to the  Companys key projects and strategic objectives.  Rules of Procedure for the General Shareholders  Meeting, the Supervisory Board, the Management  Board and the Audit Committee, as well as the Ar- ticles of Association, are available on the Company  website at www.pgnig.pl, in the Investor Rela- tions/Corporate Governance section. 15/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 More on the risks  3.4. Operations and the value chain P GNi G s  k ey o bj ecti ve is to e nsure  re liable  and se cu re s u pplies  o f  c l ea n, en v i ro nm en t-f rie ndly  e ne rg y. The  PGN iG Grou p is  open  to  n ew c ha l l en g es, wh ile  re maining  f aithf ul to its tr a d it ion  a n d  str i v i n g  to  retai n  i ts c ustome rs trust. In our busines s  a c t iv it ies ,  we w a n t  to  be a  rel i a ble  partne r, de ve loping and bu ild in g v a lu e in  li n e  w i th the su sta i n a ble  g rowth principle s. PGNiG is a company with a long-standing tradi- tion, enjoying an established position of the leader  of the Polish gas market. Over the many years  of its development, the Company has accumu- lated valuable assets and now controls a number  of segments of the energy market (natural gas  production, storage, sale and distribution), which  provides a solid foundation for PGNiGs further  growth and steady value increase. The overarching strategic objective pursued by  PGNiG SA is to enhance its shareholder value. In its  efforts to achieve this objective, in June 2011 the  Company adopted 18 strategic objectives under  the Updated Strategy for the PGNiG Group until  2015, pursued within six components of the value  chain: The following main strategic objectives make up  the PGNiG Groups vision: to become, by 2015,  a modern and efficiently-managed organisation  controlling almost the entire value chain in the gas  sector, and holding assets in the fuel and power  sectors. The attainment of those strategic objec- tives will largely rely on activities concentrating in  three areas: 1) hydrocarbon exploration and production un- dertaken domestically and abroad, to ensure  access to new oil and gas reserves; 2) the power sector, focusing on the development  of gas-fired power generation in Poland; 3) management of the Companys natural gas  portfolio and activities on the European gas  trading market. 1 2 3 4 5 6 New Business  Areas Sales  Distribution  Storage  Wholesale/ Trading  Exploration  and  Production 16/ 207  Retail  customers  (households) Industrial  customers Direct  customers The PGNiG Groups value chain 17/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 Exploration and  Production Storage Wholesale/ Trading  Sales New Business Areas Distribution  Exploration and Production Access to own reserves is a key to success. For this  reason, PGNiG is developing its exploration and  production business both in Poland and abroad.  The updated strategy sets the following strategic  objectives:   to develop the exploration and production  business in Poland;   to develop the international E&P business fo- cused on key regions;   to enhance capabilities and optimise activities  in the Exploration and Production Business. Actions taken to pursue these objectives include:   Increasing domestic production of natural gas  to about 4.5 billion cubic metres and crude oil  to about 1.0 million tonnes; developing explo- ration and production from deep geological  formations and non-structural traps; main- taining the leading position among holders of  licenses for unconventional gas exploration in  Poland; and maintaining the reserves sustain- ability index at no less than 1.1.   Increasing the annual international production  of natural gas to 1.5 billion – 2.0 billion cubic  metres and crude oil to 0.6 million – 1.0 million  tonnes in the key regions; and increasing the  international reserves of natural gas to 18.0bil- lion – 22.0billion cubic metres and crude oil to  7.5million – 9.5 million tonnes.   Developing capabilities in the international off- shore exploration and production, and in the  exploration and production of unconventional  gas, introducing new systems of fees and  charges for work performed by the service  companies (including the daily rate system),  and investigating the feasibility of enhancing  crude oil and gas production with the use of  CO2 injections. Our achievements to-date The majority of tasks performed in 2010 focused  on the development of new fields and enhance- ment of recovery from producing fields. The most  important one was the LMG project consisting in  the development of the Lubiatw, Midzychd  and Grotw crude oil and natural gas fields, on  which the Company spent over PLN400m in 2010.  Other significant projects implemented under this  objective included the construction of a denitrid- ing plant in Grodzisk Wielkopolski (completed  in 2010), including connection of wells, as well  as development of fields in roda Wielkopolska,  Rudka, Rylowa-Rajsko, Wola Raniecka and Gra  Ropczycka. As part of the exploration work and surveys,  PGNiG carried out almost 50 kilometres of drilling,  acquired 2.9 thousand kilometres of 2D seismic  and nearly 900 square kilometres of 3D seismic in  Poland and abroad. The development of the Skarv  field on the Norwegian Continental Shelf is cur- rently the largest and most advanced of the Com- panys international exploration and production  projects. Production from the Skarv field is sched- uled to be launched in the second half of 2011,  doubling the annual production of crude oil, which  currently totals 0.5 million tonnes. In Poland, PGNiG SA currently holds 15 licenses  covering areas where shale gas has been or will  be explored and appraised. The licences cover  an area stretching from the Pomerania region to  the Mazovia and Lublin regions, to the Rzeszw  region. Furthermore, the Company holds several  licenses covering areas with tight gas potential,  primarily in Greater Poland. In July 2010, the first test well (Markowola-1) was  drilled in the Lublin region with a view to explor- ing shale gas. PGNiG carried out Polands first two  hydraulic fracturing procedures. The second well  (Lubocino-1) was drilled in the Pomerania region,  near Wejherowo. Drilling of the well with a total  depth of 3.5 kilometres was completed in March  2011. The drilled well revealed promising gas flows  in silurian shales, which is to be analysed in the  coming months. The Company has also been car- rying out study and design work in other license  areas. 18/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 Back   to the value chain  Wholesale/Trading  In order to accommodate domestic demand for  natural gas, the PGNiG Group produces gas from  its own reserves and purchases gas abroad. The  Groups own production covers around 30% of  total demand, with the balance covered by im- ports, mainly from countries east of Poland (with  Gazprom Export being the largest supplier). In an  effort to ensure uninterrupted and secure supplies  of natural gas, the updated strategy sets the fol- lowing strategic objectives:   to maximise the use of existing infrastructure  and to secure sufficient capacities;   to increase flexibility of natural gas supplies;   to develop domestic/international multi-com- modity trading and international sales. Actions taken to pursue the objectives include:   using spare capacities of the LNG terminal,  reserving capacities at the Lasw interconnec- tor and capacities potentially available in the  virtual reverse flow on the Yamal pipeline;   renegotiating long-term contracts, increas- ing their flexibility and changing the purchase  portfolio structure by increasing the share of  volumes purchased under short-term contracts  to 15%;   creating the Portfolio Management and Risk  Management functions within PGNiG, as well  as launching oil, gas, electricity and emis- sion certificate trading, and launching sales to  industrial customers on the German market at  the level of 0.5 billion – 0.7 billion cubic metres.  Moreover, efforts are being made to combine  gas and electricity trading within one entity  and to develop a concept for the use of oil and  gas volumes produced as part of international  cooperation. Our achievements to-date With a view to securing an appropriate structure  of import contracts, in June 2009 PGNiG signed  an agreement with Qatargas Operating Company  for the sale and delivery of LNG from Qatar to the  LNG terminal in winoujcie. Under the agreement,  starting from 2014, Qatargas will be delivering to  PGNiG 1 million tonnes of LNG a year for a period  of 20 years. In October 2010, following a long round of nego- tiations, PGNiG and Gazprom Export executed an  annex to the Yamal Contract, whereby the an- nual volume of natural gas supplies to Poland in  2010 – 2022 was increased by approximately 2bil- lion cubic metres and the ban on gas re-export  to third-party countries was lifted. The annex  also introduces a preference price in the period  2010 – 2014 for the quantities of gas offtaken in a  given year above the contracted Minimum Annual  Quantities. Then, in December 2010, PGNiG established POGC  Trading GmbH of Munich, Germany, through  which it intends to conduct international trading  in natural gas and crude oil. Through the newly- established company, PGNiG intends to become  fully involved in gas trading on the German market  starting from 2012, using its own gas from Nor- way. Subsequently, POGC Trading may expand its  operations to enter the Dutch or even the British  markets. 19/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 Back   to the value chain  Storage  The storage business plays a key role in stabilising  the volatile demand for natural gas and ensuring  secure gas supplies to our customers. Given the  development of the market and the need to har- monise the storage capacities with the legal re- quirements, PGNiG is involved in projects designed  to expand the existing and construct new under- ground gas storage facilities. By 2015, the planned  expansion projects are expected to increase our  storage capacities to approximately 3 billion cubic  metres. The updated strategy sets the following strate- gic objectives relating to the storage capacity  expansion:   to ensure sufficient storage capacities;   to separate Storage System Operator activities  and transfer them to a new entity;   to maintain the profitability of the Storage  Business following the launch of new under- ground gas storage facilities. Actions taken to pursue these objectives include:   increasing the storage capacities by approxi- mately 1.4 billion cubic metres, to a total of  approximately 3.0 billion cubic metres, as well  as securing EU funds to finance the projects;   establishing an internal organisational struc- ture for the separated Storage System Opera- tor and executing service agreements with the  PGNiG Group;   maintaining the pre-tax WACC at 8% – 10% and  maximising sales of storage services. Our achievements to-date In 2010, over 60% of all funds allocated to the  construction and expansion of high-methane  gas storage facilities were spent to extend the  Wierzchowice facility, the largest natural gas stor- age site in Poland. In November 2008, a contract  for extension of the Wierzchowice underground  gas storage facility from its current capacity of  0.575billion cubic metres to 1.2 billion cubic me- tres was executed with a consortium led by PBG.  The contract value is about PLN1.1bn. More im- portantly, in 2010 the European Commission ap- proved PGNiG SAs application for financial support  and awarded co-financing for four underground  gas storage projects in Poland for a total amount  of PLN673.4m, including PLN503.6m for the Wier- zchowice facility. Also in November 2008, the process of formal and  legal separation of the Storage System Operator  was completed. Under a decision of December 31st  2008, the President of the Energy Regulatory Of- fice (URE) appointed PGNiG as the Storage System  Operator. In November 2010, Operator Systemu  Magazynowania Sp. z o.o. was established to  ensure compliance with the requirements of Direc- tive 2009/73/EC with respect to legal separation of  gaseous fuel storage from other types of business  conducted by a vertically integrated gas utility. In November 2009, the Daszewo underground gas  storage facility – a new facility and Polands first  capacity for storage of nitrogen-rich gas – came  online. The working capacity of the Daszewo facil- ity is 30 million cubic metres. The construction of  the Bonikowo underground gas storage facility for  nitrogen-rich gas was also completed in 2010. Its  capacity amounts to 200 million cubic metres. 20/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 Back   to the value chain  Distribution Distribution has an important role to play in the  building of the PGNiG Groups value. The updated  strategy provides for the following strategic objec- tives relating to the distribution business:   to improve the profitability of the Distribution  Business;   to optimise costs and functions;   to optimise development of the distribution  network. Actions taken to pursue these objectives include:   increasing the regulatory value of assets ap- proved by the Energy Regulatory Office and  closing the cost gap in the tariff;   implementing the strategic procurement  functions at the distribution companies, estab- lishing a shared services centre for the distri- bution companies and optimising network/ improving efficiency;   establishing uniform rules for the distribu- tion network development (including ten-year  investment plans), streamlining the legally  permitted platform of communicating demand  generated by customers and the Sales Busi- ness, and launching a pilot programme to  assess the feasibility of implementing a smart  meter reading system. Our achievements to-date In 2010, approximately a quarter of the capital  expenditure incurred in the distribution segment  was allocated to development of the distribution  network. As a result, in 2010 the length of the net- work was extended by approximately 1500 kilo- metres. The distribution companies carried out a  number of projects involving construction of new  connections, upgrade and replacement of cast iron  pipes and procurement of new metering systems.  In 2010, the segments expenditure on the net- work accounted for 80% of the aggregate capital  expenditure. 21/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 Back   to the value chain  Sales As part of its trading business, PGNiG satisfies  domestic demand for gaseous fuel through trans- actions involving purchase/sale of natural gas.  Natural gas is sold to both retail customers (house- holds) and the industrial sector. Given the dynamic  changes in the legal and business environments,  the PGNiG Group takes various steps in the gas  trading area to maintain its leading position on the  liberalised Polish market. The updated strategy provides for the following  strategic objectives relating to the sales business:    to maintain the leading position on the Polish  market;   to improve operating efficiency. Actions taken to pursue these objectives include:   developing new products and product ranges,  improving customer service, winning new  customers both within and outside of the gas  transmission networks geographical coverage,  entering the electricity market by approaching  small and medium-sized enterprises and busi- ness customers with a dual-fuel offering (the  gas plus electricity package);   developing and implementing actions support- ing deregulation of the natural gas market,  preparing PGNiG for new competition on the  Polish market. Our achievements to-date Since 2007, the PGNiG Group has been gradually  increasing its sales of natural gas. The only excep- tion was 2009, when due to the economic slow- down the amount of gas purchased by industrial  customers dropped by 8% relative to 2008. In  2010, the Group managed to compensate for this  loss with the Companys highest ever sales reach- ing 14.4 billion cubic metres. To meet the growing  demand for gas, in October 2010 the Company  executed an annex to the Yamal Contract with  Gazprom Export, whereby the maximum annual  volumes of gas supplies to Poland were increased  by approximately 2 billion cubic metres. PGNiG Group has also taken first steps to extend  its product offering by expanding the CNG market  and increasing the LNG output. This is particularly  important on the Polish market, where trade in,  transmission and distribution of natural gas are  regulated businesses. Among the investment pro- jects executed in 2010 by the Gas Trading Divisions  was the construction of a CNG station, modernisa- tion of boiler rooms and buildings, as well as other  projects implemented to serve the needs of the 23  gas sales units. 22/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 Back   to the value chain  New Business Areas As new growth opportunities for PGNiG emerge,  we take steps to expand the scope and scale of  our operations through strategic alliances and–  following appropriate analyses – mergers and  acquisitions in the following sub-sectors:   power generation,   heat generation,   crude oil. Accordingly, the updated strategy sets the follow- ing strategic objectives for the new business areas:    to develop the power sector;   to reorganise the PGNiG Group;   to enhance the efficiency of PGNiG as a pro- ject-oriented organisation;   to review options for optimising logistics  infrastructure. Actions taken to pursue these objectives include:   developing gas-fired generation projects in  cooperation with Polish and foreign partners,  using off-system gas to generate electricity in  the modular technology, as well as offering  power outsourcing services for the corporate  sector;   preparing and implementing a concept for:  disposal of certain PGNiG Group companies,  operational optimising of the Group compa- nies with strong growth potential, optimising  of intra-Group purchases, as well as prepar- ing and implementing a Voluntary Termination  scheme;   preparing an incentive scheme for members of  project teams, strengthening the management  of large investment and M&A projects and en- hancing research capabilities;   developing a concept for the sale of domesti- cally produced crude oil and analysis of the  feasibility of infrastructural projects aimed to  further diversify the sources of supplies. Our achievements to-date In November 2009, the General Shareholders  Meeting of PGNiG resolved to establish PGNiG En- ergia. The new company will implement projects  related to the transformation of the Group into  an energy conglomerate. PGNiG Energia will be  engaged in the construction of power-generation  units, investment in gas-powered cogeneration  plants and pilot biogas projects. The most impor- tant project currently carried out by PGNiG Ener- gia is the construction of a CCGT plant in Stalowa  Wola. The project was initiated with the execution  of a letter of intent between Tauron Polska Energia  and PGNiG on November 20th 2008. The execution  agreement was signed on May 7th 2010, while the  agreement on the operation of Elektrociepownia  Stalowa Wola, agreement for the sale of electric- ity and agreement for the supply of gaseous fuel  were executed on March 11th 2011.  23/ 207 3.  PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 Back   to the value chain  4.  Our approach to sustainable  development Owing to its size and reach, the Group has a wide  array of stakeholders. The nature of the busi- ness of our branches and subsidiaries, as well as  their position within the value chain, determine  the composition of their respective stakeholder  groups. At different stages of the value chain, our  impact on and relations with stakeholders vary, as  do the specific commitments towards them. The  PGNiG Group strives to conduct its business re- sponsibly, with due regard to the role of social di- alogue. Throughout the business decision-making  process, the Group looks for such solutions that  would benefit all its stakeholder groups, taking  into account both the economic and social aspects.  That approach is driven by the awareness that  sustainable development is only possible if there is  mutual understanding between the Group and its  stakeholders, and if we recognise and try to un- derstand one anothers needs and expectations. 4.1. The Groups stakeholders 24/ 207  Stakeholders Method of dialogue Employees – current and retired Public consultations, Employee Council, the system of communicators (employees responsible for the internal  communication process), daily electronic newsletter, internal corporate portal, staff surveys, web chats with  representatives of the Management Board, occasional events, trips for retired employees Customers Operators as customers (E) Transmission System Operator (S) Customers for distribution services (D) Satisfaction surveys, helpline, website, Customer Service Offices, dedicated business consultants Local communities Public consultations, activities of the PGNiG Foundation and donation fund, direct interaction with local autho- rities and organisations Business partners NGOs Social organisations Dedicated business consultants, direct meetings, conferences, trade declarations, involvement in worldwide  humanitarian relief efforts, in Poland – through the PGNiG Foundation and donation fund Suppliers Suppliers of services and equipment (P) Evaluation of partnership, support for local development Research institutes, universities and other  schools Consultancies and research institutions (P, S) Support for vocational education at all levels, conferences, the PGNiG Foundations scholarship scheme, tech- nical support for investment projects State administration and market regulator European Commission (S) Consultations, joint initiatives, such as conferences and workshops Shareholders and investors Meetings with asset managers, participation in roadshows and foreign conferences for investors, dedicated  newsletter, current and periodic reports Media Press articles, interviews, thematic inserts Legend: E – exploration P – production S – storage D – distribution 25/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  The above stakeholder groups were selected on  the basis of the Group companies and branches  experience. Some organisational units collaborate  with selected groups of stakeholders, as shown  in the table. Taking their needs into account and  communicating with them is also part of the risk  management process. For example, stakeholder relations within the  exploration area are based on a long chain of  mutual connections, although the key stakehol- der group in that area are operators to which  the Group companies offer their services. At the  PGNiG Group, both the owner and its upstream  companies (POGC Libya or PGNiG Norway AS) are  operators. The mutual relations consist in the provision of  seismic, geophysical and drilling services to dome- stic and foreign operators. In order to meet the  conditions for cooperation with an operator, the  companies have to interact with public administra- tion bodies, which issue permits for field work and  monitor investment projects for their compliance  with environmental criteria and other require- ments; offer equipment that will enable failure- -free execution of work in compliance with the  environmental regulations and create a safe work  environment in accordance with QHSE (Quality,  Health, Safety, Environment) standards.  Another example of stakeholder cooperation is  the complex network of interconnections within  the gas production segment. The PGNiG Sanok  and Zielona Gra Branches produce crude oil and  natural gas. These activities involve a significant  environmental impact, as well as cooperation with  the local communities. Therefore, it is crucial for  the immediate and broader environment of the  oil and gas production facilities that they operate  in an environmentally friendly manner. Modern  facilities are often located in the middle of a fore- sted area, equipped with state-of-the-art process  monitoring systems, and built with the use of cut- ting-edge technologies. In this area, suppliers of  equipment and customers play an important role.  Their expectations and requirements concerning  product quality, flexibility, timely supplies, as well  as maintenance of high cooperation standards, are  a key priority for the Branches. Cooperation with  the local communities entails frequent public con- sultations, but also participation in various sports  and cultural events taking place in a given region. Corporate citizenship and lobbying policy In order to conduct our business effectively, we  share our knowledge with the market and law- -makers in the process of public consultations. This  facilitates our own operations and helps us better  prepare for the coming changes. 26/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  In line with this policy, in 2010 PGNiG SA took acti- ve part in public consultations on the Act on Lob- bying Activities in the Legislative Process of July 7th  2005 (Dz. U. of September 6th 2005), both at the  level of Polish and EU regulations, by reviewing  the relevant laws and, in the case of comments  or doubts concerning their wording, submitting  proposals for amendments to some of their provi- sions. In particular, proposals were submitted with  regard to the following 10 laws, which are key to  the Companys operations: 1) Energy Law, 2) Geological and Mining Law, 3) Energy Efficiency Act, 4) Act on Stocks of Crude Oil, Petroleum Products  and Natural Gas, as well as on the Rules to be  Followed in the Event of a Threat to National  Fuel Security or a Disruption on the Petroleum  Market, 5) draft Regulation of the European Parliament  and of the Council concerning measures to  safeguard security of gas supply and repealing  Directive 2004/67/EC, 6) amendments to the Act on Disclosure of Infor- mation on the Environment and Environment  Protection, the General Publics Involvement  in Environment Protection and Environmental  Impact Studies, dated October 3rd 2008, 7) amendments to the Environmental Protection  Law, 8) Act on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Manage- ment System, 9) Act on Transmission Corridors, 10) Act on Strategic Reserves. In addition, PGNiG expressed interest in the work  on draft implementing measures to the above and  other legal regulations, including: 1) draft Regulation of the Minister of Economy  on detailed conditions of operation of the gas  system, 2) draft Regulation on detailed rules for determi- ning and calculating tariffs for gaseous fuels  and on settlements in gaseous fuels trading, 3) draft assumptions to the legislation introdu- cing a protection system for socially vulnerable  customers, 4) draft regulations relating to environmental  protection: Regulation of the Minister of the  Environment regarding cases where gas or  dust emissions into the air do not require a  permit, dated July 2nd 2010, 5) Regulation of the Minister of the Environment  on benchmark values for certain substances in  the air, dated January 26th 2010, 6) Regulation of the Council of Ministers on pro- jects that may materially impact the environ- ment, dated November 9th 2010,  7) Regulation of the Minister of Economy on tech- nical conditions applicable to gas networks and  their location. PGNiGs representatives have also worked in a  number of working teams responsible for deve- loping Polands energy policy framework, and  inter-ministerial teams responsible, among other  things, for the gas and energy market deregula- tion programme. Moreover, PGNiGs representa- tives were engaged in the work on the Polish Gas  Law, drafted under the auspices of the Chamber of  Natural Gas Industry. 27/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  In addition, in 2010 PGNiG SA (the Environmental  Protection Office) submitted a number of requests  for changes in existing regulations, including:   request of November 23rd 2010 to the Chief  Conservation Officer, Undersecretary of State  at the Ministry of the Environment, concer- ning simplification of the rules for temporary  exclusion of forest land from forestry produc- tion (similar request of January 28th 2011 was  sent to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural  Development),   request of December 27th 2010 to the General  Director for Environmental Protection, con- cerning amendments to the Regulation of the  Council of Ministers on projects that may mate- rially impact the environment, dated November  9th 2010 (Dz. U. No. 213, item 1397),   request to competent authorities regarding  explanation of the regulations on PRTR (Pollu- tant Release and Transfer Register) reporting,  the act on production waste, and gas and dust  emissions into the air,   involvement in the work of a dedicated team  of the Chief Inspectorate of Environmental  Protection on amendments to the Seveso III  Directive regarding exclusion of underground  gas storage facilities from being subject to  the provisions pertaining to major industrial  accidents. At present, PGNiGs representatives are engaged  in the work on the draft Polish Petroleum Law,  which, if enacted, will significantly facilitate our  operations. Concurrently, public consultations are under way  to elicit opinions on the draft regulations of the  Ministry of the Environment to the Geological and  Mining Law of June 9th 2011. We also want to successfully represent the inte- rests of PGNiG SA and the Polish energy sector  in dealings with EU institutions and international  organisations. Active in this area is PGNiGs repre- sentative office in Brussels, which:   has submitted 44 amendments to the security  of gas supplies (SoS) regulation to MEPs wor- king on the European Parliament Committee  on Industry, Research and Energy,   cooperated, from April to June, with the wor- king group of EUROGAS on amendments to  SoS, as part of negotiations between the Coun- cil of Europe, the European Parliament and the  European Commission,   regularly participated in meetings of the Gas  Coordination Group, Security of Supplies Task  Force, EUROGAS Strategic Committee, GSE,   actively participated in the preparation, organi- sation, and conduct of EUROGAS General Me- etings in Warsaw,   undertook efforts leading to Mr Radosaw Du- dziski, Vice-President of PGNiGs Management  Board, being invited to a meeting with MEPs  in Brussels in February 2010, and delivered a  speech on the SoS regulation at a mini-hearing  session organised by the ITRE committee,   arranged the participation of Mr Sawomir  Hincs, Vice-President of PGNiGs Management  Board, in a meeting between two EU Commis- sioners and representatives of the gas industry  as part of the EUROGAS Executive Committee,   arranged and attended a meeting of Mr Micha  Szubski, President of PGNiGs Management  Board, with Commissioner Gnther Oettinger  concerning negotiations of gas supplies to Po- land and an agreement between the Polish and  French governments,   arranged a meeting in Brussels for repre- sentatives of PGNiG SA aimed at exchanging  experience related to their work and lobbying  activities,   cooperated with the Economic and Trade Sec- tion of the Permanent Representative Office of  the Republic of Poland for the European Union  and participated in meetings organised by the  Polish Embassy. 28/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  For more information on stakeholder  relations, see the Communication and  marketing section (site 130).  4.2.  Sustainable Development and  Responsible Business Strategy The Groups Sustainable Development and Respon- sible Business Strategy was formally approved  by the Management Board of PGNiG in July 2009.  Contributors to the strategy were employees from  all operational areas of the PGNiG Head Office,  as well as from branches and subsidiaries of the  PGNiG Group. The Sustainable Development and  Responsible Business Strategy of the PGNiG Group  is complementary to the Groups business strat- egy. The main objective we have embarked on by  formulating our sustainable development mission  is to be an active player on the Polish energy mar- ket, who acts responsibly and takes into consid- eration the expectations and needs of its various  stakeholder groups and the natural environment. The Groups CSR strategy addresses a range of  challenges posed by our environment, and the  actions we plan result both from the needs of our  stakeholders and from best practices in place at  the Group, in particular in the area of environmen- tal protection and social involvement. Sustainable development and responsible business  covers all links of the PGNiG Groups value chain  and applies to all four areas of sustainable devel- opment, resting on the six strategic pillars: 1  Enhanced satis- faction of exist- ing customers  and acquisition  of new custom- ers through  improved cus- tomer care; 2 Efficient and  partnership- based co- operation and  dialogue with  social and busi- ness partners; 3 Pursuing busi- ness in a re- sponsible way  while caring  for the natural  environment; 4 Creating a safe  and friendly  workplace; 5  Consistent,  credible and  efficient com- munication and  marketing; 6 Seeking new  business ex- pansion op- portunities in  line with the  principle of  sustainable  development. An integral part of the Strategy is the implementa- tion plan, which defines the operational goals cor- responding to each strategic objective. Apart from  defining the operational goals and steps to achieve  them, the plan also specifies success measures  and implementation schedules, which enable the  Group to consistently gauge the implementation  progress, as well as monitor the business own- ers of individual goals. An additional item of the  plan is a list of internal and external stakeholders  for the respective operational goals. The identi- fication of stakeholder groups is meant to better  accommodate their needs in the implementation  process. The respective sections of this CSR Report present  efforts taken in the areas defined by the six pillars  of the Sustainable Development and Responsible  Business Strategy from the perspective of par- ent company PGNiG and all the Group companies,  which pursue their own substrategies. 29/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  4.3. Strategy management Soon after the formal adoption of the Strategy,  a dedicated structure was established to coordi- nate the processes related to its implementation  at the Group. Within its framework, Members of  the Management Board, along with the President,  act as Project Sponsors. Another tier is the Steer- ing Committee, composed of the business owners  of strategic objectives. The Management Boards  Proxy for the Strategy is responsible for coordinat- ing and monitoring the Sustainable Development  and Responsible Business Strategy implementa- tion at PGNiG subsidiaries and branches, and for  internal and external communication of actions  on the sustainable development and responsible  business agenda. The same role at the level of the  Groups branches and subsidiaries is performed by  regional CSR Facilitators. The group consists of a  few dozen persons for whom sustainable develop- ment is the primary job responsibility. The Proxy is  also responsible for monitoring progress with the  implementation of the strategic and operational  goals, and for reporting actions scheduled for a  given period to the Management Board. The per- son also collects data from across the Group and  prepares a CSR Report together with the regional  Facilitators. This years CSR Report has been pre- pared by the CSR Facilitators, who have  worked in teams of several people each  on one of the six strategic pillars. For the first  time, the Facilitators not only gathered and sent  data to the Head Office, but also wrote the respec- tive sections of this Report. This demanding but  highly educational task brought a new quality into  our work, allowing us to better understand the  specific nature of the various business areas in  which the PGNiG Group operates. I hope it will  become our standard practice – all the more so  because such an exercise draws on the Facilitators  competencies in the field of corporate social re- sponsibility. In 2010, twenty-one CSR Facilitators  completed their postgraduate programme in  responsible business at Kozminski University of  Warsaw. This is enormous potential, says Marze- na Strzelczak, Management Boards Proxy for  Sustainable Development and Responsible Business  Strategy. It is worth noting that in 2010 the strategic objec- tives were incorporated into the evaluation of sen- ior management staff by including them in the an- nual MBO targets, and thus were reflected in the  objectives and targets set for individual employees  and teams. All the above testifies to the strategic  involvement and determination of the Group as it  implements the Strategy. In 2010, the Group companies started to conduct  their businesses pursuing their own Sustainable  Development and Responsible Business Strategies.  Also, at the beginning of 2011, their first strategy  implementation reports came in, indicating the  number of tasks completed, executed according  to schedule and delayed in particular pillars. The  information was submitted to the Management  Board in the form of a summary report, which will  form the basis for decisions on further steps as  part of the Strategy implementation.  Moreover, last year saw the launch of the Strategy  Repository, a portal dedicated to CSR issues. With  a calendar of events, a library of documents and  other features, it is a website where CSR Facili- tators may share information within the PGNiG  Group. 30/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  4.4. Information about this Report Responsible Energy 2010 is the third CSR report  prepared by the PGNiG Group. This Report fol- lows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and  IPIECA indicators. Furthermore, it is based on the  guidelines and indicators following from the Glob- al Compact and ISO 26000, which were also in- corporated into the Code of Responsible Business  signed by PGNiG and drawn up under the Coalition  for Responsible Business (for more information on  the Coalition, see the Coalition for Responsible  Business (page 151) section).   This Report presents our pursuit of the objec- tives defined in the Sustainable Development  and Responsible Business Strategy in the peri- od from January 2010 to June 2011, using data  and/or descriptions of the practices, rules or  procedures.   Figures quoted in this Report relate to 2010,  while some of the developments described  here took place in the first half of 2011.   Quantitative measures presented in this Re- port rely on data of parent undertaking PGNiG  SA, as well as 23 gas sales units, all domestic  branches of PGNiG, and most of PGNiGs whol- ly-owned subsidiaries, as demonstrated by  the diagram (page 11) in the Structure of the  PGNiG Group section    Each section dealing with the respective strate- gic pillars starts with a summary, presented in  graphic form, of actions initiated under a given  strategic objective by all the Group members  implementing their own strategies. The graphs  show the total number of tasks completed,  executed according to schedule and delayed at  all the Group companies.   Quantitative measures presented in this Report  do not take into account data of the following  Group members: Oil Tech International – F.Z.E.,  PGNiG Norway AS, POGC – Libya B.V., Powile  Park Sp. zo.o., Geovita Sp. z o.o., PGNiG En- ergia S.A., POGC Trading GmbH, PGNiG Tech- nologie Sp. zo.o., ZRUG Sp. zo.o. (Pogrska  Wola), Operator Systemu Magazynowania Sp.  zo.o., Polskie Elektrownie Gazowe Sp. zo.o.,  NYSAGAZ Sp. zo.o., BUD-GAZ P.P.U.H. Sp.  zo.o., Geofizyka Toru Kish Ltd (Rial), Zakad  Gospodarki Mieszkaniowej Sp. z o.o (Pia),  Biogazownia Ostrowiec Sp. zo.o., CHEMKOP  Sp.zo.o. Krakw, GAZ Sp. zo.o. and GAZ ME- DIA Sp. zo.o. (Woomin). 31/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development    The printed Introduction to the CSR Report  2010 contains only selected information on  the PGNiG Groups operations relevant from  the perspective of sustainable development  and responsible business. The printed version  includes a DVD, where you will find the full  2010 CSR Report and this years Annual Report,  as well as educational materials presenting  our activities. The full information is also avail- able at www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl and  www.pgnig.pl in the Responsible Business  section.    In order to understand your expecta- tions regarding reporting and corporate  social activities of the PGNiG Group, we  have prepared a questionnaire, which is  enclosed with this Report and made avail- able at the above web addresses. Please  fill in the questionnaire and contact us at  informacje@odpowiedzialna-energia.pl   This Report has not been reviewed externally,  although selected indicators and presented  financial data are consistent with the PGNiG  Groups Annual Report and Financial State- ments for 2010 and, as such, were verified by  the auditors. Notwithstanding, independent  audits were also conducted at PGNiG subsidiar- ies, including environmental protection system  audits.    The changes that took place within the Group  in the last year do not affect the comparabil- ity of data included in the reports for previ- ous years. Information on the changes in the  Groups structure has been presented in the  Structure of the PGNiG Group section. There  is no need to adjust data included in the re- ports for previous years.   All data in this Report were accurately col- lected directly from the entities described in  this document, and from persons managing  the respective areas of the PGNiG Groups  operations. 32/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  January Declaration on the es- tablishment of the He- lium Cryogenics Centre  at PGNiGs Odolanw  Branch. The Centre is a  joint project developed  together with the War- saw University of Tech- nology, the Wrocaw  University of Technolo- gy, and the Department  of Molecular Physics of  the Polish Academy of  Sciences. The purpose  is to establish an insti- tute with a research  and business agenda, to  be a benchmark ex- ample of collaboration  between industry and  science.  4.5.  Key events  2010 February Strategic workshop  on socially vulnerable  customers attended by  experts from the En- ergy Regulatory Office  (URE) and the Ministry  of Labour.  Given the planned  introduction of new  energy efficiency laws,  PGNiG takes steps to  prepare the Company  for the new efficiency  measures. April The Laurel of Respon- sibility goes to PGNiG  SA under the Promo- tion of Corporate Social  Responsibility Standards  Among Businesses  project, developed by  Lewiatan, Deloitte and  the Solidarno Trade  Union. Top position in the Pol- ish Companies listing,  top position in the Fuels  and Energy Sector list- ing of the Responsible  Companies Ranking  2010 by Dziennik Gazeta  Prawna. Agreement on co- operation in the area  of ethics promotion  in business between  Pomorska Spka Ga- zownictwa and the  Gdask University of  Technology. May Top position in the 24/7  Transparent CSR Leader  ranking by Braun &  Partners CSR. The rank- ing lists 25 companies  with the highest 2008  profit. 33/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  October On October 13th, Sig- natories of the Dec- laration on Sustain- able Development in  the Energy Sector in  Poland, a representa- tive of the Ministry  of Economy and a  journalist from the  ThinkTank magazine  met in the Forest  District of Pisk to  plant 1,500 pine sap- lings together with the  Aeris Futuro Founda- tion. Afterwards, they  attended a workshop  where new ideas for  joint initiatives were  discussed. Monika  Foussereau and Anna  Gnoiska, acting on  behalf of Dalkia Pol- ska S.A., signed the  Declaration.  PGNiG takes part in  the Good Practices  MarketPlace held by  Responsible Business  Forum. December Distinction in a con- test for the best CSR  report.  Another meeting of  Signatories of the  Declaration on Sus- tainable Development  in the Energy Sector  in Poland. The Signa- tories gather to plan a  new joint project with  educational value and  PR potential, relating  to sustainable devel- opment in the energy  sector. A Survey of Employee  Satisfaction is con- ducted among all  employees of PGNiG,  including the Head  Office, Branches, Gas  Sales Units and Cus- tomer Service Offices.  For the first time in the  Groups history, the  survey is carried out  among such a large  number of employees  at once. Representatives of  PGNiGs subsidiaries and  foreign branches par- ticipate in a workshop  on the Groups Sustain- able Development and  Responsible Business  Strategy.  June 2nd Responsible Energy  Conference – three more  companies: Fortum Power  and Heat Polska, LOTOS  Group and Polskie Sieci  Elektroenergetyczne Op- erator, sign the Declara- tion on Sustainable De- velopment in the Energy  Sector in Poland.  Completion by 21 Re- gional CSR Facilitators of  the post-graduate pro- gramme in responsible  business at the Kominski  University.  PGNiG joins the group  of founding members  of the LBG (London  Benchmarking Group)  Poland: BZ WBK, Danone,  GlaxoSmithKline, Ikea and  ywiec Zdrj. The LBG  Model is currently one of  the worlds best-tested  methodologies for meas- uring and reporting the  efficiency of CSR activi- ties. Its implementation  in Poland is managed by  CSR Consulting. May/June Marketing in the  gas industry: In  compliance with the  sustainable devel- opment principles  conference. PGNiGs  representatives  share lessons learnt  from the develop- ment of the Sustain- able Development  and Responsible  Business Strategy at  the Group.  2010 34/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  2011 January In January 2011, the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  for the second time an- nounces a list of com- panies included in the  Respect social responsi- bility index. Once again,  PGNiG is selected to this  elite group.  February Polskie Grnictwo Naf- towe i Gazownictwo SA  is included in the group  of companies standing  out for their CSR efforts  and clarity with which  they present them on  their corporate web- sites. The list is based  on the BI-NGO 2010  Index, which evalu- ates how the 500 larg- est companies listed  by the Rzeczpospolita  daily communicate their  CSR efforts over the  Internet. Introduction of Logito–  an electronic system  for handling complaints  and requests at the  PGNiG SA. LOGITO will  improve the document  circulation process and  facilitate reporting, as  well as data processing  and analysis. April For the second time,  PGNiG SA is named the  most socially responsi- ble company from the  fuel and energy sector  in the Ranking of Re- sponsible Companies  published by the Dzien- nik Gazeta Prawna daily.  Another PGNiG subsidi- ary is listed among the  top companies from the  sector - Grnolska  Spka Gazownictwa  ranks third in the same  category.  May PGNiG introduces a  Ethics Officer function,  with key responsibilities  to ensure adherence to  the principles of ethical  conduct, strengthen the  corporate culture based  on the highest ethical  standards and promote  ethical behaviour at the  Company.  May/June At the Marketing in the  gas industry: corporate  social responsibility in  the gas industry con- ference, a representa- tive of PGNiG speaks  about the evolution of  CSR, using PGNiG as an  example. June 3rd Responsible Energy  Conference – the Dec- laration on Sustainable  Development in the  Energy Sector in Poland  is signed by CEOs of  another eight compa- nies: Energa, PKP En- ergetyka, Dolnolska  Spka Gazownictwa,  Grnolska Spka  Gazownictwa, Karpacka  Spka Gazownictwa,  Mazowiecka Spka  Gazownictwa, Pomor- ska Spka Gazown- ictwa, and Wielkopolska  Spka Gazownictwa. Pilot tests of PGNiGs e- passage marketing web  platform, intended for  advisory services and  e-commerce. Never be- fore has PGNiG applied  an IT tool this advanced  to provide comprehen- sive services to retail  customers.  35/ 207 4.  Our approach to sustainable development  5.  Customer  satisfaction P GNiG s  pr ior it y  is  t o s ec u re relia b le a n d  s t a b le  s u pplies  of n a t u r a l ga s  t o h ou s eh old s  a n d  in d u s t r ia l c u s t omer s .  In  a n  effor t  t o en s u re  a n d  en h a n c e c u s t omer  s a t is fa c t ion ,  w e h a v e  b een  t a k in g s t eps  t o d ev elop ou r  offer in g a n d  s t rea mlin e t h e s a les  proc es s .  Artur Bieliski Head of the Gas Trading Department  Our departments primary focus is customer service. We have one key  strategic objective, and that is to continually improve the quality of cus- tomer service in order to satisfy our customers. Since gas prices are  officially regulated, we regard customer service and its consistent enhancement  as our priority task. At present, we are pursuing this goal in a number of ways.  We have managed to standardise the procedures for customer service, so  that customers throughout Poland are served in the same way. Asystem for  handling complaints has been established, enabling us to monitor incoming  complaints and their number. Constant improvement is of course a fixture of  our strategy, therefore we make an ongoing effort to train our employees,  so they are able to meet the expectations of our customers, the Company,  and the market.  36/ 207  T h rou g h  i ts si x  G a s Trading  Di v i si ons, PG Ni G  sel l s natural  g a s to ho useh o l ds a nd industrial  c u s to m e rs, and undert ake s  v a r i o u s  acti vi ti es to  a ctive ly  su p p or t th e sal es p ro c e ss  ( d ev el op men t o f new products,  dev el op men t o f ta ri ffs  and  p r i c e  l i s ts fo r o ff- ta ri ff  p ro du c t s a nd servi ces, and  m a r k e ti ng a cti vi ti es, i ncluding  bu i l d i n g stro ng  rel ati ons with  c u s to m e rs). In te rms of  sale s  v olu mes ,  PGN iGs major cu s t omer s  are : the  che mical in d u s t r y,  me tallurg y  and p ow er  in d u s t r y.  Re tail custome rs (h ou s eh old s )  we re  the  most nu merou s  group of  PGN iGs  c u s t omer s  ( around 6.4m) , ac c ou n t in g  for approximate ly  9 7 %  of a ll  PGN iGs customer s .  T h e s h a re  of  re tail customer s  in  t h e t ot a l  volume  of  sale s g en er a t ed  b y  PGN iG stood at arou n d  3 0 % .  Industrial custom er s  a c c ou n t ed  for the  large st sh a re (a b ou t  58%)  of  the  natur a l ga s  s a les  volume . In 2010,  a rou n d  83thousand com preh en s iv e  agre e me nts for ga s eou s  fu el  supplie s we re  con c lu d ed ,  providing  for sup plies  b ot h  f rom the  transmi s s ion  a n d  distribution syst ems .  Tasks Complet ed 25 U n d er  w a y 87 Dela y ed 26 37/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Comfort for  Business New  methods of  communication To Develop Effective and User-Friendly  Self-Service Platform Online customer service (online platform and  Electronic Customer Service  Offi ce) Customer helpline –  Contact Centre Customer service  training for employees Effects   2,912 phone calls  received by the  Contact Centre at  Zgorzelec Gas Sales  Unit in December  2010.   5-12 thousand  pages of electronic  invoices generated  each month at  Szczecin Gas Sales  Unit.   25 thousand  customers registered  to the Electronic  Customer Service  Office at Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division  in December 2010.   600 customers of  Upper Silesian Gas  Trading Division  covered by the  Comfort for Business  scheme in December  2010.    70% of staff of  Customer Service  Offices at Koszalin  Gas Sales Unit  received training. Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 38/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Improvement of staff  selection process Uniform visual appearance  of Customer Service  Offi ces, review of their  locations and functionality Availability of  information materials Improvement  of gas network  connection  procedures Training in customer  service quality and  employee conduct To Improve Quality of Service  at Customer Service Offi ces Effects   1 , 2 1 5  employ ees  of ga s  t r a d in g  d iv is ion s  c omplet ed  t r a in in g in  proc ed u res  for  es t a b lis h in g a  ga s  n et w or k  c on n ec t ion  a n d  c h a n gin g  t h e c on n ec t ion  c on d it ion s .   Sh or t en in g t h e  t ime of ga s  n et w or k  c on n ec t ion  in  4  ou t  of 6  Ga s  Dis t r ib u t ion  Compa n ies  in  2 0 1 0  v s .  2 0 0 9 .   Adoption of the  Interior Design  Guidelines for  PGNiGs Customer  Service Offices and  the Interior Design  Implementation  Concept for PGNiGs  Customer Service  Offices in 2010. Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 39/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Educational meetings  with the press, and  knowledge exchange  platform for the media Diversifi cation of customer  communication channels Educational campaigns for  customers focusing on effi cient  use of energy (including natural  gas) To Raise Customer Awareness and Educate  Customers Regarding Use of Gas and Effi cient  Use of Energy Effects   2 , 8 0 0  c h ild ren  a n d  t een a ger s  t ook  pa r t  in  P omer a n ia n  Ga s  Tr a d in g Div is ion  s  ed u c a t ion a l  c a mpa ign s  foc u s in g  on  n a t u r a l ga s ,  orga n is ed  w it h  M u n ic ipa l Welfa re  Cen t re in  Gd a  s k   P u b lic a t ion  of ga s  q u a lit y  repor t s  b y  CM T L a t  w w w. pgn ig. pl. Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 40/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Training for  employees of  Customer Service  Offi ces related to the  support programme  for socially vulnerable  customers  Cooperation with local  social welfare centres  (MOPS) Support for Socially Vulnerable Customers  Effects   T h a n k s  t o t h e  exc h a n ge of  in for ma t ion  w it h  M O P S c en t res ,  P GNiG s  c u s t omer s  ma y  ob t a in  a id  t o  pa y  t h eir  pa s t -d u e  ga s  b ills .   Spec ia l d eb t  c ollec t ion  proc ed u re for  s oc ia lly  v u ln er a b le  c u s t omer s .    Implemen t a t ion  of forec a s t  b ills  for  t h e W 1  a n d  W 2  t a r iff grou ps .  Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 41/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Objective I To c re a t e a n effecti v e and use r- f r i e n d l y  sel f- servi ce platform PGNiG has been introducing new tools designed  to support communication with its customers. In  these efforts, it takes into account the results of  regularly performed surveys. In the 2010 Retail  Customer Satisfaction Survey, PGNiGs services and  products received good ratings: the Customer Sat- isfaction Index (CSI) stood at 64%, while the loyalty  index, reflecting the percentage of highly satisfied  customers prone to recommend PGNiGs services  to their acquaintances, was at 51% (the survey  covered a representative sample of n=1,800 re- spondents). 60% of retail customers declared that  they were highly satisfied with  PGNiGs products  and services, while a mere 1% declared that they  were decidedly not satisfied. The areas rated the  highest included:   PGNiGs product – natural gas – 72% of re- spondents were decidedly satisfied,   direct contact with a Customer Service Office –  75% of respondents were decidedly satisfied,   internet communication channel (PGNiGs  website) – 69% of respondents were decidedly  satisfied. Most often, customers indicated the call centre,  complaint review and gas grid connection proce- dures as areas needing improvement. The Customer Services Offices owed their high  rating primarily to the quality of work of PGNiGs  employees and the efficiency with which they  solve problems/issues reported by customers. The PGNiG employees expertise, politeness and  involvement in a customers problem were es- pecially highly praised (around 80% of decidedly  satisfied respondents). A slightly lower rating was  given to the organisation of work at the Customer  Service Offices (queue management and the re- sulting waiting time). Similarly, the availability,  number and opening hours of the Offices were  not fully satisfactory. Quite interestingly, almost the same percent- age of customers prefer to communicate with  the gas supplier directly, by visiting a Customer  Service Office (43%) and contact the supplier via  the telephone (46%). It is important because the  telephone communication channel was relatively  poorly assessed by customers, especially in terms  of its availability – getting through on the con- gested line and waiting time. With respect to the  call centre, customers expect the scope of mat- ters handled by this channel to be broadened.  The results of the survey lead to a conclusion that  the soonest possible introduction of a self-service  option for PGNiGs customers would be a major  step forward in modernising and streamlining the  customer service process, by increasing the avail- ability of services and reducing waiting times. In  an effort to meet those needs, PGNiG has been  introducing new interactive customer contact  channels. The most important efforts in this area  are presented below. 42/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Initiatives/Best practices  E l ec tro n i c C usto mer Se rvice  O f f i c e  ( e- BOK) E-BOK is a customer self-service tool launched at  the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division in 2008, as  a pilot programme at two offices of the Gdask  Gas Sales Unit. Since its launch, the platform has  been continually improved. It was established in  response to suggestions from customers who  wanted an opportunity to contact a Customer  Service Office by electronic means, but it has an  additional advantage of reducing the front office  staffs workload. Intensive promotion of e-BOK as  a secure and innovative customer self-service tool  was run in 2010: 400 thousand leaflets were pre- pared and distributed and a film with instructions  how to use e-BOK was made. As a result, the num- ber of registered e-BOK users increased from five  thousand at the beginning of 2010 to 25 thousand  in December 2010 (i.e. 4% of all customers of the  Pomeranian Gas Trading Division). Owing to the  new platform, customers can contact the Gas Sales  Unit directly, without a visit to the Customer Ser- vice Office, they can report gas meter readings on  a monthly basis and track their gas consumption. Contact Ce nte r As early as in 2009, the Lower Silesian Gas Trad- ing Division launched Contact Centers at two Gas  Sales Units, in cooperation with Gallup. By dial- ling 801-301-801, a customer can obtain informa- tion on their payment balance, bills issued for gas  consumed, customer service procedures and gas  prices, as well as report gas meter readings, or- der an overpaid amount to be returned, submit  a complaint, etc. Customer service supported by  this communication channel has proved efficient  at two Gas Sales Units, in Wrocaw and Wabrzych,  as reflected in material increases in the number  of calls. In 2010, a decision was taken to launch  a Contact Center at the Zgorzelec Gas Sales Unit,  too. The decision was key to the standardisation  of customer service at the Division. Over the first  month of the Contact Centers operation at the  Zgorzelec Gas Sales Unit, 620 calls were received,  in June 2010 – the number rose to 1,773 and in  December 2010 – to 2,912. Thus, the assumed  success threshold of 1,000 calls was met after the  first three months, and by the end of 2010 the  total number of calls exceeded that target several  times. Comfor t  for  B u s in es s The Comfort for Business is a scheme implement- ed by the Upper Silesian Gas Trading Division for  its business, key and strategic customers. Each  customer of the Zabrze Gas Sales Unit consuming  over eight thousand cubic metres of gas annually  and holding the Units Customer Card is eligible  to participate in the scheme. Of the total number  of 3,000 customers, approximately 600 joined the  scheme in 2010. Comfort for Business forms part  of the MEGAZ system. It enables 247 online ac- cess to customers invoices, payments made, read- ings history and the payment simulation calculator,  which calculates payments based on input data in  the form of gas meter readings. Objective I 43/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  P G Ni G s  e- p assa g e  PGNiGs e-passage is among the newest customer  communication channels deployed by the Com- pany. It is an Internet portal through which cus- tomers can arrange all matters connected with  the sale of heating equipment, from selection of  equipment, to placing an online order. 2010 wit- nessed very intensive work to prepare pilot im- plementation of the e-passage at two Gas Sales  Units in Lublin and Zabrze. They were launched  in June 2011. The modern and user-friendly IT  solution serves as a source of expert advice and  sales channel, intermediating in the sale of gas- fired equipment. In the e-passage, a customer can  browse through the offerings of major retail ven- dors of heating equipment, and use the advisory  services provided via the portal, related to equip- ment assembly and servicing. For more informa- tion on PGNiGs e-passage, see the interview with  Agnieszka Chmielarz at the end of this section. Agnieszka Chmielarz  Trade Marketing Office Director Marketing Department Objective I The e-passage is an innovative channel of customer communication.  Customers can use it in two ways: online, or through our employees at  Customer Service Offices. It is one of the modern communication chan- nels we have recently launched. In response to customer expectations, we have developed the e-passage, a mod- ern website designed to help our customers get in touch with manufacturers  of gas-fired appliances and take advantage of tailored-made bank products on  more favourable terms than those available on the market. Additionally, the web- site will enable our customers to take advantage of many gas equipment support  services provided by fitters, manufacturers, designers, chimney-sweepers, i.e. all  partners usually associated with gas services. 44/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  E - i n v o i c e  New technological solutions and the desire to  meet growing expectations of our customers  prompted us to introduce E-invoice as a new  self-service tool at the Gas Sales Unit in Szczecin.  From September 2009 to the end of 2010, about  10,000 customers agreed to receive documents  in electronic form. As a consequence, each month  we issue between 5,000 and 12,000 pages of  electronic invoices, and between 300 and 1,000  electronic payment reminders, instead of distrib- uting them in paper form. Apart from being cus- tomer and environment-friendly, this innovative  system offers a significant economic advantage  – on average, the unit cost of document prepara- tion and delivery is reduced by PLN 1.30. The new  electronic documents have been well received by  customers. Complaints are very rare and serve as  a source of valuable information which helps us  improve that payment system, tailoring it to cus- tomers expectations. Information on the portal  is available at www.gazownia.szczecin.pl, while  the electronic invoicing system itself is available at  https:\\faktura.gazownia.szczecin.pl  Surveys conducted by PGNiG have shown that  E-invoice is considered an attractive settlement  method by 35% of customers, in particular by city  dwellers aged 20 – 40. By contrast, 27% of custom- ers are not interested in the solution. 23% of re- spondents gave an affirmative answer to the ques- tion whether they would give up paper invoices in  favour of electronic ones. However, realistic esti- mates indicate that only 10% of customers would  likely switch over to electronic invoicing. Training The year 2010 posed new challenges related to  the amendments which took effect on April 1st  2010. The Retail Customer Service Model defines  the rules of cooperation of PGNiG and the Gas  Distribution Companies in providing services to  current and future customers. The major change  consisted in updating the comprehensive agree- ments for gaseous fuel supplies. It was necessary  to train employees in the new standards, which is  why courses in Retail Customer Service and Pro- fessional Customer Service were organised. For  instance, at the Gas Sales Unit in Koszalin 70% of  Customer Service Office employees received train- ing in Professional Customer Service.  Aggregated data from the Gas Trading Divisions  related to e-learning courses coordinated by the  Customer Service Standards Office:   procedures for establishing a gas network  connection and changing the connection condi- tions – course completed by 1,215 employees,   procedures for execution of comprehensive  agreements (also via the Internet) – course  completed by 1,210 employees,   procedure for pre-litigation collection – course  completed by 1,030 employees. Other popular  topics covered by training organised at GTD  included: difficult customer service, overcom- ing stress and burnout, effective interpersonal  communication and teamwork, and socially  vulnerable customer service. 2010 was also a year of concentrated efforts on  the Business Customer Service Model, aimed at  standardising procedures across the Gas Trading  Divisions, that is 23 Gas Sales Units. Clearly and  coherently formulated rules will accelerate the  process of signing and updating agreements, and  will be essential for proper debt collection.  45/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Objective II Im p ro v i ng the qua l i ty of  se rvice  a t C u s to mer Servi ce Of f ice s Customer care and long-term, satisfying customer  relations require the delivery of a high standard  of service by each of our several hundred offices  throughout Poland. To meet this objective, we  undertake activities related to improving the  service, its organisation, as well as communication  at several hundred Customer Service Offices in  Poland, where we enter into direct contact with  customers.  Initiatives/Best practices The  PGN iG brand  The regular Survey of the PGNiG brand aware- ness and image shows that more than every fifth  respondent (22%) spontaneously mentions PGNiG  when asked to name an energy company. It needs  to be emphasised that the PGNiG brand recorded a  material increase in unprompted brand awareness  (from 14% in 2009 to 22% in 2010). When shown  a list of energy companies, as many as 58% of all  respondents indicated Polskie Grnictwo Naftowe i  Gazownictwo (PGNiG), which also reflects asignifi- cant growth in prompted brand awareness (com- pared with 46% in 2009).  Almost half of respondents (48%) regard PGNiG  as a company playing a significant role in Poland.  Only 2% of those surveyed believe the opposite.  43% of respondents admit that PGNiG has exten- sive experience and almost every third Pole (31%)  considers PGNiGs employees to be well-qualified  and professional. More than one in four respond- ents describes PGNiG as solid (28%), reliable (27%)  and fast-developing (26%). Finally, every fourth  survey participant (24%) perceives PGNiG as envi- ronmentally responsible. Compared with the pre- vious survey, respondents assess the respective  areas of PGNiGs operations similarly or slightly  better. However, in two aspects the marks were  significantly higher in 2010: development rate (4.7  in 2009 vs. 4.9 in 2010) and professionalism of  staff (4.9 in 2009 vs. 5.1 in 2010). 46/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Av a i l a b i l i ty o f i nfo rmation  m a ter i a l s  To serve PGNiGs customers, we have created a se- ries of uniform and coherent information materials  used at Customer Service Offices. The advertising  materials support direct customer communication  by the front-office personnel. Leaflets are made  available to each customer visiting a Customer Ser- vice Office. We also ensure to display them in the  same way at all the Groups offices. The leaflets  cover the most topical issues, such as:  1) Natural gas – A few steps to clean energy 2) Natural gas – Vademecum 3) Natural gas – Fuel of the 21st century 4) Natural gas – Appliances for your home 5) Natural gas – Universal fuel 6) PGNiG – Your gas supplier 7) ABC book – G like gas. PGNiG is currently working to give new, uniform  visual appearance to its Customer Service Offices,  taking into account the customer communication  process. Apart from traditional information materials,  customers will have access to modern electronic  touch screens with information on PGNiG and a  connection to the www.pgnig.pl webpage. Gas ne twork conn ec t ion  As recent research shows, the procedure for es- tablishing a gas network connection is one of  the areas of PGNiGs operations which attract the  weakest ratings. While 64% of customers express  general satisfaction with the whole process, only  33% do not mind the extensive documentation  required. The lead time for the construction of a  connecting pipeline is satisfactory for 38% of cus- tomers only, while a mere 29% are satisfied with  the costs of the connection process (with 13% of  respondents being definitely dissatisfied).  Sh or t en in g t h e t ime of ga s  n et w or k  c on n ec t ion Efforts made by the distribution system operators  (DSO) are focused on enhancing the efficiency and  timeliness of connecting new customers to the gas  network, while ensuring the economic viability  of the process, as well as quick and reliable cus- tomer service. Shortening the time of connection  is a significant measure of efficiency. However, the  process does not depend on DSOs only, which is  why their activities are also focused on changing  certain legal regulations (e.g. the Building Law and  the Energy Law). DSOs efforts have already delivered noticeable  benefits.  Summary information on the PGNiG Groups Gas  Distribution Companies:   Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa (WSG) – the  period of time necessary for establishing a gas  grid connection was shortened from 243 days  in 2009 to 227 days in 2010 for I group cus- tomers, from 228 to 206 days, respectively, for  I group customers without extending the gas  network, and from 272 to 226 days, respec- tively, for II group customers.   Mazowiecka Spka Gazownictwa (MSG) – the  average time of issuing connection conditions  was shortened by eight days for customers  from all groups, while the average time of con- nection for group B, subgroup I customers was  shortened by 16 days in 2010 relative to 2009.  Objective II 47/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction    Karpacka Spka Gazownictwa – the aver- age time of issuing connection conditions was  shortened by three days (14 days in 2009 vs.  11 days in 2010), while the average time of  connection was increased by four days (156  days in 2009 vs. 160 days in 2010).    Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa (PSG) – the  time of connection did not change between  2009 and 2010.   Grnolska Spka Gazownictwa – the time  of connection (from signing an agreement  to completing the work) was 196.21 days, as  compared with 240 days in 2009.   Dolnolska Spka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o.  (DSG) – is continually striving to shorten the  time necessary to connect new customers to  the gas grid. On average, the process takes  DSG three to nine months, depending on  the type of project, which may be limited to  the construction of a connecting pipeline or  may require extension of the gas network.  As a result of an analysis carried out in 2010,  measures were taken in 2011 to regulate the  process of document circulation, which have  shortened the time of connection by about  30 days. Comparative data for 2009 are not  available.  Uniform visual appea r a n c e  of  Custome r S e rvic e O ffic es ,  re vie w of  the ir l oc a t ion s  a n d  f unctionality As PGNiG provides services to thousands of cus- tomers every day, responsible management of the  Customer Service Offices is a must. PGNiGs cus- tomers expect highly efficient service, delivered  in the shortest possible time. In response to these  expectations, the Company decided to develop  and introduce new interior design at PGNiG SAs  offices. The new design and communication stand- ards implemented at the Customer Service Offices  were developed on the basis of surveys, including  interviews with staff members and customers at  various places throughout Poland. The new con- cept was tailored to the specific requirements of  PGNiGs services. To ensure a comfortable environ- ment for customers, the office space was divided  into areas dedicated to specific tasks, depending  on the type of information sought by a customer.  In order to increase its functionality, each area was  properly equipped and fitted. At the end of 2010,  the Management Board of PGNiG SA adopted the  Interior Design Guidelines for PGNiGs Customer  Service Offices and the Interior Design Implemen- tation Concept for PGNiGs Customer Service Of- fices. The Gas Trading Divisions, which manage  several hundred Customer Service Offices all over  Poland, were instructed to implement the new  policies by 2013. In line with those policies, all  Customer Service Offices are to be standardised  as described in detail in the Interior Design Guide- lines, which specify all components of the cus- tomer communication process at Customer Service  Offices – from interior design and fittings, to col- our scheme, to arrangement of promotional and  advertising materials. The main purpose of the  changes introduced at several hundred Customer  Service Offices is to optimise customer service,  while adapting the locations to new regulations  and contemporary standards. Other benefits will  include better use of available space, as well as im- proved ergonomics and workplace arrangement.   Objective II 48/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Objective III Dev el op m en t o f custo me r  a w a ren e ss and custo me r  edu c a ti on reg a rdi ng  g as use  and  ef f i c i en t  en erg y u se The product itself, i.e. natural gas, is one of the  strongest points of PGNiGs offering. 72% of  customers are highly satisfied with the product  and happy to use it. Moreover, 77% of them ap- preciate its reliable and uninterrupted supplies  and 74% perceive gas as convenient to use. 70%  of customers hold a positive view on the avail- ability of information about natural gas (only 4%  point to difficulties in obtaining such information).  The Survey of awareness and image of energy  sources, conducted on a representative sample  of Poles, revealed that gas was a widely known  source of energy (90% of respondents confirmed  that in response to a question supported by a list  of energy sources, whereas 18% pointed to natu- ral gas without any prompting). Even better results  than in the satisfaction survey were obtained in  the case of convenience ratings: as many as 92%  of respondents agree that gas is convenient to  use, while 74% perceive gas as environmentally  friendly. On the other hand, opinions regarding its  safe use were less favourable – although 67% of  respondents think natural gas to be safe, as many  as 28% do not share that opinion.  The widespread use of fossil fuels, which have a  significant share in CO2 emissions, poses specific  environmental challenges before PGNiG. In this  context, an appropriate education policy ad- dressed to both existing and prospective custom- ers is one of PGNiGs priorities. The awareness of  the environmental benefits of gas, as the least  emission intensive among all fossil fuels, is spread  through various competitions, educational initia- tives for children and teenagers, as well as cam- paigns targeted at adults. Moreover, PGNiG pro- vides its customers with information on safe and  efficient use of gas.  49/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Initiatives/Best practice C u s to m e r edu ca ti o n In view of present day challenges related to the  need to protect the environment (mainly from  contamination caused by solid fossil fuels), the  Company believes that a proper educational strat- egy addressed to its existing and prospective  customers is of crucial importance. PGNiG pursues  that strategy primarily through pro-environmental  initiatives, such as art competitions and meetings  with children and teenagers, or lectures for adults.  In 2010, PGNiG carried out a number of pro-envi- ronmental initiatives. One of them was a competi- tion for children and teenagers, entitled Quest for  Natural Gas (Wyprawa po gaz ziemny), organised  by the Carpathian Gas Trading Division. Its par- ticipants shot films or drew cartoons to present  their opinions on natural gas as a source of clean  energy. At primary schools, there were meetings,  discussions and games with pupils, designed to  educate them on both environmental issues and  safe use of gas.  The Pomeranian Gas Trading Division undertook  to run a long-term educational campaign under  the name From toddler to senior citizen (Od   przedszkola do seniora), targeted mainly at chil- dren from kindergartens and schools within its  operating area, as well as persons in the care of  NGOs and their carers. In order to promote ac- tive living among senior citizens of the Gdask- Gdynia-Sopot agglomeration, PGNiG embarked on  cooperation with the Third Age Universities. The  campaign aims to educate its participants on envi- ronmental protection and safe use of gas. Objective III R es ea rc h  la b or a t or ies  The Central Measurement and Testing Labora- tory (CMTL), present within the PGNiG corporate  structure for 17 years now, supervises the various  natural gas billing processes, as well as the qual- ity of natural gas. The primary responsibilities of  the laboratory include maintenance of reference  standards for the instruments and measures used  in the natural gas industry. CMTL also oversees  metering systems by conducting periodic inspec- tions ordered by parties to the billing process,  as well as in emergency cases or when a dispute  needs to be resolved. It is also CMTLs mission to  initiate research and implementation projects con- cerning in particular new techniques and technolo- gies for the natural gas industry (e.g. identification  of gas quality). Information on gas quality is available on PGNiGs  website: www.pgnig.pl/dladomu/6990 True, reli- able and complete information on the quality of  our products, as well as openness in customer  relations, are our top priorities. Currently, CMTL is the leading partner for CO2  emission metering for large entities which com- bust natural gas, as well as Polands only ac- credited laboratory authorised to test and evalu- ate equipment used for CO2 emission volume  estimations. 50/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Work is currently under way to start offering these  services also to other entities which, apart from  natural gas, emit greenhouse gases coming from  combustion of biogas, solid or liquid fuels. CMTL  represents a powerful asset in PGNiGs relations  with the outside world, as it openly communicates  with the public and is happy to host all events for  those interested in science and research: citizens  of Warsaw, as well as school and university stu- dents. In addition, CMTL organises traineeships for  students and, since last year, students from the  University of Warsaw, the Warsaw University of  Technology, the Wrocaw University of Technol- ogy and the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyski University  in Warsaw have been able to conduct their MSc/ BSc research at the laboratory, and acquire hands- on experience of the natural gas industry. The  research projects currently conducted at CMTL by  MSc students cover mainly natural gas and biogas  analytics. For more information on CMTL, see:  www.pgnig.pl/clpb Independent research and development activities  at the PGNiG Group are also conducted by other  subsidiaries, including:   Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jaso Sp. z o.o.;   PGNiG SA of Warsaw, Zielona Gra Branch;   Karpacka Spka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o of  Tarnw;   Zakad Urzdze Naftowych   NAFTOMET Sp. zo.o. The subsidiaries and branches conduct research in  various areas, from those closely linked with our  business goals, such as gas quality testing (Kar- packa Spka Gazownictwa of Tarnw), to research  into reduction of environmental impacts (Poszuki- wania Nafty i Gazu Jaso and the Zielona Gra  Branch), to tests and analyses which contribute to  the establishment of technical standards and legal  regulations for the gas market (Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa of Tarnw). Div er s ific a t ion  of c u s t omer  c ommu n ic a t ion  c h a n n els For more detailed information on various com- munication channels used within the PGNiG Group,  see sections: Communication and marketing and  New Business Areas (under CNG promotion tools). The media play an important role in customer  communication, as they are able to reach millions  of people at the same time. PGNiG is engaged in  media-related activities, both through the Groups  press teams, which update the media on all im- portant projects undertaken by the Group, and  by means of information campaigns carried out  through local and national press. For more infor- mation, see the Communication and marketing  section. Objective III 51/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  P e r so n a l  tra nsfer o f knowle dg e Commercial Advisers (in the case of Business Cus- tomers) and employees of the Customer Service  Offices (in the case of Retail Customers) are the  most valuable customer communication chan- nel. The primary task of Commercial Advisers is  the provision of advice, related mainly to proper  selection of contracted hourly capacity, which  translates into a more efficient use of equipment,  raising customers awareness regarding rational  use of energy. As for employees of the Customer  Service Offices, they are prepared to answer any  questions concerning natural gas, its advantages  and safe use, in a professional and easy to under- stand manner. E ducation of  chil d ren  a n d  y outh – Pome rania n  Ga s  Tr a d in g  D ivision Having socially vulnerable customers in mind, the  Pomeranian Gas Trading Division, through its local  units, cooperates with local welfare institutions.  The cooperation includes exchange and verifica- tion of information on socially vulnerable custom- ers (in compliance with the law), and education of  children and youth from vulnerable environments  in the safe and efficient use of gas. In the autumn of 2009, the Pomeranian Gas Trad- ing Division of Gdask and the Municipal Welfare  Centre of that city signed a cooperation agree- ment whereby they would jointly run educational  projects for beneficiaries of welfare centres living  in Gdask, Gdynia or Sopot. As part of these efforts, the Pomeranian Gas  Trading Division proposed an educational cam- paign entitled The Land of Blue Energy (Kraina   Bkitnej Energii), to be carried out as part of open  air events organised by the Municipal Welfare Cen- tre. Thanks to this campaign run through various  community events, children and teenagers par- ticipating in art workshops or competitions have a  chance to expand their knowledge of environmen- tal issues, the economy of everyday life and eco- nomical use of natural resources, including gas. The primary objective behind the project is to  develop among children and youth a habit of car- ing for the natural environment and to show them  how to use natural resources, such as gas, in a  rational way. Objective III 52/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  The Land of Blue Energy campaign has featured  during the following events organised by the Mu- nicipal Welfare Centre: 1) On November 21st 2009, during the Planet of  Dreams 2009 (Planeta Marze 2009) festival,  at the sports and entertainment arena of the  Gdask Academy of Physical Education and  Sport. The annual event is organised for children  from state and family-run childrens homes, child  support centres, youth clubs, community centres,  surrogate families, as well as children who live  with their parents at shelters for the homeless  and children with disabilities, i.e. approximately  1,000 participants (under the care of parents,  guardians, and social workers). The event is held  to commemorate the successive anniversaries  of the adoption of the UNICEF Convention on the  Rights of the Child. The Pomeranian Gas Trading  Division was a Partner of the project, carried out  the Land of Blue Energy activities and spon- sored lottery prizes and the main prize, a moun- tain bike. 2) On May 25th 2010, at Nursery School No.75 in  Gdask Morena, 230 pre-schoolers with their  parents took part in the Merrily and Safely  ( Wesoo iBezpiecznie) integration event for chil- dren. The Pomeranian Gas Trading Division was  a Partner of the project, carried out the Land  of Blue Energy activities and sponsored lottery  prizes. 3) On May 30th 2010, the 12th Great Family Pic- nic ( Wielki  Festyn  Rodzinny) took place in Park   Oruski in Gdask, attracting approximately  1,000 participants. Also in this case, the Pomera- nian Gas Trading Division was a Partner of the  project, carried out the Land of Blue Energy  events and sponsored lottery prizes. 4) On June 12th 2010, at Skwer Arki Gdynia on Bul- war Nadmorski in Gdynia, the Gdynia Creative  Mangle ( Gdyski  Magiel  Twrczy) open air fes- tival was organised by the Municipal Welfare Cen- tre of Gdynia and the Group for Support of the  Elderly and the Disabled. The aim of the event,  besides community integration, was to raise so- cial awareness among the inhabitants of Gdynia  related to social involvement and employment  of people with disabilities. During the event, the  disabled and elderly presented their artistic, cul- tural, and culinary creations. The event attracted  approximately 800 participants. The Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division was a Partner of the project  and sponsored the prizes. 5) On November 20th 2010, another Planet of  Dreams festival was held at the sports and  entertainment arena of the Gdask Academy of  Physical Education and Sport, with approximately  800 participants. Throughout the Planet of Dreams 2010 festival,  children and youth could also:   spend their free time safely and without the  use of stimulants,   learn how to satisfy their need for acceptance  and recognition otherwise than through risky  behaviour (i.e. violence),   learn how to lead a healthy lifestyle without  addictions,   participate in various activities and discover  their passions, interests and talents, and pre- sent their skills in arts and sports. Participation in various activities offered at the  event was also a way to promote social involve- ment of the children and youth, as well as their  parents and guardians, and to help them enter  the job market. By taking part in the festival, its  participants had a chance to experience and show  off their team working skills or get a taste of fair  competition. All the young participants, parents  and guardians could experience activities that  may transform themselves into a passion, future  job, or a way of life. Gathering so many event  organisers and producers at the same place and  time was a chance to see them at work and a true  opportunity to become acquainted with many  trades, which could influence the young partici- pants future way of life and career. Objective III 53/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Another joint project of the Pomeranian Gas Trad- ing Division of Gdask and the Municipal Wel- fare Centre is the Share your Home ( Podziel  si   Domem) campaign, aimed to enlist candidates for  surrogate parents, carried out in association with  the adoption and guardianship centres of Gdask.  Thanks to the close cooperation, personal com- mitment of the Pomeranian Gas Trading Divisions  employees and help in distribution of leaflets  promoting the campaign, the number of persons  attending surrogate parenthood training has in- creased since autumn 2009. The number of children and teenagers taking part  in the above forms of education may serve as a  measure of the effectiveness of the joint efforts  undertaken by the Municipal Welfare Centre and  the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division. The involve- ment of the Pomeranian Gas Trading Divisions  employees in numerous events organised by the  local welfare centres, where information materials  (leaflets and booklets) on natural gas were distrib- uted, as well as the organisation of competitions  and games related to natural gas, helped to edu- cate over 2,800 persons in 2010 (mainly children  and teenagers). Besides standard activities related to the provi- sion of services to vulnerable customers (post- ponement of payment deadlines, interest-free  instalments), the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division  joined a long-term project aimed to popularise  knowledge about natural gas in the socially vul- nerable environment. As part of the project, we  participate in numerous events organised by the  Municipal Welfare Centre, thanks to which we can  easily present their beneficiaries with information  and educational materials on natural gas and its  efficient use. All such activities give young peo- ple an opportunity to develop pro-environmental  attitudes, teach them money management skills,  and show them how to use natural resources in a  rational and economical way. The various forms  of activity offered by the Municipal Welfare Cen- tre are also designed to foster social involvement  of the children and youth, as well as their par- ents and guardians, and help them enter the job  market.  Objective III 54/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Objective IV In tro du c ti o n o f i n i ti a tive s aime d  to  s u p p ort so ci al l y vulne rable  c u s to m e rs Gaseous fuel is supplied to customers connected  to the transmission and distribution networks un- der comprehensive agreements. Among  PGNiGs  customers there are also persons who, due to a  number of different reasons, are unable to meet  their obligations following from the use of natural  gas. For years, PGNiGs Gas Trading Divisions have  been implementing various initiatives to support  this group of customers, including execution of  debt repayment agreements and instalment-based  payment of debt, interest or the principal amount  with interest. However, the lack of a generally ap- plicable definition of a socially vulnerable custom- er hinders PGNiGs attempts to prepare relevant  standards in that area. For instance, the Company  is not able to keep a register of socially vulner- able customers, not only due to financial reasons  (the introduction of such a register would entail  work-intensive and expensive modifications of the  billing systems), but also because of the need to  set up a separate personal database, in line with  the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act.  Given that collection of such data is not required  for the performance of agreements, each custom- er qualifying as socially vulnerable would have to  give  his/her consent for the procedure. A decision  whether to introduce such a register may be taken  after the term socially vulnerable customer is  defined in the Polish law, in accordance with the  obligation imposed on EU member states by the  provisions of Art 3.3 of Directive 2009/73/EC of  the European Parliament and the Council of July  13th 2009. Nevertheless, acting through its local units, PGNiG  has already commenced cooperation with local  welfare centres (OPS/MOPS), with a view to pro- tecting socially vulnerable customers. 55/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Initiatives/Best practice C o o p er ati o n wi th  m unicipal  wel f a re cen tres (MO P S ) , be st  p r a c ti c e ex ch a ng e wo rkshops As part of PGNiGs cooperation with local welfare  centres, information on socially vulnerable cus- tomers is exchanged and verified, in compliance  with the applicable legal regulations. If it is report- ed/confirmed that a debtor of PGNiGs remains  under the care of a social welfare centre, the col- lection procedure is suspended. Moreover, PGNiG  follows a special collection procedure with respect  to holders of certificates issued by social welfare  centres, confirming their right to benefit from  social assistance. PGNiG cooperates with social  welfare centres to help socially vulnerable custom- ers obtain aid for payment of their outstanding  gas bills. For this purpose, the Company and social  welfare centres consult to make arrangements re- garding unpaid bills to be financed with aid mon- ey. A customer in a difficult situation, unaware of  the right to receive assistance, is informed about  this benefit and referred to the nearest social wel- fare centre.  PGNiG makes efforts to ensure that the Gas Trad- ing Divisions serving households exchange best  practices in that area, and to develop uniform  standards of serving socially vulnerable custom- ers. To that end, a workshop was organized un- der the title Socially vulnerable customers in the  energy sector, attended by Iwona Figaszewska,  Counsel of the President of the Energy Regulatory  Office (URE), who explained to PGNiGs employees  the EUs position on vulnerable customers for gas  and electricity. Objective IV In t rod u c t ion  of forec a s t  b ills  for  t h e W 1  a n d  W 2  t a r iff grou ps Forecast bills were introduced chiefly because they  offer measurable benefits to both customers and  suppliers of gaseous fuel, thanks to:   less frequent gas meter readings,   an option for customers to plan for their gas  payments well in advance,   uniform and regular invoices and payments,   reduction of PGNiGs own costs (gas meter  readings, preparation and distribution of bills),  which are the basis for calculating subscription  fees,   improved effectiveness of the collection pro- cedure owing to lower amounts of single  payments,   improved financial liquidity of PGNiG thanks to  more regular payments,    lower amounts of single payments,   (indirectly) enhanced image of PGNiG and cus- tomer satisfaction level,   the forecast bill system covers 99% of all cus- tomers from the W-1 and W-2 tariff groups.  56/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  R eq u i rem en ts to  be m e t by  su p p l i e rs Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa (WSG) estab- lished minimum requirements of the Management  System to be met by contractors providing ser- vices for and within the Company. The aim of the document is to communicate the  Companys requirements, while ensuring that  contractors providing services for and within  Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa act in compli- ance with the environmental laws and the Occu- pational Health and Safety regulations, and that  they respect human and employee rights while  conducting business activities. Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa will only coop- erate with those Contractors who, irrespective of  the applicable legal regulations, additionally agree  to comply with the Minimum Requirements of the  WSG Management System.  Summary Customers are the driving force of our Company.  To them we owe our market presence, develop- ment and leading position on the gas market. In  an effort to keep up to date with the needs of  our customers, we carry out periodical satisfac- tion surveys, aimed at identifying their concerns  and wishes. The surveys enable us to improve  our services and products taking into account our  customers expectations. We believe that we have  adopted the right approach, allowing us to con- tinuously develop and invest in the most recent  technologies.  Objective IV 57/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Commitments for the future Strategic pillar Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period Customer  satisfaction To create an effective and user- friendly self-service platform    To fully implement the e-passage all over  Poland   To launch e-BOKs at four Gas Trading  Divisions   To launch an additional Contact Center at  one Gas Trading Division To improve comfort of customer  service at Customer Service Offices   To gradually implement the new interior  design concept atCustomer Service Offices   To take further steps with a view to  shortening connection time   To review and improve procedures with  view to improving customer service To raise awareness and  educate customers in use of  gas and energy efficiency   To implement, as part of Business  Customer Service, the function of a direct  customer service expert   To launch an e-expert in the e-passage To take steps designed to support  socially vulnerable customers   To continue cooperation with social  welfare centres (OPS and MOPS)   To implement new products: equal  bills, no fixed charges and eco Natural gas tank in Gdask – then and now Prepared by a team composed of: Ewelina Bachuta, Marcin Grzba, Monika  Kociw, Jerzy Magas, Magdalena Mroczka,  Dorota Rajczyk-Gakowska, Krzysztof  Smorczewski, Piotr Sobieraj, Wojciech  Tymiak and Katarzyna Wiznerowicz. 58/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  Mi d-Ju ne  2011 saw the  pilot launch of P GNiG s  e- p a ssage , an inte rne t portal. The  progr a mme is  cu rrently  be ing  te ste d at the  L ublin  a n d  Z a b r z e Ga s  Sa l es Units, whe re  its pilot ope ration  is  expec t ed  to  l ast until the  e nd of  2011, to be  ext en d ed  t o  th e o the r Gas S ale s Units in 2012. Th e a d v a n t a ges  o f th e ne w solution are  pre se nte d by  Agn ies z k a  C hm i el arz, Trade  Marke ting  Of f ice  D irec t or  a t  P G Ni G S A, L e ade r of  the  Proje ct Te am w or k in g on  th e e- passage  portal. The web page of PGNiGs e-passage includes of- ferings of major suppliers of such equipment.  We have signed agreements with Viessmann and  Termet, and are negotiating new agreements with  other manufacturers, which means that the offer- ing will soon be extended. 5.1.  PGNiGs e-passage –  everything it takes to  create a warm home  What function is PGNiGs e-passage designed to  serve? It is a new channel, in the form of an internet por- tal, through which we hope to reach our custom- ers. It is also the most advanced IT tool yet dedi- cated to comprehensive retail customer service to  have been deployed by our Company. E-passage is an expert advice and sales service  through which our customers will be able to buy  various gas-fired house heating equipment. The equipment offered via the portal is covered  by warranties extended by an additional year. The  portal quotes catalogue prices, but a customer  may negotiate a discount with the company in- stalling the equipment. What, specifically, will customers be able to do  via PGNiGs e-passage? Everything related to sale of heating equipment,  from selecting a product to placing an online or- der. A customer at a loss what kind of equipment  to choose will find expert advice and assistance  by clicking on the Strefa Doradcza (Advice Zone)  option, featuring key information on heating tech- nologies. A customer can also send us a question  via e-mail on any specific matter. Agnieszka Chmielarz  Trade Marketing Office Director,   Marketing Department 59/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  The optimum selection of heating equipment (boil- ers, heaters etc.), its proper installation and op- eration, requires such selection and installation to  be performed by professionals, including design- ers and installers, whose offerings are presented  in the catalogue Usugi okoogazownicze (Gas  equipment support services).  Let me also add that banks cooperating with us  on the project have developed for our customers  attractive loan offerings to help them finance the  purchase of heating equipment or even the con- struction of entire heating systems. What functionalities does the portal offer  currently? Currently, selected functionalities of the e-passage  are activated. These include:   Strefa doradcza (Advice Zone) – providing key  information on the heating and gas technolo- gies. The major feature here is the Product Ad- viser which – based on a customers answers  to a couple of simple questions – will deliver a  list of recommended equipment.   Katalog produktowy (Product Catalogue) – a  fully functional online catalogue of equipment  with parameter descriptions, filtering searches  against a customers specific needs.   Usugi okoogazownicze (Gas equipment sup- port services) – a database (currently cover- ing only the area of the Lublin Gas Sales Unit)  including a list of firms offering services involv- ing the design, manufacture, inspection, servic- ing/maintenance and installation of equipment,  as well as chimney-sweep services.   Kontakt (Contact) – a function supporting prod- uct-related questions or requests for advice.  In its final form, PGNiGs e-passage will auto- matically support all material business processes  connected with purchase of heating equipment  (orders processing), thanks to the functionality  of the Backoffice module. After the portal is fully  implemented, the role of employees of Customer  Service Offices, who will be directly involved in  customer service, will increase. As a result, cus- tomers will have certainty that the selected tech- nologies will best serve their needs. If you are interested in the operation of the e- passage, visit:  http://e-pasaz.pgnig.pl  60/ 207 5.  Customer satisfaction  6.  Local communities Grzegorz Gaek  Investment Preparation and Execution Office  Director, Investments Department O n e  of  t h e P G Ni G  G ro ups  k e y  p r i o ri ti es i s to  a chie ve  sy m b i osi s wi th the environme nt  in  w h i c h we o p erate, t he re by  sec u r i n g l o ca l  co m m unitie s  su p p or t fo r o u r o p erations,  p a r ti c u l a rl y i n v estm ent proje cts.  O n  th e  other h a nd, i t is our  a m bi ti o n  to  co m p reh ensive ly  su p p or t l o cal  co m m unitie s, thus  bec o m i ng  a  ca ta l yst o f local  dev el op men t.  I believe these four investment projects may serve as a perfect exam- ple of how PGNiG, particularly its Investments Department, approach- es the issues of safety and corporate responsibility towards its cus- tomers and the environment. This relates to protection of the environment and  proper preparation of projects. We also attach great importance  to keeping the local authorities, administrative bodies  and local communities adequately informed about  a project, its purposes, implementation, and ex- pected completion dates. We make every effort  to carry out our projects is such a manner that  each of our partners is well-informed about  their progress and results, and obtains maxi- mum benefits from their implementation.  61/ 207  T h i s a tti tu de i s refl ect e d in  th e  f a c t th a t we h a v e made  di a l og u e a nd co o p era tion  wi th  ou r  so ci al  and busine ss  p a r tn er s o n e o f th e p i llars of  th e  S u sta i n a bl e G ro wth and  R esp o n s i bl e Bu si n ess Strate g y  fo r  2 0 0 9 – 2015. I n 2010, e f forts  were focu sed o n the following  th re e of th e sev en a dopte d  o bje c ti ves: 1 .  to  d evel o p  a  cl ea r  sp o nso rsh i p  p o l i cy;  2 .  to  b ui l d g o o d rel ationships  wi t h  l o ca l  co m m unitie s; and  3 .  to  s ha re ex p erti se  and  bro a den  co o p era tion  wi t h  hi gher education  i n sti tuti o ns.  The  e f forts made  in  pu r s u it  of  the  se le cte d obje c t iv es  (w it h  t h e  e xce ption of  the  fir s t  on e) a re  pre se nte d for ind iv id u a l grou ps  of  the  Company  s  s t a k eh old er s ,  by  showing  the  m os t  in t eres t in g  be st practice s ad d res s ed  t o t h e  re spe ctive  stake h old er  grou ps . Tasks Complet ed 25 U n d er  w a y 95 Dela y ed 4 62/ 207 6. Local communities  Transparent Grants and Donations  Policy for the PGNiG Foundation Development of a Clear Sponsorship Policy Sponsorship Management  Procedure, including Guidelines  relating to Internal Regulations Effect   Improv ed  ma n a gemen t  of  a v a ila b le b u d get s  a n d  b et t er  res u lt s .   Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III 63/ 207 6.  Effective, dialogue-based cooperation with social and business  partners  Dialogue with  authorities CSR campaigns Knowledge Exchange  Forum at Sanok Branch PGNiG  for culture Building Good Relationships with Local  Communities Effects   In  K a t ow ic e,  in  2 8 7  c la s s es  a t  3 6  s c h ools ,  Gr n o l s k a  Spk a  Ga z ow n ic t w a  (U pper  Siles ia n  Ga s  Dis t r ib u t ion  Compa n y ) a n d  Va t t en fa ll h a v e r u n  t h e Sa f e  I nh a b ita nt  c a mpa ign .   1 . 2 m people w ere  rea c h ed  w it h  t h e  Fr om a  Tod d le r  to  a  Se nior  Citiz e n  c a mpa ign ,  foc u s ed  on  t h e s a fe u s e of  ga s  a n d  orga n is ed  b y  t h e P omer a n ia n  Ga s  Tr a d in g  Div is ion .   2 3 7  employ ees  pa r t ic ipa t ed  in  t h e  5 th a n d  6 th ed it ion  of t h e v olu n t a r y  b lood  d on or  s es s ion  a t  M a z ow iec k a  Spk a  Ga z ow n ic t w a  (M a z ov ia n  Ga s  Dis t r ib u t ion  Compa n y ). Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III 64/ 207 6. Local communities  Educational  projects Financial support for and expertise  sharing with technology schools  and universities Sharing Expertise and  Broadening Cooperation with  Higher Education Institutions Effects   492 educational  projects under the  PGNiG Foundations  Little Nobel  Programme.   1,500 visitors to  the interactive  exhibition  Protect, Save,  Win, organised  in cooperation  with the Institute  of Molecular  Physics of the  Polish Academy of  Sciences.    Thanks to its  cooperation with  Mazowiecka Spka  Gazownictwa,  the Gas Industry  Vocational School  in d received  aPLN1.2m grant.    On the initiative  of the Olsztyn Gas  Sales Unit, the first  Adventures of  Blue Energy comic  strip book was  published.    PGNiG Foundations  scholarships for  pupils and college  students.   Scientific seminars  co-organised by  the AGH University  of Technology  in Krakw and  the University of  Stavanger, Norway,  thanks to the  cooperation with  PGNiG Norway. Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III 65/ 207 6. Local communities  Objective I To d ev el o p  a cl ea r sp onsorship  p o l i c y. The consistency of our sponsorship efforts is a  material element of our communication with the  public, highlighting the issues especially important  to our organisation. This supports more effective  allocation of funds to sponsored projects, in a way  which is more beneficial to both the local commu- nities and the Company, which has better control  of the effects of its initiatives.  Initiatives/Best practices  At PGNiG SAs Head Office, the Sponsorship  Management Procedure was developed, includ- ing Guidelines relating to Internal Regulations,  approved by the Companys governing bodies  towards the end of 2009. The procedure, imple- mented in 2010, covers sponsorship activity at the  Head Office and Companys Branches, and regu- lates planning, execution, reporting and communi- cation of sponsorship projects. To ensure consist- ency with the corporate strategy, the procedure  sets out the main areas of sponsorship initiatives,  as well as recommended and prohibited initiatives. Furthermore, a professional firm has been man- dated to perform periodic surveys and analyses of  the effectiveness of sponsorship initiatives under- taken at the PGNiG Group. As a result, in 2010, the  Company received quarterly the results of such  analyses, including media coverage of the spon- sorship projects and recommendations for the  future, and in the case of major projects – also the  assessment of their strategic and tactical consist- ency, as well as SWOT analysis. Based on such surveys and analyses, which cov- ered over 650 sponsorship projects in 2010, it  was determined that the average advertising  value equivalent (AVE) amounted to 3.7 for sports- related projects (i.e., the advertising value was 3.7  times higher than the funds invested); 1.9 for envi- ronmental and social projects and 1.7 for cultural  projects. At the Wrocaw Gas Sales Unit of the Lower Sile- sian Gas Trading Division, the Donations Procedure  was developed and implemented, ensuring that  each request is reviewed based on a set of trans- parent and well defined criteria. The list of dona- tions granted and their beneficiaries is available in  the Companys intranet, which attests to the trans- parency governing the Groups charitable activity. Gr a n t s  a n d  Don a t ion s  P olic y  for  P GNiG SA  s  Ign a c y  u k a s iew ic z  Fou n d a t ion In 2010, a new, more transparent grants and do- nations policy was also developed for PGNiG SAs  Ignacy ukasiewicz Foundation. The Foundation  conducts its day-to-day activities based on grant  contests for educational and research projects, as  well as projects relating to healthcare, culture, fine  arts and sports. This method of project financing  enables the Group companies to be effectively  involved in the process, by recommending those  submitted projects which are important from the  point of view of their operations and the needs  of local community. Rules were prepared for the  award of grants and donations from the Founda- tions funds, and application and report forms  were drafted. 66/ 207 6. Local communities  Objective II B u i l d i n g g o o d rel ati o nships with  loc a l  c om m uni ti es The dialogue which PGNiG has for a number of  years been engaged in with the local communities  of the Group companies allows us to meet the fol- lowing two fundamental objectives:   to successfully implement the Groups invest- ment plans and secure their acceptance by lo- cal communities; investment projects often en- tail the acquisition of land, even if temporary,  and interference with the landscape; they may  also cause some nuisance because of noise and  other environmental impacts; and    to better identify the expectations of local  communities in order to compensate the in- habitants for any adverse impacts of new  investment projects.  Initiatives/Best practices   Branch Information  E xc h a n ge  Forum In 2010, the Sanok Branch established the Branch  Information Exchange Forum, which serves as  a tool for gauging social attitudes towards the  Groups investment plans. Various functions of the  Branch take part in Forum meetings several times  a year, to identify the necessary initiatives (espe- cially related to communication and organisational  matters) addressed to the local community and  authorities and designed to eliminate difficulties, if  any, and win acceptance for planned projects. In 2010, Dolnolska Spka Gazownictwa sup- ported the organisation of the XI Lower Silesian  Local Government Forum, where local government  officials exchange experience and establish coop- eration in the form of inter-commune and inter- county unions. In November 2010, the IV Employers Forum was  held on the premises of the Odolanw Branch,  which co-organised the event. The meeting was  attended by more than 20 companies operat- ing in southern regions of Greater Poland, which  exchanged experience useful in ensuring legal  compliance of business activities, and in improv- ing occupational safety and eliminating risks. The  Regional Chamber of Commerce and State Labour  Inspection Authority were the other co-organisers.   Ha lf a  t on n e of s c rew  c a ps The Wrocaw Gas Sales Units employees partici- pated in a plastic screw caps collection campaign,  not only out of a sense of responsibility for the  natural environment. The collected caps were  delivered to the Na Ratunek Dzieciom z Chorob  Nowotworow (To the Rescue of Children with  Cancer) Foundation, which in turn delivers them  to a recycling company. Some of the money raised  in this way is used to finance the construction of  Klinika Przyldek Nadziei (Cape of Hope Hospital).  The campaign will be continued by employees of  the Wrocaw, Zgorzelec and Wabrzych Gas Sales  Units, because it helps not only to reduce the  greenhouse effect, but also raise funds for Klinika  Transplantacji Szpiku, Onkologii i Hematologii  Dziecicej (Childrens Marrow Transplant, Oncology  and Haematology Hospital).  67/ 207 6. Local communities  The majority of CSR initiatives undertaken in 2010  were a continuation of earlier efforts. The growing  number of participants and wider geographical  scope confirm their effectiveness. In 2011, PGNiG  intends to continue its pro-environmental and  educational campaigns based around the follow- ing topics:   safe use of natural gas;   safe and eco-friendly behaviour (e.g. around  water);   eco-friendly habits related to waste disposal,  water pollution and energy consumption;   further promotion of blood donation among  the PGNiG Groups employees. Activities/Best practices  E ducational camp a ign s In July and August 2010, within the framework  of the third educational campaign under the  title PGNiG – Be safe around water (PGNiG   Bezpiecznie nad wod), the Company organised  weekend family picnics in six holiday resorts, from  Mikoajki, to Koobrzeg, to Solina. The participants  could learn about the European emergency phone  number 112 and the ICE card (In Case of Emergen- cy), take part in contests and theatrical plays pro- moting eco-friendly behaviours, as well as practise  first aid under the supervision of volunteer water  rescuers from Masuria and Sopot. The project  comprised also a series of boat races and meet- ings with well-known sportsmen – ambassadors  of the campaign.  Objective II Since 2005, Grnolska Spka Gazownictwa  (GSG) in cooperation with energy company Vat- tenfall has run the campaign Safety at home  (Bezpieczny Mieszkaniec), which promotes safe  use of natural gas and electricity on the one hand,  while counteracting illegal draw of the utilities,  on the other. The event includes free-of-charge  training for safety services. In October 2010, GSG  and Vattenfalls conference was attended by al- most 70 representatives of housing cooperatives  and homeowner associations, and speeches were  delivered, among others, by members of fire and  police services. The campaign has also been intro- duced to primary schools in several Silesian cities,  where specially trained teachers talk to children  about alarming events which require response. In  2010 alone, such lessons were held in 287 classes  of 36 schools in Katowice.  68/ 207 6. Local communities  A similar long-term educational campaign relating  to safe use of gas is run by the Pomeranian Gas  Trading Division under the name From Toddler  to Senior Citizen. It is targeted not only at school  children, but also at students and elderly people,  and it is organised at Universities of the Third Age,  picnics and festive events. In 2010, the campaign  reached almost 1.2m people.  On the initiative of the Sanok Branch, lectures  entitled Ask Animals about Waste Disposal were  delivered at schools, and pupils were involved  in searching for illegal dumps and cleaning local  forests. All children participating in the event were  invited to a theatre play (Pinocchio), produced by  the Maska Theatre in Rzeszw.  The fifth and sixth editions of the voluntary blood  donor sessions Giving Blood, Giving Life were  held in 2010. At the beginning limited to Ma- zowiecka Spka Gazownictwa, the blood donor  campaign has become a large-scale project acces- sible to everyone. It is promoted by posters put up  at all the Customer Service Offices in Warsaw. This  year, 237 participants of the sessions donated 68  litres of valuable blood.  PGN iG for culture Objective:    to preserve the heritage of the traditional gas  industry and petroleum production;   to spread historical knowledge about the pe- troleum industry;   to promote artistic events. Initiatives/Best practices  S ing le  Work Galler y   (Ga le r ia  J ednego  Dzie a) The idea behind the gallery is to present works  of art in places often visited by residents of the  Gdask-Gdynia-Sopot agglomeration, such as pub- lic offices, institutions, certain companies, banks,  courts, shops, and restaurants. While these sites  may lack space for large exhibitions, there is usu- ally enough room to display a single work of art.  The key benefit of the project is that it enables  residents of the agglomeration to come into direct  contact with art. The Single Work Gallery is a  new unconventional approach to the promotion  of cultural and artistic activities of young local  artists– students and graduates of the Academy  of Fine Arts in Gdask. As a co-organiser of the  campaign, the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division  makes its Customer Service Offices available for  the purpose. R ea d er s  P lu s In 2010, the Sandomierz Gas Sales Unit, together  with the Association Its Good that You Are Here  (Dobrze, e jeste), bought Readers Plus (devices  allowing the blind to become familiar with muse- um collections and read library books), and donat- ed them to the regional museum and public librar- ies. The inbuilt speech synthesizer, Ivona, reads  text files, which ensures fast and easy access to  scanned books, notes, exhibition catalogues and  other texts. All messages provided by the device  are generated by the speech synthesizer, Ivona. Objective II 69/ 207 6. Local communities  P u bl i sh i n g  Ma c i ej ki  n ie c o d z ien n e, a  bo o k  writte n  by  a  d i s abl ed bo y, Macie j  Ma l i  sk i  Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa has been involved  in various CSR projects for years. It is particularly  eager to participate in campaigns focused on  children, promoting their knowledge, abilities and  talent.  In ter n a ti o na l  P i ani sts  Forum   B i esz c za dy wi tho u t Borde rs  ( B ie s z c za dy  bez gra n i c) Bieszczady without Borders is a unique project  among global artistic events. Within its framework,  talented young people from Western Ukraine,  Eastern Slovakia and the whole of Poland have a  chance to acquire extensive theoretical and practi- cal knowledge that is not taught in their schools.  Topics range from medical conditions affecting  musicians to finding ones own artistic place in the  world permeated by business values. From the  very beginning, this artistic venture has been sup- ported by the PGNiG Sanok Branch, whose involve- ment was honoured by the title of the Patron of  Carpathian Culture. On May 15th 2010, the Gas Industry Museum  in Paczkw, established and supported by  Grnolska Spka Gazownictwa, participated  for the first time in the pan-European event – the  Night of Museums. On that night, the Museum  attracted more than 500 visitors willing to see  an exhibition featuring examples of old industrial  architecture, a historical municipal gas produc- tion line, Europes largest collection of domestic  gas metres and a host of other exhibits related to  the traditional gas industry. In September 2010,  the Museum was involved in the European Herit- age Days held under the slogan From Idea, to  Industry. Almost 1,600 events were organised in  almost 300 Polish towns, to promote Polish tech- nological inventions, disappearing professions and  traditional production techniques. Also, the Gas  Industry Museum in Warsaw, under the patronage  of PGNiGs Head Office, takes part in both events  every year. Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Krakw was involved  in the preparation of a historical supplement to  the Rzeczpospolita nationwide daily, entitled The  Book of Eastern Borderlands (Ksiga Kresw  Wschodnich). Its special edition, under the title  Galician Kerosene. Oil, champagne, and money  (Galicyjska Nafta. Ropa, szampan i pienidze),  tells the story of Polish oil industry workers, inven- tors and pioneers of that branch, who were five  years ahead even of their American colleagues.  The publication was warmly welcomed by read- ers, who spontaneously offered to share their own  private archives.  Objective II The Wrocaw Gas Sales Unit once again sponsored  the Wratislavia Cantans International Festival – a  prestigious event attracting participants from all  over Europe, during which the most beautiful  historic buildings of Lower Silesia are filled with  sounds of oratorical, symphonic, as well as vocal  and instrumental music. In 2010, the Wrocaw Gas  Sales Unit also supported the Jazztopad Festival –  one of the most important European jazz festivals  for young musicians.  70/ 207 6. Local communities  Objective III  S h a r i n g  ex p erti se and  bro a d en i n g  co o p era ti on with  h i g h er  e duca ti o n i n sti t utions For many years, PGNiG has been an active partici- pant and sponsor of campaigns aimed to popu- larise exact sciences and research. It is part and  parcel of our everyday work. We are especially  committed to the promotion of sciences and re- search among children and youth. Initiatives/Best practices P GNi G for scho o l s   Promotion of exact sciences;   Ensuring equal educational opportunities for  children and youth;   Development of vocational education in fields  related to the oil and gas sector. Mazowiecka Spka Gazownictwa (MSG), as the  patron of the Gas Industry Secondary School in  Secondary School Complex No. 3 in d, supports  the school in organising workshops and prepar- ing teaching curricula. It was thanks to MSGs  involvement that the school received PLN 1.2m of  EU funds to found a library for gas engineers and  mechanics, provide specialist training courses (PE  welder, electric arc welder), workshops for stu- dents and student visits at gas facilities. The ma- jority of these projects were implemented in 2010. At the end of the year, Mazowiecka Spka Ga- zownictwa and the Regional Examination Board  of d concluded an agreement on an exam  confirming professional qualifications of gas engi- neers, whereby the company undertook to pre- pare and equip an examination centre, as well as  co-organise and participate in exams. Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Sp. z o.o. of Krakw  is involved in professional education of drilling  rig technicians, by organising traineeships for  students of the Oil Industry Secondary School in  Krosno and the PGNiG Vocational School Complex  in Krakw on its training oil rig installations near  Tarnw. Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Sp. z o.o. of  Pia additionally prepared and published three  vocational course books, which were distributed  among all students of the Stanisaw Staszic School  Complex in Pia. The Pomeranian Gas Trading Division, in coopera- tion with the Centre for Pro-Ecological Informa- tion and Education, organised the Let an Apple  Hit Your Head (Bc jabkiem w gow) contest  addressed to primary and junior high schools. 66  groups of primary school children and 36 groups  from junior high schools (each comprising three  pupils on average) entered the competition. The  participants performed selected experiments in  physics and chemistry, illustrating them with their  own multimedia presentations or posters. The Adventures in the Land of Blue Energy is an  educational comic book about the past, present  and future of natural gas, published on the initia- tive of the Gas Sales Unit in Olsztyn. The book  reminds readers in a light way how to use gas  safely. In 2010, the PGNiG Foundation awarded scholar- ships totalling PLN 26 thousand to 13 top-perform- ing students of secondary schools offering educa- tion in fields related to the oil and gas industry.  The Lower Silesian Gas Trading Division, along  with the Environmental Protection League and  the National Fund for Environmental Protection  and Water Management, organised the provincial  stage of the 25th Ecology Schoolympics, entered by  58 schools from the entire province of Wrocaw. 71/ 207 6. Local communities  In 2010, the PGNiG Foundation, in association with  the Foundation for the Development of Voluntary  Service, executed 3,213 projects under which  student volunteers conducted classes for children  living in small towns and rural areas. As part of  the Young Nobel (Mody Nobel) programme,  launched to stir up interest in exact sciences,  492 educational projects were run involving 70  schools and over 2,000 students. Simultane- ously, a nation-wide film competition exploring  themes from mathematics to mechatronics was  held. Films, even those shot with a mobile phone  camera, were posted on the Internet and evalu- ated by Internet users. (http://www.projektor.org. pl/0,1,27,Mlody_Nobel.html). In yet another year of its cooperation with schools  named after Ignacy ukasiewicz, the PGNiG Foun- dation financed 1,411 extracurricular classes in 21  schools, which - depending on specific needs–  ranged from artistic, journalistic or theatrical  workshops, to sports activities, to compensatory  classes in maths or physics. S afe  and e co-f ri en d ly  life w it h  natural gas ( y b e z p ie cz nie  ieko l o giczn ie z g a z e m z ie mny m) Delivering classes for children and teenagers,  Heads of the Customer Service Offices of the Zgor- zelec Gas Sales Unit (Lower Silesian Gas Trading Di- vision) needed to demonstrate both practical and  theoretical knowledge, as well as teaching skills.  Their task was twofold - to present the Company  they work for and to describe the properties of  natural gas, its origin, methods of production and  transport, as well as environmental advantages.  The initiative covered 19 schools and nearly 2,000  students. Every participant received puzzles pre- pared as part of the CSR training discussed earlier,  during which employees illustrated key strategic  objectives with photographs. Be  safe  in J arosa w   ( Bezpieczny J aros a w) The programme run by the Jarosaw Gas Sales  Unit (Carpathian Gas Trading Division) was meant  to raise childrens awareness of dangers posed by  road traffic and the Internet. Within its framework, some preventive measures  were also implemented in response to risks faced  by various sections of the local community. These  educational activities showed how to eliminate or  mitigate dangers we encounter as members of  society.  You  c a n  b e a n  en v iron men t a l  a c t iv is t  t oo  (I  Ty  mo e s z  z os ta   e kolog ie m)  The initiative carried out by the Rzeszw Gas Sales  Unit (Carpathian Gas Trading Division) was focused  on the promotion of pro-environmental attitudes  among young people, development of their envi- ronmental sensitivity and popularisation of envi- ronmental issues. The campaign was addressed  to first-, second- and third-form primary school  pupils. Objective III 72/ 207 6. Local communities  A r t a n d l i tera ry co ntes t  p ro m oti ng  en v i ro nm ental  a s p ec ts o f na tura l  ga s The project, carried out by the Koszalin Gas Sales  Unit (Greater Poland Gas Trading Division) since  2009, is addressed to pupils of primary schools in  the county of Koszalin. The promotion of natural  gas as an environmentally-friendly energy source  that should be used rationally and economically  fosters pro-environmental habits from an early  age. Childrens works are displayed at the Custom- er Service Offices in Koszalin. S u m m a r y:  Recognising that the Companys development is  closely tied with technological progress, PGNiGSA  tries to spark interest in exact sciences among  the youngest. At the same time, it supports trade  schools offering oil and gas specialisations as the  source of future specialists in areas such as drilling  or gas network servicing. PGN iG, hig he r e d u c a t ion  a n d  re se arch institution s  Cooperation with higher education institutions has  been high on PGNiGs agenda practically from the  beginning. It is an indispensable element of our  everyday activities, as we benefit from the quality  of education of our future personnel. The conduct  of and participation in science and research pro- jects is another key aspect of our business and one  with significant implications. In 2010, the Company  started cooperation with new research institutions,  hoping to attract engineering staff and initiate re- search and development work whose results may  benefit our operations. The promotion of science  through festivals held in various cities with PGNiG  SAs support is also growing in scale and effect. Objective:    to promote science and scientific achievements  among the public;   to interest young people in pursuing higher  education in sciences, including fields related  to the oil and gas industry;   to promote areas of vital importance to the oil  and gas sector among researchers. Objective III 73/ 207 6. Local communities  Summary  In 2010, the PGNiG Group pursued a number of  initiatives in cooperation with various groups mak- ing up its social environment, thus laying a foun- dation for good and lasting relationships with local  communities. The Group believes that continued  cooperation on educational projects, especially to  promote exact sciences, is particularly important.  In the coming year, we will be developing our co- operation with research centres, so as to acquire  expertise necessary to explore for and produce  unconventional gas, which we see as key to future  development of the Groups production business  in Poland. To pursue this goal, PGNiG SA has al- ready taken some steps, such as entering the Sci- ence and Technology Consortium  Polska  Platforma   Prac  Rozwojowych dla  Gazu  Niekonwencjonalnego  (Polish Platform for Development Work in the Area  of Unconventional Gas). Communication with both  local and state authorities will require more at- tention in the coming year. It will be necessary to  establish, together with state administration bod- ies, a reasonable regulatory framework relating to  unconventional gas. On the other hand, coopera- tion with local governments will allow the Group  to effectively manage its investment projects. Tak- ing into account PGNiGs wide-ranging investment  programme planned for the coming years, foster- ing good relations with subcontractors in 2011 will  also be crucial. Initiatives/Best practices  In 2010, PGNiG SA provided financial support for  science festivals across the country, from the  Festival of Science in Krakw (May 12th – 15th),  Bydgoszcz Science Festival (May 26th – 28th) to the  Baltic Science Festival (May 27th – 30th). During the  festivals, the Company co-organised various activi- ties involving the audiences, such as the Awards  for Listeners (Nagradzanie za suchanie) contest,  which tested knowledge gained during the event,  or Science is Beautiful (Nauka jest pikna) – an  exhibition dedicated to Polish female scientists. Gazoprojekt SA, working together with the  Wrocaw University of Technology, prepared and  delivered a series of eight lectures on the gas  industry at the Faculty of Environmental Engineer- ing. The lectures dealt with technical problems  related to gas storage and transmission, control of  technological installations and co-generation.   Cooperation between the Odolanw Branch and  the Institute of Molecular Physics of the Polish  Academy of Sciences (IFM PAN) resulted in yet an- other – 26th – edition of the Summer with Helium  (Lato z Helem) Scientific Workshops, held at the  end of June and beginning of July 2010. As part  of the project, research teams comprising young  scientists, university and high school students in- terested in physics, carried out a series of experi- ments at the Department of Low Temperatures  of IFM PAN, using liquid helium and nitrogen pro- vided by the local PGNiG Branch. The experiments  were preceded by an interactive exhibition enti- tled Protect, Save, Win (Chronisz, Oszczdzasz,  Wygrywasz), aiming to explain certain physical  and chemical phenomena used in our daily lives.  The exhibition was prepared by students of a lo- cal junior high school, and visited by nearly 1,500  students from the region.  PGNiG Norway AS has initiated a joint project  bringing together business and science, together  with the University of Stavanger and the AGH Uni- versity of Science and Technology in Krakw. With- in the framework of that initiative, three seminars  on the companys operations on the Norwegian  Shelf were held. As part of the projects second edition, the PGNiG  Foundation awarded 10 scholarships worth  PLN50thousand to the best students in fields re- lated to the petroleum industry, thus earning rec- ognition in the Good Scholarships 2010 ( Dobre   stypendia  2010) awards. Objective III 74/ 207 6. Local communities  Commitments for the future Strategic pillar Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period Local  communities Sharing expert knowledge,  broadening cooperation  with research centres   To develop the Polish Platform for Development Work in the Area of Unconventional Gas www.3prgn.pl   To promote education in the field of shale gas by cooperating  with Polish and international research centres    To develop scholarship and educational programmes  More effective communi- cation with public and local  authorities    To take part in important scientific conferences and seminars on shale gas    To play an active role in the nation-wide discussion of different aspects of shale gas exploration  Creating lasting  relationships of equals  with local communities    To conduct dialogue based on AA1000 standards with communities  where shale gas exploration projects will be located   To develop standards for cooperation with local communities during  exploration and subsequent production of shale gas    To promote knowledge of the established standards of cooperation  with local communities on the Polish market  Prepared by a team composed of: Beata Baziak,  Katarzyna Choast, Maja Girycka, Pawe Kara,  Patrycja Kujawa, Anna Pomaraska and Piotr  Wojtasik. 75/ 207 6. Local communities  7.  Natural environment Our busine ss inev it a b ly  in v olv es  in t er feren c e w it h  natural re source s  a n d  in d iv id u a l c ompon en t s  of t h e  e nvironme nt. Th is  is  pa r t ic u la r ly  t r u e a b ou t  t h e  E xploration and P rod u c t ion  s egmen t ,  a n d  it  is  ou r  re sponsibility  to min imis e t h e en v iron men t a l impa c t s  of  its ope rations, r a t ion a lly  ma n a ge res ou rc es  a n d  w a s t e,  and, if  ne ce ssary,  c ompen s a t e for  t h e effec t s  of ou r  inte rfe re nce  with t h e en v iron men t . 76/ 207  Grzegorz Sojski  Environmental Protection Office Director,  Investments Department The implementation of the environmen- tal protection objectives adopted in 2009  as part of the Sustainable Development  and Responsible Business Strategy was neither  a surprise nor a new, unknown challenge for  PGNiGs employees and its environmental protec- tion personnel. This was due to two reasons. First- ly, the environmental protection objectives were  developed jointly by the entire team. Secondly, for  many years the Company has invariably treated  environmental protection as an area of crucial  importance, critical to its business success. In this  way, the Companys CSR strategy provided merely  a formal framework for the objectives and priori- tised them to reflect new challenges in the area of  environmental protection. Following its adoption,  the Company was able to commit human resourc- es and funds to their implementation, and gained  measures to assess their progress.  Two years after the strategy was launched, we can  boast measurable environmental achievements,  which often exceed the obligatory legal require- ments and involve further mitigation of our nega- tive environmental impacts. It should be added  that the objectives and results of these efforts also  apply to the contractors cooperating with us on  our projects.  Today, we face new challenges in the area of  environmental protection, one example being  compliance with the energy and climate pack- age or the much discussed shale gas. We hope  that thanks to the environmental credibility which  we have been building for years, the Companys  shale gas exploration projects will be accepted by  the public, providing an opportunity not only for  the Company, but also for society at large and  the local communities. Gas is more than just an  environmental-friendly fuel – in fact, the most  environmental-friendly of all fossil fuels. Over the  course of years, we have been trying to prove that  it is also a precious natural resource which can be  produced at minimum cost to the environment.  77/ 207 7. Natural environment  H owev er, wh en  co mp are d  wi th  other fo ssi l  fu el s,  n a tu r a l  ga s, whi ch  i s our  m a i n  c omm o di ty, g en e rate s  m a r k e dl y l ess emi ssi o ns into the  a tm o sp h ere. Therefo re, now that  c o u n ter acti n g  cl i m a te change  is  h i g h  o n everyo n es age nda,  it i s  e ssen ti al  to  p ro mote  a  bro a d er  u se o f n a tura l gas, both  fo r  a p p l i cati o ns whi ch  have  been  k n o wn fo r years ( such as  g a s c oo kers o r ho u se he ating  sy stem s ) and thro ug h products  we c a n  o ffer by devel oping  our  n e w b u s i n ess seg m en t – Powe r  G en e r a t i o n . Po wer p l a nts f ue lle d  by  g a s  ( i nstead o f co al) , co- g e n e r a tio n, renewabl e e ne rgy  so u rc e s a nd bi o m a ss utilisation  wi l l  a l l  h a v e a  ben efi cial e f fe ct  o n  th e  l ev el  o f atm o sphe ric  em i ssi ons. A  si m i l a r en v i ro nm en tal and  ec o n om ic p urp o se i s se rve d by  th e  p romo ti o n  o f C NG  f ue lle d  v eh i c l e s, fro m  p assen g e r cars to  bu s es a nd del i very trucks.  All e ntitie s of  th e P GNiG  Group, whe the r o per a t in g in  Poland or e lse wh ere,  h a v e  alway s put spe cia l emph a s is  on e nvironme ntal prot ec t ion ,  mitigation of  adv er s e  e nvironme ntal impa c t s ,  a n d  e nvironme nt-f rien d ly  projec t s .  This priority  has fou n d  it s  re f le ction in the  goa ls  a n d  me asure s se t dow n  in  t h e  S ustainable  D e ve lopmen t  and Re sponsible  Bu s in es s  S trate gy. Care  for  t h e n a t u r a l  e nvironme nt is amon g t h e  six primary obje c t iv es  of ou r  S trate gy. PGN iG b eliev es  t h a t  a ke y  challe ng e  is  t o c on d u c t  its busine ss so th a t  it s  b roa d  impact is use d to  b en efit  t h e  e nvironme nt, and  t u r n  r is k s  in t o  opportunitie s. Tasks Complet ed 38 U n d er  w a y 78 Dela y ed 16 78/ 207 7. Natural environment  Continued efforts  to introduce EMS in  the WSG and MSG Implementing, Maintaining and Enhancing  Environment Management Systems (EMS) 10 entities of the PGNiG  Group were recertifi ed First stage of work aimed to unify  methods and criteria used to  identify and assess environmental  aspects  Effect   7 5 % of Grou p  en t it ies  u s e E M S. Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 79/ 207 7.  Conducting business responsibly, with due regard to the  natural environment  STOP programme at  PNiG Krakw HSE manual at  PNiG Nafta Pia To Use Elements of EMS  to Meet Requirements of the  HSE Management System Effect   In t egr a t ion  of exis t in g  ma n a gemen t  s y s t ems  a n d  t h eir  elemen t s . Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 80/ 207 7. Natural environment  Information  campaigns Specialist  training To Educate and Raise  Environmental Awareness Effect   1 , 1 8 5  per s on s  t r a in ed  in  2 0 1 0 . Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 81/ 207 7. Natural environment  Taking environmental  criteria into account at  the planning/ design  stage of projects Pro-environmental  overhauls and  upgrades Introduction of innovative  pro-environmental technology  solutions Research and expert  analyses To Take into Account Environmental  Criteria when Selecting New Investment  Projects, Solutions and Technologies Effects Limit in g impa c t  on  t h e en v iron men t ,  in  pa r t ic u la r :   emis s ion s  in t o  t h e a ir   en ergy  c on s u mpt ion   a mou n t  of w a s t e  prod u c ed  w a t er  c on s u mpt ion   impa c t  on  flor a  a n d  fa u n a . Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 82/ 207 7. Natural environment  Objective I To i m p l emen t, m a i n ta in and  en h a n c e th e env i ro nm e nt  m a n a g e m en t system s ( E MS )   The PGNiG Group voluntarily mitigates its harmful  environmental impacts by means of environment  management systems (EMS) in place at the  Group entities, which guarantee compliance of  their operations with applicable laws. A harmful  environmental impact, such as flue gas emissions,  water consumption or noise, identified at an  entity may relate to past, present or future  products and services. Any material environmental  impact (chosen by applying the relevant criteria)  translates into other elements of the system, such  as environmental policies, objectives and tasks,  process monitoring and management. EMS serve  to improve the Companys image and credibility in  the eyes of both state authorities and customers,  while contributing to the environmental  awareness of its staff. In addition to enhancing the  Companys image and credibility, EMS provide a  number of other, purely economic benefits.  Initiatives/Best practices  Thanks to the environmental management sys- tems, which have already been in place for several  years (the first one was implemented in 1999),  entities of the PGNiG Group are – in terms of envi- ronmental protection – among the best positioned  and most reliable companies not only in Poland,  but also on international markets (Denmark, Nor- way, Egypt, Pakistan, Libya and Mongolia). The  ability to properly manage its environmental  impacts through efficient systems benefits the  Companys image while bringing down its operat- ing costs, thanks to rational use of raw and other  materials, more efficient use of infrastructure,  reduction of emissions and waste, as well as costs  of waste management, lower energy and water  consumption and related costs.  Compliance with legal regulations allows the  Group to avoid fines for breaching environmental  requirements. Entities which have implemented  EMS pay less in environmental charges and benefit  from lower insurance premiums. Proper identifica- tion of risks related to industrial failure may re- duce the probability of its occurrence or eliminate  the risk altogether, thus saving the cost of damage  removal.  83/ 207 7. Natural environment Map of EMS  implementations at  the PGNiG Group  Objective I To date, as many as three-fourths of the PGNiG  Groups subsidiaries and branches have imple- mented, obtained certificates for and maintained  environmental management systems (EMS) based  on the PN-EN ISO 14001 standard, often integrated  with other systems, such as quality assurance,  occupational health and safety and information  protection systems. Only the Gas Trading Divisions  and ZUN Naftomet Krosno have not implemented  EMS yet. In the first half of 2010, work was well  advanced on the implementation of an EMS sys- tem compliant with the PN-EN ISO 14001 standard  at Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa (WSG). Ma- zowiecka Spka Gazownictwa (MSG) has started  preparations to the implementation process. In  2010, ten organisational units of the PGNiG Group  required to renew the EMS certification fulfilled  the relevant requirements and obtained renewals.  The only exception was Pomorska Spka Gazown- ictwa (PSG), which – as the year before – decided  not to renew the certificate, despite having in  place an operational EMS. Organisational unit Date of implementation/ certification Date of certificate renewal Head Office July 2009 Odolanw Branch May 2003 December 2009 Sanok Branch November 2004 November 2010 Zielona Gra Branch April 2002 August 2008 Dolnolska Spka Gazownictwa May 2005 July 2008 Grnolska Spka Gazownictwa October 2004 October 2010 Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa SA December 2005 June 2008 Karpacka Spka Gazownictwa September 2009 Mazowiecka Spka Gazownictwa SA implementation in progress Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa SA implementation in progress Geofizyka Krakw* November 2001 May 2008 Geofizyka Toru* Stycze 2004 January 2008 Poszukiwania Nafty iGazu Krakw* November 2009 Poszukiwania Nafty iGazu Jaso* November 2001 December 2010 Poszukiwania Nafty iGazu NAFTA-Pia* June 2000 December 2010 Poszukiwania Naftowe Diament August 2003 January 2010 ZRG Krosno November 2005 October 2010 BUG Gazobudowa Zabrze September 2001 October 2010 BN Naftomonta December 2004 October 2010 ZRUG of Pogrska Wola May 2006 May 2010 GAZOPROJEKT December 1999 December 2008 INVESTGAS December 2001 December 2010 Environment Management System certificates held by the PGNiG Group entities (in 2010) * Units with the HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) management system in place. 84/ 207 7. Natural environment  A list of identified and assessed environmental  impacts forms the basis for setting environmental  objectives within the EMS in place. Thus, proper  arrangement of this area is among the key factors  supporting analyses at all the Group companies  and identification of areas of special interest for  oil and gas mining. Accordingly, the PGNiG Groups  Sustainable Development and Responsible Busi- ness Strategy for 2009 – 2015 provides, in the envi- ronment area, for development of uniform criteria  for identification and assessment of the Groups  environmental impacts. In 2010, initiatives were  undertaken supporting the pursuit of this opera- tional objective. Given the uniform business profile  of all Gas Distribution Companies, plans provide  for the implementation of the first phase of work  designed to establish uniform identification meth- ods and assessment criteria for environmental  impacts. Objective II To use  e le me nts of E M S t o  me e t re q uire me n t s  of t h e HSE  manage me nt syst em   To maintain their strong position and reliability on  international markets, the PGNiG Group entities  have to meet the requirements of the HSE (Health,  Safety and Environment) management system,  which combines occupational health and safety  with environmental protection aspects, promoting  innovative organisational and technological solu- tions. The PGNiG Group companies which oper- ate abroad or cooperate with foreign partners in  Poland meet the most stringent international HSE  requirements, whose procedures guarantee that  their operations are as safe as possible, primarily  for the lives and health of those directly involved,  but also for local communities, and as harmless as  possible for the environment. Initiatives/Best practices  Currently, a HSE management system is fully op- erational at four Group companies, and PNiG Nafta  Pia has in place an HSE manual, which includes a  policy and describes operating procedures in the  area of health, safety and environment protection.  The company uses the remaining portion of the  HSE documentation for the purposes of its occu- pational health and safety/fire protection proce- dures, as well as the Environment Management  System, and, whenever needed, supplements it to  meet the requirements of individual contractors.  The companies place emphasis on preventing oc- cupational and environmental accidents through  development, implementation and compliance  with rules and requirements in the area of occupa- tional safety, preventive health care and environ- mental protection, which far exceed mandatory  legal regulations. Importantly, the companies oblige their sub-con- tractors to comply with the same rules and require- ments. The drilling rigs of PGNiG Jaso, operating  both in Poland and abroad, may serve as an example  of such best practices. The HSE management system  implemented by that company is based on guide- lines issued by OGP International Association of Oil  & Gas Producers. Another example is the best prac- tice followed by PNiG Krakw, which – in addition  to the HSE management system – has implemented  the Safety Training Observation Programme (STOP),  whose key features include periodic risk assessment  and prediction, as well as promotion of occupational  safety awareness among employees. Equally impor- tant is the staffs awareness of environmental issues,  which brings fruit in the form of good relations with  local communities and customers. The PGNiG Groups Corporate Social Responsibil- ity Strategy provides for continued use of EMS  elements in meeting the requirements of the HSE  management system. Moreover, in 2010, based  on the experience gathered by the Group entities  which have an HSE management systems in place,  PGNiGs Head Office commenced work aimed to  develop an HSE manual, which will serve as a set  of standards to be followed by all entities of the  PGNiG Group. 85/ 207 7. Natural environment  Objective III  To e du c ate and ra i se  en v i ro n menta l  awa rene ss  It takes vast knowledge and experience to meet  environmental protection requirements, in particu- lar because of the evolving environmental pro- tection laws, but also the growing importance of  environmental issues. But the PGNiG Group boasts  excellent staff, who have relevant education and  many years of experience in the field. In addition,  PGNiG seeks to ensure that all the Group employ- ees are properly educated in the field of environ- mental protection. Initiatives/Best practices In 2010, specialist environmental protection train- ing covered over 1,185 persons, and the total cost  of the training and degree programmes in envi- ronmental protection amounted to nearly PLN174  thousand. Our CSR strategy provides for con- tinuous efforts designed to raise environmental  awareness. Knowledge about the natural environ- ment, gathered not only by the personnel special- ising in environmental protection but also by the  other employees, helps to develop rational atti- tudes and behaviour in this area. Consistent efforts  to build environmental awareness contribute to an  actual improvement of the quality of the environ- ment. Therefore, at the PGNiG Group, environmen- tal education is an overarching objective, pursued  through participation in training covering a broad  range of topics and supported with modern com- munications tools, as well as other initiatives. Being a mature and self-aware organisation, we  do not limit ourselves to these activities. We also  endeavour to improve environmental awareness  among our customers, by promoting our product,  natural gas, as a source of environment-friendly  energy. Young people are also an important ad- dressee of our efforts. Karpacka Spka Gazown- ictwa (KSG) may serve as an example of our  involvement in projects undertaken with a view  to protecting animals: KSG has been co-financing  a research programme concerning a species in  danger of extinction, the Polish lynx (whose popu- lation in our country is currently estimated at 200)  and supporting programmes designed to create  proper habitats for lynxes kept at zoological gar- dens or rehabilitation centres.  86/ 207 7. Natural environment  Objective IV  To ta k e  i nto  acco u nt  en v i ro n menta l  cri teri a  whe n  sel e c ti n g  new i nv estm e nt  p ro je c ts, so l uti o ns a nd  tec h n o l og i es   Mi ti g a ti n g  en v i ro nm ental impact In most cases, industrial activity involves environ- mental impacts. They are usually harmful to the  environment: air pollution, water contamination,  depletion of drinking water resources and reduced  biodiversity. For centuries, especially in the indus- trial era, man used the environment only to satisfy  his needs. However, the emergence of the first  material side effects of such irrational manage- ment of natural resources brought about a gradu- al change in attitudes. Initiatives which are currently undertaken on  numerous different levels have a single common  purpose of eliminating or reducing the adverse  effects of human activity. This is consistent with  the sustainable growth principle, which provides  for such growth that enables the needs of todays  generation to be satisfied without depriving future  generations of the ability to satisfy theirs. Such  thinking drives the PGNiG Groups pro-environ- mental initiatives. The PGNiG Group entities seek to continually  reduce:   emissions of pollutants generated in the course  of the Companys core business operations;   emissions of noise generated during the opera- tion of production equipment, pressing plants  and pressure reduction stations;   amounts of generated waste, which is to a  large extent recovered or – in the case of par- ticularly hazardous waste – neutralised;   water consumption and wastewater genera- tion through, among other things, mud recov- ery and use of an effective in-house system for  injecting formation water, produced together  with hydrocarbons, back into the same geo- logical formations;   surface area of land covered by exploration  and production operations, by limiting areas  occupied by equipment and installations;   adverse effect on the quality of soil and water  by using seals on land surface where waste,  hazardous substances and chemicals are  stored; protections under crude oil and forma- tion water tanks; treatment of drilling waste  (i.e. rock cuttings) and its separation from mud;  and use of equipment monitoring pollutants in  waste; and   effect on vegetation cover and animals  through limited tree clearance, protecting  root systems during earthwork and (thanks to  state-of-the art technologies) reducing noise  emissions, vibrations and contamination during  breeding and mating seasons. 87/ 207 7. Natural environment  Initiatives/Best practices We  c ou ntera ct cl i m a te  chang e  by  c on tro l l i ng  g reen house  gas  em i ssi ons Our Group strives to reduce emissions of green- house gases and other gas and dust emissions  into the air by using gas as a low-emission fuel,  by monitoring the consumption of fuels, by re- ducing energy consumption and by upgrading  or replacing sources of heat used internally. For  more information on measures we take to reduce  emissions (insulation of buildings, modification of  gas networks and boiler houses, construction of  cogeneration units) see the section on investment  projects, upgrades and overhauls. The existing laws on control and reduction of  greenhouse gas emissions made it necessary to  introduce CO2 emission monitoring and reporting  by those PGNiG subsidiaries and branches which  are covered by the European Union Emission Trad- ing Scheme (EU ETS).  The PGNiG Groups subsidiaries and branches  have implemented internal and external systems  for gas quality control as part of their effort to  reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also use  their ISO 17025-compliant laboratories to conduct  measurements and comparative analysis, con- trol and validate the correct operation of process  chromatographs, use internal spreadsheets for  CO2 emission volume calculation, and upgrade gas  consumption metering systems. With respect to  Installation National Emission  Allocation Plan  Number Emissions  allocated   (in Mg) 2010   emissions  (in Mg) Available  (in Mg) KPMG Mogilno PL-898-08 26,642 8,962 17,680 PGNiG S.A. Odolanw Branch PL-562-05 11,181 13,656 -2,475 PGNiG S.A. Odolanw Branch PL-950-08 30,495 29,221 1,274 PGNiG S.A. Zielona Gra Branch  Dbno Oil and Gas Production Facility PL-563-05 31,664 29,865 1,799   99,982 81,704 18,278 CO2 emission volumes (in Mg) generated in 2010 by the PGNiG Groups installations covered by EU ETS methane emissions by the mining sector, uniform  emission indicators have been developed, and  work is underway in the gas sector to arrive at a  single settlement methodology with respect to gas  emissions to be employed by all gas companies.  Objective IV 88/ 207 7. Natural environment  In 2010, the total volume of methane emissions  generated by the PGNiG Groups operations de- creased by 2% year on year (see chart on the left)  and amounted to 39,600.093 Mg. The change is  mainly attributable to lower distribution losses  (down by over 1 million cubic metres of gas),  which translated into a 14% decrease in methane  emissions.  In 2010, emissions of primary gas pollutants, such  as methane, sulphur dioxide, and carbon monox- ide, which are generated chiefly by combustion of  fuels by sources of heat and energy for process  needs, remained at a steady level relative to pre- vious years (see chart on the right – logarithmic  scale). However, in 2010 the Group saw a year-on- year increase in carbon dioxide (90%) nitrogen ox- ides (60% – in NO2 equivalent) and dust emissions.  The change is attributable to a significant increase  in gas production by PGNiG branches.  Methane emission volumes generated by the PGNiG Groups operations in 2008-2010 (in Mg)  39,600 2010 40,385 2009 37,306 2008 Objective IV 2010 2009 2008 Nitrogen dioxide Carbon  monoxide Sulphur dioxide Carbon dioxide   Total volume of main gas pollutants released into the air in 2008 – 2010  10 10,000 89/ 207 7. Natural environment  Wa ter  c on sum p ti o n  a nd  wa s tewater gen erati o n The deficit and deteriorating quality of water from  domestic sources represent an important problem  for the PGNiG Group in terms of qualitative and  economic aspects, as well as environmental pro- tection, which is why steps aiming to protect wa- ter resources are of vital importance. The objective  of the PGNiG Group is to:   constantly limit black and grey water volumes,   rationally manage water resources used in  industrial processes,   improve operations by reusing resources, such  as formation water.  The PGNiG Group branches and companies draw  water from their own underground intake points  or water supply systems. Water is drawn mainly  to cater to social needs and, to a lesser extent,  for technological processes. Changes in water  consumption observed from year to year are con- nected primarily with the amount of process wa- ter used, i.e. the number of exploration and invest- ment projects executed. Intake of surface and subsurface water in 2008 – 2010,   by source (in thousands of cubic metres) 438.73 330.66 2010 467.68 312.89 2009 511.79 300.00 2008 Water from water supply  network Water from the Groups intake  points (surface and subsurface) Formation water generated in 2008 – 2010 (in thousands of cubic metres) 2010 2009 2008 185.26 Generated formation water Formation water injected into  rock mass 150.97 172.17 125.70 166.51 134.29 Objective IV 90/ 207 7. Natural environment  In 2010, consumption of water from the water  supply network fell from 467.70 thousand cubic  metres to 438.73 thousand cubic metres, while the  intake of water from our own intake points slightly  increased.  Wastewater generated by the PGNiG Groups sub- sidiaries and branches is discharged to the sewage  system (under contracts with water supply and  sewage collection operators), or to surface waters  or soil (in compliance with existing water permits)  following their pre-treatment or full treatment  at the Groups site wastewater treatment plants.  Grey and black water, as well as industrial waste- water, is discharged into the sewage system. Rain- water collected on the premises and access roads  is either discharged into the sewage system or to  surface waters and soil.  Volumes of wastewater generated in 2008 – 2010, by place of discharge (in  thousands of cubic metres) 2010 2009 2008 29.12 Discharge to surface  water and soil System discharge  490.96 38.70 438.56 30.36 499.53 The chart shows the total volume of wastewater  discharged into the sewage system, transported to  the treatment plants from the Groups septic tanks  and discharged into surface water or soil.  In 2010, the volume of wastewater discharged into  water, soil and the sewage system fell.  Objective IV 91/ 207 7. Natural environment  Wa ste The objective of waste management at the Groups  entities is to recycle waste or minimise its volume.  All members of the Group follow their own waste  management programmes, while entities having  EMS in place use waste management procedures.  Following the procedures, the Group has managed  to:   identify environmental impacts related to  waste, i.e. determine all areas where waste is  generated,    determine a method for minimising volumes of  waste, including, in the first place, waste sent  to landfill sites (unsorted municipal waste only).   In 2010, a total of 97.5 thousand Mg of waste was  generated by the entire PGNiG Group, excluding  municipal waste sent for recovery, neutralisation  or deposited at landfills.  The procedures set out different methods of waste  disposal. Precedence is given to waste recovery  (limited only by the availability of processing tech- nologies for particular types of waste and, some- times, by financial constraints), followed by waste  sorting, as it provides waste ready for recycling.  Waste which, due to process considerations, needs  to be neutralised, is handled by specialist provid- ers holding required licences. Each entity super- vises proper selection of contractors.  Waste disposal in 2008 – 2010, by method (in %) 76.07 7.89 16.05 2010 69.09 15.39 15.52 2009 66.41 3.18 30.41 2008 Storage Treatment Recovery Objective IV 92/ 207 7. Natural environment  The total amount of waste generated annually by  the PGNiG Group entities depends primarily on  the amount of drilling waste generated by Explo- ration Companies. Drilling waste, which consists  of rock cuttings and drilling mud generated dur- ing oil or gas well drilling, accounted for approx.  60% of all waste generated by the PGNiG Group  in 2010 (including unsorted municipal waste), i.e.  11% less than in 2009. Bits of rock are separated  from drilling mud on vibrating screens or with use  of other devices, such as desanders or desilters.  Waste drilling mud is generated when rotary mud  is exchanged for another kind (as required by the  drilling technology) or when a borehole is com- pleted and drilling fluid is no longer necessary.  Drilling waste disposal in 2008 – 2010 (in thousands Mg) 9.7 15.1 36.6 2010 2.1 6.0 55.7 2009 9.6 21.7 50.1 2008 Storage Treatment Recovery Drilling waste also includes process water mixed  with drilling mud, cement slurry and other fluids  from well treatments. In 2010, 15 thousand Mg of drilling waste was  landfilled. Most of it was deposited at the Groups  own landfill site, which meets all legal require- ments. In 2010, 60% of all drilling waste was dis- posed of, i.e. 19 thousand Mg less than in 2009. Objective IV 93/ 207 7. Natural environment  P roje c ts wh i ch  m a y si gnif icantly  im p a c t th e env i ro nm ent and  Na t u ra  2000 si tes When carrying out projects that may significantly  impact the environment or Natura 2000 sites, the  PGNiG Group members follow the applicable laws  and implement solutions aimed to mitigate their en- vironmental impact, as well as impact on the species  and habitats protected as part of the Natura 2000  network. Before a project is launched, an environ- mental impact report or a report on its impact on  Natura 2000 sites is drawn up, whenever such re- quirement is imposed directly by law or by a com- petent authority determining conditions for project  approval. If necessary, decisions on environmental conditions  for project approval or decisions regarding condi- tions for project approval with respect to its impact  on Natura 2000 sites impose obligations aimed at  preventing, mitigating, and monitoring the projects  impact on the environment. Modern technological solutions and mitigation meas- ures make it possible to carry out projects at  Natura  2000 sites and in their vicinity without a material  negative impact on protected species and habitats.  In 2010, 25 projects located at or nearby 73 Natura  2000 sites were approved for implementation by  competent authorities. PGNiG Groups projects for which environmental conditions were determined in 2010,   located at or nearby Natura 2000 sites  Projects   Exploration and appraisal of oil  and gas   Natura 2000 sites Objective IV 94/ 207 7. Natural environment  Summary    We  c om pl y wi th  en v i ronme ntal  p ro tec ti o n l aws a nd have  a  c l e a n  e nv i ro nm en ta l  re cord All organisational units making up the PGNiG  Group hold the relevant permits and approv- als to use the environment. They are renewed  or replaced as soon as material changes in the  subsidiaries operations are introduced, or if such  renewals or replacements are required under any  amended laws and regulations. In 2010, and in previous years, no environmental  fines were imposed on PGNiG Group members,  despite numerous inspections carried out by re- gional inspectors for environmental protection and  district mining authorities. R esea rc h and m o n i to ring Environmental research is conducted by the PGNiG  Group to meet the requirements imposed by  binding laws and regulations. It is also a valuable  source of information, as it enables our branches  and companies to acquire data and information  used to develop documentation, statements and  report, as well as to plan environmental activi- ties. Analysis and monitoring of the environment  also allows us to determine its condition before,  during, and after the execution of particular pro- jects. Additionally, measures are taken to ensure  compliance with environmental conditions defined  in the relevant decisions and permits held by the  Group, and as part of environmental monitoring or  assessment.  In 2010, the research covered:   emissions of pollutants into the air (periodical  logging of emissions of process pollutants into  the air);   the quality of surface and subsurface waters  (analyses of water sampled from wells with the  use of piezometer);   the quality of wastewater, rainwater and melt- ing snow (analyses of grey and black water  sampled from septic tanks, physical and chem- ical analyses of rainwater and melting snow  that are piped to municipal storm drains, and  BOD analyses of industrial wastewater);   the state of the soil and water environment  (analyses carried out as part of the pre/post  drilling environment monitoring, analyses  carried out as part of drilling waste landfill  monitoring, soil analyses for presence of indig- enous bacteria and their possible use in in situ  bioremediation);   noise levels (drilling rig and air-conditioning  noise). Pro-environmental projects, new tech- nologies, investment projects, upgrades.. Cost of environmental research at the PGNiG Group in 2008 – 2010 (PLNm) 1.94 2010 2.28 2009 1.25 2008 95/ 207 7. Natural environment  P ro- e n vi ro nm en ta l  p roje cts,  n e w te c hno l o gi es, i n v estme nt  p ro je c ts, up gra des The PGNiG Group undertakes a number of pro- environmental projects. This is actually one of the  directions of our business development – con- struction and opening of new CNG filling stations,  but also other projects equally important for the  environment. One the one hand, they are connect- ed with the daily operations of the Group compa- nies and relate for instance to buying gas-fuelled  vehicles, installation of sun collectors or insula- tion of buildings. On the other hand, our care for  the environment is manifest in how we run our  business, e.g. in our purchase of equipment for  vacuum feeding of natural gas into gas pipelines  or working on gas pipelines in air-tight conditions.  Other activities that can be classified into this cat- egory include:   purchase and assembly of double-wall fuel  tanks, shakers, vacuum degasifiers, centri- fuges, washers, oil containers, water tanks,  mud tanks, rock cutting and wastewater tanks,  reservoir water tanks, methanol tanks, etc.,   construction and modernisation of sanitary  sewage systems, wastewater treatment plants,  and washing stations where separators of oil  derivatives are applied, as well as maintenance  of treatment plants,   purchase of sorbents, neutralising agents, and  foil to be used under tank stations,   purchase of power generators to work at  oil rig installations and new highly efficient  engines,   redesign of installations used for desulphurisa- tion of natural gas and crude oil and for waste  injection at petroleum production sites,   upgrade of formation water installations and  well installations, and well workover to enable  injection of formation water into native rock  mass,   construction and upgrades of gas-fired boiler  houses and co-generation systems with a view  to limiting emissions from energy-generation  sources,   replacement of cast-iron gas pipelines with PE  ones. Our overhaul projects include primarily overhauls  of gas-fired boilers, measurement apparatus and  irrigation systems, insulation of buildings, modern- isation of sewage systems, dewatering systems,  control rooms, etc. In 2010, our pro-environmental projects were  focused on air pollution prevention. The highest  expenditures in this area were incurred by Gas  Distribution Companies, and related to the con- struction of new pipelines and replacement of  old cast-iron pipelines with PE ones, which limit  methane emissions into the air, as well as the  introduction of pipelines into areas which had not  yet been covered with a gas network, which will  result in further lowering of emissions. Expendi- tures were also made on purchase of equipment  enabling work on pipelines in air-tight conditions,  purchase of CNG-powered vehicles, construction  of storm drains, and systems for removal and pre- purification of rain water and melting snow from  our facilities. 96/ 207 7. Natural environment  Exploration Companies posted the second largest  financial outlays, which were allocated to air pollu- tion prevention, wastewater management, water  protection and waste management, and used to  purchase mud pumps, insulate drilling rig sites,  install liquid-tight floorings in oil and lubricant  containers, purchase linear screens, water and  mud tanks, sound proofing, waste treatment and  incineration plants. The aggregate amount of  capital expenditure made by all the PGNiG Group  entities exceeded PLN 70m.. In 2010, upgrade projects focused primarily on  air pollution prevention and on protection of soil  and underground water. Projects executed by Gas  Distribution Companies included reconstruction  of boiler-houses, replacement of central heating  boilers, upgrades of loaders in gas odourising sys- tems, and wastewater treatment plants; projects  executed by Production Branches included seal- ing and anti-corrosion protection of installations  at production facilities to prevent leakage of gas,  gasoline, formation water and methanol, as well as  application of air-tight sealing to the refilling pro- cess; while projects executed by other companies  included insulation of buildings and reconstruction  of boiler-houses. Total expenditure on upgrade  projects incurred by all the PGNiG Group entities  exceeded PLN 34m. In 2010, total expenditure on overhaul work in- curred by all the PGNiG Group entities was close  to PLN 8m and related primarily to overhauls and  repairs of boiler-houses and networks, insulation  of building and removal of asbestos-cement tiles  from roofs. Overhauls Upgrades Pro-environmental projects 2009 2010 2008 Expenditures on investment and upgrade projects in the environmental area,   and costs of overhauls in 2008 – 2010 (PLNm) 7.98 2.75 3.22 34.01 11.06 18.52 70.62 17.77 25.33 97/ 207 7. Natural environment  7.1.  Unconventional gas and environmental protection The first drilling for shale gas (Markowola-1) was  carried out in the Sanok Branch area, in the Lublin  region in July 2010, where also the first two hy- draulic fracturing operations in unconventional gas  deposits took place. Below are presented parts of the Legal compli- ance assessment and environmental impact as- sessment of procedures carried out to drill the  Markowola-1 well for the purpose of oil and gas  exploration and appraisal, including procedures  designed to examine the potential presence of  natural gas in unconventional deposits commis- sioned from the Polish Geological Institute by the  Ministry of Environment: In the period October 2009–August 2010, work  aimed to investigate Upper Carboniferous and  Devonian formations was carried out within a  licence area located in Central and Eastern Poland  (the Pionki-Kazimierz licence No. 48/2001/p), with  a view to identifying potential oil and gas deposits. In an effort to accomplish the above objective, in  the period October 2009 – April 2010, an explora- tion borehole (Markowola-1) was drilled in Zwola,  Commune of Gniewoszw, County of Kozienice.  The total depth of the borehole was 4,500 metres  (Lower Devonian formations). In July 2010, two stimulation (hydraulic fractur- ing) treatments were carried out (along with pre- treatment tests) within two perforation intervals  (3,486 – 3,491 metres and 3,462 – 3,467 metres),  to enable observation of potential gas flow. The  results were negative, as there was no evidence  of gas accumulation sufficient for commercial  exploitation.  Irrespective of the fact that the exploration bore- hole was drilled primarily to identify potential  presence of conventional gas in the formation, the  hydraulic fracturing procedures carried out in the  borehole in search of unconventional hydrocarbon  deposits were one of the first procedures of this  kind to be undertaken in Poland. 98/ 207 7. Natural environment  As part of this assessment, all activities performed  during the research and appraisal work were  thoroughly analysed. The analysis covered deci- sions and permits secured by the contractor, as  well as the available technical documentation (the  geological survey plan, operation plan, drilling  plan, stimulation treatment plans, geotechnical  formation testing plans). The collected documents  provided a basis for examination of the admin- istrative and execution procedures. The analysis  revealed that– out of concern for proper execu- tion of work, including mitigation of its adverse  environmental impact – the contractor resorted to  a number of procedures in excess of standard for- mal requirements, such as pre- and post-drilling  examination of components of the environment  (November 2009 and 2010).  The contractor secured all decisions and permits  for the project, as required under the legal regime  applicable as at the date on which the application  was submitted. The contractor met the conditions set forth in the  decisions. The drilling, fracturing and formation testing work  was carried out within an area of approximately  1.1ha, temporarily excluded from agricultural  use. The contractor took steps to eliminate or  minimise the impact of the drilling work on the  environment (in particular, soil, subsoil, surface  and underground water), as well as to control gas  and flue gas emissions, noise levels and amounts  of waste, in accordance with the applicable legal  regulations. In order to assess the effectiveness of those meas- ures, the investor ordered two series of meas- urements to assess the condition of the abiotic  environment on and around the drilling rig site,  before and after the drilling and stimulation treat- ments. Geophysical analyses were performed to  determine methane concentration in soil, subsoil,  ground water and soil air. 99/ 207 7. Natural environment  In order to assess a possible adverse impact of the  drilling work and stimulation treatments on the  ground and water environment, physico-chemical  examination and granulometric analysis of soil  and subsoil were carried out in the vicinity of the  drilling rig and liquid fuel storage tanks. Collected  samples were tested to determine the content of  heavy metals (Er, Ni, Pb), mineral oils and chlo- rides. Both series of measurements revealed that  the levels of all tested substances did not exceed  levels permissible for agricultural land (in line with  the Minister of Environments Regulation of Sep- tember 9th 2002, concerning soil and land quality  standards (Dz. U. No. 165, item 1359)). Moreover,  the pre- and post-drilling results were not signifi- cantly different. The area around the drilling rig  was examined for methane content in the soil air  at the depth of 1.2 – 1.5 metres. None of the 30  probes revealed methane content large enough  to be detected by means of the applied measure- ment method (GA 2000 Plus biogas meter) before  the work commenced or after it ended. The con- dition of water in the locally used water-bearing  horizons was examined on the basis of samples  taken from three nearby wells. The following parameters of water were ex- amined: pH, electrical conductivity, taste, smell,  concentration of chlorides, nitrates, nitrites, am- monium, mineral oils, chromium, barium, lead,  potassium, iron and manganese. The results were  compared to class limits specified in the Minister  of Environments Regulation concerning the cri- teria and methods of underground water assess- ment (Dz. U. No. 143, item 896). In both measure- ment series, the majority of tested parameters fell  within the limits corresponding to class I and II of  underground water quality (very good and good  quality). The results obtained before and after  drilling do not indicate any hydro-chemical anom- alies in tested water samples. Conclusions Based on a review of the documentation submit- ted by the contractor for the work carried out in  the period October 2009-November 2010 within  the area covered by the Pionki-Kazimierz licence  (Markowola-1 borehole), aimed to assess legal  compliance and environmental impact of the pro- cedures performed, the following key conclusions  can be drawn: 1) The procedures applied in the decision-making  process were compliant with then applicable  legal regime. 2) The analyses performed show that the drill- ing work and stimulation (hydraulic fracturing)  treatments did not have any adverse effect on  the examined components of the environment,  as no significant changes were observed in  such components after the work was complet- ed, as compared to their original condition. Prepared by a team composed of: Magdalena  Krawczyk, Bogusaw Kurowski, Sebastan  Latanowicz, Magdalena Legawiec and Employees  of the Environmental Protection Office at the  PGNiG Head Office. 100/ 207 7. Natural environment  Strategic pillar Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period Conducting business  responsibly, with due  regard to the natural  environment Objective 1:  to implement, maintain and enhance the  environment management systems (EMS)   Implementation of EMS at further PGNiG Group entities   Further work to develop uniform criteria for identification and  assessment of environmental impacts Objective 2:  To use elements of EMS to meet HSE  requirements   Incorporation of elements of EMS into HSE systems Objective 3:  To educate and raise environmental  awareness   Training   Educational initiatives and campaigns   Promotion of pro-environmental solutions Objective 4:  To take into account environmental criteria  when selecting new investment projects,  solutions and technologies   Introduction of modern, environmentally-friendly technologies   Overhauls and upgrades designed to deliver environmental  benefits    Further development of procedures for planning, preparation  and execution of investment projects, upgrades and overhauls to  account for environmental aspects Objective 5:  To improve EIA procedures at each stage of  operations   Development of uniform assessment methods and analysis of  environmental risks in all areas of the Companys value chain Objective 6:  To reduce atmospheric emissions through  wide use of natural gas   Expansion of the CNG station network and promotion of CNG as  vehicle fuel   Promotion of new applications of gas as a low-emission fuel  (power sector) Objective 7:  To establish uniform environmental  protection reporting standards with  reference to the Groups internal reporting  systems    Adaptation of Group-wide reporting methods used to report  environmental components and the impact of the Groups  operations on the environment to market requirements and  commonly applied standards Commitments for the future  101/ 207 7. Natural environment  8.  Workplace E mployees  a re t rea t ed  a s  t h e Grou p s  mos t  valuable a s s et  –  b ot h  in  b u s in es s  a n d  s oc ia l t er ms .  The  Compa n y  c a res  a b ou t  t h eir  n eed s ,  w h ile t r y in g  to fost er  t ea m s pir it ,  mot iv a t ion  a n d  c ommit men t .  Marta Cydejko  Human Resources and Training Office Director Corporate Services Department  It is our goal to make every PGNiG  employee realise that they can count  on the Company, that they can devel- op here, and know that it is the best workplace  they could wish for.  102/ 207  T h e  i n te nti o n to  ma k e PGN iG  a  sa fe  a n d fri en dl y workplace  u n der p i ns a l l  the o bj ec tive s and  a c ti v i ti es defi ned i n the  Groups  S u s ta i n abl e Dev el o p me nt and  R esp o n s i bl e Bu si n ess Strate g y.  Our activitie s are gov er n ed  by  two prioritie s :  s a fet y  of  e mploy e e s ( a vit a l t h in g in  our industry)  and  a mb it iou s  de ve lopme nt plan s  rela t in g t o  ne w innovative  projec t s ,  w h ic h  re q uire  the  Grou p s  employ ees  to constantly improv e t h eir  skills and q ualif i c a t ion s .  We make  syste mi c  effor t s  t o  e nhance  PGN iGs orga n is a t ion a l  culture , be aring  in  min d  t h a t  t h e  value s of  re spon s ib le b u s in es s  should form the  b a s is  of a ll ou r  unde rtaking s.  Tasks c omplet ed 62 u n d er  w a y 118 d ela y ed 34 103/ 207 8.  Workplace  Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV Occupational Health  and Safety Guidance  at PGNiG Sanok  Branch The Warning! Fire!  (UWAGA Poar)  Programme The STOP Programme  at PNiG Krakw Mock alerts to test emergency  procedures in case of leakage  in the facility containing gas  with hydrogen sulphide content,  carried out at PGNiG Sanok Branch Reporting of Near-Miss  Incidents at PGNiG Sanok  Branch Improvement of HSE Statistics  by Enhancing the Systems Effectiveness Effects   8 0 % of P NiG  K r a k w  s  d r illin g  c rew s  t ook  pa r t  in  t h e STOP  progr a mme.  As  a  res u lt ,  t h e  employ ees   a w a ren es s  of  res pon s ib le  b eh a v iou r  w a s  r a is ed  b y  8 8 % .   In  2 0 1 0 ,  1 8  in c id en t  repor t s  w ere s u b mit t ed  u n d er  t h e Nea r- M is s  In c id en t  P rogr a mme a t  P GNiG Sa n ok  B r a n c h .   1 0 0  employ ees  of Z R G K ros n o  t ook  pa r t  in  fire prot ec t ion  s emin a r s j. 104/ 207 8. Creation of a safe and friendly Workplace  The IN-OUT  Programme Development of soft  skills of management  staff Specialist occupational  training, grants to co-fi nance  higher education and foreign  language courses Focus on the Development of Employees  Competencies/ Learning Organisation Effects   1 5  s t u d en t s  c omplet ed  t h eir  fir s t  y ea r  of s t u d y  for  ga s  en gin eer in g  q u a lific a t ion s  in  Z es p Sz k   P on a d gimn a z ja ln y c h  (Sec on d a r y  Sc h ool  Complex) in  Ko c ia n .   Improv emen t  in   s oft   s k ills  of  ma n a gemen t  s t a ff.   In c rea s ed  a w a ren es s  of  t h e impor t a n c e  of s u s t a in a b le  d ev elopmen t  a mon g  P GNiG employ ees . Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 105/ 207 8.  Workplace  Benefi ts package and  focus on employees  health The I want to help  (Chc pomc) initiative Employee satisfaction  survey Employer Branding  (Employer of Choice) Effects   6 0 % of employ ees  of K a r pa c k a  Spk a  Ga z ow n ic t w a  t ook  pa r t  in  a n  in it ia t iv e  d es ign ed  t o  s u ppor t  c ollea gu es  a ffec t ed  b y  t h e  flood .   P LN 2 6 2 , 8 2 5 . 3  w a s  t h e a mou n t  of  fin a n c ia l s u ppor t  giv en  t o employ ees  a ffec t ed  b y  t h e  flood .   9 1 5  per s on s  w ere  exa min ed  u n d er  t h e  For  St a r t er s ,  Do a  Ch ec k -u p  ( Ba da nie  na  nia da nie  )  in it ia t iv e,  c a r r ied  ou t  b y  P omor s k a  Spk a  Ga z ow n ic t w a .   Over 50% of  PGNiG employees  participated in the  first Satisfaction  Survey. Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 106/ 207 8.  Workplace  Workshops and  meetings for  communicators  devoted to the Code  of Ethics Shared intranet Introduction of Uniform Internal  Communication Standards, Development  of a Shared Corporate Culture Effects   Dev elopmen t  of  t h e Cod e of Va lu es  for  P GNiG Grou p  employ ees .   CSR  R epor t  for  2 0 1 0  prepa red  join t ly  b y  a ll CSR  c oord in a t or s  of t h e  P GNiG Grou p. Objective  I Objective  II Objective  III Objective  IV 107/ 207 8.  Workplace  Type  Total Percent Full time 31115 95.94 Part time 150 0.46 Temporary employment contract, piecework contact, traineeship 1166 3.60 Total 32431  Total headcount by employment type, employment contract and region Category Type Total Percent Type of contract Employment contract 31562 96.44 Temporary employment contract 1093 3.34 Piecework contract 53 0.16 Graduate traineeship 20 0.06 Total 32728 100.00 Province Total workforce Province (or country – if  work is performed abroad)  of temporary employment  contracts and piecework  contracts Province of Wrocaw 26 Province of Bydgoszcz 40 Province of Lublin 35 Province of Zielona Gra 55 Province of d 22 Province of Krakw 75 Province of Warsaw 248 Province of Opole 1 Province of Rzeszw 320 Province of Biaystok 2 Province of Gdask 33 Province of Katowice 106 Province of Kielce 1 Province of Olsztyn, Province of Biaystok 12 Province of Pozna 27 Province of Szczecin 21 Objective I Im p ro v emen t o f H SE st atistics  by  e n h a nci n g  the syste ms  ef fec ti ven ess  Ensuring a safe workplace, which involves the  provision of safety training to employees, is one of  the PGNiG Groups major objectives. As fieldwork  at drilling rigs and production sites entails signifi- cant risks, PGNiG uses its best efforts to counteract  potential hazards. By analysing the number and  causes of accidents, we can improve prevention  methods. The Groups biggest success in that area  is a very low number of industry-related accidents  (a trend observed for many years) and rare occur- rence of the most severe accidents.  The circumstances and causes of most accidents  indicate that industry specific work (geological  work, gas and oil exploitation and operation of  gas networks) is not the major source of accidents  (or the place where most accidents occur). Thanks  to considerable capital expenditures, innovative  technologies/equipment and organisational ef- forts, the basic risk of industry related accidents  has been significantly reduced, and the works  negative impact on the environment (noise, vibra- tions, dust) has in many cases been minimised, or  even eliminated. 108/ 207 8.  Workplace  Category Province/Country Total workforce Province (or country –  if work is performed  abroad) of employment  contracts Province of Wrocaw 2,234 Province of Bydgoszcz 1,558 Province of Lublin 998 Province of Zielona Gra 1,801 Province of d 882 Province of Krakw 5,116 Province of Warsaw 2,236 Province of Opole 434 Province of Rzeszw 5,036 Province of Gdask 1,299 Province of Katowice 3,285 Province of Kielce 601 Province of Olsztyn, Province of Biaystok 825 Province of Pozna 3,147 Province of Szczecin 1,253 Belgium 2 Belarus, Vysokoye, Tietierovka  2 Czech Republic  54 Drozdovitse, Ustilug 2 Egypt 17 Egypt 4 India 34 Kazakhstan 389 Libya 10 Mozambique 11 Germany 40 Pakistan 86 Russia 2 Slovenia 90 Uganda 80 Ukraine 33 In 2010, most accidents happened to employees  performing simple, uncomplicated tasks, walking  about the Companys premises, or during manual  or road transport of materials. A worrying trend is  the growth in the number of collective accidents,  mainly in road traffic. Over the recent years, in- cluding 2010, accidents have most often occurred  in workshops, during construction and assem- bly work, administration and office work, and in  road traffic. Of the total number of 232 accidents  in 2010, 74 (31.9%) happened during the perfor- mance of such activities.  A significant group of accidents (20 in 2010, which  equals 8.6%) were accidents to collection staff and  installers (of gas distribution divisions only), per- forming their professional duties on customers  private premises. Unfortunately, in this case it is  hard to take preventive measures. Objective I 109/ 207 8.  Workplace  2010 saw one fatal accident, in which an em- ployee of Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Nafta Pia Sp.  z o.o. lost his life. The accident took place at the  Markowola-1 drilling rig installation and was di- rectly caused by the employee being unexpectedly  hit with the metal end of a drilling mud hose. The  employee fell with the force of the blow and suf- fered serious occipital injuries. The cause of death  was multiple internal injuries. Having analysed all  circumstances surrounding that tragic accident,  we took the following steps:   the method of drilling mud injection during  the casing procedure was modified so as to  minimise involvement of pressure equipment  operators;   the instructions for well casing and cementing  were revised to include provisions on safe drill- ing mud injection during the casing procedure;   the floor surfaces at oil rigs and around rotary  tables were fitted with anti-slip mats.  In 2010, the PGNiG Group registered a total of 232  accidents, in which 242 employees got injured, of  whom:   one employee died,   one employee was seriously injured,   240 employees were slightly injured.  The accident frequency ratio equalled 7.9 per  1,000 employees, while the accident severity ratio  amounted to 51 days of absence per one accident.  In comparison with 2009, the frequency ratio  was unfortunately higher, while the severity ratio  improved.  The PGNiG Odolanw Branch, the Branch of  Central Measurement and Testing Laboratory,  and BUD-GAZ of Warsaw did particularly well  Year Number of accidents at the  PGNiG Group Number of accidents at  PGNiG Number of accidents at the  PGNiG Groups companies 2006 213 16 197 2007 228 27 201 2008 213 21 192 2009 215 26 189 2010 232 30 202 Number of accidents at the PGNiG Groups branches and companies Objective I compared with other Group entities, since they  registered no accidents in the last few years.  The Groups branches and companies take system- atic measures to prevent accidents and improve  safety. Many entities have introduced Integrated  Management Systems, which confirm that the  management process conforms to the highest  standards of occupational safety and health.  2010 2009 GK PGNiG PGNiG SA Spki Accident frequency rate at the PGNiG Groups branches and companies in 2009 – 2010 3.5 9.7 7.9 2.9 7.3 9.1 110/ 207 8.  Workplace  Initiatives/Best practices  STO P  P rog ra m , PNi G  Krakw   An important safety-improving project at PNiG  Krakw is the STOP Program (Safety Training  Observation Program) by DuPont. The Program  is used for observation and analysis of unsafe  incidents and conditions occurring during work.  It helps to stimulate appropriate employee behav- iour. STOP is designed to improve compliance with  the rules of safety at work and prevent injuries  and accidents. PNiGs long-term experience and  research have shown that STOP participants are  more aware about work safety and environmental  issues, and quicker at identifying potential or real  threats. As a result, it is possible to more effective- ly eliminate risky behaviours or situations leading  to accidents at work.  In 2010, safety training courses were attended by  80% of PNiG Krakws drilling crews. Approximate- ly 1,500 STOP cards were issued at the drilling rigs,  which immediately helped to eliminate numerous  potentially unsafe situations, as a result of which  only four minor accidents at work occurred. The implementation of the STOP Program brought  about the following benefits:   A lower number of accidents resulting in ab- sence from work and a lower number of regis- tered unsafe incidents;    A lower number or elimination of unsafe acts;   An 88% increase in the awareness of impor- tance of safety and responsible behaviour at  work;   90% of the workforce exhibit a positive atti- tude to safety-at-work issues. M oc k  a ler t s  t o t es t  emergen c y  proc ed u res  in  c a s e of lea k a ge  in  t h e fa c ilit y  c on t a in in g ga s  w it h  h y d rogen  s u lph id e c on t en t ,  c a r r ied  ou t  a t  P GNiG Sa n ok  Br a n c h At the Tarnw I and Wierzchosawice Gas Produc- tion Facilities, Lublin Oil and Gas Production Facil- ity, as well as Swarzw Underground Gas Storage  Facility, where there is a risk related to the pres- ence of hydrogen sulphide, a mock alert and staff  drills in case of the gas system unsealing were  carried out. The drills were performed in line with  the Hydrogen Sulphide Incident Management  Procedure.   Objective I 111/ 207 8.  Workplace  R ep o r ti ng  o f near- m i ss  in c i d en t s, o ccu p ati o nal he alth  a n d s a fe ty gui dance, PGN iG  S a n o k  B ra nch Preventive measures yield the best results if  employees themselves are engaged. The Sanok  Branch encourages reporting of near-miss inci- dents by employees involved. An electronic box  for registration of near misses has been set up for  this purpose. Moreover, near-miss incidents are  discussed at regular health-and-safety-at-work  meetings, attended by staff working at the pro- duction facilities and other organisational units.  Byencouraging our employees to report near  misses, we are able to take preventive and correc- tive measures. In 2010, 18 reports were submitted,  and all issues raised by employees were solved.  Allemployees reporting near-miss incidents are  rewarded by the Company. T h e  Wa r n in g!  F ire!   (U W AGA  Po a r ) P rogr a mme,  Z a k a d  R ob t  Gr n ic z y c h  K ros n o In cooperation with the Field Office of the Associa- tion of Voluntary Fire Brigades of the Republic of  Poland in Krosno, Zakad Robt Grniczych Krosno  organised educational seminars on fire protec- tion, entitled Warning, Fire!. The seminars were  devoted to legal aspects related to fire protection,  causes and spreading of fire (including events oc- curring after the consumption of alcohol or similar  substances), operation of fire-fighting equipment,  procedures to be followed in the event of fire, or- ganisation of fire protection at the place of work,  and technical and medical rescue service. The seminars were attended by 100 employees of  Zakad Robt Grniczych Krosno. For temporary visitors to the production site, the  Sanok Branch prepared a special leaflet providing  guidance on potential hazards at particular organi- sational units. Thanks to its instructional character,  the leaflet may prove helpful to employees if a  risky or unsafe situation occurs. Objective I 112/ 207 8.  Workplace  Objective II Fo c u s  on the dev el o p me nt of  em p l o y ees co mp eten cie s/ L ea r n i n g o rg a ni sati o n  Each member company of the PGNiG Group seeks  to enhance professional development of its staff  by preparing training programmes which take into  account company-specific needs and the needs  of its employees. Given the scale of the PGNiG  Groups operations, the need to constantly take up  new challenges, and the importance of staff train- ing and development for a socially responsible  business, ongoing professional enhancement has  become one of the priorities of PGNiGs Sustain- able Development Strategy. The PGNiG Groups  employees can take advantage of a wide range  of post-graduate courses, participate in industry  conferences, seminars, and domestic and foreign  symposiums, take part in traineeships, are offered  paid placement opportunities abroad, and use  modern training methods (e-learning), now being  introduced on a wider scale. They can enhance  their foreign language skills by participating in  group and individual courses. The PGNiG Group  strives to be a learning organisation, developing in  a sustainable manner and brining satisfaction to its  employees, while meeting the markets expecta- tions. The workforce is what drives PGNiGs busi- ness. The knowledge, competencies and skills of  employees are fundamental for the Companys  success. The PGNiG Group keeps exploring new  opportunities for professional improvement of its  staff by identifying their training needs. Initiatives/Best practices  D e ve lopme nt of  s oft  s k ills  of  manage me nt staff  For a majority of the Group companies, one of  the training goals in 2010 was to enhance soft  skills of their management staff. The relevant  training was devoted to management of subor- dinated personnel, constructive conflict solving  methods, effective team working methods, abil- ity to self-motivate and motivate others, creating  a self-image. Such training courses were carried  out, for instance, at the Lower Silesian Gas Trad- ing Division (Wrocaw Gas Sales Unit), Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division and Carpathian Gas Trad- ing Division. The management staff of Pomorska  Spka Gazownictwa (PSG), as part of the Manager  Academy, developed skills related to relationship  building, interpersonal communication, teamwork,  conflict solving, and management by objectives  (motivational). Thelatter project was implemented  throughout PGNiGS.A. Spec ia lis t  oc c u pa t ion a l t r a in in g,  gr a n t s  t o c o-fin a n c e h igh er  ed u c a t ion  a n d  foreign  la n gu a ge  c ou r s es  Average number of training hours in the year  (from January to December 2010) per employee,  by employment structure Employee category Average A.  Executive/management staff,  including office directors, officers,  proxies, managers 103.90 B. Specialists 70.08 C.  Blue-collar workers (including  casual labour) 11.71 D.  White-collar workers, including  administrative staff 39.82 113/ 207 8.  Workplace  The PGNiG Groups employees can take advantage  of various forms of supplementary education,  such as foreign language courses (including indi- vidual classes), post-graduate studies, MBA cours- es, participation in industry meetings. At some of  the Group companies, employees receive grants to  finance their higher education courses, as well as  travel and accommodation fares paid in connec- tion with their studies. Owing to the nature and specialist profile of  PGNiGs subsidiaries, some training schemes are  tailor made. This applies in particular to training  for employees of Geofizyka Krakw, Geofizyka  Toru, PNiG Nafta Pia and PNiG Krakw, who, un- der contracts executed by their companies, go for  6 to 8 weeks to Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Libya, Ugan- da or Ukraine. The subsidiaries carry out regular  training programmes for such employees on cul- tural differences, as this will help them not only to  develop good relations in the new environment,  but also avoid risky behaviours. Training in human  rights procedures and policies is also provided at  the PGNiG Group.  Typically, HSE Officers are permanently present at  foreign contract sites, and they are responsible for  ensuring strict adherence to all procedures related  to health, safety and the environment.  As an example, two training courses of such type  were held at Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jaso: 1) a QHSE (Quality, Health, Safety & Environment)  training course, attended by more than 70% of  the workforce, i.e. almost each field worker; 2) training preparing employees to perform  contracts abroad (23 hours, 45 participants).  The course covered such issues as cultural  differences, QHSE, and preparation to IWCF  (International Well Control Forum) examination.  Those who pass the examination obtain a cer- tificate accepted by virtually all foreign opera- tors. Holding such certificates is a necessary  requirement for key drilling rig staff working  under foreign contracts.  Objective II Each Group company offers its employees spe- cific professional training, allowing them to obtain  specialist knowledge or develop specific skills and  abilities. The most important courses involved gas  and electric arc welding, energy (supervision and  operation) licences, as well as geological and min- ing supervision licences. An example at hand is  the Sanok Branch, which refunds the cost of the  mining law examination to its employees, as well  as Geofizyka Toru, which supports its engineer- ing staff in obtaining the licences as a matter of  priority. Depending on the scope of duties, employees  (both white- and blue-collar workers) have a  chance to participate in professional enhancement  courses required for specific positions. Training  courses are selected in response to the ongoing  changes on the Polish energy market and constant  development of the organisation. Professional  development training is also related to the need  to keep abreast of changes and trends in other  industries, such as IT, accounting, finance, market- ing and management. Such training is arranged  mainly for administrative staff. 114/ 207 8.  Workplace  PNiG NAFTA organised a training course in cultural  differences, addressed to employees working  under the contract in Egypt. The first stage of the  training took place at the operators offices, with  the participation of service companies. The issues  covered by the training included respect for lo- cal customs. All the companies were instructed on  how to avoid conflicts with local people or how to  behave in various situations. Cultural and religious  issues characteristic of the region were discussed.  Another training was held at the drilling rig and  was addressed to the entire crew. The train- ing was attended by PNiG NAFTA Pia employees  working on the project, as well as by representa- tives of the operator and local authorities. IN - O U T  pro g ra m m e IN- Considering the need to educate future staff, more  and more frequently the Group companies enter  into cooperation with secondary schools. A perfect  example here is Mazowiecka Spka Gazownictwa  (MSG), which, in 2009, together with Second- ary School Complex No. 3 in d started a pilot  gas engineering education scheme for youth and  adults. The school offers daily and extra-mural  courses.  A similar agreement was signed by PNiG Nafta  Pia with Stanisaw Staszic School Complex in  Pia, whereby both parties undertook to cooper- ate to ensure top-level education to drilling rig  technicians, with a view to their later employment  by the Company or higher education at the AGH  University of Science and Technology of Krakw. In 2010, Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa (WSG)  followed suit when it took under its patronage  the education of gas engineers at the Second- ary School Complex in Kocian. This year the first  grade was completed by 15 students, but the  new recruitment showed strong interest in the  gas engineering profile, having attracted 31 new  first-year students. WSG offers gas engineering  students a practical occupational course. In the fu- ture, the students will be able to undertake train- eeships at the Companys Gas Distribution Regions,  which will give them an opportunity to familiarise  themselves with the operation of the companys  technical divisions. After graduation, the students  will be able to take up employment at the Com- panys branches.  -OUT We seek to maintain relations and bonds with our  employees also after they retire. Retired experts in  the trade are frequently engaged as consultants to  the management or individual units. Their knowl- edge of the organisation and professional exper- tise represent valuable assets. Retired employees  are frequently involved in the work of industry  associations, which keeps them up to date in the  field. They are also invited to traditional celebra- tions of Saint Barbaras Day on December 4th and  to New Years meetings. Thanks to the industry  gazette, our retired staff are kept informed about  the most recent developments at their former  workplace.  Objective II 115/ 207 8.  Workplace  Objective III E m p l oy er brandi n g  (employe r of  c h oi c e ) The Group aspires to build its value in accordance  with the principles of sustainable growth. To this  end, the Group places particular focus on fostering  an organisational culture that supports such val- ues. While the corporate identity and organisation- al culture of the firm are created by all its employ- ees, the role of the management staff and direct  superiors cannot be underestimated. Systemic  measures must be put in place to eliminate unde- sired behaviour, while helping implement solutions  benefiting the Company and its employees. Such  measures include various internal corporate codes,  as well as employee sentiment surveys. The PGNiG  Group is also implementing induction programmes  for new hires. To be an employer of choice, we must focus on  creating optimal conditions for development and  work. If we show that we care about our peo- ple, they will reciprocate by taking care of the  corporation. Initiatives/ Best Practices  PGN iGs E mployee Sa t is fa c t ion  S urve y  In 2010, an employee satisfaction survey was car- ried out at PGNiG for the first time. The purpose of  the survey was to find out how PGNiGs employees  view the Company as an employer, identify areas  with the strongest impact on work satisfaction,  and indicate areas where steps must be taken to  increase employee satisfaction. 53% of the total  workforce decided to take part in the survey. Con- sidering that it was the first project of this type at  PGNiG, this participation level can be considered  satisfactory, while participation levels at the indi- vidual Gas Trading Divisions (Upper Silesian Gas  Trading Division – 71%, Carpathian Gas Trading  Division – 70%, Pomeranian Gas Trading Division–  69%) can be considered as highly satisfactory. The survey has shown that 60% of our employees  consider working for PGNiG as highly satisfactory,  and only 2% were decidedly dissatisfied. Most of  our staff (64%) would definitely recommend work- ing for PGNiG to their friends.  The areas most appreciated by the employees  included social benefits and working conditions, as  well as the atmosphere in their respective teams  and at the whole Company. 116/ 207 8.  Workplace For more information on the satisfac- tion survey, see a separate section at  the end of this chapter (page 127).  In the opinion of its employees, PGNiG (%): 1 1 2 2 2 4 3 7 3 4 5 7 7 7 23 23 25 27 27 32 37 34 38 38 37 39 41 41 76 76 73 71 71 64 60 69 69 68 68 53 52 52 has a stable market position is ethical in relations with customers and business  partners  is a growing business is modern is credible many of my friends would like to work here  cares for the environment  is friendly to its employees is a partner for its employees is responsible supports charitable causes is open to new solutions is open to customer needs engages in community affairs  Bottom 3 boxes Neutral Top 3 boxes Objective III 117/ 207 8.  Workplace   E m p l o yer o f C h o i ce  p ro g r a m m e, Do l no l  ska S pka  G a z own ictwa Employer of Choice, a project initiated by  Dolnolska Spka Gazownictwa (DSG), is an  example of systemic measures aimed at foster- ing the brands recognition as a stable and reli- able employer, offering growth opportunities  and meeting the needs of its various internal  and external stakeholders. The full implementa- tion of the programme is spread over five years.  Its purpose is to provide full information on the  HR policies and recruitment principles, as well as  facilitate on-line contact by persons interested in  working for the company. The Career with DSG  tab on the companys website features an on-line  recruitment questionnaire for graduates as po- tential work candidates. Information obtained in  this way is collected in an internal database of the  HR departments at the Branches, which facilitates  recruitment of specialists from the labour market  and shortens the selection process. The tab also  provides guidance on how to prepare to a job  interview and what to include in the application  documents. Once completed, the tab will include  information on the companys values and organi- sational culture, as well as its business profile. The  tab will also contain information on job openings,  key objectives of and values underlying the com- panys HR policy, social and other employee ben- efits, development programmes for employees,  opportunities for women, priorities in ensuring  a safe working environment, and scope of coop- eration with higher learning institutions in Lower  Silesia. A separate part will feature overviews of  accomplishments of the companys employees, as  well as functionalities for submitting inquiries and  comments.  Additional be ne fit s The Group employees can take advantage of a  range of additional benefits serving as incentives.  These include a wide array of social benefits, such  as private medical cover offered by the majority  of Group companies, an Employee Pension Plan,  gift cards, financial assistance towards the cost of  commuting fares, as well as participation in sports  events. Below we present a detailed specification of bene- fits available at PGNiG, but it must be remembered  that the scope of benefits varies considerably  across the Group. A unique example of our care for employees was  the establishment of a separate financial assis- tance scheme within the PGNiG Group to benefit  those employees who suffered most severe losses  during the 2010 flooding. They received assistance  from the Social Fund which, by separate decisions  of PGNiGs Management Board, was significantly  increased. PGNiG also cares about more distant future of its  employees by covering them with the Pension  Plan and paying basic contributions amounting to  7% of an employees salary. Extra days off work  is another benefit favoured by many of our em- ployees. One of them falls on December 4th, that  is Saint Barbaras Day (the patron saint of miners).  The other day off falls on the birthday or name  day of an employee and can be taken at any time  convenient for the employee. The third day off is  offered to employees whose length of service at  PGNiG is at least 15 years. Objective III 118/ 207 8.  Workplace  The benefits mentioned above, as well as other  benefits and the employers obligations towards  employees, are provided for in the Companys Col- lective Bargaining Agreement, which was adopted  after many months of negotiations with the trade  unions. The Agreement came into force in July  2009. It contains such obligations as a guarantee  of employment for the deceased employees fam- ily member if the employee died or suffered inju- ries resulting in a permanent inability to work as  a result of an accident at work or on his/her way  /from work, higher retirement severance pay- ments, calculated as length-of-service awards, or  extension of the occasional leave period by one  day, as well as many other provisions which re- ward those with a long track record at PGNiG.  A special benefit is the entitlement to acquire  PGNiG shares free of charge (part of the workforce  was granted shares in 2009). The benefit does not  cover all employees – pursuant to statutory pro- visions, the so-called entitlement to shares was  established at the time of PGNiGs transformation  from a state-owned enterprise into a joint-stock  company, which took place in 1996. Persons  employed after that process was completed are  not entitled to the benefit. Nevertheless, a few  dozen thousand employees of PGNiG S.A. and the  Groups subsidiaries/branches, as well as eligible  retirees, did acquire PGNiG shares free of charge.  The number of shares allotted to individual em- ployees varied based on their length of service at  the Company. Holding shares in PGNiG S.A. clearly  forms a stronger bond between the Company and  its personnel.  Finally, the Group also cares about employees who  have already retired. They are entitled to the fol- lowing benefits offered by the Group:   holiday subsidies;   financial and in-kind assistance for persons  experiencing financial hardships or health  problems;   housing assistance;   co-funding of sports, recreation, cultural and  educational activities;   the eldest and those suffering from the most  severe diseases also receive Christmas gift  baskets. In response to the needs of our employees, re- tirees and disability pensioners, the staff of the  Social Welfare Office organises annual meetings of   PGNiGs Management Board with retirees and dis- ability pensioners of the Head Office, which repre- sent an opportunity to brief them on our current  operations and social welfare activities targeted  at former employees. With our retirees and dis- ability pensioners in mind, we also organise trips  as well as rehabilitation holidays. Every year, on  Saint Barbaras Day, that is the industrys holiday,  we organise official celebration events as well as  get-togethers for all employees. Additionally, it has  become the companys tradition to organise edu- cational family picnics. In Warsaw alone, the 2010  picnic was attended by over 1,500 people.   For  St a r t er s ,  Do a  Ch ec k -u p  –  u s e of s oc ia l fu n d s ,  P omor s k a  Spk a  Ga z ow n ic t w a  An excellent example of an initiative financed  with social funds is the project For Starters, Do a  Check-up (Badanie na niadanie), developed and  implemented by Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa  (PSG) to demonstrate its corporate social respon- sibility. Remembering that preventive healthcare  plays a key role in counteracting dangerous dis- eases, PSG invited its employees covered by the  healthcare package to participate in a programme  designed to prevent lifestyle diseases, including  cancer. Since early cancer detection significantly  increases the chance of successful treatment, and  visiting a doctor is often postponed due to lack of  time or fear, a medical test laboratory was invited  to the companys premises. For a couple of days in  June 2010, the employees had an opportunity (at  14 places within the companys premises) to take  blood tests detecting ovarian or prostate cancer.  Objective III 119/ 207 8.  Workplace  An account dedicated to flood victims was opened  at the PGNIG Foundation. The flood victims were  also supported by the Carpathian Gas Trading  Division: in the first days after the disaster struck,  it provided drinking water and made a donation  for the primary school where flood victims were  sheltered and given food. The employees of the  Carpathian Gas Trading Division also made volun- tary contributions. Physical help with cleaning up  and repairs also proved invaluable. The employees  helped those in need, by arriving after hours and  on free weekends to help them repair damaged  houses. In addition to financial support, flood vic- tims were offered words of comfort and psycho- logical support – the sense of community created  at the time of hardship has helped forge strong  and lasting relations between people. It was not easy to overcome the psychological  barrier caused by a somewhat embarrassing situa- tion of having a blood test taken at the workplace  and facing the thought of a disease, which after  all can happen to anyone. To alleviate employ- ees concerns, the rules of the planned tests were  broadly communicated, with special emphasis on  the importance of early disease detection, and  appropriate conditions for the tests were ensured.  The company also took care to ensure that the test  results remained anonymous. The project attract- ed 915 participants (70% of the staff).   I w a n t to  h el p   (C hc pomc) ,  K a r p a c k a  Sp   k a  G a zo w nictwa Voluntary initiatives, especially blood donor ses- sions, are very popular among the Groups em- ployees. However, the sense of identification with  the company and with fellow workers is also  reinforced through other projects, such as the  initiative organised by Karpacka Spka Gazown- ictwa (KSG) in connection with the flood that in  2010 affected the region in which the company  operates. Theinitiative drew immediate response  and support from the gas industry and the entire  Group. Initially, the project involved voluntary con- tributions by KSG employees, deducted from their  base pay and donated to those affected by the  flood in 2010. KSG employees alone contributed as  much as PLN 107,630. The project was supported  by 1,912 KSG employees (approximately 60% of  all employed). An additional PLN 4,500 was raised  during a few-hour lottery held at KSGs family  picnic. The funds were used to purchase two profes- sional dehumidifiers and to lease a third one  for a month. All the dehumidifiers were sent to  Sandomierz.  The above amount was increased by PLN  155,195.37, raised outside KSG. PLN 110,776.45  was contributed by the PGNiG Head Office, PLN  25,260 by Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa, PLN  10,462.5 by ZKK ZOK NSZZ Solidarno (a trade  union) at KSG, and PLN 7,000 by the Trade Union  Council at KSG. Financial assistance was also of- fered by the Alpejczyk sports and recreation asso- ciation and a number of external gas sector com- panies. The aggregate amount of PLN 262,825.37  was distributed proportionally among all employ- ees affected by the flood at the individual branch- es of the Gas Distribution Divisions. The employees  of the PGNIG Head Office and Gas Distribution Divi- sions in Kielce and Sandomierz organised a collec- tion of cleaning products and blankets.  Objective III PLN 262,825.3 was the amount we managed to raise to  help our colleagues whose property was  damaged during the flood 120/ 207 8.  Workplace  Objective IV In tro du c ti o n o f uni fo rm inte rnal  c o m m u ni ca ti o n sta nda rds,  dev el op men t o f a  sha re d  c o r p o r ate cu l tu re  For several years, PGNiG has been making efforts  designed to develop uniform standards of both  internal and external communications, and im- prove their quality. For more detailed information,  see the Communication and marketing section.  PGNiGs Management Board gives priority to this  matter because – especially in the context of the  implementation of the Sustainable Development  and Responsible Business Strategy started in 2009  – good internal communication procedures are  crucial, as is the employees sense of accountabil- ity for the results of their work. The implementa- tion of the Company-wide intranet marks a major  step forward. In its final form, the tool will cover  all PGNiG branches; in mid-2011, the first imple- mentation phase was completed at the Head Of- fice and the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division. It has also taken several years to develop the Code  of Ethics, which is to become an additional tool  for building the PGNiG Groups corporate culture,  based on a set of certain common values. In 2010,  another round of meetings and workshops with  Group employees were held to discuss the Code.  PGNIGs Employee Satisfaction Survey also in- cluded ethics-related questions. As a result, in the  first half of 2011, an Ethics Officer was appointed  at PGNiG, and the Companys Management Board  formally approved the Code of Ethics together  with the Ethics Programme Management System.  Code  of  E thics an d  E t h ic s  Programme  Mana gemen t  Sy s t em  As part of the work to build the ethical founda- tions of our organisational culture, we com- pleted the preparation of a comprehensive eth- ics programme for PGNiG. The objective of the  programme is to introduce uniform rules and  standards to be followed by all employees, which  in turn is expected to bring fruit in the form of  consistent improvement of the work environment  quality, PGNiGs credibility and reputation, while  instilling trust in customers, suppliers and business  partners. The ethics programme is an expression  of our deeply ingrained belief that business activ- ity should be conducted to the highest standards.  PGNiGs Ethics Programme Management System  was adopted by the Management Boards resolu- tion in July 2011. PGNiGs Code of Ethics is the centrepiece of the  ethics programme. It comprises the Declaration  of Values (an overview of fundamental values on  which our day-to-day operations are based) and  the Code of Ethical Standards (laying down specific  rules of conduct to be followed by all employees,  based on the professed values and aligned with  the industrys best practices). The Code of Ethics was developed through broad- based dialogue with various groups of employees  and external stakeholders, representing higher  education institutions, NGOs and public admin- istration. We would like it to be, at least to some  extent, a living document, supplemented in the  course of PGNiGs future growth, especially where  it refers to standards of ethical conduct. We have  also assumed that, in circumstances which are not  covered by the document, our employees should  be guided primarily by PGNiGs values and use  common sense, and – when in doubt – contact  their superiors or the Ethics Officer. The Code of  Ethics identifies examples of both desirable and  unacceptable conduct. In order to ensure full  consistency between employees conduct and our  ethical ideals, we have been implementing specific  instruments and procedures. First of all, a detailed programme of business eth- ics training was prepared, encouraging employees  at all levels of our organisation to reflect on their  conduct and helping them to better understand  our professed values and standards in the context  of day-to-day behaviour. We do believe that ethics  training is indispensable as the foundation of mor- al choices in the complex business environment.   121/ 207 8.  Workplace  Objective IV The Management Board resolved to establish  ethics programme management structures, from  decision-making powers of the Management  Board itself, to the Ethics Committee, to the Ethics  Officer. The Committees primary responsibility is  to monitor compliance with the Code of Ethics and  undertake corrective steps whenever its principles  are breached. In justified cases, the Ethics Committee requests  the Management Board to take disciplinary action  with respect to persons who have violated ethical  standards. The Ethics Officer was appointed by the Manage- ment Board, based on suggestions obtained dur- ing an employee survey, as an independent and  impartial expert in business ethics. The Ethics  Officer, who started work in April 2011, is respon- sible for promoting ethical attitudes at PGNiG  S.A.,  by answering employees questions and doubts,  accepting reports of breaches of ethical standards  and recommending changes of procedures appli- cable at PGNiG. The formal procedure for reporting ethical breach- es includes rules to be followed whenever any  doubts arise with respect to planned or adopted  decisions concerning co-workers, the Company  or the Companys environment. We have decided  that the Code of Ethics should be the benchmark  against which individual decisions should be as- sessed, and that it should be consulted while  assessing decisions adopted by co-workers, sub- ordinates or superiors. We have also arranged for  adequate protection of whistleblowers, so that  no employee who, acting in good faith, reports a  breach of ethical standards to the Ethics Officer  faces any unpleasant consequences of that com- mendable behaviour. A reporting person is pro- tected and if they wish to remain anonymous, it is  the Companys duty to ensure that. The above initiative is excellently harmonised with  other two projects currently implemented at the  Company: launch of the Integrated Enterprise  Risk Management System and acomprehensive  programme for abuse risk management at PGNiG,  prepared by the audit function, and focused pri- marily on abuse prevention and enhancement of  the internal control environment. Under the pro- gramme, detailed projects will be developed, such  as responsible leadership based on the example- from-the-top principle, inclusion of additional  ethics-related criteria into recruitment and promo- tion procedures, and a policy of zero tolerance  on abuse. As early as in 2009, the Rules of Best  Practice for the PGNiG Groups Managers were  adopted as part of the programme. Developing a well-regulated system ensuring opti- mum security and abuse risk mitigation is a time- consuming process, which requires involvement of  both the management staff and each employee.  We understand that promotion of ethical attitudes  should also be supported by relevant internal  control procedures, to effectively minimise both  internal and external risks. This is the only way  of bringing the responsible business concept into  practice.  122/ 207 8.  Workplace  It is important to cooperate on an ongoing ba- sis with the ethics officers of other PGNiG Group  companies, with a view to integrating the Groups  ethics programme, implementing an ethics pro- gramme management system at all entities of the  Group and monitoring all reports of breaches. The full implementation of the ethics programme  at the PGNiG Group will take sustained efforts and  ongoing cooperation with all employees within a  long-term ethics education programme. We be- lieve that the more attention is given to promotion  of ethical conduct, monitoring of compliance with  ethical standards and active involvement of em- ployees in educational initiatives, the better results  the programme will deliver. Only then will we be  able to ensure that the Code of Ethics is not yet  another internal regulation and that its principles  are reflected in employees attitudes and conduct  within our organisation and society at large. D ialog ue  with e m ploy ees  Social dialogue in the energy industry is a well- established tradition. It is no different at the PGNiG  Group, where over 120 trade union organisations  operate. One member of PGNiGs Management  Board is elected for a three-year term by employ- ees of the Company, and the Supervisory Board  includes three members who are representa- tives of employees. Each subsidiary has an officer  for employee affairs and cooperation with trade  unions. The subsidiaries consult every material decision  with employee organisations. This framework of  cooperation is of seminal importance for us, yet it  does protract decision making processes concern- ing a number of issues, including employee affairs.  The problem came to the attention of trade unions  at PGNiG and the Group. Attempts were made to establish a single method  of cooperation among all the trade unions to en- able coordination of the trade unions activities  towards employers in the gas and oil industry. The  initiative was not entirely successful at that stage,  but the process continues. With respect to many  fundamental issues, certain overlapping in the  social dialogue process is observed. Due to legal  considerations, the Management Boards partners  in the dialogue are separately trade unions active  at PGNiG and separately trade unions active at  PGNiGs subsidiaries. Employee communication and consultations re- garding important decisions are also present  within the framework of cooperation with trade  unions and employee councils, operating at PGNiG   S.A. and many of the subsidiaries. If consultations  with trade unions are conducted, e.g. in the case  of the Memorandum of Understanding with the  National Trade Unions (which also represent trade  unions within the Group), the process provides  for a 30-day period for responding to a motion in  writing, 30 days for exchanging documents if the  negotiation-and-approval procedure is applica- ble, and 14 days if an opinion is to be issued. The  duration of the process under the Memorandum  of Understanding with the PGNiG Trade Union is  30, 30 and 10 days, respectively. The employer  is required to provide the Employee Council with  the information requested by the Council within  14days. The Council issues opinions within 14 days of re- ceiving the information from the employer. Also,  as provided for in the relevant laws, the employer  is required to submit the information within the  deadlines and scope enabling the Council to fa- miliarise itself with the facts ofspecific case and  prepare for the consultation process.  Objective IV 123/ 207 8.  Workplace  In 2010, in accordance with the applicable laws,  PGNiGs Management Board and Employee Coun- cil decided to increase the number of members  of the Council from seven to 14, to include rep- resentatives of those PGNiGs business segments  which had not been represented in the previous  seven-member Council. In accordance with the  law, members of the Council were elected in gen- eral, direct and secret elections. Each PGNiG em- ployee was entitled to vote in the elections, which  enjoyed high turnout. Since January 2009, a new discussion platform has  operated at the Group, namely a special annual  PGNiG Group Social Dialogue Conference, attended  by PGNiGs Management Board and key directors,  with a total of 150–200 persons participating in  the event, including representatives of social part- ners from across the Group. For more details, see  Best Practices. In 2010, another such conference  was held.  Colle ctive  Bargai n in g Agreemen t Efforts of the trade unions and the employer led to  the registration of the Collective Bargaining Agree- ment for Employees of Polskie Grnictwo Naftowe  i Gazownictwo on July 15th 2009. It was the crown- ing of the parties work on a document which  would compile and elaborate on the employee  rights and privileges stipulated by the national  labour laws and other regulations. The Collective Bargaining Agreement also follows  up on the generally applicable laws and regula- tions by taking into account the specifics of our  organisation, and in many cases includes require- ments exceeding those imposed by law. For more details on the specific solutions adopted  in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, see the  Additional benefits section. To note, most of the solutions described in this  CSR Report come from the Groups parent under- taking, and other entities of the Group may apply  different and often divergent rules in this respect. Summary   PGNiG strives to create a safe and friendly work- place (one of the pillars of our strategy) by pursu- ing a series of initiatives launched over the years  by the Group. Our efforts focus on the wellbeing  of the employees and on supporting them through  appropriate social solutions and training opportu- nities. The survey conducted in 2010 among the  Groups employees revealed that our Company  was perceived as a very good employer. This is  confirmed by a low employee turnover rate at  PGNiGs Head Office, which in 2010 remained at  the level of 6%.  This section presents the most important initia- tives carried out in 2010 as part of the Workplace  strategic pillar. They constitute key elements of  PGNiGs philosophy, which is based on the twin  values of sustainable development and responsible  business. The electronic version of this Report will  include descriptions of initiatives we regard as the  most interesting. However, we are aware that this  area needs to be developed further. In order to face market challenges, the Group  needs to enhance its structure to make it even  more efficient, while improving the qualifications  of its employees. Better systemic solutions are  required in the HR and staff development areas.  Also, the Group needs to formulate precise re- sponses to new, specific demands in the area of  employee training and skills required to pursue  the Groups strategic initiatives.  Objective IV 124/ 207 8.  Workplace  Did you know?  Riske d his life  t o s a v e t w o Read the headlines of most local and national  newspapers that wrote about the heroic deed of  Mr Celestyn eliszewski, an employee of KSG –  Gas Distribution Region of Nowy Scz. On May 3rd  2010, Mr eliszewski rushed without hesitation to  help two young people trapped in a burning car,  overturned in a ditch nearby his house. Thanks to  the immediate rescue, both teenagers came out  of the accident practically unharmed, but unfor- tunately our colleague was seriously injured. He  suffered extensive internal and external burns of  the second and third degree, which posed a threat  to his life. The burns covered 20% of his body and  airways. Unconscious and in critical condition,  he was transported to the Burn Injury Treatment  Centre in Siemianowice lskie. We kept in touch  with Mr eliszewskis family during his recovery,  and contributed financially towards his treatment  and rehabilitation.  In December, we were proud to have the hero  with us at the corporate Christmas Eve at Kar- packa Spka Gazownictwa. His heroic and selfless  act moved us all, and the modesty with which he  took words of praise made us all reflect on our  own behaviour. For saving two lives and a display  of courage, the president of Poland, MrBronisaw  Komorowski, awarded him a medal For Bravery  and Courage (Za Dzielno i Odwag). He was also  chosen by the Gazeta Krakowska daily as the Man  of the Year (Czowiek Roku Gazety  Krakowskiej),  the Nowy Scz Citizen of the Year (Sdeczanin  Roku) and presented with the Golden Coat of Arms  of Nowy Scz (Zota Tarcza Herbowa Nowego   Scza), the highest distinction awarded by this  town, and the Noble Deed (Zacny Uczynek) award.  Celestyn  eliszewski 125/ 207 8.  Workplace  Commitments for the future   Strategic  pillar Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period Workplace To be a learning organisation Improving the In-Out Programme To develop and implement HR strategies Creating an incentive scheme for members of task teams, facilitating management of large  investment projects, mergers and acquisitions, and developing research capabilities To expand cooperation and knowledge  sharing between the Groups HR teams Developing and launching new initiatives in this area To build a shared organisational culture based  on the Groups values Ethics training for employees and management staff Prepared by team composed of: Katarzyna  Cybulska-Jura, Beata Dreger, Anna Folcik,  Agnieszka Kuras-Atamaczuk, Dorota  Omylska-Bielat, Jan Sp, Sebastian  Sodownik, Katarzyna Wrblewicz. 126/ 207 8.  Workplace  8.1.  Employee Satisfaction Survey –   our portrait and guidance for the future All employees have the right to express their opin- ions in the survey, although not the obligation.  However, as is the case with other civic engage- ment opportunities, the good participation rate  was proof of the employees involvement in the  life of the Company. Over 50% of all employees–  4,754 people – took part in the survey. This fig- ure may not be particularly high, but considering  the relatively short survey period, decentralised  structure of the Group, large number of employ- ees who could only fill out a printed questionnaire  (2,668 employees do not use computers at work),  as well as the fact that this was the first survey  of this kind conducted at PGNiG and the staff  may have viewed it with mistrust or reserve, we  believe that surpassing the 50% threshold was a  satisfactory result. The survey results provided us with valuable in- sight into the employees perception of the Com- pany, thus offering a unique portrait of our organi- sation, showing PGNiGs employees, our attitude to  work, our values and things we object to.  The initiative will be repeated in the following  years. We hope that the actions inspired by the  first survey will convince PGNiGs employees that  it may be worthwhile to exercise their right to  express opinions. Obviously, it is impossible to  introduce anticipated changes quickly in all areas,  but even today there are several areas where  our staffs perspective does matter. For instance,  their opinions were fully taken into account while  formulating PGNiGs Code of Ethics. In one part of  the survey, we asked employees to indicate values  which they considered the most important. Thus,  we have certainty that responsibility, reliability,  quality and partnership – the four corporate val- ues adopted by PGNiG – are fully shared by our  staff. During the development of the ethical pro- gramme management system, the Management  Board also consulted employees, who decided that  the position of Ethics Officer should be filled by an  impartial person, unrelated to PGNiG and working  professionally in the field of ethics. In line with this  suggestion, Bolesaw Rok, PhD, was appointed to  the position in April 2011. Su rv eys am o n g  e mploye e s, also known as e mploy ee  sa ti sfa cti o n o r  e mploye e  se ntime nt surve y s ,  a re b ec omin g  i n crea si n g l y common at Polish companie s. Good  in t er n a l  rel ati o ns a re conside re d at le ast as import a n t  a s  t h e  p u bl i c i ma g e a company  proje cts. Companies  t h a t  understand the  re lationship be twe e n work s a t is fa c t ion  a n d  emp l o yee co mmitme nt and the ir own market  per for ma n c e,  trea t emp l o ye e s as the ir ke y inte rnal stake h old er  grou p.  The introduction of regular Employee Satisfac- tion Surveys at PGNiG S.A., which in the following  years are to be extended to other entities of the  Group, was a planned element of the Sustainable  Development and Responsible Business Strategy.  In July 2010, the Management Board for the first  time confirmed the intention to implement this  project, setting the deadline at the end of 2010.  The survey was conducted between November  22nd and December 16th 2010.  Ten areas were covered by the survey, including:  general issues, remuneration, bonuses, awards,  social benefits, working conditions, communica- tion, management, work atmosphere, personal  development and career paths, the Companys  image and new solutions. 127/ 207 8.  Workplace  8.2. POGC Libya – waiting for a chance to return  The POGC office on the outskirts of Tripoli em- ployed a permanent staff of about 10 Poles and  20 Libyans. Under a cooperation agreement con- cluded between PGNiG and POGC, they received  support from their colleagues in the Head Office in  Warsaw, and in the last three years did their best  to ensure that drilling work could start on sched- ule, that is in April 2011. In January 2011, it seemed  that the schedule was feasible: tenders to select  suppliers and providers of services necessary to  support the drilling operations were about to be  completed, final service agreements were to be  concluded within days, preparatory work in the  licence area was underway, and on January 13th  2011 we received the long-awaited A1-113/01 Drill- ing Permission.  Unfortunately, something different happened.  On February 17th 2011, Benghazi, riding the wave  of the Arab Spring, saw a wave of riots against  Muammar Gaddafis regime, which quickly spread  throughout Libya. On February 22nd, the Polish  staff of POGC were evacuated by a Dutch mili- tary aircraft, on board of which they could only  take hand luggage. The Libyan employees stayed  behind. On March 17th, UN Security Council Reso- lution 1970 and 1973 marked the beginning of  international military intervention in Libya. Accord- ing to diverse estimates, from 10 to 15 thousand  people have died since the conflict broke out. I n  Dece mbe r 2007, PGN iG  S .A. was a w a rd ed  a  t en d er  for  E xplor a t ion  Lic en c e 1 1 3  in  Li bya. On Fe bruary 25th 2008, an E xplor a t ion  a n d  P rod u c t ion  Sh a r in g Agreemen t  (EPSA ) on the  e xploration for and prod u c t ion  of h y d roc a r b on s  w a s  s ign ed  w it h  Lib y a  s  Nati o nal Oil Corporation. Unde r the  a greemen t ,  w e c ommit t ed  t o in v es t  U SD 1 0 8 m in  g a s ex ploration and production in L ib y a  w it h in  t h e n ext  s ix y ea r s ,  in  exc h a n ge for  t h e  ri ght to share  in f uture  production. A c c ord in g t o es t ima t es ,  t h e res ou rc es  of Lic en c e  113, l ying within the  Murzuq  Basin 1 , 3 0 0  k ilomet res  n or t h  of Tr ipoli,  n ea r  t h e A lger ia n  bo rder, may amount to ove r 100 bill ion  c u b ic  met res  of n a t u r a l ga s .  In  fa v ou r a b le  co n di ti ons, comme rcial production c ou ld  b e la u n c h ed  a s  ea r ly  a s  in  2 0 1 5 .  For  t h e  p u rp o se  of  our ope rations in L iby a, P O GC Lib y a  B .V.  of Ams t erd a m w a s  es t a b lis h ed ,  a l o ng  with its branch in Tripoli.   128/ 207 8.  Workplace  We have left much more in Libya than just of- fice equipment and company cars. The Poles who  worked at POGC were living in Libya, some of  them for a few months, others – for a year or two.  In the meantime, despite certain inconveniences of  living in an Arab state, they grew attached to the  country and began to treat it as their second (and  in some cases, as their first) home. Since Febru- ary, they keep thinking not only of the possessions  they have left behind, but first and foremost their  thoughts are with the people they met, both Poles  and Libyans, who for various reasons had to stay  in Tripoli.  Most Libyan employees took leave from work,  some managed to escape to Tunisia with their  families, two of them even visited Poland. The  three young Libyan men who were sent by the  Company to study at the AGH University of Science  and Technology were staying in Krakw when  the revolution broke out. We are taking steps to  provide them with internship or training opportu- nities that would allow them to live on in Poland  until the conflict ends. Our employees who stayed  in Libya come to the office for even a few hours a  week, if circumstances allow, and report the cur- rent situation over the phone. Thanks to them, we  know that so far everyone is safe. To date, they  have also successfully protected the Companys  and private possessions left behind in Libya. Many  other firms failed to secure their property – their  cars and office equipment were destroyed, stolen  or confiscated by the regime. POGC, like many  other companies, not only maintains contact with  its employees, but continues to pay them salaries.  After the Polish staff arrived in Warsaw, they ac- cepted the Head Offices hospitality, setting up a  makeshift office in a conference room in the C5  building. Although the future remains uncertain,  everyone resumed their duties. In the last few  months, the team have finished to interpret data  and plan further activities. Preparatory work is  underway and numerous meetings and training  courses are being held at the office, but first and  foremost the entire team are following the news  from Libya and looking forward for a chance to  return.  129/ 207 8.  Workplace  9.  Communication and marketing Wodzimierz Kleniewski  Director, Marketing Department Consiste nt, cre dible  and effec t iv e c ommu n ic a t ion  a n d  ma r k et in g  constitute  a pillar of  the  P GNiG Grou p s  s u s t a in a b le d ev elopmen t  strate g y. It is uniq ue  in th a t  it  c on c er n s  a ll St a k eh old er  grou ps  a n d  ove rlaps with many  othe r a rea s  of t h e s u s t a in a b le d ev elopmen t  strate g y.  The activities I am responsible for at  PGNiG are inextricably linked with all  pillars of our sustainable development  strategy. It is one of the reasons why we organ- ise, as part of our CSR efforts, the Responsible  Energy conference, which was held for the third  time this year. The conference is hugely popular  and attracts all leading energy sector players.  Besides, we are included in the exclusive group of  16 companies listed as part of the Warsaw Stock  Exchanges Respect Index of industry CSR lead- ers. This year, we are also publishing our third CSR  report. I hope this issue will be as well received as  the previous ones. We strive to make our CSR ac- tivities uniform across the Group, including those  related to the issue which has been all the rage  recently, namely shale gas.  The whole Group will be working to deliver  the right message, especially to the local  communities where we conduct our explo- ration and drilling projects. We will try to  convince the public that these operations  are not harmful to the environment, quite  the opposite – that they can benefit us all. 130/ 207  Workplace Exploring new  business areas Market/ customer Natural  environment Local   communities W h eth e r we th i n k  o f socially  resp o n s i bl e acti vi ti es in the  are a  o f  e n v i ro nm en ta l  p ro te ction or  in  th e a rea o f rel ati o ns with  loc a l  c om m uni ti es o r custome rs,  c o m m u ni ca ti o n a nd m arke ting  a l wa y s  fo rm a n i n here nt part  o f  g o o d m a na g emen t practice s.  E a c h  i n i ti ati ve descri b e d in this  R ep o r t may be co n si dere d in  its  c om mu ni cati o n a spe ct. What  is  m o re, m a ny co m m unication  a n d m a r k eti ng  a cti vi ti e s, be ing  p a r ti c u l a rl y i mp o rta nt to the  su c c e ssfu l  i m p l emen tation  o f  th e s trategy, ha v e be e n  in c o r p o ra ted i nto  su ch strate gy  p i l l a r s as Wo rkp l a ce, M arke t/ C u s to m e r, New Bu si n es s Are as  a n d N a tu ra l  Env i ro nm e nt. Tasks In this se ction w e d is c u s s  the  role  of  comm u n ic a t ion  and marke ting in  s u ppor t in g  CS R e f forts. We  w ill d es c r ib e  it in a slig htly  di fferen t  w a y  than the  re mainin g pilla r s  –  inste ad of  provid in g a  lis t  of  accomplishe d objec t iv es ,  w e w ill  pre se nt the m in t h e c on t ext  of  are as of  activitie s  a n d  grou ps  of  stake holde rs w h ic h  t h ey  conce rn, as part of t h e fou r  are as of  re sponsib le b u s in es s . We  hope  that thi s  w ill s h ow  a compre he nsive  a pproa c h  t o  re sponsible  comm u n ic a t ion  a t  the  PGN iG Group.  Complet ed 32 U n d er  w a y 85 Dela y ed 13 Communication  and marketing 131/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  9.1.  Communication in the Sustainable Development and  Responsible Business Strategy of the PGNiG Group Challenges related to the communication and  marketing area are chiefly determined by the  specific nature of the PGNiG Group. Due to its size,  extensive value chain, different customer groups  and, finally, different markets of operation, one of  the fundamental challenges faced by the Group is  to ensure consistency of its communication stand- ards, while maintaining the specific character of  the individual branches and companies, especially  considering different needs and expectations  of its stakeholders. The PGNiG Group comprises  34 entities, employing over 30 thousand staff  throughout Poland and in other countries, on dif- ferent continents. Among its customers, there are  millions of households, but also large international  customers of its exploration and service compa- nies. The Group cooperates with a vast network of  subcontractors, research institutions and business  partners, as well as local communities everywhere  it is present: in Warsaw, the Carpathian Foothills  or a small village in Pakistan or India. Moreover,  the parent undertaking of the Group, i.e. PGNiG  S.A., is a market leader listed on the Warsaw Stock  Exchange, playing a key role in ensuring Polands  energy security. All those factors determine the  specific challenges for our communication and  marketing activities. The CSR strategy developed for the entire PGNiG  Group includes communication and marketing  challenges within seven operational objectives.  The key objectives for the years to come are:   to ensure uniform communication standards  across the Group,   to strengthen the PGNiG Groups image as a  knowledge-based company, focused on the  needs of its customers and employees, and  friendly to the environment,   to popularise the Companys activities in the  CSR area among the general public. Many activities furthering those objectives have al- ready been undertaken. The principles of responsi- ble business and sustainable development are be- ing consistently implemented into our marketing  activities. The series of Responsible Energy confer- ences, devoted to challenges of sustained develop- ment in the energy sector, held for the third time  in June 2011 with a large audience of more than  two hundred participants, comprising not only the  sectors representatives but also other interested  parties, has already proven a huge success of the  last two years.  A total of twenty companies have signed up to  the Declaration on Sustainable Development in  the Energy Sector in Poland, including: Dalkia  Polska, EDF Polska, Enea, Energa, Fortum Power  & Heat Polska, GAZ-System, GDF SUEZ Energia  Polska,  Grupa Lotos, PKP Energetyka, PKN Orlen,  PSE Operator, Tauron, Vattenfall Poland, as well  as PGNiG S.A. and six strategic companies of the  PGNiG Group: Dolnolska Spka Gazownictwa,  Grnolska Spka Gazownictwa, Karpacka   Spka Gazownictwa, Mazowiecka Spka  Gazownictwa, Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa,  Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa.  132/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  The PGNiG Group has managed to systematise the  rules governing its sponsorship activities, which  is a major internal achievement. As a first stage,  in 2009, the Sponsorship Strategy of the PGNiG  Group was developed. Itwas used as the basis  for defining detailed guidelines and rules for the  execution of sponsorship agreements and spon- sorship reporting. In 2010, all members of the  Group incorporated the guidelines into their inter- nal procedures, as a result of which their current  activities comply with the recommendations of the  Ministry of State Treasury on sponsorship activities  of companies owned or co-owned by the state.  The sponsorship plan was developed in line with  the sustainable development strategy. Currently,  all sponsorship projects are subject to compre- hensive supervision at the planning and execution  stage. They are also monitored and their effects  are evaluated on an on-going basis. The report you are now reading – the third CSR  Report of the PGNiG Group, which summarises our  to-date achievements in the implementation of  the CSR strategy at all the Group members – is an  effect of another operational objective. Communication in local strategies  2010 marked a new stage in the implementation  of the PGNiG Groups CSR Strategy. In January  2010, all branches and subsidiaries adopted their  own local strategies, based on the strategic objec- tives of the Group. In this way, CSR management  was delegated to the local level. This resulted in  more specific activities and initiatives, tailored to  meet the needs of the individual units and their  stakeholders. Each of the local strategies incorporates the strate- gic goal related to communication and marketing.  In this way, 94 operational objectives were de- clared, comprising hundreds of activities and initi- atives, of which 46 of were successfully completed  in 2010. The remaining objectives are scheduled to  be achieved in the years to come.  The main directions of activities emerging from  the local strategies include:   consistent communication: regulating and  streamlining processes, implementing sponsor- ship procedures, communication plans,    effective internal communications, both within  the individual entities and between them with- in the PGNiG Group,   open and candid external communications,  strengthening the image of individual brands,   conducting marketing activities in line with CRS  principles,   communication and promotion of, and educa- tion in, sustainable development and corporate  social responsibility. Strategy execution The implementation of objectives falling within  the communication area will be presented in the  context of the other key pillars of the Sustainable  Development Strategy and, most of all, in rela- tion to the major stakeholder groups. In this way,  we want to show how communication activities  support the individual areas and our stakeholder  relations. 133/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  9.2.  Communication with customers  and the market O ur co mm uni cation with the  Groups customer s  is  d et er min ed  p r i m a ri l y by the type  of  products and se rvices  offered  a t  t h e  resp ecti ve secti o ns of  the  value  chain, and thu s  b y  d ifferen t  c usto mer gro up s.  The  scope  and me ans of  com mu n ic a t ion  wi th  m i l l i o n s o f re tail custome rs dif fe r f rom t h os e employ ed  to  co m m uni cate w ith institutional custome rs or  w it h  foreign  c usto mers o f th e  se rvice  companie s. In e ach an d  ev er y  c a s e, h o wev er, communication is an e le me nt w h ic h  s h ou ld  c o mp l emen t p ro fe ssional custome r se rvice . Relations with the media, as the key intermediary  relaying information to wide audiences, play an  important role in the process of communication  with customers and the whole market. The policy  of PGNiG and all the Group companies focuses on  the openness, reliability and speed of information  flow. Being the major gas supplier, we consider it  a priority to provide access to information to our  customers and the public at large. One cannot overestimate the importance of com- munications in the context of PGNiGs new busi- ness ventures. At present, given the enormous  interest and no less controversy surrounding un- conventional gas, it seems more crucial than ever.  The debate about shale gas concentrates on two  basic issues: economic opportunities and struggle  between the interests of different countries, com- panies, energy lobbies, etc. on the one hand, and  the environmental threats – on the other. Unfor- tunately, unsubstantiated theories and rumours  abound. Holding approximately 20% of all shale  gas licenses in Poland (more than any other com- pany), PGNiG feels responsible for reaching Polish  society with reliable information – all the more  so as the first drilling for shale gas (Markowola-1)  and the first two hydraulic fracturing operations  in unconventional deposits took place in the Sanok  Branchs area, in the Lublin region, in July 2010.   For more information on customer service, see  the Customer satisfaction (page 36) section. At  this point, it is worth noting that communication,  be it direct communication with employees of  Customer Service Offices or via electronic means,  such as e-mail, chat dialogues or helplines, consti- tutes an integral part of customer service. It may  be facilitated by printed materials, such as folders,  leaflets or bulletins, which provide information on  the availability of gas, its safe use, tariff rates, fuel  quality and other matters of importance.  134/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  Recognising the importance of open commu- nication and the role of media in this dialogue,  in July 2010 PGNiG organised a special meeting  with journalists in Markowola. A year later, in the  same place, another meeting took place with the  participation of the media, but also representa- tives of the local self-government, as well as local  and central authorities. It was a working session,  which included presentations followed by a discus- sion during which guests had a chance to address  questions to PGNiGs representatives. We wanted  to dispel all doubts and respond to questions of  ordinary residents of the areas where we will be  exploring for shale gas. One of the items on the  agenda was a presentation prepared by an in- dependent research centre (the Polish Geological  Institute), devoted to the report commissioned by  Minister Jezierski to assess the legal compliance  and environmental impact of PGNiGs operations  connected with drilling of the first exploration well  Markowola-1. For more information, including ex- cerpts from the report, see the Natural environ- ment section. In addition to approval from scientific and re- search institutions and competent authorities, we  would also like to receive the green light from  local communities, the general public and environ- mental activists, by making them understand our  business objectives. For more information on com- munication in the context of gas shale exploration,  see the Natural environment and New business  areas sections. Investor relations managed by PGNiG  S.A., the  parent undertaking, are another aspect of our  communication with the market. They are gov- erned by regulations applicable to listed compa- nies and the Best Practices of WSE Listed Com- panies. The Investor Relations Department and  the Press Team are responsible for ensuring the  accuracy and completeness of information, as well  as its prompt delivery to the market; we take care  to ensure quality and openness in our communica- tion with shareholders, investors and other capital  market participants. Areas of activity in 2010 The main challenges identified by the analysis of  objectives set by the Sustainable Development  Strategy and the local strategies are:   to improve the effectiveness of communication  with customers,   to enhance the two-way communication pro- cess, e.g. through satisfaction surveys,   to educate customers about safe use of natural  gas. Efforts aimed to enhance communication with cus- tomers are made on an on-going basis and focus  on the communication channels directly support- ing customer service, such as websites, helplines  and printed materials. We would increasingly  like to make communication a two-way process,  thanks to surveys designed to probe customers  satisfaction and expectations. In 2010, many Group  companies and branches introduced customer  satisfaction surveys in various forms. Among the  service companies, Geofizyka Krakw adopted a  procedure for gauging customer satisfaction after  the completion of a project. Having carrying out  a contract, the company requests its customers  to complete a questionnaire, evaluating the qual- ity of services provided and equipment offered,  the qualifications of personnel and customer- contractor communication. During the first year,  five out of seven customers agreed to take part in  the survey. The collected feedback was compiled  and submitted in the form of an annual summary  to the Management Board and Proxy for the Inte- grated Management System, to serve as the basis  for reviewing and formulating improvement objec- tives and adjusting the customer service proce- dures already in place.  135/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  Future challenges Communication with customers, especially retail  ones, is set to undergo a profound transformation  in the coming years. Given the changing means of  communication and social preferences, a consid- erable part of stakeholder relations will be devel- oped through electronic channels. With time, they  are likely to replace traditional Customers Service  Offices and direct communication. This trend re- flects the expectations of the majority of todays  customers, who would like to pay their bills and  do many other things without leaving home. On  the other hand, elderly people tend to feel less  comfortable in the virtual environment. The ques- tion then remains how to modernise communica- tion channels without excluding people who do  not have the appropriate skills, such as computer  literacy? Another important issue with a bearing on PGNiGs  future communication efforts is the exploration  for and production of unconventional gas. Reliable  information and dialogue with local communi- ties living in exploration areas will be a necessity.  Given the emotions already stirred up by the issue,  reaching a wider public with information is no  less crucial. It is essential to take into account the  current level of public knowledge, so as to pre- sent this highly specialist field in the clearest and  most accessible manner. For more information on  PGNiGs plans in this respect, see the Natural envi- ronment and Local communities sections. Initiatives/Best practices  Ga s  Dis t r ib u t ion  Compa n ies :  U s er-Fr ien d ly  Web s it es The implementation of User-Friendly Websites by  all the Groups Gas Distribution Companies, i.e. six  entities whose operations cover the entire coun- try, is an example of best practice in the area of  responsible communication and responsiveness to  stakeholders needs. Retail customers represent  one of the key stakeholder groups of the Gas Dis- tribution Companies. Their need for an easy access  to clearly presented information prompted the  companies to modify their websites, particularly  by adapting them to the needs of disabled users,  in line with the Web Content Accessibility Guide- lines (WCAG). The WCAG standards were laid down  to make the Internet accessible to all and prevent  social exclusion due to the lack of access to infor- mation available on the Internet.   136/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  Thanks to WCAG, the websites of the Gas Distribu- tion Companies have become more user-friendly  for customers with disabilities, due to embedded  text-to-speech software, which enables users to  listen to the audio version of the website content,  an option to adjust font sizes, clear separation of  the content and background, and distinct page  sections (links, content, input fields and buttons).  The functionality of these websites also includes:   keyboard access to a sites functions,    hierarchical menu structure,   path breadcrumbs,   client-side and server-side site maps, which  intuitively adjust to the browsers custom set- tings (e.g. Javascript and Flash components  support);   easy to use and functional internal search  engine.  In addition, the layout of the websites was rede- signed. For example, the website of Grnolska  Spka Gazownictwa was modified based on click- stream statistics, to contain larger and more ac- cessible links to the most popular information and  to matters related to the sustainable development  strategy. Such a large-scale project of user-friendly web- sites for the disabled is unique on the Polish  market. Unfortunately, based on the accessibil- ity rankings published by the Visibles Foundation  (Fundacja  Widzialni), awareness and practical  initiatives aiming to ensure e-accessibility are still  in the development phase.  User-Friendly Website of Grnolska Spka Gazownictwa 137/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  Communication needs to take place both at  the Group level, so that the most important  information reaches everyone, and – which is  perhaps more important – at the local level, where  it answers the needs of employees of individual  PGNiG entities. The objectives at the corporate  level are to set high common standards and  ensure consistency and reliability of information  relating to the entire Group. They play an  important role in promoting a shared model of  corporate values and desirable attitudes among  employees. Areas of activity in 2010 In line with the Groups strategy of sustainable  development, and with the individual local strate- gies, the activities planned for 2010 focused on the  following tasks:   to provide equal access to information to all  employees,   to include employees in the decision-making  process,   to increase employees commitment and affilia- tion with the organisation,   to educate and promote involvement in CSR  activities,   to ensure a two-way communication process. 9.3. Communication and workplace W i th  a  wo rkfo rce o f o ve r 30 thousand at se ve ral doz en  en t it ies ,  t h e P GNiG  G ro u p  i s  o ne o f th e l a rg e st e mploye rs in Poland. It is  n ot  on ly  a  la rge  o rg a n i sa ti o n, but a l so  a wide ly dispe rse d one . Our employ ees  w or k  in  loc a ti o ns a ro und Po l a nd and abroad. Ye t, the  PGN iG  Grou p s  employ ees  a re  a  g ro up  o f p eo p l e sharing common value s de riv ed  from t h e pet roleu m  m i n i n g  e th o s, wh i ch  de f ine s our tradition and re main s  a  k ey  elemen t  o f  ou r  p resent- day o p erations. We  attach gre at impor t a n c e t o c er t a in  r u l es,  bu t a l so  to  cu stoms, such as the  Mine rs D ay (Ba r b r ka ).  At  t h e  sa m e ti me, P G Ni G s workforce  comprise s a numbe r of s u b -grou ps  w it h  sl i g h tl y  di fferent o rg a nisational culture s, built by  d ifferen t  b r a n c h es  a n d  c o m p a n ies. Ensuri n g  a n e f fe ctive  and consiste nt commu n ic a t ion  proc es s  wi th i n  s u ch a  l arge and dive rse  g roup is a conside r a b le c h a llen ge. 138/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  The Employee Satisfaction Survey carried out at  PGNiG in 2010 is a perfect example of the Com- panys focus on communication with its employ- ees. The survey has taken the employee-employer  relations to a new level, and its findings may drive  many significant changes in the HR policy. For  more information, see the Workplace section. For over two years, we have also systematically  educated employees in sustainable development  and corporate social responsibility. We strive to  increase their involvement in CSR initiatives. Blood  donor sessions are a regular event organised at  the PGNiG Group as part of its volunteer involve- ment policy. A Miner at the Nursery School (Grnik  w przedszkolu) employee volunteering pro- gramme, carried out by the Zielona Gra and  Sanok Branches, may serve as another example.  Around the Miners Day, employees of the Branch- es visited local nursery schools to discuss the reali- ties of a miners job with children.  Future challenges A separate, albeit increasingly important, area of  workplace-related communications and marketing  is the so-called employer branding of the PGNiG  Group. Previously, the issue was a priority only to  PGNiGs subsidiaries operating on foreign markets,  where they had to compete for staff with large in- ternational corporations. Today, in the face of the  dynamically growing exploration market in Poland  (the boom for unconventional gas exploration), the  business success of many Group members may  depend on their ability to project an image of a  competitive employer. For more detailed informa- tion, see the Workplace section. Initiatives/Best practices  CSR  t r a in in g,  Low er  Siles ia n  Ga s  Tr a d in g Div is ion ,  Z gor z elec  Ga s  Sa les  U n it  The implementation of the CSR strategy was sup- ported by a dedicated employee training scheme.  Following a theoretical part devoted to the six key  priorities of the Strategy, the participants were  divided into six groups, and lots were drawn to  determine on which strategic objective each of  them would focus. The task of the practical part  consisted in taking photographs to illustrate the  subject. Jigsaw puzzles were then made of the  photographs taken during the training, which  were later distributed as corporate gifts.  Fa milia r is in g CSR  (O s wa j a my  CSR ) employ ee c on feren c e,  Low er  Siles ia n  Ga s  Tr a d in g  Div is ion ,  W roc a w  Ga s  Sa les  U n it The conference was divided into two parts – a  theoretical part, during which papers on corporate  social responsibility were delivered, and a practi- cal part, focused on teamwork. The employees  were tasked with building bird nesting boxes for  the nieynka Forest District in the Karkonosze  Mountains. They also made nesting boxes, which  they put on trees in the Wrocaw Gas Sales Units  operating area. 139/ 207 9. Communication and marketing   P resen t  Yo u rsel f  R esp o n s i bl y  (Z a p rezent uj s i  od p o w iedzi a lni e), P o me ranian  G a s  D i stri bu ti o n C o m pany  The Present Yourself Responsibly practice com- prised the drafting and implementation of rules  for procurement of corporate gifts. In line with  PGNiGs mission statement and CSR strategy, cor- porate gifts should be eco-friendly, i.e. manufac- tured using environmentally friendly technologies  with the use of natural recyclable materials. They  should be made in Poland, in the area where the  company operates, and should certified as safe to  human health.  Work with passi on ,  w or k  w it h  us!  ( Pracuj z pas j  ,  p ra cu j  zn am i!)  – E mplo y er  b r a n d in g a t  Ge of izy ka Krakw Geofizyka Krakw is a subsidiary of the PGNiG  Group which for more than a dozen years has  provided services not only in Poland, but also on  many foreign markets. In recent years, the boom  for exploration services has intensified competition  for labour among exploration companies. Both  geophysical and drilling companies have been  faced with a situation where foreign corporations  go to great lengths to win away Polish specialists,  who often combine excellent qualifications with a  wealth of experience. In response to those unwelcome trends on the  professional labour market, Geofizyka Krakw has  taken a series of steps aimed firstly at increasing  the brands recognition as an employer, and sec- ondly at promoting its image as an attractive and  preferred employer among students and gradu- ates of geophysics and related studies, as well  as among young engineers at the outset of their  careers. In 2010, the company took part in career  fairs for engineers and economists, organised  by higher education institutions and student as- sociations. Each event attracted several thousand  participants, who thus came into contact with the  Geofizyka Krakw brand. The career fairs for engi- neers (Inynierskie Targi Pracy) held in Krakw last  year attracted over 8,000 visitors. Each time, the  companys booth was visited by hundreds of per- sons interested in the company and the job oppor- tunities it offered. At each fair, dozens of resumes  are submitted there and then, and the number of  submissions rises considerably following the event. Besides taking part in career fairs, Geofizyka  Krakw is a partner of the GEOSFERA workshops  for geophysics students throughout Poland.  In 2010, the venue of the workshops were the  witokrzyskie Mountains, and their programme  covered not only inside knowledge in geophysics  and geology, but also the practical aspects of work  in this area, presented by Geofizyka Krakw. Meet- ings with students are also organised on different  occasions, both at higher education institutions,  and on the companys premises. At least once a  year, practical workshops for students of the last  year of geophysics are offered, during which they  have a chance to learn about the job and state-of- the art technologies, meet with experienced spe- cialists, and learn about the fieldwork of a seismic  survey team. 140/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  A Facebook fanpage of Geofizyka Krakw, which  was launched last year, complements the com- panys communication efforts targeted at young  people and potential employees. It is the only Fa- cebook profile yet of a PGNiG Group company. The  specific nature of Facebook makes it completely  useless for communication with customers, yet a  perfect tool for getting in touch with students and  other young people interested in working for the  company. Thanks to information campaigns, i.e.  during the career fairs, the fanpage soon gained  a group of devoted fans (their number in the first  couple of weeks exceeded 100 – a fairly good  result for such a narrowly targeted fanpage). The  Facebook page is used to inform about job open- ings and work conditions at Geofizyka Krakw,  while actively involving fans in the creation of the  employer branding strategy. Geofizyka Krakw at a career fair Thanks to this communication strategy, the brand  awareness of Geofizyka Krakw on the labour  market has increased significantly, ongoing close  relations with the student community have been  established, while jobs advertised by the company  have attracted growing interest. It is evident in  the number of job applications or views of the  Careers section of the corporate website. The  first month of the companys Facebook presence  brought a nearly 60% increase in the traffic to the  corporate website. 141/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  9.4. Communication and the natural environment C o n ducti n g  busine ss with due  re gard to t h e n a t u r a l  env i ro nm ent is one  of  the  major pillars o f P GNiG s  strategy. As an industry which de rive s b en efit s  from  n a tura l  resource s while  having to inte rfe re w it h  n a t u re,  we a re fu l l y aware  of  the  re sponsibility  t h a t  en t a ils .  O u r ba si c communication duty  in this area  c on s is t s  in  rel i abl e reporting  of  our e nvironme ntal impa c t ,  a s  w ell  as co mp l i ance  with the  e nvironme ntal law s .  For  d et a iled  i nfo rma ti o n, se e  the  N atural e nvironme n t   s ec t ion . Communication is also a means for us to get in- volved in pro-environmental initiatives. We put  considerable emphasis on environmental educa- tion and promotion of healthy lifestyle among our  employees, customers and local communities. We  support various pro-environmental projects un- dertaken by NGOs.  We are well aware that our care for the environ- ment is also reflected in the manner in which we  communicate. Therefore, we have been reducing  the amount of printed materials in favour of elec- tronic communication and eco-friendly promotion- al gadgets. Moreover, our sponsorship guidelines  encourage us to support pro-environmental initia- tives and avoid activities which may pose a threat  to the natural environment.  Areas of activity in 20100 Looking at the PGNiG Groups objectives and ac- tivities pursued in 2010, we can identify two dis- tinct trends in its communication efforts related to  environment protection:   education on environment protection and  environmentally-friendly fuel, i.e. natural gas;   environmentally responsible methods of mar- keting communication.  Environmental education is targeted both at the  Groups employees and its external environment.  Since 2010, Geofizyka Krakw has regularly pub- lished a series of articles entitled Zielony Kcik  (The Green Column) in its corporate newsletter,  promoting environmentally responsible behaviour  at and outside work. In addition, a special leaflet  called Myl EKOlogicznie (Think ECOlogically)  was published. It is distributed to all employees at  induction training courses and serves as a set of  guidelines for environmentally responsible behav- iour at the office, during fieldwork, or in a com- pany car.  The Upper Silesian Gas Trading Division and the  Opole Gas Sales Unit are involved in environmental  education of the youngest. At a series of meetings  in primary schools, PGNiG employees have talked  about the production and safe use of natural gas,  and the related environmental issues.  From time to time, a number of PGNiGs Customer  Service Offices distribute eco-friendly shopping  bags, which serve as a promotional gadget and  encourage a green lifestyle.  142/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  We promote the use of promotional gifts and  advertising materials produced in accordance with  the principles of sustainability. For instance, in  2010, Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa developed  and implemented rules for procurement of cor- porate gifts. In choosing a gift, it is important to  consider whether it is eco-friendly (manufactured  in an environmentally-friendly way, with the use  of natural recyclable materials), and whether it  promotes healthy and active lifestyle.  In our marketing communication efforts, we have  always stressed that the product we offer, i.e.  natural gas, is one of the most eco-friendly fuels.  Hence numerous, also in 2010, information cam- paigns designed to encourage the use of gas.  Future challenges The market demonstrates that sustainable devel- opment and corporate social responsibility are not  only a source of competitive advantage, but also  one of the basic standards for running a business.  It is particularly evident in the area of environment  protection. A significant communicative challenge  for the whole PGNiG Group is to preserve its im- age as a company which derives benefits from  nature, while attaching utmost importance to its  protection. There are even more extensive envi- ronmental campaigns ahead of us, organised at  the Groups level, with the aim to educate Poles  and put an equation mark between natural gas  and the term eco-friendly fuel. Initiatives/Best practices The  Ele ve nth Comma n d men t :  Thou shalt not li t t er !  P GNiG  Zie lona Gra Bran c h  PGNiG Zielona Gra Branch has been involved in  environmental education of both its staff and the  local communities for a long time. Its support for  a programme in the local radio station Radio Plus  may serve as a case in point.  In December 2010, Radio Plus aired a series of  eight programmes under the title: The Eleventh  Commandment: Thou shalt not litter! The pro- gramme was also available via the Radios website.  It promoted environmentally responsible habits,  which can easily be implemented in everyday  life, discussing such issues as rubbish sorting, the  harmful impact of batteries, eco-friendly energy,  electricity saving, packaging materials and envi- ronmentally responsible behaviour in forests.  The originality of the programme (which consisted  of scenes, each a few minutes long, presenting  various environmental issues) was well received  by, and attracted wide feedback from, the audi- ence. The programme was granted the first award  in the Radio category of a contest organised by  the Ministry of Environment within the frame- work of the Polish awareness campaign aimed at  preventing waste production and teaching proper  ways to handle waste.  By supporting such initiatives, PGNiG is able to  participate in environmental education of the  public – in this case, the local community of the  Zielona Gra Branch; while strengthening its im- age of a company committed to green issues.  The initiative was carried out in accordance with  the principles of socially responsible sponsorship. 143/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  9.5.  Communication and local communities O u r da y -to-day activitie s inf lue nce  t h e liv es  o f ma ny  pe ople  who live  in the  vicinit y  of ou r  co m p anie s or in are as whe re  we  con d u c t  res ea rc h  o r ex p loration. We  alway s have  it in min d  t h a t  ou r  su ccess  de pe nds larg e ly on g ood re l a t ion s  w it h  th o se pe ople . The re fore , e ve rywhe re w e w or k  w e  u se o ur be st e f forts to e nsure  that ou r  pres en c e,  wh eth e r pe rmane nt or te mporary, ca u s es  t h e lea s t  p o ssi ble  nuisance  and bring s the  mos t  b en efit s  t o  th e n eig hbouring  community. The PGNiG Groups investment and research pro- jects are located throughout Poland and abroad.  We consider local communities as one of our larg- est and most important stakeholder groups. In our  activities, we use private property of individual  owners, including forests, land and roads. This  requires us to maintain partnership relations with  local authorities and governmental institutions, as  well as individual farmers and residents of par- ticular areas. We base those relations on reliable  communication of our activities and the purpose  of our work or projects, which allows us to estab- lish a common cooperation framework. If our pro- jects raise concerns among the local community,  we increase our communicative efforts in order  to resolve all doubts. In such a case, we arrange  meetings with the local authorities and residents,  prepare special informational materials and enter  into active dialogue with the local media.  A significant part of our relations with local com- munities consists in supporting their develop- ment. Certainly, our major contribution here is the  employment we offer to their representatives,  but we try to do much more. By sponsoring lo- cal initiatives, partnering with schools and higher  education institutions and contributing to charity,  we try to show that the PGNiG Group is a good  neighbour.  The PGNiG Groups branches and companies are  also active abroad, even outside of Europe. This  requires from our employees to be open to other  cultures and respect their values. No matter where  we work, whether in Europe, Kazakhstan, or Libya,  we treat other cultures and religions with respect,  and their representatives are part of our teams.  Especially in poor and less developed countries,  we try to support the local communities through  CSR initiatives. 144/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  Areas of activity in 2010 Communication efforts targeted at local communi- ties constitute an important element of the ob- jectives set by virtually all the Groups entities. In  2010, they were focused on:   spreading knowledge about the PGNiG Groups  initiatives and projects;   ensuring good relations with local communi- ties and authorities in places where the Group  operates;   supporting education and cultural activities of  local communities;   supporting local charity campaigns.  Like in previous years, both the PGNiG Head Of- fice and numerous branches and subsidiaries were  actively involved in Science Festivals organised  across Poland. The aim of the already regular ini- tiative is to promote science and scientific achieve- ments among children and young people.  For many years, the PGNiG Group has supported  institutions of higher education, in particular those  teaching sciences related to our industry. In ad- dition to financing various initiatives undertaken  by schools, we ourselves organise special events  for students, to provide both education and en- tertainment. In 2010, such events were held by  the Odolanw Branch, Geofizyka Krakw and  Naftomet.  An interesting example of unconventional ap- proach to the promotion of local art and culture  is the Single Work Gallery initiative (Galeria   Jednego  Dziea) of the Pomeranian Gas Trading  Division. For several months in 2010, the Customer  Service Office in Gdask regularly presented local  works of art, which served as a beautiful decora- tion while promoting local artists. The campaign  was well received by customers, who evaluated it  very positively in a special survey. 79% of the re- spondents thought the initiative was a great idea.  78% of those surveyed expressed the belief that  supporting young artists benefited the companys  image. In this way, without significant expendi- tures, we gave young artists a chance to reach a  wider audience.  Initiatives/Best practices Commu n ic a t ion  w it h  loc a l  c ommu n it ies  d u r in g s eis mic  s u r v ey s ,  Geofiz y k a  Tor u  Good relations with local communities, based on  cooperation of equals and dialogue, are among  the PGNiG Groups strategic objectives. Reliable  communication with local residents is necessary to  fulfil that objective. Geofizyka Toru is an example of how best prac- tice is applied in communication. Its efforts focus  on providing full information about planned work  to the communities living in areas where the Com- pany is to conduct seismic surveys.  The Company continues to develop comprehensive  communication procedures, intended to further  enhance cooperation with local communities.  Apart from formal written notifications and agree- ments, communication at the site of ongoing or  planned operations involves additional elements,  such as meetings between survey team members  and local residents, or preparation and distribution  of materials explaining the purposes and methods  of seismic data acquisition. 145/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  In response to the stakeholders need for reliable  information on the exploration work carried out  in Poland, in 2010 the Company started to pub- lish a magazine entitled Skarby Ziemi (Treasures  of the Earth), addressed to local authorities and  residents and aiming to educate them about the  nature of geophysical work and the Companys  operations. Additionally, it answers questions  related to current trends in the industry, such as  exploration for shale gas. In order to facilitate and  support experience sharing, the magazine features  interviews with representatives of local communi- ties, for example the heads of communes, where  the Company operated before.  Because of the great value attached to harmoni- ous cooperation with local communities, the Com- pany strives to ensure that members of its seismic  teams possess knowledge and skills related to the  formal and communication procedures in place.  PGNiGs CSR Strategy defines measurable goals in  relation to the staffs communication skills. Last  year, we launched an e-learning project aimed at  improving communication skills of the manage- ment staff in charge of seismic teams.  Summary E c on omies  of s c a le:  c ommu n ic a t ion  t ools Without a proper communication system for in- ternal and external purposes, it would have been  impossible to undertake the initiatives described in  this section. The system relies on the efforts of a  several dozen persons at the whole PGNiG Group,  who use diverse tools and communication chan- nels. The Marketing Department of PGNiGs Head  Office, which is responsible for both marketing  and corporate communications, is supported by  several dozen facilitators working at all entities of  the Group.  With more than 30 thousand employees all over  Poland and abroad, our internal communications  require the concurrent use of several different  channels. MaGAZyn, a magazine with a circula- tion of 5thousand distributed among the Groups  employees, is one of the traditional means of com- munication. Additionally, some subsidiaries and  branches publish their own internal magazines  (mostly monthlies), with a total circulation of over  7 thousand.    Bulletin for local communities  published by Geofizyka Toru  146/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  Electronic communication involves the Newslet- ter, distributed several times a week by the Head  Office, as well as local newsletters of individual  entities. Information published in newsletters  is also posted on the Newsletter Portal, acces- sible to most of our employees. Another channel  of communication is PGNiGs Intranet and many  local portals implemented at the Groups compa- nies. Employees also receive a number of other  materials supporting different projects (e.g. the  employee satisfaction survey), fill in questionnaires  and participate in special meetings. Chats with the  President of PGNiGs Management Board are or- ganised at least twice a year, giving employees a  chance to ask him a question directly. At the PGNiG Group, media relations are the re- sponsibility of the Spokesperson and Press Of- fice at PGNiGs Head Office, as well as several  dozen press officers working for other entities of  the Group. In 2010 alone, we issued more than  400press releases, organised 30 conferences  (including press conferences, briefings and study  tours) and replied to hundreds of phone calls and  e-mails. Taking active part in the life of our industry, in  2010 we organised, co-organised or acted as a  supporting partner for about 30 industry confer- ences. Our branches and subsidiaries took part  in 150 events, such as trade fairs, exhibitions and  scientific conferences.  These figures illustrate the scale of the PGNiG  Groups communication activities but say little  about their nature. Our main objective is to reach  all key stakeholder groups, ensure that com- munication is a two-way process and adjust its  form to the recipients needs, which can be a real  challenge given the complexity of and specialist  knowledge involved in exploration and production  operations.  Future challenges Because we believe that open, reliable and effec- tive communication is one of the basic standards  to be adhered to by a socially responsible busi- ness, our objective is to constantly improve in this  area. To date, we have developed a number of  solutions that have proved their merit and could  be considered exemplary. We also know which  solutions require adjustments, and which are inef- fective. We want to improve the existing standards  and promote best practices at the entire Group.  When asked about future challenges and areas in  need of improvement, most regional Communica- tion and CSR Facilitators point to internal commu- nications, both within the individual entities and  between them, within the Group. Therefore, in  the coming years we will certainly concentrate on  good relations with employees and effective coop- eration at the Group level.  147/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  Prepared by a team composed of: Ewa  Biaows, Bogumia Koman, Iwona  Matusiak, Jacek Miluki, Katarzyna Mrz  and Magdalena Pachocka. A systemic approach to defining and monitoring  the implementation of communication objectives  as part of the sustainable development strategy  is an area which still requires work. We would like  to transform the initiatives in the area, which are  frequent but unconnected and often undertaken  on an ad hoc basis, into long-term activities, which  would become part of the PGNiG Groups estab- lished practices.  In the context of the dynamically developing ex- ploration market in Poland, we see a clear need for  placing greater stress on dialogue with local com- munities living in the areas where we work and  invest. Such a dialogue is a condition for PGNiG to  gain social acceptance for its projects and conduct  its operations efficiently. It is especially important  in the case of shale gas exploration– for more  information, see the New business areas sec- tion. An improvement of systemic communication  with local communities is a priority to be set when  revising our current strategy and defining new  objectives for the Sustainable Development and  Responsible Business Strategy.  In line with our current Sustainable Development  and Responsible Business Strategy, we treat com- munication as an element playing a vital role in  supporting the fulfilment of objectives of the other  strategic pillars. Hence, the development of high  standards of communication with all our stake- holder groups is our primary goal for the future. 148/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  T h e evolving busine ss and social en v iron men t  req u ires  c ompa n ies  to  know and unde rstand the  e xpe ct a t ion s  of t h eir  s t a k eh old er s ,  s o  a s to  be  able  to de ve lop in a sustain a b le ma n n er.  T h e en ergy  s ec t or  a l so  recognize s the  ne e d to imple m en t  s u s t a in a b le d ev elopmen t  i n i ti a tive s. The re fore , it is crucial t o a c t iv ely  s u ppor t  ed u c a t ion  o f co mpanie s, raise  aware ne ss of  t h e is s u e a mon g employ ees  a n d  custo me rs, and de ve lop othe r CS R pr a c t ic es  in  t h e en ergy  s ec t or. The second Responsible Energy Conference, or- ganised by PGNiG in cooperation with PwC, was  a pioneering initiative in Poland. It provided an  opportunity to discuss corporate social responsibil- ity in the energy sector, on a broad, nationwide  scale. The second conference was held under the  slogan: The energy sectors responsibility in the  context of social and economic challenges facing  Poland and the world. The discussion focused  on challenges, both social and economic, faced  by Poland and the global economy. Among the  special guests invited to the last years conference  was MrMatthew Bateson – Energy and Climate  Managing Director at World Business Council for  Sustainable Development, who presented the  WBCSDs views on challenges to sustainable devel- opment until 2050. 9.6.  Energy sector on its way to  sustainable development 149/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  The main success of the conference was the sign- ing, during the first meeting in 2009, of the Decla- ration on Sustainable Development in the Energy  Sector by representatives of Polands seven major  energy companies: Polskie Grnictwo Naftowe i  Gazownictwo  S.A., EDF Polska, Gaz-System  S.A.,  GDF Suez Energia Polska, Tauron S.A., ENEA S.A.  and Vattenfall Poland Sp. z o.o. In 2010, the group  was joined by another three companies: For- tum Power and Heat Polska, Grupa LOTOS and  Polskie Sieci Elektroenergetyczne Operator, fol- lowed several months later by Dalkia Polska, and  recently by PKN Orlen S.A. The Declaration is a  set of obligations that its signatories agree to as- sume in order to operate in a sustainable way. The  obligations cover eight operational areas, from  environmental protection, to stakeholder involve- ment and customer care, to broad-based coop- eration in promoting sustainable development  (see: www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl/oenergia/ konferencja/9530). The support of the Energy Regulatory Office (URE)  is also crucial. Every year during the conference,  a representative of URE presents the results of its  research on corporate social responsibility in the  energy sector. The conference is held under the  honorary patronage of Prime Minister Waldemar  Pawlak. The conferences regularly attract over 200 partici- pants, including representatives of both private  and public sector companies and non-government  organisations, as well as students interested in the  topic. While providing an opportunity to debate  CSR issues relevant for the industry, the meetings  create a platform for education and for sharing  knowledge and best practices. Thus, the Responsible Energy conferences bring  tangible benefits both to PGNiG and other market  participants, particularly by increasing awareness  of the significance of responsible business across  the industry and promoting inter-sector dialogue. The 2010 conference was closed by a meeting of  energy sector representatives, held on October  3rd 2010 in the Posk Forest District. The partici- pants, together with the Aeris Futuro Foundation,  planted 1,500 pine seedlings thus neutralising  CO2 emissions generated during the Responsible  Energy Conference. The meeting was followed  by a workshop where new ideas for joint initia- tives were discussed by members of the energy  companies and a representative of the Ministry of  Economy. This was yet another step on the way  towards implementing the principles and objec- tives of the Declaration through industry-wide co- operation. Since then, the Declarations signatories  have already met twice with a view to developing  a joint project that would put the provisions of the  Declaration into practice. Discussions and team work during the workshops  held in October, and during all subsequent meet- ings, gave rise to many ideas for joint initiatives.  The most crucial and prospective issues and areas  of potential cooperation were identified to be as  follows:   CSR as a source of innovation, or a field for  research and development, including coopera- tion with academic centres,   education to raise perception of sustain- able development as a driver of business  performance,   the need for more effective communication of  activities, including the necessity to develop a  common communication platform,   the need to establish a platform for sharing  best practices, benchmarking and deriving  inspiration.  The Responsible Energy Conference provides a  new forum for dialogue to find a common way  towards achieving greater sustainability of the  Polish energy market. Although the challenge is  immense, the fact that an increasing number of  companies decide to face it offers an optimistic  outlook on the future.  Further details on the conference are available at:  www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl 150/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  9.7.  Coalition for Responsible  Business In  2009, th e Em ploye rs of  Poland and its me m b er  c ompa n ies :  Te l eko muni ka cj a  Polska  S .A., GlaxoS mithKline a n d  P ol sk i e G  rn i ctw o N af towe  i Gazownictwo  S .A . ,  c a me u p  wi th  the i dea to  promote  re sponsible  busine s s  pr a c t ic es  a mo ng  Po l i sh  en tre pre ne urs. Eve ntually, the  i d ea  ga v e  r i s e to  th e C o al i tion for Re sponsible  Busine ss ,  join ed  by ano th er th ree  companie s: D anone , HOCHTI E F  P ols k a  a nd Po wszechny Zakad Ube zpie cze   S .A. The  projec t  is  sup p o rted by P WC, which acts as its e xpe rt p a r t n er.  The project is financed through the European So- cial Fund. Its aim is not only to promote the prin- ciples of responsible business, but also to support  their practical implementation. This objective is to be achieved through various  dedicated tools, and in particular the Responsible  Business Code setting out nine principles of Re- sponsible Business, accompanied by a Guideline  for implementing the Responsible Business Code.  The Guideline provides a detailed description and  explanation of each principle, indicating the issues  of key importance to particular industries, and  discusses actions that may be taken along with  methods for assessing their impact. The sectoral  perspective on responsible business, adopted by  the Coalition in its project, is definitely a pioneer- ing approach in Poland and one that offers a  unique and valuable contribution to the Coalitions  initiative. At the next stage of the project, the Responsible  Business Leaders contest is to be held to select in  each of the six industry sectors companies that  will be awarded the title of Responsible Business  Leaders during the prestigious gala ceremony to  be held in October 2011. At present, the project  may be joined by every company which agrees to  comply with the rules set out in the Code.  The rules of the Responsible Business Code are as  follows: 1) set the standards and popularise knowledge  on CSR; 2) support social and economic development; 3) respect employees by offering them decent  working conditions; 4) develop organisational culture based on the  values and individual needs of employees; 5) care for the health and safety of employees  and customers; 6) build your business on trust and partnership; 7) ensure proper communications and responsi- ble marketing; 8) create and develop your products and services  in response to new social and environmental  challenges, 9) care for the environment. For further details see: www.koalicjacr.pl 151/ 207 9. Communication and marketing  10.  New Business Areas The  se arch for n ew  b u s in es s  a rea s  a s  w ell a s  in n ov a t iv en es s  combine d with effor t s  ma d e t o en s u re en v iron men t a l prot ec t ion  add up to form o n e of t h e pilla r s  of P GNiG s  b u s in es s  s t r a t egy.  The  Group is able  t o r is e u p t o n ew  c h a llen ges ,  ow in g t o s olid  foundations built  pr ima r ily  on  t h e k n ow led ge a n d  exper ien c e of  its e mploy e e s, as  w ell a s  t h e Compa n y  s  fin a n c ia l pot en t ia l.  Ou r  ope rations in this  res pec t  a re c omplia n t  w it h  t h e  Dec la r a t ion  on S ustainable  Dev elopmen t  in  t h e E n ergy  Sec t or  in  P ola n d  .  152/ 207   The implementation of the environmen- tal protection objectives adopted in 2009  as part of the Sustainable Development  and Responsible Business Strategy was neither  a surprise nor a new, unknown challenge for  PGNiGs employees and its environmental protec- tion personnel. This was due to two reasons. First- ly, the environmental protection objectives were  developed jointly by the entire team. Secondly, for  many years the Company has invariably treated  environmental protection as an area of crucial  importance, critical to its business success. In this  way, the Companys CSR strategy provided merely  a formal framework for the objectives and priori- tised them to reflect new challenges in the area of  environmental protection. Following its adoption,  the Company was able to commit human resourc- es and funds to their implementation, and gained  measures to assess their progress.  Marcin Lewenstein  Head of Strategic Planning Office Strategy Department Two years after the strategy was launched, we can  boast measurable environmental achievements,  which often exceed the obligatory legal require- ments and involve further mitigation of our nega- tive environmental impacts. It should be added  that the objectives and results of these efforts also  apply to the contractors cooperating with us on  our projects.  Today, we face new challenges in the area of  environmental protection, one example being  compliance with the energy and climate pack- age or the much discussed shale gas. We hope  that thanks to the environmental credibility which  we have been building for years, the Companys  shale gas exploration projects will be accepted by  the public, providing an opportunity not only for  the Company, but also for society at large and  the local communities. Gas is more than just an  environmental-friendly fuel – in fact, the most  environmental-friendly of all fossil fuels. Over the  course of years, we have been trying to prove that  it is also a precious natural resource which can be  produced at minimum cost to the environment.  153/ 207 8.  Workplace  Tasks In  J u l y  2009, the Sustainable  Dev el op m en t a nd C o rporate  R esp o n s i bi l i ty Stra tegy  se t forth  two  g o a l s wh i ch  a re k e y  for  th e  s u c c essful  i m p l eme ntation  o f  obje cti ves u nder th e  sixth  str a te g i c p i l l ar. The fi r st  o bje c ti ve p ro vi des fo r e xpanding  th e  C om p anys bu si n es s to  in c l u de p o wer g en eration,  wh e rea s  the seco n d a ssume s  th e  g ro wth o f co mp ete nce  in  th e  a rea  o f p ro - en v i ro nme ntal  so l u ti on s. I n  b o t h  c a s e s ,  P G N i G  s  o p e r a t i o n s  a r e  d r i v e n  b y,  o n  t h e  o n e  h a n d ,  P o l a n d  s  s i g n i f i c a n t  e n e r g y  r e q u i r e m e n t ,  w h i c h  c r e a t e s  d e v e l o p m e n t  o p p o r t u n i t i e s  f o r  t h e  G r o u p ,  a n d  o n  t h e  o t h e r  –  l i m i t a t i o n s  t h e  c o n t e m p o r a r y  w o r l d  h a s  t o  f a c e ,  s u c h  a s  s h r i n k i n g  e n e r g y  s o u r c e s  a n d  t h e  n e c e s s i t y  t o  s i g n i f i c a n t l y  c u t  d o w n  C O 2  e m i s s i o n s .  Complet ed 14 U n d er  w a y 40 Dela y ed 6 154/ 207  10. New Business Areas  Replacement of large  heat sources with small  biogas plants Expanding the Companys Business  to Include Power Generation and Trading Launch of co-generation  projects Objective  I Objective  II Effects   E s t ima t ed  v a lu e  of t h e projec t  in  St a low a  Wola :  P LN 1 , 9 0 0 m;  d es ign  ou t pu t :  3 , 1 0 0  GW h .   M P E C O ls z t y n  (h ea t  u t ilit y ) t o  red u c e a n n u a l  CO 2 emis s ion s  b y  a pproxima t ely  2 , 1 6 0  t on n es . 155/ 207  10.  Seeking new business expansion opportunities in line with the  principle of sustainable development  Research into CO2 storage  (CCS) CNG technology of  development and  promotion in Poland  Support of the  development geothermal  technologies in Poland  and abroad Connecting cities to natural gas  supply networks based on LNG Effects   3 4  CNG s er v ic e  s t a t ion s  in  P ola n d  in  2 0 1 0 .   As  ma n y  a s  2 7 0  c it y  b u s es  in  P ola n d  r u n  on  CNG.   T h e res id en t s  of  I s k o c on s u me  3 0  t h ou s a n d  c u b ic  met res  of LNG. Growing Competence  in the Area of  Pro-Environmental Solutions  (CCS, Geothermal Energy, CNG and LNG) Objective  I Objective  II 156/ 207  10. New Business Areas  Objective I  E xp a n di n g  the C o mp any s  bu s i n ess to  i n cl u de el ectricity  g e n e r a tio n a nd tra di n g, in  c o m p l i a nce wi th susta inable  dev el op men t p ri nci p l es As a Company whose operations involve produc- tion of natural gas, an ecological product with a  large development potential, PGNiG is committing  significant resources to new projects in the power  generation sector. Their implementation fre- quently entails considerable risks, requires large  expenditure, and is affected by numerous politi- cal and economic constraints. On the other hand,  power generation based on gaseous fuel combus- tion in CHP plants, where electricity and heat are  simultaneously produced, brings together all most  valuable aspects: eco-friendly properties of the  fuel and high efficiency of the process. Currently,  projects involving gas-fired facilities are the most  dynamically developing direction in the application  of natural gas as fuel in power generation. Such  projects entail a range of benefits, not only for the  PGNiG Group itself but also for our immediate en- vironment. The growth of Polands economy will  further stimulate demand for electricity.  Accordingly, gas-fired plants may become a valu- able addition to the Polish electricity sector, domi- nated by coal fuel. They correspond well with the  development of renewable energy sources and  represent an operating reserve, easily accessible in  times of peak demand. Further implementation of  the policy adopted by the European Union to fight  emissions of environmentally harmful gases (in  order to achieve lower emission levels) may also  significantly support cogeneration. Importantly,  the advantages of gas-fired cogeneration pro- jects include lower levels of required expenditure  than in the case of coal-fired CHP plants, shorter  times to completion, and possibility to use external  financing.  The implementation of large power generation  projects will enable the Company to create a solid  base for the power segment in the PGNiG Group  and it will also facilitate the ultimate transforma- tion of the Group into a modern energy conglom- erate. To this end, the Company needs primarily to  expand its offering to include new products which  match the customers requirements for various  energy carriers, and in particular develop sales of  electricity. When looking for new, CSR-compliant  business solutions, PGNiG focuses not only on  cogeneration, but also on the possibility of replac- ing large heat sources with smaller ones, in order  to improve the energy efficiency of processes and  reduce pollutant emissions. The contemplated areas of PGNiGs business de- velopment include also biogas projects. The use  of biogas, apart from its environmental benefits  such as reduced CO2 emissions and lower volumes  of biological waste, has a social dimension, as it  contributes to the creation of new jobs and oc- cupational development of people in agricultural  regions (in particular the areas which were the  site of former state agricultural farms), i.e. where  unemployment levels are the highest. Moreover, it  prevents the loss of agricultural production capaci- ties thanks to the continued cultivation of fields  otherwise threatened with gradual transformation  into wasteland, and supports local diversification  of gas supplies.  In November 2009, the General Shareholders  Meeting of PGNiG resolved to establish PGNiG  Energia. The new company will perform projects  related to the transformation of the PGNiG Group  into a modern energy conglomerate. PGNiG Ener- gia will be engaged in projects involving construc- tion of power generating units and investments  in gas-fired cogeneration units, as well as in pilot  biogas projects. 157/ 207  10. New Business Areas  Objective I Initiatives/Best practices C o g e n e rati o n – si mul tane ous  g e n e r a tio n o f el ectri city and  h e a t Conversion of energy, in particular generation of  electricity and heat, should be carried out effi- ciently and with the lowest possible impact on the  environment. Power generation based on gaseous  fuels combustion in CHP plants is to a large ex- tent able to meet these requirements. The PGNiG  Groups strategy provides for the construction  of Polands largest CHP plant in Stalowa Wola. To  date, this joint venture of Tauron Polska Energia  and PGNiG is the key investment project carried  out by PGNiG Energia. The execution agreement  was signed on May 7th 2010, while the agreements  on the operation of the Elektrociepownia Stalowa  Wola CHP plant, sale of electricity, and supply  of fuel gas were executed on March 11th 2011. A  modern CCTG plant will contribute substantially  to lower CO2 emissions and increased security of  energy supplies. The CCTG plant is expected to  commence operations in 2014.  Elektrociepownia Stalowa Wola CHP plant in  numbers:    Estimated investment value: PLN 1,900 million   Generation of electricity: 3,100 GWh   Generation of heat: 1,800 TJ   Annual gas consumption: 540 million Nm3 L ow-powe r coge n er a t ion  sy ste ms and the  b ioga s  ma r k et Low-power cogeneration systems are financed  with the project owners own funds, and support- ed by European funds. A project implemented by  MPEC Olsztyn (heat supply utility) may serve as an  example. The cogeneration unit of MPEC Olsztyn  is based on two gas-fired piston engines, with a  total capacity of almost 3MW (1.5 MWEI), and it is  the first gas-fired cogeneration unit in Olsztyn. It  is expected to produce approximately 9,500MWh  of electricity and 39,000GJ of heat annually, to  be supplied to the customers through heat dis- tribution networks, and to reduce the amount of  generated CO2 by approximately 2,160 tonnes.  The connection to the gas system was provided  by Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa – Olsztyn Gas  Distribution Division, through the construction of  the DN 125 medium-pressure gas pipeline and gas  metering station with the capacity of 500 cubic  metres per hour.  An increased interest in low-power cogenera- tion systems is reflected in the EU and national  regulations which promote such type of systems  by enabling trading in red (commercial energy)  and yellow (CHP systems with the capacity lower  than 1MW) certificates. Thanks to the imple- mentation of such solutions on a larger scale,  the PGNiG Group may be able to expand its gas  sales volumes through the introduction of a new  product in the form of small gas-fired cogenera- tion systems, along with the accompanying legal  and financial structure. Full identification of the  technical viability of gas combustion in micro-CHP  systems is a challenge PGNiG has to take on. For  this purpose, PGNiGs Central Measurement and  Testing Laboratory has launched dedicated pro- jects pertaining to generation of electricity and  heat in micro-CHP systems. The Laboratory is also  involved in research on the use of biogas.  CHP system in MPEC Olsztyn] 158/ 207  10. New Business Areas  Objective II  Dev el op m en t o f co mp ete nce s  a n d e x ecu ti o n o f p ro - en v i ro n menta l  p ro j ects  The contemporary world is becoming increasingly  aware of the fact that its further development  should be governed by the principles of sustain- able growth, with particular importance attached  to the fundamental limitations such as shrinking  energy sources and the need to significantly re- duce CO2 emissions. The PGNiG Group has commit- ted its human and financial resources to support  pro-environmental initiatives, which reflect the  current and future needs of the Polish society.  These initiatives include investment projects which  have already brought or are soon to bring tangible  results, as well as expert and scientific projects  with longer implementation horizons.  Initiatives/Best practices Carbon Capture  an d  St or a ge  ( CCS )  te chnolog y The European Union commenced work aimed at  reducing CO2 emissions from fossil fuels by means  the Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technology.  CCS makes it possible to capture as much as 90%  of CO2 emitted by conventional power plants. Cur- rently, pilot and demonstration projects are being  carried out in Europe and worldwide.  PGNiGs ex- perience in acid gas injection, combined with our  experts knowledge on the appraisal of geological  formations, construction and operation of under- ground gas storage facilities, as well as waste stor- age in rock masses, represents a valuable source  of information, used, among other things, in the  implementation of the EU laws in Poland.  PGNiG is the co-author of a European research  project entitled Characterisation of European CO2  storage – SiteChar (www.sitechar.eu). The Project,  supported by the European Commission, is imple- mented by a consortium led by IFP Energies Nou- velles – a global organisation of world leaders in  the area of new energy technologies. The consor- tium comprises European research institutions (Po- land – AGH University of Science and Technology  of Krakw), industrial partners (including PGNiG,  Statoil, Vattenfall, Veolia), and the government of  Scotland. PGNiG manages a working group in- volved in research work on the almost depleted  natural gas deposits in Zacze and uchlw. SiteChar is designed to examine the whole CO2  storage site process, starting from preliminary  feasibility study on CO2 storage to the adoption  of a decision on storage licence in line with EU  regulations and precisely specified criteria. The  work involves research at a range of onshore and  offshore locations across Europe. For this purpose,  the following five potential European storage  facilities were chosen, representative of various  geological conditions: the North Sea (at the Brit- ish coast), the aquifer in Denmark, natural gas  deposits in Poland, the aquifer at the North Sea (at  the Norwegian coast) and the aquifer at the South  Adriatic Sea. The project will result in the compilation of a  methodological guide, accompanied by detailed  guidelines, to be used by storage facility opera- tors and supervisory authorities. Public approval  of the new CO2 storage technologies represents an  important part of the project. Actions taken in this  respect will reflect the knowledge of local commu- nities and their opinion on CCS.  159/ 207  10. New Business Areas  In Poland, PGNiG cooperates with the consortium  implementing a national programme under the  name Appraisal of formations and structures for  safe CO2 storage and a programme for their moni- toring managed by the Polish Geological Institute.  The programme is designed to provide the data  and knowledge required to launch safe CCS dem- onstration projects in Poland. Moreover, PGNiG participates in the activities of a  working group for public communication related  to CCS technology, appointed by Waldemar Paw- lak, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Econo- my. The main task of the group is to prepare the  objectives of the national information campaign  on the CSS technology and coordinate the related  actions.  GEOTHE RMAL  E N ER GY  One of the Groups areas of operation covers  services provided in relation to geothermal pro- jects. The renewable nature of geothermal energy  makes it a solution conducive to the protection of  natural environment, which is in line with the CSR  idea. In 2010, the PGNiG Group companies partici- pated in numerous geothermal projects, both at  home and abroad. Geophysical services relating to  exploration for geothermal resources were per- formed by Geofizyka Krakw and Geofizyka Toru,  which carried out a project for GeoEnergy Bayern  in 2010. Very positive assessment of the work led  to other contracts. Currently, Geofizyka Toru is  acquiring 3D data for the purposes of geother- mal projects in Bavaria. Drilling work in Germany  was also performed by Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu  Jaso. The same company has started a geothermal  project in Poland, in the Commune of Kleszczw  near Bechatw.  PGNiG companies also take part in scientific and  promotional initiatives in the field of geother- mal energy. For many years, Geofizyka Krakw  and Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jaso have been  institutional members of the Polish Geothermal  Society. They arrange conferences and scientific  symposia which promote geothermal energy as a  source of clean energy and serve as a platform to  share knowledge and experiences, both in Poland  and abroad. Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jaso has  recently held a technical conference on geother- mal drilling, attended by representatives of sci- ence and investors from Poland, Germany and  Slovakia. The company also hosted a symposium  on the use of geothermal energy in cities, with the  participation of city mayors. The Group companies  are key strategic sponsors of the biennial Polish  Geothermal Congress. Objective II Geothermal drilling by PNiG Jaso – Landau project,  as part of which a geothermal power plant was  built in less than two years.  160/ 207  10. New Business Areas  CO MP RESSED NATUR AL GAS  ( CN G)  PGNiG has been involved in the promotion of com- pressed natural gas. In February 2010, the PGNiGs  Management Board approved the PGNiG Groups  strategy with regard to the development of the  CNG market. A team for the implementation of the  CNG strategy was established at the PGNiG Head  Office to handle relevant legal matters, as well as  technical and marketing issues. In order to en- hance effectiveness of its actions, PGNiG entered  into cooperation with the Chamber of Natural Gas  Industry, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of  Finance, the Ministry of Environment, the Motor  Transport Institute, as well as universities of tech- nology (the Wrocaw University of Technology, the  Warsaw University of Technology, the AGH Univer- sity of Science and Technology in Krakw).  The Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of En- vironment are interested in the CNG market de- velopment, however this is yet to translate into  tangible action. In 2010, PGNiG joined the Inter- ministerial Team for Growth of Competitiveness in  the Automotive Industry, which comprises Secre- taries and Subsecretaries of State in the Ministries  of Finance, Economy, Infrastructure, Education and  Higher Learning, Internal Affairs and Administra- tion, Foreign Affairs, and the Environment. PGNiGs  activity has made the government authorities  realise the need for CNG infrastructure develop- ment. Another step aimed at improving the con- ditions and transparency of the CNG sector was  a request for maintaining excise duty exemption  after October 31st 2013, lodged by the Chamber of  Natural Gas Industry and PGNiG with the Ministry  of Finance. Unfortunately, the request has been  turned down.   Initiatives/Best practices  Participation in fairs, conferences, and publications  in industry-related magazines are used by PGNiG  to popularise and promote CNGs potential. While  these activities have not triggered a sales volume  growth yet, they are undertaken for the sake of  the markets future development.  One of the Companys most spectacular actions  promoting CNG was participation in the 7th Econ- omy Supertest, which came to be dominated by  CNG fuelled vehicles. The Economy Supertest is  an event initiated and organised annually by the  Polish Journalists Autoclub, promoting safe and  environmentally-friendly driving. The results of  the Supertest were widely commented on in the  public media.   Moreover, PGNiG arranges meetings with poten- tial customers, organises seminars and university  lectures, undertakes initiatives aimed at acquiring  knowledge and sharing experience in order to  implement best practices concerning CNG. The Po- meranian Gas Trading Division alone hosted almost  60 meetings in 2010, which included:   meetings with the public and spreading knowl- edge on CNG (8)   participation in fairs and conferences (7)   meetings with car dealers and expanding co- operation (29)   university lectures and educational pro- grammes for children (11)    CNG was named the best environmentally-friendly  product of the 2010 Auto-Moto Show fair in By- dgoszcz, and PGNiG was awarded by the President  of the City of Bydgoszcz for support in the prepa- ration of the Truck and Bus Show Poland 2010  event, as well as promotion of eco-friendly fuel for  delivery vehicles and trucks.  Objective II 161/ 207  10. New Business Areas  PGNiG also takes part in the implementation of  large European projects and ideas for CNG use in  road transport, such as Blue Corridor and GasHigh- Way, and undertakes smaller-scale initiatives,  including the Zielona Linia (Green Line) project,  designed to create conditions for environmental- ly-friendly travel on the route from Wrocaw to  Prague.  The idea of the project originators, the Gas Sales  Unit in Wabrzych, was to create a coach route  served only with CNG fuelled coaches. Apart from  PGNiG S.A., the other project participants are the  Chamber of Natural Gas Industry and Cesky Ply- narensky Svaz. The first Green Line bus will set  out already in 2011.  As a continuation of this initiative, PGNiG took  part in the Congress of the Regions: Local Gov- ernment – Investment – Development, held in  widnica in May 2010. In addition, it took part in  a panel discussion on the blue fuel and partici- pated in an international conference Gas Engines  2010. Local initiatives, undertaken within the  footprint of individual Gas Sales Units operations,  are also noteworthy, with the Carpathian and  Lower Silesian Gas Trading Divisions being particu- larly active in this respect.  It needs to be emphasised that in Poland there are  approximately 270 CNG-fuelled buses in operation  and the advantages of the blue fuel have already  been appreciated by city transport companies in  Gdynia, Zamo, Rzeszw, Radom, Tarnw and  Walbrzych. The City Transport Company of Gdynia  has been implementing the programme of eco- friendly buses since 2007. At present, the company  already owns 14 buses fuelled with compressed  natural gas, and the purchase of additional vehi- cles is provided for in the Strategy for the City of  Gdynia. The investment in the innovative vehicle  fleet will be financed from the EU Regional Op- erational Programme funds. Ultimately Gdynia is  expected to operate 40 articulated low-floor CNG  buses. Additional funds will be earmarked for  the infrastructure expansion, for example build- ing slow-fill stations for refuelling buses with gas,  which will reduce the costs.  Using CNG vehicles in Gdynia is a source of tan- gible benefits to all interested parties. The bus  company saves money on fuel, the gas distribu- tion company benefits from additional demand for  its product, and the citizens of Gdynia can travel  by quiet and comfortable means of transport and  breathe much cleaner air.  Green Line route – a CNG coach will travel between Wrocaw and Prague Objective II 162/ 207  10. New Business Areas  L NG  One of the key tasks of the PGNiG Group distri- bution companies consists in expanding the gas  distribution systems within the licence areas.  Where pipeline-based distribution systems prove  economically ineffective, an alternative solution is  the temporary use of liquefied natural gas (LNG)  pending extension of the gas transmission net- work. The dynamically developing technology  and the planned launch of new LNG production  and storage facilities, such as the sea terminal in  winoujcie, confirm that this is the right develop- ment direction. The best practices presented in  this section constitute only a germ of the idea to  apply LNG distribution systems in the areas not yet  connected to any gas networks. Initiatives/Best practices For distribution companies, the possibility of LNG  distribution is both a great challenge and a devel- opment opportunity. In 2010, a number of meas- ures were taken in several regions of Poland with  the intention to introduce new services involving  LNG distribution and regasification. Wielkopolska  Spka Gazownictwa (WSG) launched a gas sup- ply system based on the LNG technology in Isko.  The gas network and regasification plant enabling  the project implementation were acquired from a  third-party company.  LNG tanks in Isko Objective II LNG supplies have been provided in Isko since  2010. Implementing the project with the tradi- tional method could be significantly hindered or  delayed due to the large distance from the gas dis- tribution network. In the area there are a number  of industrial customers who have expressed their  interest in natural gas supplies. The process of de- veloping a gas supply system in the town is still at  its initial stage. Gas consumption since the supply  start date has amounted to approximately 30,000  cubic metres.  163/ 207  10. New Business Areas  To make the project possible, Wielkopolska Spka  Gazownictwa WSG), in line with applicable provi- sions of the Polish Energy Law, obtained alicence  for liquefaction of natural gas and regasification of  LNG in LNG units, valid until December 30th 2030.  The company treats the project as a temporary  solution pending extension of the gas distribution  networks coverage and therefore, when the gas  distribution network reaches Isko, the regasifi- cation unit will be transferred to other location  within the WSGs operating area. Another Group company, Mazowiecka Spka Ga- zownictwa (MSG), also engages in projects involv- ing the use of LNG technology. In 2010, an LNG De- partment was established at MSGs Biaystok Gas  Distribution Division, to operate as a competence  centre for such projects. The projects will be pri- marily implemented in the Province of Biaystok,  which has the least developed distribution net- work within the MSGs operating area. In the Great Mazurian Lakes area, in the towns of  Pisz, Ek, Suwaki, and Olecko, Mazowiecka Spka  Gazownictwa operates independent local hydraulic  gas pipeline units fed with propane-butane gas  from local facilities. This area has no connection  to the gas transmission network and distribution  grid. Since 2009, MSG has been implementing an  investment project to provide high-methane gas  based on LNG technology to customers in Pisz,  which at present is supplied with propane-butane- air gas only. PGNiG finances the project, while a  unit of the Biaystok Gas Distribution Division acts  as substitute investor. In April 2010, the company  received a promise for a five-year licence for the  Pisz unit to carry out operations consisting in liq- uefaction of natural gas and regasification of LNG. In 2010, Mazowiecka Spka Gazownictwa com- menced preparations to erect LNG regasification  units in Biaystok, Suwaki, Misk Mazowiecki,  and Ostroka. Four other projects, scheduled for  2011-2014, were submitted for EU subsidy compe- tition under Measure 10.2 of the Operational Pro- gramme Infrastructure and Environment. The Carpathian Gas Trading Division in Tarnw  and Karpacka Spka Gazownictwa not only col- laborate in LNG market development in their op- erating areas, but also started cooperation with  the PGNiG Odolanw Branch, which prepared a  comprehensive offer for the supply of LNG and its  regasification. Karpacka Spka Gazownictwa also  prepared its own offer for transport and regasifi- cation of LNG. The Carpathian Gas Trading Division  and Karpacka Spka Gazownictwa will use LNG an  alternative solution to provide gas to new areas  before they are connected to the gas distribution  network. Objective II 164/ 207  10. New Business Areas  Summary  PGNiGs activities carried out as part of the sixth  strategic pillar: Seeking new business expansion  opportunities in line with the principle of sustain- able development include projects involving  significant financial outlays, such as the one in  Stalowa Wola, but also a range of activities seen  as investments, the companys input in shaping  the energy market in agreement with the princi- ples of sustainable development. A case in point is  our involvement in the promotion of CNG, which  is starting to bring results. CNG is coming to be  seen as the best solution for transport by users  and legislators alike. PGNiGs activities resulted in  our participation in the E-Mobil Cluster established  by the Warsaw University of Technology and the  Municipal Office of Warsaw. As part of this struc- ture, a team is being established to support envi- ronmentally friendly transport in the Capital City  of Warsaw. There are also other projects expected to bear  fruit in the future, in which PGNiG is involved  through its knowledge, experience, and intel- lectual capital of its employees. These include  international ventures such as the high-profile  SiteChar initiative, participation in the Ministry of  Economys working groups, as well as research ac- tivities of PGNiGs Central Measurement and Test- ing Laboratory in Warsaw. Concurrently, thanks  to innovative solutions such as the use of LNG,  PGNiG is already able to improve everyday life of  people living in various regions. Also, involvement  in the developing biogas market, besides being a  contribution to the promotion of alternative en- ergy sources, may help to solve social difficulties  in rural areas, especially in poorer regions of Po- land. All of those initiatives follow from the oper- ating philosophy adopted at PGNiG, based on the  ideas of sustainable development and responsible  business. In this section, two objectives have been present- ed, which are regarded as crucial for achieving the  strategic goal of Seeking new business expansion  opportunities in line with the principle of sustain- able development, as it was adopted in the July  2009 Strategy. An important theme that came to the fore in 2010  is unconventional gas exploration. It is an entirely  new kind of operation in Poland. PGNiG holds the  largest number of licences for unconventional gas  production, and was the first company in Poland  to perform exploratory drillings in July 2010. Ac- cordingly, we have also included information on  shale gas in this section. Objective II 165/ 207  10. New Business Areas  Commitments for the future Strategic pillar Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period Seeking new business  expansion opportunities in line  with the principle of sustainable  development Expanding the Companys business to  include power generation and trading Development of a new products, entering the electricity market with the dual- fuel offering (gas plus electricity) for small and medium-sized enterprises as well  as business customers Development and implementation of initiatives aimed at the gas market  deregulation, preparing PGNiG for market entry of new competitors in Poland  Development of gas-fired projects in cooperation with Polish and foreign  partners, using off-system gas to generate electricity in the modular  technology, offering power outsourcing services for the corporate sector Preparation of an incentive scheme for members of project teams,  improvement of the management of large investment and M&A projects, and  enhancement of research capabilities Development of competences in  environmentally friendly solutions  (storage of carbon dioxide, geothermal  energy, CNG, LNG) Complete assessment of the technical viability of natural gas combustion in  micro-CHP systems by the Central Measurement and Testing Laboratory  Further efforts aimed at promoting CNG among fleet customers (transport,  sewage disposal companies, etc), preparation of a comprehensive offer that will  increase CNG competitiveness, including development of a CNG-based product  which would be an all-inclusive solution for bus depots Continued collaboration with the Chamber of Natural Gas Industry to keep/ introduce systemic solutions supporting the development of the CNG market in  Poland (maintaining excise duty exemption or making excise duty introduction  conditional on reaching a prediefined CNG sales volume threshold), lobbying  activities, and fostering of social awareness Prepared by: Przemysaw Baciak, Magorzata  Baszczyska, Radosaw Galbarczyk, Marek  Hoffmann, Grayna Janicka, Monika Mielcarek,  Marta Malinowska, Dariusz Pastuszka, Emilia  Tomalska.  166/ 207  10. New Business Areas  10.1.  Unconventional  gas S h a l e  g as a nd ti ght g a s are  the  la test s o u rces o f unconve ntional  g a s.  Formations containing natural gas are present all  over the world, but only in the United States are  they used to extract gas on an industrial scale,  with shale gas production growing rapidly from  8.5 billion cubic metres in 1996 to 25 billion cubic  metres in 2006. In recent years, up to 4thousand  new wells have been drilled, which, despite the  costs (the estimated cost of an unconventional gas  well is approximately three times higher than in  the case of a conventional gas well), will provide  steady flow of gas for the next 30 years. At pre- sent, approximately 10% of gas produced in the  United States is unconventional gas. A growing interest in shale gas has been also ob- served in Poland. It is assumed that shale gas can  be found at depths ranging from 500 metres to 4  kilometres, within a sidelong belt stretching from  central Pomerania to the Lublin region, and within  the foreland of the Sudety Mountains. In recent  years the Ministry of Environment issued over 70  unconventional gas exploration licences to more  than 40 entities, of which PGNiG holds 20%, the  largest number in Poland. Moreover, PGNiG Group  companies perform seismic and drilling work con- tracted by foreign companies, which increases the  Groups revenues. The drilling companies – PNiG  Jaso, PNiG Krakw and PNiG Nafta Pia – made  substantial investments in modern drilling equip- ment that meets all requirements of the investors  and is environmentally friendly (may be electric  powered, produces less noise). At present, companies interested in unconven- tional gas are completing their analyses of archival  materials sourced from earlier geological drillings  carried out in Poland. Some of them have also per- formed additional seismic work and geochemical  surveys. At the end of 2010 and at the beginning  of 2011, a few companies carried out first drillings  for shale gas – the early data is promising. How- ever, it will take two to three years to appraise the  size of shale gas resources in Poland and to assess  the physical possibilities of its production. In 2010, PGNiG finished drilling the Markowola-1  borehole in the Province of Lublin. As analysis of  the geophysical data revealed possible tight gas  deposits, hydraulic fracturing procedure followed  in the borehole.  Shale is a low permeability formation and thus  requires fracturing to release the gas. Fracturing  creates secondary channels in the rock, which en- ables commercial gas production. Increasing shale  gas production to an industrial scale in the recent  years was made possible thanks to new technolo- gies which result in intensive fracturing around the  borehole. Gas boreholes in shale are often drilled  horizontally, with horizontal sections as long as  3km. It makes it possible to maximise the surface  167/ 207  10. New Business Areas  of drilled rock. Shale gas may be contained in the  rocks micropores or may be adsorbed in parti- cles of organic substances. In the first case, it is  released directly into created fractures, while in  the second case the adsorbed gas is released as  a result of lowering of the reservoir pressure that  follows the borehole drilling. The first borehole, Markowola-1, was classified as  dry and scheduled for abandonment, as the flow  of gas was found to be insufficient to commence  industrial-scale production. In March 2011, PGNiG  drilled the Lubocino-1 borehole in the vicinity of  Wejherowo in the north of Poland. Preliminary  data indicate the gas flow level is satisfactory.  PGNiG intends to spend PLN 100-200m on shale  gas exploration in Poland in 2011. For a dozen or so months shale gas has been an  issue widely covered in the media. Interestingly,  opinions have polarised and articles on shale gas  oscillate between extremities. There are enthu- siastic reports of gigantic shale gas deposits in  Poland, but also articles which may raise concern  among Poles. For instance, photographs depict- ing oil production from oil sands and the resulting  degradation of the environment were published in  the press as an example of areas where shale gas  is produced, which is not the true picture. Good  communication is therefore necessary, primarily  with the local communities in the areas of explo- ration. PGNiG has already taken steps to address  this problem, focussing on the inhabitants of those  areas where we are already carrying out shale gas  exploration activities or where such activities are  planned. A year after the first borehole was drilled  in Markowola, PGNiG held a special workshop that  was primarily aimed at educating the representa- tives of local governments and authorities of the  communes where shale gas exploration and pro- duction will be carried out. For more information  on this subject, please refer to the section devoted  to the environment. Building good relations with local communities  and care for the natural environment are the foun- dations of PGNiGs Sustainable Development and  Corporate Responsibility Strategy, but also princi- ples by which the company has always been act- ing in its operations. Whatever the final result of  shale gas exploration may be, it is worth to invest  in good communication and open dialogue. This is  the approach we will adopt this time as well. 168/ 207  10. New Business Areas  10.2.  Energy efficiency – a whim  or necessity? I n  August 2011, the  E ne rg y  Ef f icien c y  A c t ,  a d opt ed  b y  t h e  Sej m ( lowe r chambe r of  Polish Par lia men t ) in  A pr il 2 0 1 1 1,  ca m e  into force . Zof ia Grajwoda, a n  a d v is or  t o P GNiG s  Ma nag e me nt Board, spe aks about h ow  t h e A c t  ma y  a ffec t  en ergy consume rs and PGN iG and  h ow  t h e Compa n y  is  p rep aring  for this proce ss.  What is the Energy Efficiency Act about and why  was it adopted? Energy efficiency improvement is one of the three  objectives set out by the European Union to pro- tect the climate. The Energy Efficiency Act, passed  on April 15th 2011, implements Directive 2006/32/ EC of the European Parliament and of the Council  on energy end-use efficiency and energy services.  The purpose of the Directive is to oblige the EU  member states to optimise energy use and pro- mote innovative technologies, which minimise  the adverse environmental impact of the energy  sector. It also lays down the rules for preparing  energy efficiency audits and the procedures for  granting an energy efficiency auditor licence.  Under the Energy Efficiency Act, by 2016 the an- nual average final energy consumption in Poland,  i.e. energy used by end users for own purposes,  should fall by 9% relative to the annual average  consumption in 2001 – 2005. Zofia Grajwoda,  Management Boards advisor  169/ 207  10. New Business Areas  How can this be accomplished? Primarily through more rational and economical  energy use at every level, starting with energy  producers and sellers and finishing with end users.  Investment projects and schemes based on ener- gy-efficient solutions will be promoted. Although  the Act itself is aimed at reducing energy con- sumption by end users (approximately 80% of ef- ficiency improvement projects), it also provides for  modernisation projects to reduce energy require- ments of electricity and heat producers as well as  projects to minimise transmission and distribution  losses of network companies (transmitting or dis- tributing electricity, heat and natural gas).  In connection with the entry into force of the  Energy Efficiency Act, there has been some talk  about the obligation imposed on companies to  buy the so-called white certificates. Can you  explain that term?  White certificate is a popular term for energy ef- ficiency certificates. As the Act takes effect, every  company that sells natural gas, electricity or heat  to end users will have to obtain such certificates.  While the target set out by the Act – i.e. energy  savings of 9% – applies to every form of energy  used by end users, i.e. solid fuels, diesel fuels, fuel  oils, gasoline, electricity, heat and gas, the obliga- tion to purchase the certificates and submit them  to the President of URE for redemption is placed  only on the companies referred to above that sell  energy carriers via networks (electricity, heat and  natural gas). These companies will be required to obtain a  specific number of certificates depending on their  energy sales volumes. White certificates may be  obtained for the implementation of projects that  will yield energy savings for end users or reduce  own energy requirements of the companies, thus  indirectly enhancing the efficiency of electricity  and heat generation and reducing losses associ- ated with the transmission and distribution of  electricity, heat and gas. A detailed list of energy-saving measures is to be  published, and a procedure for determining the  number of white certificates to be obtained by the  above companies every year will be established by  way of a regulation of the Minister of Economy. Companies holding white certificates will sub- mit them to the President of URE, who will then  redeem them in accordance with the applicable  procedure. A company that fails to obtain the  required number of certificates will have to pay a  substitute fee, and should it default on its obliga- tions – a fine. These payments will be made to the  National Fund for Environmental Protection and  Water Management and allocated for financing of  efficiency improvement initiatives, as well as de- velopment of cogeneration or renewable energy  sources. If a company does not obtain white certificates  from its customers, it may purchase them on a  power exchange. This process is analogous with the procedure  already in place for the green certificates issued  for energy generated using renewable energy  sources, and the red ones for cogeneration, i.e.  production of heat and electricity in the most ef- ficient way. 170/ 207  10. New Business Areas  What does the new legislation mean for PGNiG? We will certainly have to address two issues.  Firstly, the consumption of gas by end users will  decline, driven by energy efficiency measures.  Iestimate that it might decrease by approximately  0.84 billion cubic metres by 2016, which will in  turn bring down our revenues. It should be noted,  however, that gas consumption is already highly  efficient nowadays, so potential energy savings  for end users are slim. The Act provides for the  execution of energy efficiency projects where  energy savings are measured relative to primary  energy with a view to generating biggest savings  (more than 10 tonnes per year) at the lowest cost.  This involves some risk that energy savings will  be achieved using energy carriers other than gas,  which are used and converted from primary en- ergy with a lower efficiency. Secondly, we will have to bear the costs of pur- chasing white certificates. It is estimated that they  will not exceed 3% of a companys annual rev- enue, which in our case amounts to PLN 330m a  year.  In one of the publications in Przegld Gazown- iczy, a magazine of the Chamber of Natural Gas  Industry, it has been said straight out that the  Energy Efficiency Act is detrimental to the gas  sector (Problematic Energy Efficiency Act,  Przegld Gazowniczy No. 2, June 2011) It is true that the Act imposes unequal obligations  on sellers of various energy carriers to the disad- vantage of the gas industry. This is a subject for another discussion, but I will  briefly present some reasons supporting this  statement, such as, for example, the already men- tioned white certificates. The requirement to hold  such certificates applies exclusively on the opera- tors selling electricity, natural gas and heat. It does  not apply to other energy carriers, such as solid  fuels (coal, coke) or petroleum-derived liquid fuels  (gasoline, diesel oil and fuel oil), while the energy  saving target of 9% has been set for all energy  carriers. Another argument for the unequal treatment of  different energy producers is that under the Act  large and energy-intensive customers of electricity  producers may account for the effects of energy- saving modernisation projects in their settlements  relating to the white certificates. Unfortunately,  this benefit is not available to large, energy-in- tensive consumers of natural gas. As you can see,  the electricity generation sector is clearly at an  advantage. Still, we have to prepare ourselves for the im- plementation of the Act. How is PGNiG doing  that? Implementation of the Energy Efficiency Act is part  of the Sustainable Development and Responsible  Business Strategy, adopted by the PGNiG Group in  July 2009. In response to the measures introduced  under the Act, the Management Board adopted  certain objectives. Each of the six strategic pillars  of our CSR strategy provides for tasks and op- erational goals to implement the national energy  efficiency plan. 171/ 207  10. New Business Areas  The implementation of the Energy Efficiency Act in  the PGNiG Group will be a dual-track process:   We will introduce measures to enhance energy  efficiency at our Company, primarily through  fuel and energy savings and lower gas distri- bution losses.   Similar steps will be taken for our customers,  mainly in the form of co-financing of energy  efficiency projects aimed at reducing energy  consumption by end users. How will it work in practice? Energy efficiency schemes within the Group will  involve mainly:   planning renovations and modernisations of  buildings so that they include measures to re- duce energy requirement, for instance through  limiting emissions or recovering energy from  gas decompression,   reducing losses and fuel consumption in distri- bution and storage,   thermal efficiency improvement projects at gas  facilities and replacement of equipment with  more efficient machinery.  Another important issue is the adoption of energy  efficiency as a criterion in public tenders for the  execution of investment projects and procure- ment. A genuine innovation is the planned intro- duction of the job of a certified energy efficiency  auditor at our Company.  PGNiG is also involved in the promotion of gas  pressure energy and energy contained in the res- ervoir fluid as energy recoverable during industrial  processes, support for the construction of biogas  plants, research into energy-efficient technologies,  etc., all aiming to reduce the demand for primary  energy. What about the measures for customers? Our role will primarily involve encouraging cus- tomers to employ energy-saving solutions using  gaseous fuel. On the other hand, we will have  to search for new business opportunities for our  Group, that is develop new services related to  energy efficiency improvement. We are faced then with the task of preparing an  attractive energy efficiency offer, sale and related  advisory services. To that end, PGNiG has prepared  a range of trainings for our key customers con- sultants, to educate them on how to present the  advantages of energy-saving gas-fired solutions  and then encourage the customer to use them.  In light of the on-going liberalisation of the gas  market, such initiatives are indispensable for the  Group not only to keep its leading market position,  but also to prevent the loss of its market share to  Polish and foreign competitors, offering products  based on natural gas or other energy carriers. We  should bear in mind that in a few years time it will  be a completely different market. The sooner we  proactively prepare for such changes, the better. 172/ 207  10. New Business Areas  As far as exploring new business areas is con- cerned, in my opinion it will be crucial that PGNiG  takes part in co-financing of energy-efficiency  modernisation projects for major customers not  only from the industrial but also the public ad- ministration sector, since, in accordance with the  Energy Efficiency Act, the public sector is equally  obliged to ensure energy efficiency. That is why  we should, as soon as possible, start cooperat- ing with local authorities on projects designed to  improve energy efficiency in particular munici- palities and communes. In the case of this group  of customers, it will be important to co-finance  investment projects related to energy efficiency  improvement and offer consultancy on environ- mental protection, especially in the areas which  are planned to be connected to the gas transmis- sion network. To that end, we may leverage the  potential of the Groups construction companies  and extend the range of their services to include  upgrade of gas customers installations, as well as  construction of modern buildings based on ener- gy-efficient technologies and facilities for com- bined heat, cold and power production, including  those relying on natural energy contained in un- derground reservoirs.  And the last, but certainly not least important of  our tasks, is PGNiGs involvement in legal matters.  I believe that as one of the largest actors on the  Polish energy market, we should actively partici- pate in legislative work on the Energy Efficiency  Act, including the secondary regulations, and also  engage in the process of issuing opinions on the  new EU directive on the subject, taking into ac- count the specificity of the Polish energy market,  and on projects designed to bring the national  legislation in line with the changing EU regula- tions. We should also work towards establishing  mechanisms of cooperation with customers that  implement modernisation projects as well as the  methods of measuring energy savings produced  by projects already carried out by the customers. As you can see, PGNiG is getting ready to fulfil  the obligations imposed by the Energy Efficiency  Act by taking efforts that address the issue com- prehensively and go beyond the scope of the  requirements. Thank you  Interviewer: Anna Jarosz, PGNiG 1) Bill – April 15th 2011. (Dz. U. 94 poz.551) 173/ 207  10. New Business Areas  11. Awards and distinctions Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds PGNiG Odolanw  Branch  Employer –  Safe Workplace  Provider– Main  Award General Labour Inspector The Branch was nominated for the Main Award by the Board of the Contest,  appointed by the General Labour Inspector and composed of experts of the  State Labour Inspection Authority, as well as representatives of employers  organisations: Business Centre Club, Employers of Poland, Polish Confederation  of Private Employers Lewiatan (PKPP Lewiatan) and the Polish Craft Association. PGNiG Sanok Branch Investor in Human  Capital Management Observatory  Foundation Award presented to companies which are actively involved in their employees  development and in the proper operation of their human resources  management systems. PGNiG Sanok Branch Certificate of  Distinction The Board of Students  of the University of  Agriculture in Krakw Certificate of Distinction for active involvement and support of screw cap  collection. Apro-environmental action. PGNiG Sanok Branch Patron Parnas  Statuette Culture Development  Foundation of the Province  of Rzeszw Award presented for the support of musical education of the youth and equal- opportunity action targeted at young people from small towns of the Carpathian  Euroregion. PGNiG Zielona Gra  Branch 2010 Business  Award of the Mayor  of Zielona Gra Mayor of Zielona Gra The Branch ranked first in the Community Friendly Company category. The  award is granted to companies whose efforts significantly contribute to the  development of the city. PGNiG Upper Silesian  Gas Trading Division in  Zabrze  Media Diamond  Leaf Study and Programme  Centre for the Press,  Radio and Television  Warsaw-Katowice-Krakw The 2010 Media Diamond Leaf was awarded to the Division by the Board  of the Poland in Europe – Europe in Poland Programme for the successful  implementation of sustainable development and corporate social responsibility  strategy, which combines the objectives of a business with social and  environmental objectives. The award also reflects the Divisions exemplary  cooperation with nationwide and local media. Awards and distinctions received by PGNiGs entities in the reporting period (from January 2010 to December 2010). 174/ 207  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds PGNiG Carpathian Gas  Trading Division – Jaso  Gas Sales Unit Acknowledgments,  certificates,  statuettes Schools, kindergartens,  Youth Culture Centre,  Culture Centre of Jaso,  foundations, organisations  supported by the Jaso Gas  Sales Unit etc. Acknowledgements for assistance, generosity, and involvement in various  cultural, sports and social events. PGNiG Carpathian Gas  Trading Division – Jaso  Gas Sales Unit Medal, cup and  certificate Jasielski Klub Sportowy  Czarni 1910 Jaso (a sports  club) For the support of the Clubs day-to-day activities, and involvement in the  celebration of the Clubs 100th Anniversary. The awards were presented at  the Gala held at the Culture Centre of Jaso with the participation of the local  government representatives, invited members of the Sejm and Senate (the lower  and the upper chamber of Polish Parliament), as well as representatives of the  governing bodies of the Polish Football Association (including its President). PGNiG Carpathian Gas  Trading Division –  Krakw Gas Sales Unit Chopin Year  Sponsor The Karol Szymanowski  Philharmonic of Krakw For the support of all activities conducted by the Karol Szymanowski  Philharmonic of Krakw in 2010. PGNiG is one of the few long-term patrons  of the institution. The statuettes awarded by the Philharmonics Management  are tokens of gratitude, emphasising the importance of cooperation with the  Krakw Gas Sales Unit. PGNiG Carpathian Gas  Trading Division –  Krakw Gas Sales Unit Friend of the  Enchanted Birdie Against the Odds  Foundation The Statuette presented by the Against the Odds Foundation is to express the  Foundations gratitude for the Krakw Gas Sales Units cooperation in 2010,  including in particular the support of the Enchanted Song Festival, and the  planned broadening of the cooperation in 2011. The award was presented by  the Board of the Anna Dymna Against the Odds Foundation and the Programme  Board of the Enchanted Song Festival. PGNiG Carpathian Gas  Trading Division –  Rzeszw Gas Sales Unit Medal on the  occasion of the  20th Anniversary  of the Chamber  of Industry and  Commerce in  Rzeszw The Chamber of Industry  and Commerce in Rzeszw The Medal was awarded for many years cooperation with the Chamber and  support of its operations. 175/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds PGNiG Carpathian Gas  Trading Division –  Sandomierz Gas Sales  Unit Special  acknowledgements Professor Marian Zembala,  MD, Chairman of the  Scientific Committee at the  Ministry of Health, Director  of the Silesian Centre for  Heart Diseases of Zabrze Acknowledgements for the support of a campaign promoting the idea of  transplants, carried out by the Silesian Centre for Heart Diseases of Zabrze, and  for the assistance to the Zabrze Section of the Heart Transplant Association. PGNiG Carpathian Gas  Trading Division –  Sandomierz Gas Sales  Unit Special  acknowledgements Jzef Kotarski, President of  the Its Good that You Are  Here (Dobrze, e jeste)  Association Acknowledgements for the financial assistance to the Castle without Barriers  project, under which PGNiG co-financed the purchase of equipment supporting  the blind in moving around facilities and familiarising themselves with the  exhibitions of Sandomierz museums and collections of the towns libraries. PGNiG Carpathian Gas  Trading Division –  Sandomierz Gas Sales  Unit Distinction in the  Patron of Culture  category The Award Board  appointed by the Mayor of  Zamo Acknowledgements for the support of cultural events in 2010. In 2008, the  PGNiG Sandomierz Gas Sales Unit was awarded a statuette in the Patron of  Culture category. Despite being again nominated in 2009 and 2010, the Unit  received a distinction only, in accordance with the Rules of the Award. PGNiG Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division–  Bydgoszcz Gas Sales  Unit Certificate of  Distinction The Contest Committee of  the Track&Bus Show Poland  2010 Fair and the Mayor of  Bydgoszcz Certificate of Distinction for professionally prepared Fair exhibition and  promotion of compressed natural gas in the Bydgoszcz region, as well as for the  support in the event preparation. PGNiG Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division–  Bydgoszcz Gas Sales  Unit Special Award The Contest Committee of  the 8th AUTOSHOW 2010  Automotive Fair Special Award for the innovative product offering and promotion of new  technological solutions. PGNiG Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division–  Bydgoszcz Gas Sales  Unit Congratulatory  letter Environmental Education  Centre of the Province of  Bydgoszcz Congratulations and acknowledgements for the cooperation on and involvement  in the promotion of environmental education. PGNiG Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division–  Bydgoszcz Gas Sales  Unit Certificate The SUE RYDER Association  of Bydgoszcz Certificate for many years cooperation in the support of the annual charitable  concert promoting the idea of palliative and hospice care.  176/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds PGNiG Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division –  Gdask Gas Sales Unit The Pomeranian  Eagle Statuette Edytor Press Publishing  House Participation in the 7th Pomeranian Eagle Poll organised by the publisher of the  Tygodnik Wieczr weekly. The poll is organised under the auspices of the Gdask  Provincial Governor and the Speaker of the Gdask Provincial Assembly. It is  designed to award individuals and companies with outstanding achievements in  the field of business, culture, social initiatives, scientific research or sports. PGNiG Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division –  Olsztyn Gas Sales Unit Environment- Friendly Angel  Statuette Province Fund for  Environmental Protection Being a seller of environment-friendly energy carrier, the company is actively  involved in environmental protection. The Eco-Team Programme (Program  Ekozespow) responds to the expectations of children who would like to actively  express their care for the environment. This campaign promoting environment- friendly lifestyles among school pupils enjoys enormous interest and encourages  a growing number of people to get involved. Thus the project has become a  fixed feature in the calendar of events of companies, educational institutions  and local governments of the Province of Olsztyn. Since 2000, the number of  participants in the Eco-Team Programme has increased tenfold. In 2010, over  10,000 children and teenagers participated. PGNiG Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division –  Olsztyn Gas Sales Unit Distinction granted  by the Mayor of  Olsztyn Municipal Office of Olsztyn Distinction granted for the support of the Safe Olsztyn Programme. The initiative  comprises year-round actions of the Municipal Office in the field of broadly- meant safety of inhabitants of Olsztyn. The Olsztyn Gas Sales Unit joined the  Programme several years ago, promoting natural gas as a safe source of energy. 177/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds PGNiG Pomeranian  Gas Trading Division –  Olsztyn Gas Sales Unit Acknowledgements The Partnership for the  Environment Foundation Acknowledgements for the support of the 9th Countrywide Schools for  Environment-Friendly Development Conference. The conference, held on an  annual basis, serves as the venue for summarising the international Green  Flag Programme promoting environmental protection. The Green Flag is a  title awarded to schools all over the world under the Eco-Schools Programme  (www.eco-schools.org), organised since 1994 and joined by around 15,000  schools from 43 countries of Europe, as well as Africa, South America, Asia and  Pacific. To date, nearly 4,500 schools have been awarded Green Flags. The Eco- Schools Programme is based on the Environmental Management Systems (EMAS,  ISO 14001) designed to improve the environmental awareness among school  pupils through actions promoting effective use of energy and commodities  and sustainable waste management (including recycling) at schools and around  them. Grnolska Spka  Gazownictwa (GSG) Golden Laurels  for Skill and  Competence in the  Socially Responsible  Company category The Regional Chamber of  Commerce in Katowice GSG was awarded for embracing both business objectives and social needs in its  operations, sharing its resources with its environment and the local and regional  communities, guaranteeing fair work conditions for its employees, promoting  employees development and education, enabling the employees to reach a balance  between work and private life, promoting equal opportunities, as well as including  environmental aspects in its operations, for instance through environmental  protection investment projects, education, renewable natural resources, etc.  The award is all the more valuable as it was granted in a public poll held among  inhabitants of the region and members of the Regional Chamber of Commerce in  Katowice, who gave the top grade to the companys CSR initiatives. Grnolska Spka  Gazownictwa (GSG) Pearl of the Polish  Economy Institute of Economic  Sciences of the Polish  Academy of Sciences  and the publishing house  Oficyna Wydawnicza Rynek  Polski Sp. z o.o. GSG was distinguished in the ranking of Polish companies and granted the Pearl  of the Polish Economy title in the Large Pearls category. The ranking comprises  companies reporting total annual revenues of at least PLN100 million (Large  Pearls) or PLN1 billion (Great Pearls). The assessed companies must also meet  a predefined minimum value on a number of criteria set by the Institute of  Economic Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences, such as: revenue growth  dynamics, sales profitability, debt servicing, gross ROA, net ROE, work efficiency,  and total factor productivity. 178/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds Grnolska Spka  Gazownictwa (GSG) Fair Play 2010  Company Certificate Institute for Private  Enterprise and Democracy  and National Chamber of  Commerce GSG ranked among top companies and, in addition to being awarded the  Certificate, was nominated for the Fair Play 2010 Company Statuette. The  Certificate confirms that in its operations GSG successfully combines ethical and  environmental aspects of business with efficiency, while maintaining openness  and transparency of operations and reliability with respect to its stakeholders,  that is customers, business partners and employees, in line with the sustainable  development principles. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa– Jaso  Gas Distribution  Division– Nowy Scz  Gas Distribution Region  Man of the Year  title for Celestyn  eliszewski Gazeta Krakowska daily The title was awarded by readers of Gazeta Krakowska for Mr Celestyn  eliszewskis selfless help: in May 2010 Mr eliszewski risked his own life to save  two young people from car fire. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa  Man of the Year  title for Bogdan  Pastuszko Gazeta Krakowska daily The title was awarded by readers of Gazeta Krakowska for financial support of  cultural, sports and educational projects in the region. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa  Golden Engineer  2010 Editorial team of the  Przegld Techniczny weekly  and Polish Federation of  Engineering Associations  NOT The title in the Management category was awarded by readers of Przegld  Techniczny to Mr Bogdan Pastuszko, President of the Management Board. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa  Amicus Minorum  title The Assistance to the  Disabled Foundation of  Stre The Amicus Minorum title was awarded for assistance to disabled children. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa–  Sandomierz Gas  Distribution Division  Amber Bow of the  Amazons The Federation of the  Amazons Associations Award for regular support of the foundation taking care of post-mastectomy  patients. 179/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa– Tarnw  Gas Distribution  Division Rose of the Polish  Red Cross The Polish Red Cross –  Tarnw Branch Distinction for active involvement in humanitarian help to others. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa (KSG) Pearl of the Polish  Economy Institute of Economic  Sciences of the Polish  Academy of Sciences  and the publishing house  Oficyna Wydawnicza Rynek  Polski Sp. z o.o. Certificate confirming KSGs position among the largest and most effective Polish  companies. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa (KSG) Golden Idea The Science and Health  Foundation The title of Company Financing Polish Science. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa (KSG) Quality of the Year Polskie Centrum Bada  iCertyfikacji S.A. (Polish  Centre for Testing and  Certification) and the  editorial team of Biznes  Raport Quality of the Year is a countrywide project designed to support, develop and  promote quality-oriented approach to business among companies; KSG was  awarded the title for the implementation of ISO certificates in 2009. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa–  Rzeszw Gas  Distribution Division Museum Friend Regional Museum of  Rzeszw The Museum Friend title was awarded for regular support of the Museums  operations. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa– Lublin  Gas Distribution  Division Golden Chestnut Mayor of Lublin Award for a long-standing support to Save the Chestnut Trees in Lublin initiative. 180/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa– Tarnw  Gas Distribution  Division Better Tomorrow Their Better Tomorrow  Association Award for many years involvement in assistance to the disabled. The Division  has offered help to the Association for a long time, helping it organise trips and  picnics for the disabled, and supporting day-to-day operations of the day care  centre and occupational therapy workshops. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa (KSG) Mother at Work  Distinction Rzeczpospolita daily, Santa  Claus Foundation In the 3rd edition of this contest, KSG competed against 117 large and small  companies for the title of an Exceptionally Mother-Friendly Company. KSG was  awarded a distinction for being well above the average, exceptional. Karpacka Spka  Gazownictwa–  Jarosaw Gas  Distribution Division Patron of the  Cultural Centre Cultural Centre of Przemyl Title awarded in recognition of a long-standing support for the Centres art  initiatives. Mazowiecka Spka  Gazownictwa  Workplace Safety  Leaders Golden  Card  Central Institute for Labour  Protection – National  Research Institute Workplace Safety Leaders Golden Card is awarded to employers who apply  modern science and technology to promote knowledge about occupational  health and safety and strive to adjust workplace conditions to the standards of  the European Union. Mazowiecka Spka  Gazownictwa  Staff-Friendly  Employer NFZZ Solidarno NSZZ Solidarno awards certificates for the observance of labour law, in  particular the employees right to form trade unions. Employers who entered  the competition had to prove that their actions are in line with the values  endorsed by NFZZ Solidarno, such as: permanent employment, observance  of labour laws and standards, and the obligation to protect employees right to  represent their interests. The certificate is valid for three years.  Mazowiecka Spka  Gazownictwa  Education-Friendly  Partner d Centre for the  Development of Vocational  Teachers Award presented in recognition of the companys involvement in the life of the  Gas Industry Vocational School forming part of Vocational School Complex No. 3  of d. Mazowiecka Spka  Gazownictwa  CSR PARTNER of the  Satoris Foundation Satoris Foundation for  Active Philanthropy Award for supporting projects contributing to the resolution of crucial social  issues in Poland. Pomorska Spka  Gazownictwa  2010 Patron of  Sports in Gdask  Mayor of Gdask The company received this award for supporting local sporting activities in 2010. 181/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds Pomorska Spka  Gazownictwa (PSG) 2010 Best Employer  in the Province of  Gdask Employers of the Province  of Gdask The company was awarded the title of 2010 Best Employer in the Province  of Gdask in the Large Employer category as part of a contest organised by  Employers of the Province of Gdask. Adam Kielak, CEO of PSG, received the  award from Roman Zaborowski, Governor of the Province of Gdask, during an  official gala at the Artus Court in Gdask. Wielkoposlka Spka  Gazownictwa (WSG) Hipolit Statuette  and the right to  use a registered  logo The Best in  Poland Hipolit Cegielski Society,  Pozna Province  Association of Trade and  Services, Radio Merkury,  Merkuriusz Polska monthly,  TVP S.A. of Pozna,  EuroPartner The Best in Poland Consumer Contest of Service Quality is one of the oldest  contests aimed at the promotion of companies, institutions and services. It  has been held since 2000. In 2010, WSG was listed among the best European  companies that offer their services in Poland. The company was awarded a  certificate which grants it the right to use the Best in Poland logo until 2013.  Geofizyka Toru  Quality of the Year  2010 in the Services  category  Polskie Centrum Bada  iCertyfikacji S.A. (Polish  Centre for Testing and  Certification), Biznes  Raport monthly, Agencja  Kreatywna Public PR The distinction is awarded every year by Polskie Centrum Bada  iCertyfikacjiS.A., editorial team of Biznes Raport monthly, and Agencja  Kreatywna Public PR. Geofizyka Toru was recognised for its care for the top  quality of service in acquiring, processing and interpreting seismic data, which  is reflected in the management procedures adopted by the company, including  operational planning, management and supervision, as well as incentivising  employees. The management elements applied by the company are also  confirmed by the quality policy and ISO Certificates.  PNiG Jaso 2010 Forbes  Diamond Forbes magazine The Forbes Diamonds is a ranking of Polish companies whose value is growing  at the fastest pace. The ranking, prepared by the Forbes monthly in cooperation  with Dun & Bradstreet, is published based on a Swiss business valuation  methodology, which takes into account both financial performance and value  of the companies assets, and enables corporate potential measurement  considering the value of capital expenditure and potential for sales revenue and  profit growth. PNiG was listed among large companies (revenue exceeding PLN  250m), where it took a respectable second place in the Province of Rzeszw and  ranked 49th nationwide. 182/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds PNiG Jaso 2010 Reliable  Employer of the  Year (Nominated) Rzecz o Biznesie–  supplement to  Rzeczpospolita daily The purpose of this competition is to select best employers in Poland, especially  from among companies that apply new and interesting HR solutions. The  programme was created to identify, award and promote companies with  exemplary HR policies, which translate into superior quality of products and  services on the demanding domestic market. With the general notion of  employment reliability at its centre, the selection criteria also included work  conditions, salaries paid in a timely manner, social conditions, career paths,  internal and external opinions about the company, and employment growth rate  in recent years. Rzeczpospolita, Employers of Poland, and the Polish Agency for  Enterprise Development are partners of this competition.  Poszukiwania Nafty  iGazu Forbes Diamond Forbes magazine The title was awarded to PNiG in the category of companies of the Province of  Krakw with revenues exceeding PLN 250m. Poszukiwania Nafty  iGazu Krakw Pearl of the Polish  Economy (Large  Pearl) Editorial team of the  Polish Market monthly  and Institute of Economic  Sciences of the Polish  Academy of Sciences  For consistent implementation of the companys policy and strategy, and leading  position among the most dynamic and effective enterprises in Poland.  Poszukiwania Nafty i  Gazu Krakw Sp. z o.o. Oil & Gas Industry  Awards 2010 World Finance  For the best drilling and contractor company. PNiG NAFTA European Crown Board of the Poland in  Europe – Europe in Poland  Media Programme (related  with the Rzeczpospolita  daily) Award presented for the consistent technological development and preserving  the sound business and financial condition of the company in the dynamically  changing environment (including maintenance of own technical facilities). The  company was also appreciated for its support and cooperation programme  for training of upper- and mid-level technical staff, which is as a paradigm  example of combining business and CSR, and promotion of Poland and Pia  among various cultural and business communities on three continents. European  Crown is a token of recognition for fostering the learning organisation culture  at the company, whose operations are founded on knowledge and safe work  conditions and which is environmentally friendly.  183/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds PNiG NAFTA HIT 2010  The Board composed of  county governors of the  Province of Pozna and  other professionals related  to the economy and local  government of the region  Award for performing drilling work, granted to operators carrying out  unconventional gas exploration projects in Poland. PNiG NAFTA Achievers The Tygodnik Pilski weekly The Companys President has been included in the group of Achievers by  Tygodnik Pilski. It was yet another time the journalists of Tygodnik Pilski,  Chodzieanin, and Gos Wielkopolski, belonging to the Polskapress publishing  group, identified and distinguished individuals, companies, and projects  contributing to the development of local communities.  PNiG NAFTA Siriuses 2011 Piotr Gowski, Mayor of Pia Award in recognition of PNiG NAFTA Sp. z o.o.s consistent establishing of the  companys brand in the Polish and global drilling market. The message of the  award: per aspera ad astra (to the stars through difficulties), perfectly reflects  the entire 55-year-old history of the companys operations.  PNiG NAFTA Quality of the Year  2010 Polskie Centrum Bada  iCertyfikacji S.A. (Polish  Centre for Testing and  Certification) and the  editorial team of Biznes  Raport The company won the 5th edition of the largest quality-promoting contest  in Poland, and received the Quality of the Year 2010 award in the Services  category. The main selection criterion was the companys approach to quality  management, which included the quality systems in place at the company,  high standards assumed in the companys mission, as well as the company  employees involvement in systematic quality improvement.  Poszukiwania Naftowe  Diament Community- Friendly Company,  Business Award  of the Mayor of  Zielona Gra Mayor of Zielona Gra Award presented to the company for its contribution to the life and  development of Zielona Gra.  184/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds ZRG Krosno First place in the  regional contest:  Employer – Safe  Workplace Provider,  in the category of  Large Companies  (in excess of 251  employees)  State Labour Inspection  Authority, Regional Labour  Inspectorate in Rzeszw For meeting the contest criteria set by the State Labour Inspection Authority. ZRG Krosno Distinction in the  nationwide contest:  Employer – Safe  Workplace Provider State Labour Inspection  Authority, Main Labour  Inspectorate as above BUG GAZOBUDOWA Golden honorary  medal For the  Merits for the  Province of  Katowice  Chairman of the Katowice  Provincial Assembly Celebrations of the companys 60th anniversary. Appreciation of the companys  contribution to the development of the region.  BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Inwestor wKapita  Luda Investor in  Human Capital Management Observatory  Foundation Joint initiative of the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs and the Management  Observatory Foundation. Investor in Human Capital is a nationwide certification  scheme intended for companies which actively support their employees  development and proper operation of the human resources management  system. Participation in the scheme enables an analysis and comparison of  the companys results against market standards of broadly understood HR  policy. Distinctions are awarded to the companies whose care for employees  development exceeds the standards. The award process was supervised by the  Board of the Scheme, composed of representatives of academic communities,  research companies, training and consulting companies, as well as independent  experts dealing with HR management issues in practice.  185/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Best Designing  Company in Poland  in 1990–2010  The Chamber of  Construction Designing The evaluation criteria included a wide range of aspects, such as the companys  achievements and reputation (credentials, recommendations, and distinctions),  its organisation and management systems, HR policy achievements, active  participation in professional and commercial organisations, range and quality  of insurance used, and financial results. Based on those criteria, the Board of  the contest selected companies to be awarded the title of the Best Designing  Company in Poland in 1990–2010.  BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Best Design  Manager of  1990–2010 The Chamber of  Construction Designing Award granted to Adam Matkowski, CEOs Proxy – Adviser to the Management  Board BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT 2010 Best  Engineering Design  The Chamber of  Construction Designing Title awarded to two designs prepared by GAZOPROJEKT: 1) Upgrade of the GT10B+50P4 Compressor at the Hoowczyce Gas Compressor  Station 2) Education, Tourism and Sports Centre, along with a Youth Hostel in Kronice The criteria were innovativeness, originality and optimised design solutions. BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Lower Silesia  Business Certificate The Krzyowa Foundation  for Mutual Understanding  in Europe and the Board of  the Province of Wrocaw The purpose of the programme is to award those companies from Lower Silesia  which meet ethics and fair competition requirements and boast sound financial  performance and stable employment. The Board of the Programme, led by  the Speaker of the Wrocaw Provincial Assembly and acting under the auspices  of the Governor of the Province of Wrocaw, pays particular attention to the  companies financial position, steady improvement of work efficiency, and  innovation investments. According to the Programme organisers, the company  awarded the certificate must contribute significantly to the development of the  region and the labour market, and stand out in terms of quality, innovation and  modern approach to business.  186/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  Company name Awards and  distinctions  received Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT White List – Silver  Certificate  Wrocaw Chamber of  Commerce The programme promotes reliable companies. The certificate is granted upon  the completion of a review process, which is to demonstrate the companys  excellent conduct in its relations with customers, business partners and other  institutions it deals with in its operations. The review results are available for  inspection and the company is listed at www.bialalista.pl BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT 2010 Business  Gazelle The Puls Biznesu daily The listing of the most robust and reliable small and medium-sized enterprises  is prepared under the patronage of the Puls Biznesu daily and the honorary  patronage of the Ministry of Economy. Material advantages of the ranking are  its transparency and clear rules, based directly on the companies financial  results. In the nationwide listing, GAZOPROJEKT was ranked 256th (3,500 titles  were awarded in total). An equally good position was secured by the company  in the provincial ranking, in which it came 20th out of 285 distinguished  companies.  BN Naftomonta  Reliable Company Business and Consumer  Programme Reliable  Company From its launch in 2002, the programme has been supporting and promoting  reliable companies by making their evaluation and creating a database of  trustworthy enterprises. The programme refers to HR management and has  been developed to identify, award and promote businesses characterised by  exemplary HR policies, reflected in the high quality of products and services in  the demanding Polish market.  ZUN Naftomet 2009 Business  Gazelle The Puls Biznesu daily Naftomet was included among the most dynamically developing companies  awarded with the title. The companys position in the ranking was determined  based on the percentage growth of its turnover achieved over three consecutive  years. 187/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions  12. Coordinators Sustainable Development  and Corporate Social  Responsibility Coordinators  at the PGNiG Group PGNiG Head Office, Management Boards Proxy  for Sustainable Development and Corporate  Social Responsibility Strategy Marzena Strzelczak marzena.strzelczak@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22 691 82 01 PGNiG Head Office, Sustainable Development and  Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy  Coordinator Katarzyna Mrz katarzyna.mroz@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22 691 82 11 PGNiG Head Office, Lead Specialist for Ecological  Communication Jakub Siewko jakub.siewko@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22 691 84 06 Centralne Laboratorium Pomiarowo-Badawcze (Central  Measuring and Research Laboratory), PGNiG Branch Dariusz Pastuszka dariusz.pastuszka@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 609742736 PGNiG, Odolanw Branch Katarzyna Choast katarzyna.cholast@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 62 736 44 41 ext. 260 Operator Systemu Magazynowania (Storage System  Operator), PGNiG Branch  Radosaw Galbarczyk radoslaw.galbarczyk@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22 691 80 49 PGNiG, Sanok Branch  Ewa Krl Ewa.Krol@sanok.pgnig.pl Tel. +48 13 465 23 90 PGNiG, Zielona Gra Branch Ewa Biaows ewa.bialowas@zgora.pgnig.pl Tel. +48 68 329 16 28 188/ 207  PGNiG Trading Divisions Lower Silesian Gas Trading Division Wabrzych Gas Sales Unit  Wojciech Tymiak wojciech.tymiak@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 74 842 71 20 Lower Silesian Gas Trading Division Wrocaw Gas Sales Unit Anna Pomaraska anna.pomaranska@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 71 364 95 53 Lower Silesian Gas Trading Division Zgorzelec Gas Sales Unit Magorzata Bartos malgorzata.bartos@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 75 772 23 35 Upper Silesian Gas Trading Division Opole Gas Sales Unit Monika Kociw monika.kosciow@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 77 443 51 23 Upper Silesian Gas Trading Division  Zabrze Gas Sales Unit Jolanta Matusek jolanta.matusek@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 32 373 53 31 Carpathian Gas Trading Division  Jarosaw Gas Sales Unit Marcin Grzba marcin.grzaba@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 16 624 52 83 Carpathian Gas Trading Division  Jaso Gas Sales Unit Anna Przywara anna.przywara@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 13 443 73 63 Carpathian Gas Trading Division  Kielce Gas Sales Unit Piotr Sobieraj piotr.sobieraj@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 41 349 34 20 189/ 207 12.  Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social  Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group  Carpathian Gas Trading Division  Krakw Gas Sales Unit Bogusaw Kurowski boguslaw.kurowski@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 12 628 12 82 Carpathian Gas Trading Division  Lublin Gas Sales Unit Pawe Staniszewski pawel.staniszewski@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 81 445 21 62 Carpathian Gas Trading Division  Rzeszw Gas Sales Unit Wojciech Janas wojciech.janas@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 17 875 03 00 Carpathian Gas Trading Division  Sandomierz Gas Sales Unit Krzysztof Motya krzysztof.motyla@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 15 833 62 40 Carpathian Gas Trading Division Tarnw Gas Sales Unit Magdalena Legawiec magdalena.legawiec@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 14 632 38 80 Mazovian Gas Trading Division  Biaystok Gas Sales Unit Krzysztof Smorczewski krzysztof.smorczewski@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 85 664 54 30 Mazovian Gas Trading Division d Gas Sales Unit Jacek Miluki jacek.miluski@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 42 675 96 20 Mazovian Gas Trading Division  Warszawa Gas Sales Unit Beata Baziak-Pyzel beata.blaziak@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22 325 14 53 190/ 207 12.  Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social  Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group  Pomeranian Gas Trading Division Bydgoszcz Gas Sales Unit Sebastian Latanowicz sebastian.latanowicz@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 52 376 13 40 Pomeranian Gas Trading Division  Gdask Gas Sales Unit Dorota Rajczyk-Gakowska dorota.rajczyk-galkowska@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 58 323 01 10 Pomeranian Gas Trading Division  Olsztyn Gas Sales Unit Marta Malinowska marta.malinowska@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 89 537 25 73 Greater Poland Gas Trading Division  Kalisz Gas Sales Unit Monika Mielcarek monika.mielcarek@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 62 769 53 20 Greater Poland Gas Trading Division   Koszalin Gas Sales Unit  Ewelina Bachuta ewelina.blachuta@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 94 348 45 40 Greater Poland Gas Trading Division  Pozna Gas Sales Unit Katarzyna Wiznerowicz katarzyna.wiznerowicz@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 61 885 46 02 Greater Poland Gas Trading Division Szczecin Gas Sales Unit Bogumia Koman bogumila.koman@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 91 424 73 03 191/ 207 12.  Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social  Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group  Strategic Companies of the PGNiG Group Dolnolska Spka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Piotr Wojtasik pwojtasik@gazownia.pl  Tel. +48 71 364 95 25 Grnolska Spka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Maja Girycka maja.girycka@gsgaz.pl  Tel. +48 60148 80 22 Karpacka Spka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Boena Malaga-Wrona Bozena.Malaga-Wrona@ksg.pl Tel. +48 14 632 31 45 Mazowiecka Spka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Emilia Tomalska emilia.tomalska@msgaz.pl Tel. +48 22 667 38 08 Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Katarzyna Wrblewicz katarzyna.wroblewicz@psgaz.pl Tel. +48 58 326 36 70 Wielkopolska Spka Gazownictwa Jerzy Magas jerzy.magas@wsgaz.pl  Tel. +48 61 854 53 65 Tel. +48 60173 00 43 192/ 207 12.  Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social  Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group  Exploration and Production  Geofizyka Krakw Sp. z o.o. Magdalena Pachocka magdalena.pachocka@geofizyka.krakow.pl Tel. +48 12 299 13 67 Geofizyka Toru Sp. z o.o. Iwona Matusiak iwona.matusiak@geofizyka.pl Tel. +48 56 659 33 93 PNiG Jaso Sp. z o.o. Przemysaw Baciak pbaciak@pnig.jaslo.pl Tel. +48 13 443 63 41 PNiG Krakw Sp. zo.o. Micha Korczak michal.korczak@ogec.krakow.pl Tel. +48 12 619 76 67 PNiG Nafta Pia Patrycja Kujawa pkujawa@nafta.net.pl Tel. +48 67 215 13 35 Poszukiwania Naftowe Diament Sp. z o.o. Norbert Urbaski nurbanski@pn-diament.com.pl Tel. +48 68 329 54 11 PGNiG Norway AS Marek Hoffmann marek.hoffmann@pgnig.no Tel. +47 51 95 07 59 Zakad Robt Grniczych Krosno Sp. z o.o. Jan Sp jsep@zrg.krosno.pl Tel. +48 13 437 21 10 193/ 207 12.  Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social  Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group  Other companies of the PGNiG Group Gazobudowa Sp. z o.o. Magdalena Mroczka info@gazobudowa.pl Tel. +48 32 275 57 68   BSiPG Gazoprojekt SA Grayna Janicka gjanicka@gazoprojekt.com.pl  Tel. +48 71 785 13 03 Investgas SA Robert Plesiewicz robert.plesiewicz@investgas.pl  Tel. +48 22 860 05 51 Naftomonta Sp. z o.o. Agnieszka Grochmal a.grochmal@naftomontaz.com.pl Tel. +48 13 437 45 35 ZRUG Pogrska Wola Sp. z o.o. Marek Chrzszcz Tel. +48 14 622 54 21 ZUN Naftomet Sp. z o.o. Sawomir Duran slawomir.duran@naftomet.pl Tel. +48 13 436 25 11, ext.338, 270 194/ 207 12.  Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social  Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group  13.  Glossary of key CSR terms Cause-related marketing – an intermediate form  of marketing between commercial and social mar- keting. It involves supporting a social cause while  strengthening the image of the company. The  implementation of cause-related marketing very  often involves three parties: the company, civil  society organisations and consumers. Community action – short-term social initiative  carried out on a one-off or regular basis to help  agiven group or a person. An example of a one- off community action is the Krewniacy initiative  promoting donation of blood for patients in need  of transfusion.  Companys Code of Values/Ethics – a code of val- ues adopted by a company, defining its organisa- tional culture. A common code of values promotes  higher awareness of the unwritten principles and  company rules among employees, allowing them  to build closer relationship with the company and  other employees. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) – a strategy  based on an assumption that a company should  voluntarily take public interest into consideration  in its pursuit to achieve economic objectives. CSR  promotes observance of ethical principles, em- ployees rights, human rights, as well as respect  for social and natural environment in a companys  operations and its decision-making process. It is  generally accepted that a companys policy should  provide not only for achievement of economic ob- jectives but also the implementation of corporate  social responsibility principles. CSR report – a companys comprehensive report  on its implementation of sustainable develop- ment and corporate social responsibility strategy.  It focuses on economic, social and environmental  aspects of the companys operations. 195/ 207  Declaration on Sustainable Development in the  Energy Sector – the declaration signed for the  first time on June 17th 2009, containing statements  by the signatories that they understand and are  willing to implement in their policies the princi- ples of sustainable development. The declaration  was signed by the largest companies in the Pol- ish energy sector: EDF Polska, Enea, GAZ-SYSTEM,  GDF SUEZ Energia Polska, Tauron, Vattenfall Poland  and PGNiG, the initiator of the project. On June  17th 2010, the declaration was signed by three  more companies – Fortum Power and Heat Polska,  Grupa Lotos and Polskie Sieci Elektroenergetyczne  Operator. Later on, the initiative was also joined  by Dalkia Polska and PKN Orlen. During the last  conference held on June 14th 2011, the Declara- tion was signed by Dolnolska Spka Gazown- ictwa, Grnolska Spka Gazownictwa, Karpacka  Spka Gazownictwa, Mazowiecka Spka Gazown- ictwa, Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa, Wielkopol- ska Spka Gazownictwa, PKP Energetyka and  Energa S.A.  Dialogue with stakeholders in accordance with  AccountAbility AA1000 standards – international  AccountAbility AA1000 standards are a very use- ful tool in developing and managing stakeholder  relations. The standards help companies to build  their relations with stakeholders on trust and open  dialogue, thus contributing to the creation of social  capital. They focus on stakeholders and provide  support in the area of stakeholder management.  The series comprises the following standards::    AccountAbility Principles  Standard– AA1000APS,    AccountAbility Assurance  Standard– AA1000AS,    AccountAbility Stakeholder Engagement Stand- ard – AA1000SES. Employee opinion survey (also called employee  satisfaction survey) – a tool for investigating the  level of job satisfaction among the employees of  a given company. It provides information on the  most satisfying aspects of particular jobs, at the  same time revealing the potential problems and  areas of conflict that may negatively affect the at- titude and commitment of the companys employ- ees. The outcomes of the survey should enable  the company to better adjust its offer to the needs  and expectations of its employees.  Global Compact – an initiative launched by UN  Secretary General Kofi Annan aimed at introducing  a new framework for businesses by supporting,  among other things, respect of human rights, ap- plication of labour standards and business activi- ties conducted in harmony with the environment.  The Global Compact is supported by non-govern- mental organisations and more than 1,000 com- panies from different parts of the world, including  Pomorska Spka Gazownictwa and PGNiG. 196/ 207 13. Glossary of key CSR terms  Grasz osta initiative – an internship competition  with the longest tradition in Poland (launched in  1996) organised by the Gazeta Wyborcza daily and  PricewaterhouseCoopers. Each year, the winners  are awarded paid internships and other prizes (an  opportunity to take up post-graduate studies or  training programmes, books) funded by the com- panies and non-governmental organisations coop- erating with the organisers. HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) – rules of con- duct related to health and safety at work and  environmental protection defined by international  regulations. Local community – a group of people living in a  specified area, bound by social relationships, com- mon tradition and culture. A local community can  be formed by the inhabitants of a locality, com- mune, housing estate, city district or city. Organisational structure – a relationship system  within a company, also applicable to its subordi- nate organisations and associations. The purpose  of organisational structure is to define a clear divi- sion of duties and hierarchy of powers. A strong  organisational structure facilitates efficient com- pany management. Philanthropy – charitable activities which are a  demonstration of care for common good, carried  out by persons, organisations or companies for  people in need. Such activities mainly involve pro- viding financial or material support and in modern  societies they are chiefly carried out through foun- dations and associations. Responsible Business Forum (FOB) – a non-govern- mental organisation whose mission is to promote  the principles of responsible business as a stand- ard applicable in Poland, aimed at increasing the  competitiveness of companies, enhancing social  satisfaction and improving the condition of natu- ral environment. FOB gathers a number of Polish  companies, including PGNiG. Social campaign – activities aimed at changing or  preventing a certain attitude or behaviour of a giv- en group of people. Social campaigns are carried  out through means of mass communication (tradi- tional media, unconventional methods) and sup- ported by numerous entities, including companies,  civil society organisations and public authorities,  whose assistance for the initiators of the campaign  may have different forms, be it financial, material  or in the form of services. A companys involve- ment in a social campaign strengthens its image  of an entity with active interest in its environment  and is an opportunity to build stronger relation- ship between the employees as well as between  the company and particular groups. Social dialogue – exchange of information be- tween the parties concerned, most frequently  related to common problems and social affairs.  The parties participating in a social dialogue may  include both public and private entities, entrepre- neurs and non-governmental organisations. The  success of such dialogue is chiefly determined by  cooperation and reliability of information. 197/ 207 13. Glossary of key CSR terms  Social programme – planned activities aimed at  providing a solution to or preventing a specific  social problem. It may be implemented indepen- dently or as a joint effort by public institutions,  businesses and civil society organisations. Sponsorship – mutual agreement between two  parties, a sponsor and a sponsoree, whereunder  the sponsor provides the sponsoree with financial  or material resources or services in exchange for  its promotion. Sponsorship involves planned and  intended activities aimed at creating a positive im- age of a company. SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) – approach to  companys operations which treats companys  benefit and social well-being on equal terms.  Socially responsible investors favour those compa- nies which comply with or promote the principles  of sustainable development, environmental pro- tection, human rights protection and consumer  protection. Stakeholder – any entity with an interest in a com- panys operations. These may include third parties,  such as persons, communities, institutions, organi- sations or public authorities, and related entities,  such as company employees or shareholders. Sustainable development – strategy of social and  economic development where political, economic  and social activities are carried out with a view not  to have an adverse impact on the environment.  The aim of sustainable development is to ensure  such utilisation of natural resources which would  not compromise the ability of future generations to  benefit from them. The concept of sustainable de- velopment is included in the Environmental Protec- tion Law – Dz.U. of 2001, No. 62, item 627, Art. 3.50. Value chain – clearly defined activities performed  by specific companies which form a common  value system. A value chain clearly demonstrates  mutual dependence between a number of com- panies as well as the process of adding value to a  product. Voluntary work – involvement of company em- ployees in voluntary work for the benefit of civil  society organisations. Employees acting as volun- tary workers carry out various types of activities  for the people in need, using their expertise as  well as improving their skills in other areas. De- pending on the adopted policy, the company sup- ports voluntary work of its employees by allowing  them to conduct such work during working hours,  or by providing material, logistics or financial  assistance. 198/ 207 13. Glossary of key CSR terms  13.1. Glossary of industry-specific terms Biogas plant – a plant which can process (through  fermentation) such substrates as biofuel feedstock,  livestock waste, distillery waste, or methane from  dumping sites, into biogas. The produced fuel is  consumed at small cogeneration units (0.5-2 MW). CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage) – a process  of capturing carbon dioxide from flue gasses to  reduce its emissions to the atmosphere, which  has a negative impact on the environment. Due  to limited capacity to utilise captured carbon di- oxide, an important issue related to the process is  CO2 storage by its compression and deposition in  worked out caverns which used to hold hydrocar- bon deposits. CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) – fuel, compressed  natural gas at a pressure of 20–25 MPa, used as  vehicle fuel for spark ignition and compression  ignition engines. Direct gas pipeline – the gas pipeline used for  transmission of gaseous fuel directly to the cus- tomers installation, omitting the gas system. Distribution – transport of gaseous fuels to cus- tomers via distribution networks. Distribution network – a gas network of low, me- dium and high pressure, other than a mine pipe- line or a direct pipeline. The responsibility for net- work traffic rests with gas distribution companies Environmental management systems – systems  defined in the ISO 14001 standard, based on the  principles of comprehensive quality management.  The main assumption of environmental manage- ment is to reduce the environmental impact of hu- man activities. This can be achieved by application  of uniform management principles with regard to  access to environmental resources, elimination of  negative environmental impact of business activi- ties and rational consumption of natural resources. Exploration and Production or E&P – one of  PGNiGs operating segments. The companies oper- ating in this segment are engaged in exploration,  geophysical and geological work, as well as pro- duction of natural gas and crude oil. Gas distribution company – an energy company  involved in the distribution of gaseous fuels, re- sponsible for network traffic in the gas distribution  system, ongoing and long-term security of the  systems operation, as well as operation, main- tenance, repair and necessary extension of the  distribution network, including interconnections  with other gas systems in the relevant geographi- cal area. 199/ 207 13. Glossary of key CSR terms  LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) – natural gas in a liquid  state with the temperature of -163C. During the  liquefaction process, natural gas is cooled down to  -163C, thus reducing its volume by 630 times. LLDP – local land and development plan. Natural gas – natural mixture of paraffin hydrocar- bons, primarily consisting of methane (up to 98%  in high-methane gas). In the earths crust natural  gas is found in the form of deposits. OGP GAZ-SYSTEM – abbreviated name of Operator  Gazocigw Przesyowych GAZ-SYSTEM S.A. The  company was established on April 16th 2004 un- der the name PGNiG Przesy Sp. z o.o. as a wholly- owned subsidiary of PGNiG. On April 28th 2005,  100% of the company shares were acquired by the  State Treasury. Currently, OGP GAZ-SYSTEM oper- ates as a gas transmission system operator under  a licence issued by the Polish Energy Regulatory  Office. PGNiG Group –the group of companies with Pol- skie Grnictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo S.A. as the  parent. SGT EuRoPol GAZ – abbreviated name of System  Gazocigw Tranzytowych EuRoPol GAZ S.A. The  company is responsible for natural gas transmis- sion along the Polish section of the Yamal transit  pipeline, connecting the Russian Federation with  Western Europe. Shale gas – unconventional gas contained in shale  formations. The United States is the largest shale  gas producer in the world. In Poland, too, there  has been surging interest in shale gas, which – ac- cording to estimates – is buried at depths ranging  from 500 metres to 4 kilometres, within a sidelong  belt stretching from central Pomerania to the Lu- blin region, and within the foreland of the Sudety  Mountains.  Transmission – transport of gaseous fuels through  transmission networks to distribution networks  or end customers connected to the transmission  network. Transmission network – a gas network of low,  medium and high pressure, other than a mine  pipeline or a direct pipeline. The responsibility for  network traffic rests with the transmission system  operator. Transmission System Operator (TSO) – an energy  company involved in the transmission of gaseous  fuels, responsible for network traffic in the gas  transmission system, ongoing and long-term se- curity of the systems operation, as well as opera- tion, maintenance, repair and necessary extension  of the transmission network, including intercon- nections with other gas systems. Underground Gas Storage Facility – the PGNiG  Group is the exclusive owner of underground gas  storage facilities in Poland. There are six high- methane gas storage facilities in Poland – five of  them located in worked out natural gas caverns,  and the sixth one in salt caverns in Mogilno. URE (Urzd Regulacji Energetyki) – the Polish  Energy Regulatory Office. Under the relevant  regulations, the President of URE is responsible  for approving the tariffs submitted by holders of  licences which authorise them to conduct business  involving trade in and storage of gaseous fuels. 200/ 207 13. Glossary of key CSR terms  Dea r  R eader, We  w ou ld l i ke to  tha nk you for re ading this third   Resp o n si bl e energ y  re port. We  hope  that it has  c o n tr i buted to  yo ur k nowle dge  and unde rstanding  of t h e  P GNi G Gro u p s acti vi ti e s. With the natural environment in mind, we decided  to print only a part of this CSR Report of the PGNiG  Group – the Introduction, which presents selected  information about the Companys activities. This  year, full text of the Responsible energy CSR  report of the PGNiG Group and the list of GRI in- dicators will be published exclusively in electronic  form. You are invited to browse it, and we will ap- preciate if you share your opinions and comments  with us.  A dialogue with stakeholders is one of our priori- ties. We would like our activities to satisfy your  needs and expectations to the widest possible  extent, and we would like our future reports to  better present matters that are of interest to you.  This is way we ask you to fill out the questionnaire  below. Please save it and return to the following  address: informacje@odpowiedzialna-energia.pl The questionnaire may also be downloaded  from our websites: www.pgnig.pl and  www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl Thank you. Yours faithfully, Marzena Strzelczak Management Boards Proxy for Sustainable  Development and Corporate Social Responsibility  Strategy Communications Office 14. Questionnaire 201/ 207  15. Table of indicators GRI indicators The PGNiG Groups 2010 CSR report entitled Re- sponsible energy was prepared primarily based  on the reporting indicators developed by the  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). GRI is an inde- pendent network of stakeholders, who embarked  on the mission of developing and disseminating  common guidelines to be followed in reporting on  companies economic, environmental and social  performance all over the world. The use of GRI  indicators enables objective comparison of CSR-re- lated activities of different companies. In addition  to principles and recommendations, the GRI guide- lines include a system of indicators from which  companies may voluntarily select.  In this edition of the CSR Report, 66 indicators  have been discussed, that is 3 more than in the  previous years CSR Report (level B). The indicators  relating to estimates and calculations, as present- ed in this Report, have been prepared and com- piled in accordance with the International Financial  Reporting Standards endorsed by the EU.  This Report also contains indicators and guidelines  following from the Global Compact and ISO 26000,  which are also incorporated into the Code of Re- sponsible Business signed by PGNiG and drawn up  under the Coalition for Responsible Business (for  more information on the Coalition, see the Coali- tion for Responsible Business (page 151) section). 202/ 207  Strategy and  Profile GRI Indicators ISO Strategy and  Analysis 1.1 1.2 6.2  p.4-5 p. 15  - arrow Organisational  Profile  2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 2.10  cover p. 6-8;  17 p.  10-11 cover  p. 9 p. 12 p. 7-9 p. 6-9  p.  10-  arrow p.  158- 173 Report  Parameters  3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.8 3.9 3.10 3.11 3.12 3.13 7.5.3  (3.13   of GRI)  p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 182 p. 31 Governance,  Commitment and  Engagement  4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 4.10 4.11 4.12 4.13 4.14 4.15 4.16 4.17 6.2  p.  13-15 p.  13-15 p.  13-15 p.  13-15 p.  13-15 p.  13-15 p.  13-15 p.  13-15 p.  13-15 p.  13-15 p.  29-30 p.  31 p.  31 p.  24- 28 p.  24- 28 p.  24- 28 p.  24- 28 Economic Performance  Indicators Global  Compact GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page  Aspect: Economic  Performance  P9, P10 EC1 SE13 6.8;  6.8.3 9 EC2 6.5.5 141-144 Aspect: Indirect Economic  Impacts EC8 6.8; 6.8.4 60 203/ 207 15. Table of indicators  Social Performance  Indicators  Global  Compact GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Aspect: Local Community  P5 SO1 6.8;  6.8.5; 6.8.7 59-69 Aspect: Community  Engagement  SO5 26-27 Environment Performance  Indicators  Global  Compact GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Aspect: Water  P7, P8, P9 EN8 E6 6.5;  6.5.4 80 EN10 6.5;  6.5.4 80 Aspect: Biodiversity  EN14 E5 6.5;  6.5.6. 84 Aspect: Emissions,  Effluents, and Waste  EN16 E1 6.5;  6.5.5. 78-79 EN18 6.5;  6.5.5. 77 EN21 E9 6.5;  6.5.3. 80-81 EN22 E10 6.5;  6.5.3. 82-83 Aspect: Compliance EN28 6.5 85 Aspect: Overall EN30 6.5 86-87 204/ 207 15. Table of indicators  Labour Practices & Decent  Work Performance  Indicators  Global  Compact GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Aspect: Employment  P1, P2, P3, P4,  P5, P6 LA1 6.4;  6.4.3. 95-96 LA3 6.4.4. 105-106 Aspect: Labour/ Management Relations LA5 6.4;  6.4.3. 110 Aspect: Occupational  Health and Safety LA7 HS3 6.4;  6.4.6. 96-97 LA8 HS2 6.4;  6.4.6. 107 Aspect: Training and  Education  LA10 SE17 6.4 6.4.7. 100 LA11 SE17 6.4;  6.4.7. 100 205/ 207 15. Table of indicators  Human Rights  Performance Indicators Global  Compact GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Aspect: Investment and  Procurement Practices P1, P2 HR3  6.3 6.3.5 101-102 Product Responsibility  Performance Indicators Global  Compact GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Aspect: Product and  Service Labelling PR3 6.7;  6.7.4; 6.7.9 46 PR5 6.7:  6.7.6 38 GRI Indicators Page GRI Sector Supplement  Indicators  EU3 7 EU8 46 EU14 65 EU23 51-52 EU24 46-48 206/ 207 15. Table of indicators  We would like to thank all who have contributed  to the third CSR Report of the PGNiG Group, and in  particular:   the employees of all Head Office departments,  Gas Sales Units, Branches, Divisions and Gas  Distribution Companies of the PGNiG Group,  who contributed to the preparation of the  information contained in this Report, as well as  sustainable development coordinators for their  effort and commitment,    PwC Polska for its high professionalism as  well as huge amounts of kindness and a lot of  good advice during the preparation of the this  Report. 16. Acknowledgements 207/ 207  Geozyka Toru PGNiG Nafta of Pia ZG in Tarnw PNiG Krakw Geozyka Krakw Organisational units of the  PGNiG Group at which the  following systems have been  implemented:   Head Office and Branches  of PGNiG  S.A., including Gas  Trading Divisions (GTD)   Companies of the PGNiG Group,  including Gas Distribution  Companies (GDC)   Gas Distribution Divisions (GDD) of  the Gas Distribution Companies  ISO 14001 Environmental  Management and HSE  systems ISO 14001 Environmental  Management system Other entities – no  systems implemented  Investgas Centrala PGNiG SA Branch in Odolanw Branch in Zielona Gra PN Diament ZG Zgorzelec Dolnolska SG ZG Wrocaw BSiPG Gazoprojekt ZG Wabrzych ZG in Opole ZG in Lublin ZG in Kielce ZG in Sandomierz Grnolska SG ZG in Zabrze BUG Gazobudowa in Zabrze ZG in Krakw Karpacka SG ZG in Jaso Oddzia in Sanok ZRG Krosno PNiG Jaso ZRUG  Podgrska Wola ZG in Rzeszw ZG in Jarosaw BN Naftomonta ZG in Olsztyn ZG in Bydgoszcz ZG in Gdask Pomorska SG Organisational units of the  PGNiG Group at which the  following systems have been  implemented:   Head Office and Branches  of PGNiG  S.A., including Gas  Trading Divisions (GTD)   Companies of the PGNiG Group,  including Gas Distribution  Companies (GDC)   Gas Distribution Divisions (GDD) of  the Gas Distribution Companies  ISO 14001 Environmental  Management and HSE  systems ISO 14001 Environmental  Management system Other entities – no  systems implemented  ZG in Koszalin ZG in Szczecin Pomorski OOG ZG Biaystok ZG Ciechanw ZG in Pozna Wielkopolska SG Wielkopolski OOG ZG in Kalisz Mazowiecka SG Geovita ZG  Misk Mazowiecki ZG  Warszawa CLPB in Warszawa Mazowiecki OOG Bud-Gaz ZG d ZG Radom Karpacki OOG Grnolski OOG Dolnolski OOG ZUN Naftomed Organisational units of the  PGNiG Group at which the  following systems have been  implemented:   Head Office and Branches  of PGNiG  S.A., including Gas  Trading Divisions (GTD)   Companies of the PGNiG Group,  including Gas Distribution  Companies (GDC)   Gas Distribution Divisions (GDD) of  the Gas Distribution Companies  Back  to page 83 ISO 14001 Environmental  Management and HSE  systems ISO 14001 Environmental  Management system Other entities – no  systems implemented  Changes in the PGNiG Groups Structure   In January 2010, PGNiG Energia  S.A. was  registered.   In January 2010, Geofizyka Krakw Libya JSC  wlikwidacji (in liquidation) was deleted from  the Libyan commercial register.   In May 2010, Biogazownia Ostrowiec Sp. z o.o.  was incorporated. Its entire share capital was  acquired for cash by PGNiG Energia  S.A. The  company was registered in May 2010.   In November 2010, Operator Systemu Maga- zynowania Sp. z o.o. was incorporated. All its  shares were acquired for cash by PGNiG, which  is the companys sole shareholder. Operator  Systemu Magazynowania Sp. z o.o. was reg- istered in December 2010. The company was  established to ensure compliance with the  requirements of Directive 2009/73/EC with  respect to legal separation of the gaseous fuel  storage from other types of business conduct- ed by a vertically integrated gas undertaking.   In December 2010, POGC Trading GmbH was  incorporated. The companys business profile  comprises purchase and sale of, as well as  trading in, gas, fuels, other forms of energy  and their derivatives in physical form, as well  as trading in gas-, fuel- and energy-linked de- rivative instruments and other financial prod- ucts, on the European and other markets. Back   to page 11  Shareholder structure in 2009 – 2010  Shareholder Number of shares/votes  attached to the shares as  at Dec 31 2009 Percentage of share  capital/total vote at the  GM as at Dec 31 2009  Number of shares/votes  attached to the shares as  at Dec 31 2010 Percentage of share  capital/total vote at the  GM as at Dec 31 2010 State Treasury  4303686 368 72,94% 4 273 650 532 72,44% Other  1 596313 632 27,06% 1 626 349 468 27,56% Total 5900000 000 100,00% 5900000 000 100,00% Shareholders As at December 31st 2010, the share capital of  PGNiG amounted to PLN 5,900,000,000, and was  divided into 5,900,000,000 shares with a par value  of PLN 1 per share. Shares of all series, that is Se- ries A, Series A1 and Series B, are ordinary bearer  shares, and each share carries the right to one vote  each at the General Shareholders Meeting.  PGNiGs  Articles of Association do not provide for any limi- tations as to the exercise of the voting rights at- tached to the shares. The Polish State Treasury remains PGNiGs major- ity shareholder. On June 26th 2008, the Minister of  the State Treasury disposed of one PGNiG share on  general terms, which, pursuant to the Commerciali- sation and Privatisation Act of 1996, gave eligible  employees the right to acquire, free of charge,  up to 750,000,000 PGNiG shares. The process of  free-of-charge distribution of the shares started  on April 6th 2009. On October 1st 2010, the eligible  employees rights to acquire PGNiG shares free of  charge expired. Heirs of the eligible employees  who were entitled to acquire PGNiG shares free  of charge may exercise their rights also after that  date, provided that on or before October 1st 2010  they applied to the court to declare that they had  acquired the deseased employees estate by way  of inheritance. As at December 31st 2010, 59,134 eligible employ- ees acquired 726,349,467 shares, which confer the  right to 12.31% of the total vote. Consequently, the  State Treasurys share fell to 72.43%. The Company  shares acquired free of charge by eligible employ- ees or their heirs were subject to a lock-up until  July 1st 2010, while the Company shares acquired  free of charge by members of the Management  Board are subject to a lock-up until July 1st 2011.  Investor Relations As an issuer of securities listed on the Warsaw  Stock Exchange, PGNiG is required to disclose com- plete and reliable information on its operations, as  well as any material corporate developments at its  Group, in regular reports made available on equal  terms to both its existing and potential sharehold- ers. The Investor Relations function is, however,  not limited to obligatory activities, expressly re- quired by law. It also encompasses a number of  other activities which the Company undertakes to  meet the high expectations of all market partici- pants. These include: participation in road shows  and foreign investor conferences (in 2010, we  visited Austria, the Czech Republic, France, the US,  Sweden, Hungary and Great Britain), meetings  with managers of equity portfolios and ongo- ing contact with market analysts. In addition, the  Companys website features a dedicated Investor  Relations section, where every capital market par- ticipant may find the most important updates on  the Company, consensus forecasts of the Groups  performance and the most recent target price  recommendations, sourced from research reports  covering PGNiG  S.A. The Investor Relations De- partment offers all those interested in receiving  news on the PGNiG Group a dedicated newsletter  distributed via electronic channels; to subscribe for  the newsletter, one only needs to send an email to  ri@pgnig.pl, requesting to be added to the distri- bution list. Structure of the free float and institutional  shareholding, by country, as at July 27th 2010 The U.S. 8.6% Poland 56.2% United Kingdom 6.7% Luxembourg 4.7% Hungary 3.7% France 3.6% Singapore 2.4% Austria 1.9% United Arab Emirates 1.7% Norway 1.5% Other 9.1% Back   to page 12  Risk factors Tariff calculation  PGNiGs ability to cover the costs of its core op- erations depends on the prices approved by the  President of the Energy Regulatory Office. When  approving tariffs for a given period, the President  of the Energy Regulatory Office takes into consid- eration external factors which are beyond  PGNiGs  control. In an attempt to protect vulnerable cus- tomers, while verifying the operating costs, the  President of the Energy Regulatory Office may  consider certain costs as unjustified. Moreover,  the President of the Energy Regulatory Office  does not always accept the assumptions adopted  by PGNiG with respect to the main drivers of cost  changes and profit level, allowing for business  risk. Consequently, the Energy Regulatory Office  frequently refuses to accept the tariff prices and  charge rates applied for by PGNiG. Lower tariff  prices and charges might adversely affect PGNiGs  profitability.  Purchase price of imported gas Prices of imported gas are determined in USD or  EUR and are based on the prices of petroleum  products. Changes in foreign exchange rates and  prices of petroleum products materially affect  acquisition cost of imported gas. Preparing an ac- curate forecast of changes of natural gas prices in- volves a high risk of error. Despite the legal possi- bility of adjusting prices approved for a tariff term,  the Company may not be able to pass an increase  in the price of imported gas on to customers, or  the relevant adjustment of selling prices may be  considerably deferred in relation to the change in  import prices.  Licences for exploration   and appraisal of deposits  In recent years, the increase in prices of fuels  on global markets has led to growing interest in  exploration activities. There is a risk of competition  from other companies active on the Polish market,  which also seek licences for exploration for and  appraisal of deposits or implement a strategy of  acquiring access to own hydrocarbon reserves. At  present, competition on the domestic market is  limited.   Competition in the area of exploration Both on the Polish market and abroad there is a  risk of competition from other companies with  respect to acquisition of licences for exploration  for and appraisal of deposits, that is implemen- tation of a strategy of securing access to own  hydrocarbon reserves. Certain competitors of  the PGNiG Group, especially those active globally,  enjoy strong market positions and have financial  resources larger than those available to the Group.  Thus it is probable that such companies may sub- mit their bids in tender procedures and may be  able to acquire promising licences.      Competition in the area of trade in  naturalgas At present, PGNiG is the largest supplier of natu- ral gas in Poland, with a share in the gas market  estimated at approximately 98%. The remaining  2% is represented by suppliers from outside the  PGNiG Group which usually purchase gas from  PGNiG. These include local gas distributors that  own transmission infrastructure and offer – in ad- dition to traditional network gas supply – innova- tive solutions of the natural gas supply involving  the use of LNG. An intensified commercial activity  of the competitors designed to attract current and  potential customers of PGNiG may pose atangible  threat of customer churn. Competition in the area of distribution The liberalisation of the gas market boosts the  activity of gas suppliers competing with the PGNiG  Group Gas Distribution Companies. Over the last  few years, those suppliers showed regular and  steady activity, gradually developing their gas net- works and acquiring new customers, both among  households and businesses. Another issue which  affects the Gas Distribution Companies competi- tive position is the tariff policy of the Energy Regu- latory Office, as it prevents the Gas Distribution  Companies from operating a flexible pricing policy  for their key customers. With the lack of flexible  pricing, customers may find the offering of the  competition attractive.  Delayed exploration work Under the currently binding Polish regulations,  obtaining a licence for exploration for and ap- praisal of crude oil and natural gas deposits lasts  from one to one and a half year. As regards for- eign operations, it may take even two years from  the time when a licence tender is awarded until  the relevant contract is ratified. Moreover, prior  to the commencement of field work, a company  is obliged to make numerous arrangements, in- cluding obtaining formal and legal permits and  approvals for entering the area, meeting envi- ronmental protection-related requirements and  in some cases requirements related to protection  of archaeological sites, and abiding by the regu- lations governing tenders to select a contractor.  Under the currently binding regulations, another  several months pass before an agreement with  the contractor is signed. In addition, companies  must frequently wait for a very long time before  their imported equipment receives customs clear- ance. These factors create the risk of delayed  exploration work.   Cost of exploration work Exploration projects are capital consuming, given  the prices of energy carriers and materials. The  cost of exploration work is particularly sensitive to  movements in steel prices, which affect the prices  of casing pipes and lifting casing used in drilling.  An increase in the prices of energy and materi- als translates into an increase in the cost of ex- ploration work. Moreover, profitability of foreign  exploratory projects will to a significant extent  depend on the movements in prices of petroleum  products and fluctuations of exchange rates. Political and economic situation Some countries where the PGNiG Group carries  out exploratory activity face the risk of armed  conflicts or social and political destabilisation,  which may result in a limitation, suspension or  discontinuation of PGNiGs exploration and pro- duction operations. In certain countries, the opera- tions of exploration companies may be hindered  by lack of adequate infrastructure, which may be  an obstacle in transporting equipment, staff and  materials to the sites. There may also arise prob- lems in providing supplies and ensuring appropri- ate health care. These risks may lead to limitation  or suspension of PGNiGs exploratory activity. Back  to page 15