Towards  sustainable  energy Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 2011  Vattenfall today – a European energy company Vattenfall is one of Europes largest generators of electricity and the largest  producer of heat. Vattenfalls main products are electricity, heat and gas.  In electricity and heat, Vattenfall works in all parts of the value chain: generation,  distribution and sales. In gas, Vattenfall is mainly active in sales. Vattenfall is also  engaged in energy trading and lignite mining. The Group has 34,700 employees.  The Parent Company, Vattenfall AB, is 100%-owned by the Swedish state. The  core markets are Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands. In 2011 operations  were also conducted in France, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Poland and the UK.  Vattenfall has more than 10 million customers. Content CEOs message  2 Strategy  6 What is Vattenfalls role in Society?  12 Emissions and climate change   14 Responsible sourcing    18 Energy use      22 Nuclear safety      26 Employee relations    30 What is next?      34 Key indicators      35 Contacts     36 Reporting section Found on www.vattenfall.com. The reporting  section follows the GRI indicator framework,  dividing environmental, social and economic  performance indicators specifi ed by GRI into  sections. In addition to reporting environ- mental, social and economic performance,  the reporting section also describes the  governance structure and management  systems in place. Peat 2 Waste non-biogenic 2 Biomass & biogenic waste 12 Lignite 13 Gas 23 Hardcoal 46 Other incl oil 2 Heat production 2011, % Towards  sustainable   energy Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 2011  Performance report Hydro power 21 Nuclear power 25 Fossil-based power 51 Other1 3  1)  Wind power, biomass  and waste Electricity generation 2011, %  Energy production with low CO2 emissions  Fossil-based energy production Vattenfalls total electricity generation  amounted to 166.7 TWh. CO2 emissions per generated  unit of electricity and heat g/kWh 600 450 300 150 0   90 95 00 05 10 15  Developing a sustainable, diversifi ed European  energy portfolio with long-term increased  profi ts and signifi cant growth opportunities.  At the same time, Vattenfall will be among  the leaders in developing environmentally  sustainable energy production. Netherlands Electricity generation, TWh  13.5 Market position, electricity generation  3 Market position, electricity sales  2 Sales of gas, TWh  49.4 Market position, gas sales  1 Sales of heat, TWh  4.5 Market position heat   2 Sweden Electricity generation, TWh  75.2 Market position, electricity generation  1 Market position, electricity sales  1 Sales of gas, TWh  – Market position, gas sales  – Sales of heat, TWh  3.9 Market position, heat   4 Germany Electricity generation, TWh  66.3 Market position, electricity generation  3 Market position, electricity sales  4 Sales of gas, TWh  1.0 Market position, gas sales  – Sales of heat, TWh  15.2 Market position heat   1  2 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 CEOs message Increased investment in  renewable energy sources In 2011 Vattenfall took several important steps on the path to sus- tainable energy production. Renewable energy projects have been  given a considerably larger share of the investment plan. Our expan- sion in wind power is continuing, and tests show potential for co- combustion of biomass in hard coal-fired power plants, which can  reduce CO2 emissions from existing assets.  Vattenfall aspires to be a leader in the development of sustainable  energy production. Is it possible to do this and at the same time emit  such large amounts of carbon dioxide as you do? Yes, we can – and will – definitely play a part in leading development  in this area. At the same time, we must acknowledge that energy  companies begin the journey towards sustainable energy production  from different starting points. In Vattenfalls case, our large-scale  conventional power plants generate cashflow, which we are now  investing increasingly in renewable energy production.  How far has Vattenfall come in the changeover to sustainable  energy production? We have made considerable progress. During the coming five-year  period, renewable energy production will account for 55% of our  investments, compared to 46% during the previous period. A sub- stantial share of investments are in wind power, where Vattenfall is  already a leading player. In the same way, we are off to an early start  with biomass, where we are at the forefront developments in large- scale co-combustion. In addition, we benefit from a geographic loca- tion that gives us great access to hydro power and forest assets.  Our long history of running hydro power plants is also a plus. And  although nuclear power is not a renewable energy source, by virtue  of its very low carbon footprint, it is helping to slow global warming. Isnt there a contradiction in the shift to more sustainable energy  production when Vattenfall must simultaneously satisfy its owners  required rate of return and customers demands for reliable delivery  and reasonable electricity prices?  It is only reasonable that great demands are placed on a company  like Vattenfall. I believe that even seemingly contradictory demands  are possible to align. Vattenfall has been entrusted with generat- ing economic value for the benefit of Swedish society, and we must  act responsibly in every context to deliver this value. We are now  investing heavily in the build-up of renewable energy production  at the same time that the EU countries are acting to make carbon  dioxide emissions more costly as a result of political decisions. The  more expensive it is to produce electricity and heat with large emis- sions of CO2, the more competitive the renewable sources of energy   I believe that even seemingly  contradictory demands are possible  to align.  3 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 CEOs message become. We also have a responsibility to help customers offset  higher prices through energy efficiency improvements and advice on  saving energy. What roles will the various forms of energy play in Vattenfalls  production mix? In the scenario I envision, all six energy sources that we use today  will also be part of Vattenfalls future – but the distribution among  them will be different than today. Wind power – which accounts for a  large share of our investment plan for the next five-year period – and  biomass will be more prominent. Since roughly a fourth of our energy  production today is based on coal, co-firing with biomass has great  potential. We are working to improve our access to raw material and  are considering our own production of refined wood pellets. These  have a high energy content, and tests performed in 2011 show that  they work well in co-combustion with hard coal even at high con- centrations. Vattenfalls ambition is also to expand in hydro power,  where we plan to participate in the bidding process when hydro  power assets are put on the auction block in France. Where does nuclear power fit in with tomorrows Vattenfall? Nuclear power will continue to be important in the future, but it is  hard to say today exactly what role it will play. The unexpected politi- cal decision in Germany to discontinue nuclear power has had sub- stantial, negative one-off effects for Vattenfall in the short term and   4 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 CEOs message closes the door for nuclear power as an energy alternative in Ger- many for a long time to come. In Sweden, Vattenfall is investing in the  modernisation and lifetime extension of the Forsmark and Ringhals  nuclear power plants at the same time that we have intensified our  analysis of the conditions for the construction of new nuclear power  reactors that can replace the existing plants when they reach the  end of their useful lives.  What will happen with coal power when Vattenfall changes over to  sustainable energy production?  Following the completion of the Moorburg and Boxberg coal-fired  plants in Germany, no new coal-fired power plants will be built until  CCS (carbon capture and storage) technology is commercially viable,  accepted by the general public and politically decided on. The new- est power plants are designed to be able to incorporate CCS tech- nology, while other coal-fired plants will be operated until they are  no longer economically profitable or have reached the end of their  technical lifetimes. Co-firing of biomass will be introduced in power  plants where it is possible.  What lessons have you learned from the resistance to CCS  technology? At present Vattenfall is conducting work in CCS at a pilot scale,  and our plans for large scale demonstration have been shelved due  to the lack of adequate legislation supporting storage in Germany.  One lesson is that it takes time for new technology to be accepted;  another is that Vattenfall may have taken on too much alone in its  work with CCS technology. In retrospect, we can say that we should  have sought closer co-operation with Germanys steel and chemical  industries and developed CCS technology together with them. What advances did Vattenfall make in sustainability in 2011? During the year, we created conditions for long-term sustainable  energy production by laying a solid foundation for major investments  in renewable energy sources. We also delivered in accordance with  our stated strategy – we have streamlined and cut costs, we have  carried out divestments of non-core assets, and we have adjusted  the investment plan for the coming five years in a way that increases  the role of renewable energy. I want to acknowledge the positive spirit with which employees  throughout Vattenfalls large organisation embraced the major    We have cut costs, carried out  divestments of non-core assets, and  adjusted the investment plan in a way  that increases the role of renewable  energy.  5 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 CEOs message challenges they faced in 2011. Not least in connection with extra- ordinary events, such as political developments in Germany, or the  severe storms that swept over Sweden and knocked out the power to  many homes. Vattenfalls employees have delivered above and beyond  expectations. As CEO, I am very proud to see such dedication. What were you less satisfied with during the past year? As I already mentioned, the unexpected decision in Germany to  discontinue nuclear power, which had a major negative impact on  Vattenfall. We can also say that we did not fully remedy the prob- lems at Ringhals, and the fire that broke out during the spring was  the kind of event that just cant happen at a nuclear power plant. At  the same time, however, operating reliability at the Swedish nuclear  power plants has improved – during the cold winter of 2010/2011,  all seven reactors generated electricity, and this winter six of seven  reactors are on line.  Looking several years ahead in time, how do you envision Vattenfall  with respect to sustainability? First and foremost, Vattenfalls CO2 exposure will be consider- ably lower than today, and our entire system will be permeated by  sustainability. Today society does not have the level of trust in the  energy industry and Vattenfall that is necessary for a long-term,  successful partnership. In my future vision, we have restored this  trust and are a reliable player and partner in the build-up of a   sustainable and energy-efficient society. We will be a company that has a closer relationship with its  customers. Advice on the best ways of saving energy is becom- ing increasingly important, and for me there is no question that  Vattenfall will have the expertise and enthusiasm to offer that  advice. Like today, Vattenfall will work throughout the entire value chain  and in several areas of Europe, making us a key partner in the devel- opment of tomorrows sustainable and energy-efficient society. Sus- tainable Cities, One Tonne Life and our collaboration with Volvo on a  plug-in hybrid car, which will be launched later in 2012, are just a few  examples where we have already teamed up with others in extensive  projects aimed at lowering energy use and increasing sustainability. Stockholm, March 2012 ystein Lseth President and CEO  Strategy 6 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Strategy for sustainable energy Public   acceptance Finding balance to meet expectations The expectations of Vattenfalls stakeholders – and those of the  energy industry – can be illustrated by the Energy Triangle at right.  The illustration shows the need to balance expectations about  security of supply, reducing environmental impact and keeping  energy affordable through cost competitiveness of energy produc- tion, distribution and use.  In our industry, security of supply entails both the secure sourcing  of fuels and reliable production and delivery of electricity and heat,  to meet demand essentially 100% of the time. On-demand availabil- ity of electricity and heat is taken as a given by most of Vattenfalls  stakeholders. Increasingly governments, civil society, customers, and investors  are raising their expectations about the environmental sustainabil- ity of the energy sector. While concerns about climate change are  paramount, stakeholders also expect utilities to increase their use of  renewable energy sources and to become more resource-efficient  overall. Finally, stakeholders want energy delivered at a competitive cost.  This is equally true for households, for whom energy is claiming an  increasing share of disposable income, and large industrial custom- ers, governments and investors. While prices are set by policy and  market mechanisms, companies must have competitive costs if they  are to gain access to markets and customers.  Some options are strong in all three dimensions, but in many cases  Energy triangle The energy triangle represents societys efforts to balance three dimensions in the develop- ment of the energy system. When these dimensions are in balance public acceptance of the  industry improves.  Strategy 7 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 trade-offs between them must be made. At Vattenfall, we develop  our business in this context: if our strategy reflects the balance that  society wants to see, we will gain the publics trust and, eventually,  market share. The European energy system: transitions and tensions The European energy system is changing, driven primarily by con- cerns about climate change and resource availability and sustain- ability. The so-called 20-20-20 targets have led to new policies to  reduce the EUs greenhouse gas emissions, increase the use of  renewable energy sources, and improve the overall energy efficiency  of the economy by 2020. (Read more about Vattenfalls own targets  for 2020 on pages 9–11.) Beyond 2020 even more ambitious goals have been articulated,  particularly with respect to greenhouse gases. The European Com- mission has made it clear that emissions should be reduced by 80%  or more by 2050, and that this implies electricity generation that  is decarbonised by 95% or more. This low-carbon electricity would  then power more electric cars, heat pumps, and industrial processes  that formerly relied on fossil fuels.  Many tools to support this transition have been identified, and some  of them – particularly renewable energy technologies like wind, bio- energy and solar photovoltaic power – are growing very rapidly in  response to these policies. (Read more about Vattenfalls investment   in renewables on page 8.) Sustaining this rapid growth – and encouraging other technologies  such as carbon capture and storage (CCS) and smart grids – will be  necessary to live up to Europes ambitions. However, this effort is  already putting pressure on the energy system, both technologically  and economically, and that pressure is likely to increase and strain  the balance in the energy triangle. Vattenfall and its competitors  must work with stakeholders to find win-win solutions where pos- sible and acceptable trade-offs where necessary. While increasing the role of renewables reduces dependence on  finite and often imported fossil resources such as oil and coal, it is  creating challenges for the secure delivery of electricity. Variable  sources like wind and solar introduce an element of irregular sup- ply and cannot be increased or decreased in response to demand.  If system reliability is to remain near 100%, investments in backup  capacity, grid expansion, smart grid technologies and demand  response will be needed. Vattenfalls investment strategy is there- fore complemented by investments in flexible technologies that   The European energy system  is changing, driven primarily by  concerns about climate change  and resource availability and  sustainability.  Strategy 8 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 increase system stability and balance, such as improved efficiency  of hydro power and new gas capacity. While renewable energy is becoming less expensive over time, its  costs are in many cases still higher than conventional technologies  and must be covered by some combination of higher prices and tax- payer subsidies. If society does not wish to pay significantly more  for electricity and heat for the long-term, these costs will have to  be offset by improved technology and greater efficiency. The major  economic challenges facing Europe today have served to intensify  the debate about the proper balance between climate action and  cost. While investing to address climate change, Vattenfall remains  committed to delivering large quantities of power at a competitive  cost to the markets – which is a primary reason that we will continue  to operate coal-fired power plants in the coming years. Reshaping the portfolio Vattenfalls assets – and particularly its generation portfolio – need  to reflect the balance society is seeking from the energy triangle. It  is not always clear which trade-offs society will make in the long-run,  but a pragmatic approach is to focus on win-win opportunities in  the short-term.  Investments in wind power, and offshore wind in particular, are well  supported by policies and subsidies and are a major focus of our  portfolio development and will be a major focus of our investment  Hydro power 6% Improving safety, efficiency,  and environmental performance of  our existing hydro power plants Nuclear  power 14% Increasing output,  extending lifetimes,  and improving safety  and environmental  performance Natural  gas 19% Includes new Magnum  plant in the Nether- lands as well as gas- fired heat in Hamburg  and Berlin Wind power  33% Offshore and onshore  wind power invest- ments in the UK,   Germany, and Sweden Coal 25% Includes com- pletion of Moorburg  and Boxberg, the last  coal plants Vattenfall  will build without CCS Consolidation Phase Growth Phase Next 2-3 years 2013-2020 Arrow UR Arrow UL Arrow R Arrow L Arrow D Arrow U Consolidation Phase Growth Phase Next 2-3 years 2013-2020 Arrow UR Arrow UL Arrow R Arrow L Arrow D Arrow U Consolidation Phase Growth Phase Next 2-3 years 2013-2020 Arrow UR Arrow UL Arrow R Arrow L Arrow D Arrow U Consolidation Phase Growth Phase Next 2-3 years 2013-2020 Arrow UR Arrow UL Arrow R Arrow L Arrow D Arrow U Biomass 2% Refurbish- ments to facilitate  increased cofiring  hard coal plants Consolidation Phase Growth Phase Next 2-3 years 2013-2020 Arrow UR Arrow UL Arrow R Arrow L Arrow D Arrow U Consolidation Phase Growth Phase Next 2-3 years 2013-2020 Arrow UR Arrow UL Arrow R Arrow L Arrow D Arrow U Percentage of total investments in generation assets (excludes networks, IT, and gas storage),   2012–2016. From 2016 to 2020, we anticipate the large majority of investments to be in low-emitting  capacity, with a focus on renewables. The remainder will cover maintenance of existing assets. Investments   in generation   2012–2016   (SEK 114 billion)  Strategy 9 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 plans through 2020. Already production has grown from 1.6 TWh in  2008 to 3.4 TWh in 2011 (see page 17). While coal power is still needed to provide affordable baseload  generation, Vattenfall can reduce its CO2 exposure and CO2 costs by  co-firing biomass in hard coal–fired plants, an approach that can be  implemented relatively quickly, though it is today still dependent on  subsidies. An important challenge is sourcing biomass sustainably,  and we are working together with stakeholders to establish prin- ciples and best practices throughout the supply chain (see page 19).  Because of the increasing use of renewables in the system, we also  expect that our coal-fired plants will see lower utilisation later in the  decade. Natural gas provides a lower-emitting and more flexible option,   and Vattenfalls generation from gas will increase through 2020,  becoming especially important as generation from coal decreases. Our existing hydro and nuclear power assets will continue to play  an essential role, and our investments are focused on increasing effi- ciency and availability of existing assets. The sale of concessions in  France has opened the possibility to expand in hydro power, which is  being pursued. In the longer term, the shape of the portfolio will also be defined by  societys decisions and market conditions. The decision to phase out  nuclear power in Germany will have an impact throughout the energy  system there, but it remains unclear what balance of fossil and  renewable power will replace nuclear power in the system. The long- term future of coal power, in particular, is tied to political decisions  about CCS. Vattenfall believes that CCS is needed to meet climate  goals affordably. But public resistance and a lack of political support  in Germany have forced us to shelve our planned CCS demonstra- tion project in Jnschwalde. Our progress In 2010 Vattenfalls owner, the Swedish state, updated the com- panys Articles of Association. This revision aligned the companys  objectives with the objectives being set for the European energy  system: the 20-20-20 targets.  Reducing emissions: 50% by 2030 In 2010 Vattenfall adopted a strategic target of reducing absolute  emissions of CO2 in Vattenfalls generation portfolio to 65 mega- tonnes (MT) by 2020 in pro rata terms (see box, page 10). This target  is based on the need to reduce financial exposure to CO2 costs and  can be met in part through divestments of high-emitting assets,  especially outside our core markets. Although these divestments will  not lower absolute emissions in Europe, they will lower the emissions   The portfolio will be defined   by societys decisions and market  conditions.  Strategy 10 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 in Vattenfalls portfolio. Vattenfalls emissions decreased from the  reported 93.7 MT in 2010 to 88.6 MT in 2011 (in pro rata terms). Contribution to emission reductions is best measured by the  emissions intensity of Vattenfalls portfolio. Vattenfalls target is to  reduce its CO2 emissions by 50% by 2030, from 1990 levels. With  todays portfolio, this would correspond to an emissions intensity of  280g CO2/kWh, though the 50% target will be calculated based on  the portfolio we own in 2030, in accordance with the Greenhouse  Gas Protocol. To date Vattenfall has reduced its emissions intensity  by 26.3% since 1990, adjusted for changes in the companys struc- ture since then.  In 2011 Vattenfalls emissions intensity was 417 g CO2/kWh. This  Vattenfalls roadmap for reducing CO2 exposure 2010–2020 Vattenfalls strategy means that we will reduce our CO2  exposure from 93.7 MT in 2010 to 65 MT in pro-rata terms  by 2020. Meeting the target of reduced emissions from  our portfolio will require investments in new generation  (primarily wind and natural gas). Long-term, the increased  production will likely reduce the need to run our coal- based plants, resulting in further reductions.  Our plan also means that we cut emissions from our  existing fossil-based production, primarily by co-combus- tion of biomass and coal and increasing the efficiency of  existing capacity. Parallel to this, our work to increase  efficiency and output from our hydro and nuclear power  plants continues.  For strategic and financial reasons, we are also consid- ering divestment of certain higher-emitting plants, espe- cially those outside our core markets. These divestments  will not lower emissions in Europe per se, but they lower  the emissions in Vattenfalls portfolio and provide us with  the resources to invest in lower-emitting technologies. As shown in the illustration above, Vattenfalls CO2  exposure will go up before going down, as two major coal- fired plants that are currently under construction, Boxberg  and Moorburg, come on stream in the next five years. Boxberg  Moorburg   in operation Investments in  renewables Divestments Co-combustion of  biomass and coal Fuel switching Electricity  generation 200   TWh 200 TWh 65 Mtonnes 93.7   Mtonnes CO2 emissions gCO2/kWh 2050 2030 2020 2010 2000 1990 600 400 200 0  Strategy 11 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 number is likely to increase through 2015 as new coal-fired plants  come on line, before declining steadily to 2020. Increasing renewables: 8 TWh from wind and biomass by 2020 Benchmarked against projected industry trends, Vattenfall has set  a goal of generating 8 TWh of electricity from wind and biomass by  2020. In 2011, Vattenfall generated 3.4 TWh of electricity from wind and  biomass, up from 2.2 TWh in 2010.  Supporting energy efficiency: Continuous improvement in our operations  and in helping our customers use energy While the results of our energy efficiency initiatives cannot be  quantified, in 2011 we initiated or strengthened energy initiatives  including the following: Expanded sales efforts related to insulation  and heat pumps in the Netherlands and Sweden; new and improved  energy management systems for customers; and increased public  awareness campaigns. See page 22 for details. Reinforcing values and policies To better ourselves and help us to act consistently over time, we have reinforced our corporate  values and improved our policies. Our company values unite us, directing our actions: Safety: we care about the health and safety of our employees, contractors and the  society. All actions have to be taken in a safe and responsible manner. Performance: we perform at our best and continuously evaluate our actions in order   to improve. Co-operation: we trust each other and openly work together – thinking, acting and  sharing knowledge while learning from each other.  Strategy 12 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 What is Vattenfalls role in society? Access to energy is a precondition for the function and development  of society. However, all energy generation has an impact on the envi- ronment. Vattenfall supports sustainable development in society by  managing the balance between secure energy supply and environ- mental and social consequences in a responsible way.  An energy company is a partner to society in many aspects, with  deeply rooted relationships and mutual dependence with many dif- ferent stakeholders. Foundations for working partnerships are trust  and confi dence, something you earn. In its most basic form it comes  down to using sound judgement to balance the needs and wants of  our stakeholders.  Vattenfall is criticised in some areas: the investments in fossil energy  sources and high greenhouse gas emissions, nuclear safety and trans- parency in communication and remuneration. Yet Vattenfall performs  many crucial functions: delivering energy to more than 10 million  customers every day, building and maintaining critical infrastructure,  working with local communities and contributing SEK 4.4 billion to the  Swedish state and its 9.5 million citizens. Understanding and responding to societys expectations is cru- cial to Vattenfalls business. We study and respond to stakeholder  expectations at every level of our business. Some of the questions  and comments received through those studies are noted here – and  the topics raised in this report are based on this feedback. Emissions and climate change Are you cutting your  CO2 emissions? No, not yet. Emissions are expected to  increase further before they begin to come  down.   Read more on page 14. Materiality analysis Importance  for external  stakeholders Vattenfalls ability to infl uence  Strategy 13 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Responsible sourcing Are you sourcing  responsibly? Yes. We set standards and work with others  to make them more impactful.   Read more on page 18. Energy use Are you helping to  save energy? Yes, we are doing a lot, but we can do more.  Saving energy has never been more impor- tant.   Read more on page 22. Nuclear safety Is it responsible to  continue? Yes, we will continue to operate nuclear  power. Nuclear will be important for many  years to come.   Read more on page 26. Employee relations How does the energy  transition impact  employees? Working in a changing context is challeng- ing, but rewarding.   Read more on page 30.  Are you cutting your  CO2 emissions? No, not yet. Emissions are expected to increase  further before they begin to come down.  15 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Emissions and climate change Our emissions of greenhouse gases1 are set to increase, as two new  coal-fired power plants come on line. In 2012 we will open a new lignite- fired plant at Boxberg in Germany, which we expect will emit approxi- mately 1,000g CO2/kWh. In 2015 we will bring the hard coal–fired plant  in Moorburg, which we expect will emit approximately 710g CO2/kWh,  into full operation. These plants, although highly efficient, will increase  the emissions intensity of Vattenfalls overall portfolio. These two projects have been under development since 2006. The  new generation projects that we have undertaken since then are  focused on lower-emitting natural gas and wind power. The effects  of new gas-fired and wind power projects on Vattenfalls overall  emissions will begin to be seen after 2015. Managing the transition Fossil fuels are very useful: historically they have been the most  energy-rich, affordable, and practical resources. The global economy  was built on fossil fuels. Climate change means that this has to  change, but it cant be done suddenly without disruptions. Lignite   has been the most important domestically available fuel for Germany,  and we will continue to operate our lignite power plants as a way of  keeping the German energy system affordable and reliable through  the transition to a low-emitting energy system. At the same time we  will be shifting our portfolio towards renewables and gas (see 5-year  investment plan, page 8).  In the long-term, we expect that fossil energy combined with car- bon capture and storage (CCS) will contribute to stable and afford- able electricity and heat generation in Europe. At present, however,  the political framework needed to make underground storage of CO2  feasible has been slow to emerge. This is why, after years as a leading  actor in the development of CCS, in 2011 Vattenfall decided to shelve  its plans for a large-scale demonstration project at Jnschwalde in  Germany. We continue to be active in research and development of  CCS and have high hopes for the technology in the long-term. By 2020 we aim to reduce our exposure to CO2 prices by reducing  the emissions in our portfolio to 65 MT (in pro rata terms). A certain  portion of this target can be achieved through divestments, espe- cially outside our core markets, which will not necessarily reduce  overall emissions in Europe. These reductions can be best measured  by an emissions intensity target. Our goal is to reduce the emissions intensity of our electricity  and heat by 50% by 2030 from 1990 levels. With todays portfolio,   Our goal is to reduce the emissions  intensity of our electricity and heat  by 2030 by 50% from 1990 levels. 1)  Emissions per unit of energy, or g CO2/kWh. Our total emissions may decrease depending upon  divestments.  16 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Emissions and climate change this would correspond to an emissions intensity of 280g CO2/kWh,  though the 50% target will be calculated based on the portfolio we  own in 2030, adjusting for changes in the company structure in the  interim in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Vattenfall  has so far reduced its emissions intensity by 26.3% since 1990. Investing for the future Achieving this reduction will require a number of different investments  in new assets and improved performance from our existing assets,  including our hydro power and nuclear power plants in Sweden. The largest part of the new investments will go to wind power.   In the coming five-year investment period, we expect 33% of our  capital expenditures on generation to go to wind power. Vattenfalls  wind power today is approximately half onshore and half offshore,  but large offshore projects such as DanTysk and East Anglia,   and upcoming projects in the UK will add the majority of new wind   capacity in the next phase of investment.  Gas-fired power will help Vattenfall maintain its generation of  baseload electricity and heat, with about half the emissions of coal1.  Gas-fired plants are also more flexible and can be used to balance  Future possibilities – Due in large part to  planned investments in wind power, we expect  that after 2016 the large majority of our capital  expenditures will be in low-emitting energy  sources.  17 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Emissions and climate change power in the system against demand – an increasingly  important function as more wind and solar power is  built. The gas-fired plant at Magnum in the Nether- lands will open in 2012, and new gas capacity will be  developed for the district heating networks in Berlin  and Hamburg in Germany. The bulk of Vattenfalls emissions come – and will  continue to come – from coal-fired power and heat  generation. The amount of coal-fired generation in our  portfolio will decrease, as we sell off plants in non- core markets, but we also must address the emissions  in our core assets. The best available option is co- combustion of biomass in hard coal plants. Vattenfall  is already a major player in biomass, which fuels most  of our heat generation in the Nordic countries. Our  current investments involve testing and minor refur- bishments to plants in Germany and the Netherlands  so that co-combustion can begin there. Our ambition  is to replace as much as 50% of our hard coal with  biomass. Achieving high levels will depend on the  availability and affordability of sustainable biomass  (see page 19), and receiving the right incentives from  CO2 prices and direct subsidies. Key indicators  Wind    Biomass & Waste   Hydropower    % of all generation investments 1) 2 year rolling average. Investment in renewables1 SEK million  %  11 10 09 08 07 10,000 7,500 5,000 2,500 0 100 75 50 25 0  CO2 Mtonnes   CO2 g/kWh CO2 emissions Mtonnes  gCO2/kWh 11 10 09 08 07 100 75 50 25 0 600 450 300 150 0  Nuclear    Fossil    Wind    Hydropower   Biomass  Generation TWh 11 10 09 08 07 200 150 100 50 0 Important events Acquisition of wind power project – Sandbank Vattenfall acquired the Sandbank offshore wind  power project in Germany, which will eventually  feature 96 turbines and a total capacity of 576MW.  Construction may begin as soon as 2015. CCS project in Jnschwalde shelved Vattenfall shelved its plans for large-scale CCS  demonstration in Jnschwalde, Germany, as the  necessary legislative framework covering under- ground storage did not emerge. Vattenfall will  continue to be active in research & development of  the technology, and in 2011 joined the Ferrybridge  pilot project in the UK.  Nuclear power phase out in Germany The decision to phase out nuclear power in Ger- many is reshaping Germanys effort to reduce  greenhouse gas emissions. In the near term,  increased coal- and gas-fired power production  will have to cover for off line nuclear capacity,   while in the longer-term even greater investment   in renewables will be required. Climate and Energy Roadmaps released The European Commission released its Climate  and Energy Roadmaps, laying out potential path- ways towards an energy system in 2050 with  emissions 80%–95% below 1990 levels. While the  Roadmaps envision several alternative scenarios,  all feature significant improvements in energy effi- ciency, increased use of renewable energy, and a  power sector that will be essentially CO2-neutral. Agreement to extend the Kyoto Protocol The COP 17 climate negotiations in Durban,  South Africa resulted in an agreement to extend  the Kyoto Protocol through 2017 and negotiate  a replacement treaty, which will involve commit- ments for all countries, by 2015. 1) IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories  Are you sourcing  responsibly? Yes. We set standards and work with  others to make them more impactful.  19 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Responsible sourcing Vattenfall procures materials, goods, and services from more than  30,000 different suppliers. One way we can support sustainability  and responsible business principles is through our relations with  these suppliers. By setting and maintaining standards for the con- duct of our suppliers, we also do our company a service, by decreas- ing risks that can interrupt our supplies, raise costs for our opera- tions and damage our reputation and relationships with stakeholders. Much of our purchasing – for example, our purchases of machinery  or engineering services – is done from companies in the European  Union and other areas with strong regulatory enforcement and a  strengthening practice of corporate social responsibility. Nonethe- less, we seek to establish and apply consistent standards for all our  suppliers, building on the principles of the United Nations Global  Compact, taking into account current environmental best practice,  human rights and reasonable safeguards of ethical performance. Sourcing fuels responsibly Responsible sourcing of fuels is particularly challenging. The supply  sources for hard coal, biomass, uranium, and natural gas are often  located far from Vattenfalls home markets, and the supply chain for  their production and delivery can often be complex and difficult to  follow. In some cases, such as coal and natural gas, supplies include  spot market purchases from pools of suppliers. Many of these fuels  are sourced from countries with different standards of regula- tory oversight and enforcement, placing a greater responsibility  on Vattenfall as a purchaser. And in some cases, such as biomass,  issues surrounding sustainability and responsible production are  widely debated, and best practices are still being defined. Vattenfall  has had a checklist for biomass purchases since 2009, but is now  developing a framework that can be applied globally, adding food  security and social aspects to environmental criteria, and providing a  way to measure and report results.  Issues of concern for hard coal sourcing include mine worker safety,  labour/management relations, corruption, and local environmental  and social impacts of mining. For biomass, life cycle greenhouse gas  emissions, environmental impacts of cultivation, effects on food pro- duction and prices, and impacts on local economies are all important  considerations. In sourcing uranium, mine worker health and safety,  local ground water impacts, consideration of indigenous populations,  landscape restoration, and supply chain security and integrity are  paramount. Given these complexities, Vattenfall works with three kinds of tools  to ensure responsibility in our sourcing:  By setting and maintaining standards  for the conduct of our suppliers,   we also do our company a service,  by decreasing risks.  20 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Responsible sourcing A Supplier Code of Conduct. While conditions vary among our sup- pliers, it is important that we have an overall code of conduct that  sets the bar for doing business with Vattenfall. Vattenfall adopted  a code in 2008 and is continuously revising it for more effective  implementation. This general policy applies to all suppliers but is also  the framework for the development of tailored policies, for example  concerning nuclear fuel, biomass and coal. Due diligence and audits. Ensuring that our suppliers are living up to  the Code of Conduct and our expectations of them require that we  evaluate their operations, both before entering a contract and via  follow-up audits.   Both types of evaluation can typically include a review of inherent  country risks, including the suppliers countrys acceptance and imple- mentation of important treaties and conventions, reviews of health,  safety, and environmental management systems in place at the sup- plier company, and a good citizen review that looks at relationships  with society and neighbours. Audits are designed as follow ups of   initial due diligence and vary in frequency based on perceived risks. Important events Biomass sourcing in Liberia In 2011 Vattenfall took the first deliveries of  wood chips from Buchanan Renewables Fuel (BR  Fuel). In the initial phase Vattenfall will source  500 thousand tonnes of biomass from depleted,  non-producing rubber trees in Liberia. During the  year, BR Fuel adopted a CSR policy and updated  its environmental policy, and both are currently  implemented in the company. Vattenfalls venture  has nonetheless been criticised in a report by the  Dutch non-profit SOMO and the Liberian Green  Advocates, which claim that small holders are not  being fairly treated and that the production is driv- ing up prices of charcoal, among other criticisms.  A project called Farmbuilders had in fact already  been formed by BR Fuel to focus on small holders  and specific issues related to them.  Bettercoal initiative Bettercoal, registered in the United Kingdom, is  a non-profit, membership-based initiative whose  mission is to advance the continuous improve- ment of corporate responsibility in the coal supply  chain. The industry-led initiative seeks to improve  business practices at the mining level by engaging  stakeholders and is based on a shared set of stan- dards, the Bettercoal Code. Establishing sustainability criteria for biomass Vattenfall finalised an agreement with the city of  Berlin, establishing sustainability criteria for woody  biomass to be used in heat and power generation  there. The agreement covers criteria for environmen- tal, social, and greenhouse gas accounting for the  full supply chain. The standard will apply only to bio- mass combusted in Berlin, but will be co-ordinated  with voluntary standards used throughout Vattenfall.  21 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Responsible sourcing Contributing to joint initiatives Our ability to impact practices among our suppliers is limited if we  act alone – suppliers who do not accept one companys conditions  can sell to that companys competitors, creating pressure towards  the lowest common denominator standards in the industry. This  is especially true where fuels are sold in large spot markets and not  contracted directly. For this reason we are working with our industry  peers to develop joint standards, sometimes in conjunction with reg- ulatory developments, and other times on a purely voluntary basis. Together with the World Nuclear Association, we have worked to  define 11 principles for managing radiation, health and safety, and  environmental issues. The resulting joint policy document, Sustain- ing Global Best Practices in Uranium Mining and Processing, aims at  sustaining best practice and promoting it among new participants in  the uranium supply chain. Vattenfall, together with its peers in the European energy sec- tor, has taken a similar initiative to improve corporate responsibil- ity in the hard coal supply chain. The Bettercoal initiative seeks to  establish a Code of Conduct in coal mining that supports continuous  improvement by suppliers and sets a framework for purchasers own  policies. The initiative also enhances transparency within the supply  chain, allowing participating companies to share information about  the social, environmental and ethical performance of suppliers (see  box, page 20). What do we purchase? Some key data on traded commodities and fuels. 9.2  Mtonnes hard coal Our purchases are made mainly through  bilateral contracts with coal suppliers. We purchase both for  use in our own plants and for sale to 3rd parties. 8  bcm gas Vattenfall maintains commercial relationships with sev- eral major upstream and midstream players, who themselves source  gas from locations including the North Sea and Russia. 1,278  tonnes uranium Vattenfall sources uranium from  Namibia (approximately 30%); Australia (approximately  30%); and Russia (approximately 40%). 600  kilotonnes biomass Biomass is sourced internationally,  from locations including Liberia, the Baltic region, the Iberian  peninsula and Canada. Large volumes (for example waste wood) are also  sourced locally and not in global markets. 27   million CERs Vattenfall contracted 60 projects representing  approximately 27 million Certified Emission Reductions (CERs),  each equivalent to one tonne of avoided CO2. These projects do not  reflect Vattenfalls compliance purchase of CERs but our involvement  in the so-called primary market for the Clean Development Mechanism  (CDM).  Are you helping to save energy? Yes, we are doing a lot, but we can do more.  Saving energy has never been more important.  23 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Energy use It may seem odd that a company in the energy business wants to  help people use less of its products. But there are good reasons for  Vattenfall to work on energy savings, both in our own operations and  on behalf of our customers. In fact, the reasons for doing so have  never been more compelling. First, our industry is growing increasingly competitive. If we are to  succeed in the electricity and heat markets, we will have to be cost- competitive in our generation of electricity and heat, which means  we must maximise the efficiency of our operations. The second, equally important driver of our work on energy savings  is our customers. Both businesses and households expect us to help  them make better use of our main products, because saving electric- ity and heat helps them save money and decreases their environ- mental footprint. In many cases our customers demand services and  products that help them do so.  Finally, society expects us to do so. The transition to a sustainable  energy system will be much more affordable and practical if eco- nomically beneficial energy savings measures are put in place. This  reality has driven a demand for both information and for new prod- ucts and services outside of our traditional markets. Efficiency in our generation Upgrading components in our power plants in order to improve effi- ciency is a regular part of our work. But were also testing other ways  to improve the efficiency of our operations: in Germany were work- ing on upgrading the fuels in our lignite plants, and even on redefin- ing the notion of the power plant.  Lignite is Germanys primary source of energy. However, more than  50% of the fuels weight is water, which has significant impact on  the net efficiency of conventional lignite power plants. Since 2008,  Vattenfall has been working in its pilot plant in Schwarze Pumpe,  Germany, to develop an efficient process – called pressurised flui- dised bed drying (PFBD) – to reduce the moisture content of lignite  before combustion and thus increase efficiency. Tests show that the  process results in a net efficiency increase of up to 5% along with  a 10% reduction in CO2 emissions. Dry lignite will also help lignite  plants operate more flexibly and, eventually, will be required for the  incorporation of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology.   The process remains expensive, however, and will likely become   commercialised only with a much higher CO2 price. In order to safeguard grid stability we are also developing a vir- tual power plant. Our virtual power plant transmits information  between the grid and decentralised heat pumps and small scale  combined heat and power (CHP) units at our customers sites. When  the grid reports a surplus of wind power, the control room instructs   Businesses and households expect  us to help them make better use of  our core products.  24 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Energy use heat pumps to use the extra electricity to make heat to be stored  for later use. When the grid reports a shortfall of wind power, the  control room instructs connected CHP units to generate extra heat  and power, with the latter being fed into the grid to compensate  for shortfalls. This arrangement can result in more efficient use of  intermittent energy sources like wind, and a decrease in the need for  backup power plants. Our customers efficiency needs Our customers want to find ways to save energy, too. In many cases  the best energy savings technologies are not new. In the Nether- lands, Vattenfall is a market leader in insulation, having installed   4.3 million m2 since 2008, including cavity wall, floor, and loft insula- tion. See page 25 for information on the ambitious insulation work at  Kroeven. Sometimes the best product is advice. In the Netherlands our Ebat- ech consultants provide personalised advice on energy efficiency  and other sustainability objectives, and in Sweden we perform  Energy Audits for our business customers. Several of our product  packages also include advice from experts – not just on technology,  but on behavioural changes that can save energy. For many customers, information is the most important tool, and  Vattenfall and partners have begun work on transform- ing the electricity grid in Gotland, Sweden, into a smart  grid. The project involves upgrading the existing grid  with smart components, building an energy-storage  facility, improving communication and testing the abil- ity of various marketing models to influence customers  energy habits. Because Gotlands electricity already  includes more than 30% locally-generated wind power,  and because the islands grid can be separated from the  mainlands, the project could serve as a model for future  power systems.   25 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Energy use in each of our core markets we offer digital tools that help custom- ers manage their energy use. In Sweden, Energy Watch provides  real-time visualisation of the electricity being used by appliances in  the home, and comes with analysis tools to help users find savings.  In the Netherlands we offer E-Manager, a similar data and analysis  package that also allows for remote control of lights, thermostats,  and appliances. In Germany the Energy Controlling Online (ECO) tool  allows our business customers to monitor their energy use online. Vattenfall also feels a responsibility to inform the general public  about the potential to save energy. In the Netherlands our Energie- Genie.nl website provides information targeted at school children.  In Finland and Sweden we have initiated high-profile challenges  whereby families attempt to reduce their energy consumption and  CO2 emissions. The Finnish challenge used celebrity families to  drive media interest, while in Sweden, the One Tonne Life project,  initiated with Volvo Cars and A-Hus (see box, right), reached more  than one-third of adult Swedes, half of whom said that the project  inspired them to take action in their own lives (TNS/SIFO 2011). Growing awareness about the potential for energy savings has also  created new areas of business for Vattenfall, such as the Sustainable  City partnerships in Uppsala, Hamburg, Berlin and Amsterdam, which  provide services ranging from efficient heat and customised technol- ogy solutions to services and analysis. In all three of our core markets  e-mobility has become a new business for Vattenfall, as efficient elec- tric cars become an increasingly attractive alternative to conventional  combustion engine cars. Important events Launch of E-Manager In November 2011 we launched E-Man- ager, our monitoring and analysis tool for  energy savings in the Netherlands. Kroeven project In 2011 we delivered insulation to 120  of 246 homes being renovated at the  Kroeven project in Roosendaal, the  Netherlands. The renovated homes are  expected to reduce gas consumption by  77–86%. Heat pump package offering In 2011 Vattenfall began offering a heat  pump package in Sweden. The package  includes inspections and expert advice,  and can reduce energy consumption and  costs by 30–55%. One Tonne Life The One Tonne Life project saw the Lin- dell family in Sweden attempt to reduce  their CO2 footprint from 7 tonnes to 1  tonne per person per year. Many of the  measures taken were related to energy  efficiency: a high-efficiency home, a  plug-in hybrid electric car and advice  from Vattenfall experts helped them  reduce their emissions by 60% without  comprimising comfort of quality. The  project generated a great deal of media  attention to the effort.  Is it responsible to continue? Yes, we will continue to operate nuclear power.  Nuclear will be important for many years to  come.  27 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Nuclear safety The tragic tsunami in Japan in 2011, which killed tens of thousands  of people, also caused serious damage to the Fukushima Daiichi  nuclear plant that resulted in the release of radioactive material.  This event had serious implications for energy markets globally and  galvanised changed popular opinion against nuclear power in a few  countries. In Germany, all nuclear power will now be phased out by  2022 at the latest, and the reactors at Krmmel and Brunsbttel  have lost their licences to generate electricity with immediate effect.  We expect compensation for financial damages caused to our  nuclear operations in Germany. Nonetheless, we believe that nuclear power will be an important  technology for many years to come. Nuclear power can make impor- tant contributions to keeping costs low and securing the electricity  supply, and can do so with very low life cycle emissions of green- house gases. While Belgium, Switzerland, and Italy also took steps  away from future nuclear development, it is clear that the technology  will continue to be an important option for other countries, includ- ing Sweden, where we are committed to continuing as a responsible  operator of nuclear power.  Stress-testing safety Our first responsibility will always be the safety of our operations,  which cannot be compromised. Yet we must also improve the avail- ability of our nuclear assets, especially in view of the high and  increasing demands on safety systems and routines.  During 2011 all EU countries performed stress tests of their nuclear  power plants. After reporting from national regulators, the following  general conclusions can be drawn: 	All plants are approved for continued operation. 	Safety requirements related to earthquakes, floods, and damage   to multiple units on a single site will be increased. 	Similar areas of improvement were identified across Europe,  namely related to electricity provision, cooling, and emergency  response. The Swedish authorities reported: We have identified several areas  where additional analyses are necessary. However, our overall  assessment is that Swedish facilities are robust and there is no   reason for us to impose any restrictions on facility operations. Even before the stress tests, Vattenfall had been investing sub- stantially in improved safety at its nuclear power plant as well as in  reducing their environmental impact and increasing their capacity.  Nonetheless, unplanned, extended outages have occurred in   Our first responsibility will always be  the safety of our operations, which  cannot be compromised.  28 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Nuclear safety recent years. Although the availability of our plants has not met our  targets, in each situation we have lived up to our safety responsibili- ties. In 2011, Ringhals was forced to significantly extend the ordinary  yearly outage at one of the units. A small fire during the outage left  a severe amount of soot inside the reactor building, which required  extended work. Availability of our plant at Ringhals was reduced to  59.9% in 2011.  The low availability at Ringhals 2011 was in contrast to the very  high availability of our Forsmark plant (86.2%, vs. 71.8% in 2010). We  see it as our responsibility to maintain high availability at every plant  we operate in order to maximise the benefits that nuclear power  can provide in the form of stable, inexpensive and low-emitting elec- tricity. We have undertaken extensive modernisation efforts at our  Swedish operations to improve availability and output in the future  (see box, page 29). Phase-out in Germany, a new look at Sweden In Germany, both of our plants at Krmmel and Brunsbttel had been  off line for long periods for refurbishment and modernisation (related  to damaged equipment outside the reactors, see CSR Report 2009)  when the government made its decision to phase out nuclear power.  This means that these plants, along with six others operated by  other companies, will never be restarted. This decision does not regulate the issue of compensation for the  financial losses of the nuclear operators, and Vattenfall expects  compensation for its losses and hopes to reach a settlement with  the German government. Vattenfall is currently evaluating the new situation in Germany   with regard to necessary changes in the German organisation. This  also includes future demands in qualifications and the number of  employees. In Sweden, we are spending more than SEK 50 billion to extend  the lives of our nuclear plants. At some point, however, they will  have to be replaced or retired. In 2010 the Swedish parliament  decided that existing reactors could be replaced with new nuclear  capacity. Vattenfall is currently undertaking an intensive analysis  to better understand under what conditions such capacity could  be built, including both economic factors and how high safety and  environmental requirements can be met.   29 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Nuclear safety Ongoing work plant-by-plant Ringhals More than SEK 22 billion will be invested in  more than 300 discrete projects to improve  safety and increase availability and produc- tion at Ringhals. These include:  Ringhals 1: Six new low pressure turbines;  environmental certification of cabling  and strengthening of automatic borine  injections; ongoing exchange of safety  switchgear. From 2014 we will undertake  safety-strengthening measures at local  transformers. Ringhals 2: Strengthening of the auxiliary  feed water system in 2013; work on various  aspects of the cooling systems through  2014. Ringhals 3: Safety upgrades and finalising of  modernisation of turbine island; a new local  transformer installed; planned replacement  of the high pressure turbines. Ringhals 4: New steam generators and  pressuriser installed; instrumentation and  control system installed, installation of pre- heaters including piping work and retrofit of  high-pressure turbines.  Forsmark More than SEK 10 billion is being invested in  projects to extend the plants life and adjust  to new safety and environmental require- ments. These include: Lifetime extension projects: Focused on  securing long-term operation of the plant,  including replacement of older components. Long-term maintenance planning: Inventory of  components and systems, and recommen- dations for renewal and replacement plans. Capacity increases: Measures to increase the  total capacity by 410MW are being planned,  though these are variously dependent on  regulatory permission and strengthening of  the connection to the grid.  Germany Due to the German governments nuclear  phase-out decision, our nuclear Brunsbt- tel and Krmmel power plants lost their  licences to generate electricity.  In Brunsbttel we will enter a post-opera- tional phase. We are planning and preparing  the decommissioning and dismantling of the  plant. In Krmmel we are in the phase of a  long-term standstill.  Strategy 30 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 How does the energy transition  impact employees? Working in a changing context is challenging,  but rewarding.  31 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Employee relations The energy industry is going through an upheaval. Technological,  economic, and behavioural practices hundreds of years old are now  increasingly seen as unsustainable, and much of society expects  energy companies to lead the transition to new models. At the same time ,energy remains fundamental to our lives. Our  stakeholders assume that the electricity and heat that we deliver  will be available and affordable, even as we attempt to overhaul the  systems used to deliver them.  This situation puts Vattenfalls employees in a unique situation: The  work we are undertaking is hotly debated in politics, the media, and  among the general public – yet much of it is simultaneously taken for  granted. Vattenfalls employees are required to balance these chal- lenges. We need to embrace the urgency of change while delivering  continuity; we must open up to new perspectives and ideas but con- tinue to meet the fundamental demands of our jobs. This situation places high requirements on Vattenfalls people –  both current employees and those we hope to recruit. The changing mix of skills On a technical basis, we require the knowledge and skills necessary  to work with a broad portfolio of technologies. For some important  energy sources, such as offshore wind, the technologies are new,  and Vattenfall is competing for a scarce supply of skilled and expe- rienced professionals. Other energy sources, such as lignite, have a  long history, but present challenges related to sustainability. These  challenges can involve demonstrating and implementing technologi- cal improvements but also, such as in the case of carbon capture  and storage (CCS), building public acceptance for new approaches. Over and above their required technical skills, Vattenfalls employ- ees face challenges of leadership. The changes in our industry  require leadership in the fi eld, where the ability to innovate on the  fl y and deliver big projects to ambitious standards is a daily reality.  Leadership is also required in daily offi ce life. Vattenfalls managers  must be clear in their expectations and visible to their teams, and  they must show in their decision-making the courage their employ- ees are expected to exhibit in their work. Strengthening these char- acteristics of leadership, and reinforcing the companys core values  of Safety, Performance, and Co-operation, are supported by the  companys ongoing leadership training through the Vattenfall  Management Institute. Securing skills and strengthening our sense of leadership will help  the company to face its ongoing challenges. Vattenfalls develop- ment into a European company also means that our people must   We must open up to new  perspectives and ideas but  continue to meet the fundamental  demands of our jobs.  32 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Employee relations Rob van der Plas, Energy Advisor, the Netherlands  Rob van der Plas advises Vattenfalls customers in the Netherlands about how they can use  less of our main products: electricity, heat, and gas. Thats less, not more. They dont always understand why we as an energy company are helping them to save  energy, he says of his customers reactions to his personal visits. I always say that when  you go to any good dentist, theyll tell you to brush your teeth. Robs reports might advise customers to take simple, behavioural measures, or he might  advise them to install insulation or new appliances.   Sometimes the smallest thing in the house uses a lot of energy, he says. Today I visited  a customer who has a new house, and her electricity consumption was very high – a broken  thermostat kept going on, keeping the bathroom at 26 degrees, even in the summer. Rob has worked at Nuon and now Vattenfall for 27 years. He understands the questions  about his role, but he believes the relationship with customers is gaining in importance. Some colleagues think what we do is fantastic, but we hear criticism about the costs   we incur as well. A year ago I was the one who was selling core products instead of advice.   But I have always told customers that what I do benefits both sides. Thats still true. understand multiple markets with different conditions, as well as  the Europe-wide energy context. Not every conflict can be avoided:  tensions in society related to sustainability and the so-called energy  triangle (see page 6) exist within the company, as well. Scarce  resources and competing priorities are challenges. Balancing secure,  affordable energy with the transition to sustainability is not easy, but  in many ways finding that balance is its own reward.  33 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Employee relations Sture Wasseng, Plant Manager, Idbcken CHP, Sweden What happens when wood buildings are demolished? When telephone poles come down?  When wood and plastic and paper get all mixed together? These days, people who have this kind of waste cant take it to a landfill – the EUs  environmental regulations wont allow it. So they bring it to Sture Wasseng at Vattenfalls  Idbcken CHP plant in Nykping, Sweden. Idbcken has pushed its plant to be able to handle these fuels – as Wasseng says, to  always be a few years ahead. This means pressure to innovate and invest in better systems.  But it also means access to cheaper fuels that make the plant more profitable. Using tomorrows waste wood today is economical, but only works if Wasseng and his  team can handle these impure fuels without creating problems for the boiler or harmful  emissions to the air. Innovations in boiler design and operation and, increasingly, fuel  handling and waste separation, have been key. Of course weve had the occasional problem, Wasseng says, but working with challeng- ing fuels has built it into the culture here. Everyone starts from the assumption that were  going to deliver heat that the community can rely on, and that were not going to emit any  unnecessary pollutants.  Katja Mller, Programme Manager for Vattenfalls Continuous  Improvement Programme (CIP) in Cottbus, Germany Katjas work touches on many aspects of Vattenfalls operations, but is always about  efficiency. Being more efficient makes us a stronger partner to society Mller says. Thats espe- cially important because we are one of the biggest employers in the Lausitz region. Improving vocational training can help Vattenfall keep its standing as an employer. Local  communities know that our training is excellent. The CIP Programme wants to keep that  focus on quality, and wants to find more time for training apprentices, while decreasing the  amount of administrative work the trainers have to do. Societal debates about sustainability and responsibility have a particular resonance in  Lausitz, with its long history in coal mining. Sustainability is absolutely an issue, Mller says.  We have to take care with this transition – and we have to try to win support for CCS. Responsibilities to the local population are felt deeply. A lot of people are affected by our  mines – in the worst case, they may have to move house and lose a part of their personal  background, she relates. We really have to do what we can to help these people establish  new homes where they are happy.  34 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Whats next? The Turbulent Teens (see Vision 2050, WBCSD) are ahead of us and  the energy industry is seeking to clarify that we are not just part of  the problem, but also part of the solution. The industry is entering  a period of transition towards a more sustainable energy system.  Long term targets are set, the direction is clear, and first steps on  the journey are being taken from various starting points. However,  the optimal path to secure access to affordable energy with mini- mal impact on climate and society still needs to be defined. The key  unknown factors are available technical solutions, economic viability  and public acceptance. We continue to work hard on these chal- lenges, and the following elements will define our progress in the  near and medium term: Trust The private sector must build trust in its role as a contributor to  society and to sustainable development. This is especially true in  the energy industry, where trust remains extremely low and public  acceptance is especially important to the investment environment.  Public trust in Vattenfall, specifically, has fallen to unacceptable  levels in recent years. We cannot succeed as a company without  reversing this trend.  Technological development and innovation must accelerate. The  costs of emerging renewable energy technologies must continue  to decline to ensure the widest possible adoption. Facilitating tech- nologies – grids, energy storage, and IT applications for networks  and end users – must get better, cheaper, and smarter. Vattenfall is  active in all of these areas. Though we will not always be a pioneer,  we aim to be a significant contributor to accelerating technological  change. Partnership must become the first option. Private companies in  competition can solve many problems, but the energy industry  needs collaboration with other industries, with the public sector  and with civil society to effectively set a course. Vattenfall is work- ing with partners in new ways – from our collaboration with national  and city governments, to our dialogues with NGOs, to our work on  Smart Sustainable Cities and E-Mobility. Along the way the indus- try must open up – trust and partnership cannot succeed without  transparency. Balanced and open communication is the first step,  but im proving our measurement of environmental and social perfor- mance is also important. To succeed in all of these we need to understand where our stake- holders stand, understand their concerns and expectations. We  need to strengthen our relationships, and incorporate stakeholder  perspectives in all relevant aspects of business management and  operations. We are looking forward to working with you. What is next?  The key unknown factors are  available technologies, economic  viability and public acceptance.  35 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Key indicators Key indicators 2011 2010 Change,   % Net sales, SEK million  181,040 213,572 –15.2 Operating profit excl. items affecting comparability, SEK million 28,562 39,952 –28.5 Return on equity, % 8.6 10.0 – Investments, SEK million 35,750 41,794 –15.5 Electricity generation, TWh 166.7 172.4 –3.3 Sales of gas, TWh 53.8 63.3 –15.0 Sales of heat, TWh 41.6 47.1 –11.7 CO2 emissions, million tonnes Sweden 0.40 0.59 –32.2 Finland 0.23 0.28 –17.9 Denmark 4.4 6.4 –31.3 Germany 67.8 70.1 –3.3 Poland 5.8 6.4 –9.4 Netherlands  8.1 7.8 3.6 Total 86.7 91.5 –5.2  Maintenance  Growth Investments SEK billion 11 10 09 08 07 120 90 60 30 0 CO2 emissions per generated  unit of electricity and heat g/kWh 600 450 300 150 0   90 95 00 05 10 15 Peat 2 Waste non-biogenic 2 Biomass & biogenic waste 12 Lignite 13 Gas 23 Hardcoal 46 Other incl oil 2 Heat production 2011, % Hydro power 21 Nuclear power 25 Fossil-based power 51 Other1 3  1)  Wind power, biomass   and waste Electricity generation 2011, %  Energy production with low CO2 emissions  Fossil-based energy production Vattenfalls total electricity generation  amounted to 166.7 TWh.   Profit for the year attributable to  owners of the Parent Company   Return on equity, % Profit for the year   and return on equity SEK million  % 11 10 09 08 07 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 20 15 10 5 0  Net debt   Total interest-bearing liabilities   Debt/equity ratio, %  Debt/equity ratio, net, % Net debt SEK million  % 11 10 09 240,000 180,000 120,000 60,000 0 200 150 100 50 0   Sales (scale on left)   Operating profit1 (scale on right) 1) Excluding items affecting comparability. Sales and   operating profit SEK million  SEK million 11 10 09 08 07 240,000 180,000 120,000 60,000 0 60,000 45,000 30,000 15,000 0  36 Vattenfall Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Contacts Contacts Vattenfall in general  Elisabeth Strm, Senior Vice President,  Head of External Relations & Communication  elisabeth.strom@vattenfall.com CSR reporting Magdalena Ellfors, manager, Corporate social responsibility magdalena.ellfors@vattenfall.com Environment Agneta Rising, Head of Environment agneta.rising@vattenfall.com Research & Development Karl Bergman, Head of Research & Development karl.bergman@vattenfall.com Investor Relations Klaus Aurich, Head of Investor Relations klaus.aurich@vattenfall.com Additional information  www.vattenfall.com/csr Other publications Vattenfalls Annual Report 2011. All reports can be ordered or downloaded  from Vattenfalls websites www.vattenfall.se  www.vattenfall.com Reports can be ordered from Vattenfall AB, SE-162 87 Stockholm Tel. +46 8 739 50 00  Disclaimer Vattenfall considers that the information contained in this  report presents a true and fair picture of Vattenfall. The CSR  Report has been assessed by a third party as described in the  combined assurance report.  The fi nancial data presented in the report is taken from  Vattenfalls audited annual accounts. The reporting currency  of Vattenfall AB is Swedish kronor (SEK). For detailed  information on Vattenfalls fi nancial status and performance,  the reader is kindly requested to refer to the Annual Report.  2011 Annual Report 2011  Production: Vattenfall AB and Intellecta Corporate AB.   Photos: Vattenfall AB and Getty Images. Illustration (p.24):  Kjell Eriksson. Printing: Ineko. Repro: Turbin.   Copyright 2012, Vattenfall AB, Stockholm, Sweden.  Vattenfall AB (publ) SE-162 87 Stockholm, Sweden Corporate Identity Number 556036-2138 T +46 8 739 50 00 www.vattenfall.com