Communication on Progress Messe Frankfurt 2011/2012 Global Compact  On the title and in the body of this Communication on  Progress (CoP) our new key visual will accompany   you. The four colours stand for the fields of action of   our CSR programme. The dynamics of the organic   shapes reflect key figures from our activities.  Sustainable thinking and action play a central role at  Messe Frankfurt, especially considering that trade fairs  are platforms for ideas, new concepts and innovative  products. Together with our stakeholders, we act as  catalysts to promote new developments through our  dedication and convictions. At our events around   the globe, we showcase solutions for a sustainable  future, such as energy-efficient building technology   at Light+Building, sustainably produced fashion at   the Ethical Fashion Show and the GREENshowroom   or electromobility at Automechanika.  Messe Frankfurt has always attached great value to social  responsibility. Sustainability and corporate social respon- sibility are thus not only key themes at our events but a  firmly established element of our business strategy.  We have joined the Global Compact and officially endorse  the ten principles of this initiative in the areas of human  rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We are   committed to upholding these principles and will conti- nue to adhere to them in the future.  In the reporting period, we have taken many small and  large steps to expand our CSR activities. For example, we  are currently building one of the worlds most sustainable  conference centres, the new Kap Europa building, we  continue to promote sustainability in the fashion industry  through our cooperation with Esmod, the International  University of Art for Fashion, and our catering services  increasingly feature fair trade and regional products.  The following pages tell you more about what we have  achieved in the past year and what we have planned for  the future.  Sincerely yours, Wolfgang Marzin President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO),   Messe Frankfurt GmbH Our Responsibility  Preface from the Executive Board 3 Global Compact 2011/2012  4 Global Compact 2011/2012 Organising trade fairs means more to us than just  bringing people together. First and foremost, trade  fairs are about innovations, emotions, ideas, contacts  – and of course business. The face-to-face conversa- tions that take place during our events build a sense  of community and enhance the cohesion of the  industry as a whole. Personal relationships foster  trust. And this is the best foundation for doing  business in the future.  The Messe Frankfurt Group combines all disciplines   of the trade fair business: ownership and operation   of one of the largest exhibition grounds in the world;  trade fair, convention and event organisation at our  headquarters and around the world; and extensive  services including logistics, stand construction and  catering, as well as training and further education  opportunities at Akademie Messe Frankfurt. The  leading international industry events in the fields   of Technology & Production, Consumer Goods &  Leisure, Textiles & Textile Technologies, Mobility   & Infrastructure and Media & Creation shape inter- national markets and trends.  Messe Frankfurt plays an important role in the city  and the region. In addition to 923 jobs in Frankfurt,  the company secures 18,700 jobs indirectly in the  region and another 13,800 in Germany. Thanks to its  outstanding profitability, Messe Frankfurt distributes  annual profits to its shareholders, the city of Frankfurt  and the state of Hesse, while generating EUR 2.2  billion in additional sales for local companies.  But our responsibility and influence do not end at our  own doorstep. As the largest trade fair organiser in  the world with its own exhibition grounds, we are  present for our customers in more than 150 countries.  We promote sustainability and responsible business  wherever we operate in our global network of   28 subsidiaries, five branch offices, 52 international  sales partners and 1,769 employees worldwide.  Global partner  About Messe Frankfurt In our core business of trade fairs, we fulfil our role  as a catalyst for sustainability in close cooperation  with industry communities. Many of our international  flagship fairs, both our own and guest events, have  areas of emphasis in energy efficiency, recycling,  water management, waste disposal or eco-textiles.  Special shows, conferences and other formats  address sustainability at all our fairs throughout the  world.  For instance Messe Frankfurt Hong Kong in coope- ration with the Chinese government organises  Water Expo China + Water Membrane China on   the topic of water resource management. The  industries leading fairs ISH and Light+Building  point out energy efficiency and renewable energy.  In September 2012, Messe Frankfurt will host   the 27th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Con-  ference and Exhibition (EU PVSEC).  The long-term cooperation between Messe Frankfurt  and fair organiser UBM Live also takes sustainability  goals into consideration. A joint sustainability  statement includes an agreement to make events  sustainable in the comprehensive sense.  Catalyst for sustainability   Our philosophy Corporate Social Responsibility  Messe Frankfurt has always set great store by the  principles of sustainability. The development of  Frankfurt into an international financial service hub  would hardly be conceivable had it not been a  thriving trade fair centre over the centuries, which  gave also rise to the establishment of the Frankfurt  stock exchange in 1585.  In other words, our commitment to corporate res-  ponsibility and sustainability is not a new concept,  but is based on the close relationship forged in the  course of more than 800 years of trade fair history  between the city of Frankfurt and the state of Hesse,  which are also owners of the company today.  Sustainability today means responsible business  practices, something that encompasses economic,  ecological and social factors. In this sense, sustai- nability is a firmly established component of our  business philosophy and culture and is reflected in  our activities in all parts of the company around the  globe. New regulations and activities are decided by  a group-wide Advisory Committee. Adjusted to local  parameters they are implemented decentrally,  which demonstrates our strong local connection   not just at our headquarters in Frankfurt but all over  the world. Since 2012, the claim simply sustainable along  with a logo has been used to designate Messe  Frankfurts diverse CSR activities. The logo is  currently available in a German and an Englisch  version, and is planned to be translated into other  languages for the international subsidiaries.  5 Global Compact 2011/2012  6 Global Compact 2011/2012 In 2011/2012, Messe Frankfurt increasingly focused  on extending its CSR activities internationally. And  with great success: through their own initiatives,  our subsidiaries and branch offices share our CSR  involvement throughout the world.  While Messe Frankfurt promotes a fair work climate  by joining the Charter of Diversity in Germany,  Messe Frankfurt Hong Kong emphasises its commit- ment in this area by being a member of the Equal  Opportunities Commission (EOC). The aim is to  promote diversity and equal opportunities for everyone.  Messe Frankfurt France shows its dedication to  culture at the Ethical Fashion Show, where it  sponsors the Prix Ethical Fashion honouring the best  sustainable fashion collection from an up-and- coming designer at the Dinard International Festival  of Young Fashion Designers. Mesago Messe Frankfurt in Japan is involved in  social projects. Bottle caps are for example colle- cted and donated there as part of the Ecocap Move-  ment. The proceeds subsequently are used to  finance lifesaving vaccines for children in developing  countries. Activities worldwide Fields of activity Credibility and lasting impact are the key criteria for  selecting and implementing CSR activities which  ideally complement Messe Frankfurts portfolio. Our  activities are divided into four fields. In the field of Environment / Sustainability, we have  implemented a number of ecological measures   at our exhibition grounds, related for instance to  energy efficiency, materials management, logistics  and traffic.  Social Responsibility at Messe Frankfurt involves an  obligation to our employees, our stakeholders and  society in general. Of emphasis here are the above- average working conditions at our sites around the  globe and our support for social institutions in the  region.  In the area of Education / Science, Messe Frankfurt  is systematically involved in the region in the long  term. The company is proud to sponsor the Chair   of International Economic Policy at Frankfurt  University as part of its corporate citizenship.  Furthermore, Akademie Messe Frankfurt serves   as a comprehensive professional development  network offering training and further qualification  for employees, stakeholders and communities. Messe Frankfurts Cultural Involvement includes  targeted sponsorship of events and organisations,  awarding prizes for outstanding achievements   in architecture, design and music, and organising  the Luminale festival of lighting held in parallel   to Light+Building.   7 Global Compact 2011/2012 Kap Europa congress building We set ourselves the goal of creating one of the most  sustainable congress centres in the world. The   new Kap Europa centre is currently being built in the  immediate vicinity of the exhibition grounds.  In fact, Kap Europa will be the first conference  building to be certified according to the recognised  DGNB (German Sustainable Building Council)  standard. It will meet the highest standards for  sustainable construction and operation. On a total  of four levels, Kap Europa will feature a large hall  for 1,000 people, a smaller room for 600 which can  be subdivided, and 12 additional conference rooms.  Construction has already begun, and the building is  expected to open for business in summer 2014. News 2011/2012 Fair trade  Messe Frankfurt is pleased to serve exclusively fair  trade coffee in its staff restaurants as of December  2011. By making this switch, we communicate our  support for fair trade and increase awareness of this  issue amongst our employees. Moreover, all emplo- yees help to reduce waste in the company: reusable  porcelain coffee mugs have been available since  late 2011 for coffee to go, instead of disposable cups.   Zero-emission cars in the fleet of vehicles Working conditions  Messe Frankfurt has added two zero-emission cars  to its fleet of vehicles. The environmentally friendly  technology of the new battery-driven E-cell and the  hydrogen-powered F-cell vehicles is another contri-  bution to sustainable business. Thus Messe Frankfurt  promotes the spread of innovative and environmen- tal-friendly technologies. The two cars are used  primarily on the exhibition grounds and within   the city of Frankfurt, making them ideal vehicles   for the needs of the company. Training and continuing education for our emplo- yees is of great importance to Messe Frankfurt.   23 apprentices are currently being trained in Frank-  furt as office clerks, event managers, IT specialists  and event technicians as part of our apprenticeship  programmes and dual courses of study. To further  promote training and a successful career start for  young people, Messe Frankfurt also takes part in   an initiative to help youth find apprenticeships and  agrees to provide a long-term training position as  part of this programme, which targets young people  who would otherwise not find a trainee position on  their own.  We offer our employees above-average working  conditions at all of our locations including professio- nal development and continuing education, for  instance at Messe Frankfurt Akademie in Frankfurt.  Moreover, comprehensive health management  services are also available including smoking  cessation programmes, sport courses and medical  services. One of our highly successful initiatives   is Brainfood, a series of courses on nutrition.  Messe Frankfurt conducts regular employee sur- veys, which are systematically evaluated and if  required targeted measures are taken in response.  The most recent survey once again indicated  exceptionally high values for employee loyalty and  satisfaction.  Anti-corruption Messe Frankfurt works to prevent corruption  amongst all group employees. There are unambi- guous, mandatory rules for accepting gifts and  favours. The objective is to avoid even the impres- sion of conflicts of interest and illegal practices.   If illegal methods are suspected, employees may  anonymously contact an external ombudsman.   A new interactive behavioural training programme  for preventing corruption increases awareness   and provides concrete information and recommen- dations for behaviour. Information on this topic   is summarised on the intranet and is accessible to  every employee.  8 Global Compact 2011/2012  9 Global Compact 2011/2012 In 2012, the worlds leading trade fair for lighting  and building services technology, Light+Building,  featured energy efficiency as top subject. An issue  that is of vital importance for a sustainable future.  The so-called smart grid is one solution in this  context. In the special show Buildings as power  stations in the smart grid visitors could experience  and learn about the future of building technologies.  The exhibition showcased the central building block  of the smart grid: the networked building as a power  station that generates, uses, stores and distributes  energy locally.  Smart Grids Messe Frankfurt and the International University of  Art for Fashion Esmod (cole Suprieure des Arts   et Techniques de la Mode) have entered into a  long-term partnership to jointly promote sustain- ability in the fashion industry. The aim of the  cooperation is to establish environmentally friendly  fashion produced in accordance with socially  responsible standards amongst designers, produ- cers and users. The issues of eco-fashion and  sustainability will be successively integrated into  the curriculum.  Messe Frankfurt has many years of experience and  an international network in the field of textiles   and sustainable fashion. We organise more than   30 international textile fairs every year. Messe  Frankfurt already has two specialised events in  sustainable fashion in its portfolio, the Ethical  Fashion Show in Paris and the GREENshowroom   in Berlin. The Ethical Fashion Show presents more  than one hundred brands in this area, while the  GREENshowroom highlights high-end fashion,  accessories and lifestyle products. Messe Frankfurt and Esmod look forward to develo- ping a viable platform for fashion produced under  environmentally friendly and socially responsible  conditions and reinforcing the importance of  eco-fashion in the long term.  Eco-fashion  Messe Frankfurt GmbH Ludwig-Erhard-Anlage 1 60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Tel. +49 69 75 75-56 61 Fax +49 69 75 75-66 00 csr@messefrankfurt.com www.messefrankfurt.com V.i.S.d.P. Kai Hattendorf Editor Corinna Zge Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed   human rights; and Principle 2:  make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3:  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition   of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4:  the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5:  the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6:  the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7:  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8:  undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9:  encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The UN Global Compacts ten principles 10 Global Compact 2011/2012