2011 Assurance and Compliance  Supplement REPORT TO SOCIETY A gemologist appraises a diamond, cut and polished by a Sightholder in Botswana.  1 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  This Supplement provides additional information on  the production and content of the De Beers Family  of Companies 2011 Report to Society. De Beers is  committed to reporting transparently and accurately  on its financial and non-financial performance. We  engage with stakeholders on a continuous basis to  identify and understand their expectations of us as  a business, including our approach to reporting. This Supplement details the processes we undertook  in 2011 to shape and inform the content of the  Report to Society. It also provides additional  assurance on the information in the report, including  first party assurance on internal audit and risk  management by the De Beers Group Manager for  Internal Audit; third-party assurance on the Best  Practice Principles Assurance Programme by SGS;  and the third-party assurance/verification opinion  of SGS UK Ltd on the Report to Society. In their independent assurance of the Report  to Society, SGS UK Ltd were of the opinion that  De Beers reporting was in line with Application  level A+ of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  (see below). This Supplement also provides  a GRI Compliance Table we have prepared  to help stakeholders quickly find the information  they want. Report TO SOCIETY  2011 Kagiso Jacob is a Gemologist who apraises the nal cut gems at Steinmetz Botswana Report to Society  2011 Operating  and Financial  Review 2011 2011  Sustainability  Risks Supplement These documents are available for download from  www.debeersgroup.com.  Page number references provided in this supplement are to the  Report to Society 2011 (RtS), except where noted as being for the  Operating and Financial Review 2011(OFR). Reports referenced SGS United Kingdom Ltd was commissioned by De Beers to conduct an independent assurance of the  De Beers Report to Society 2011. In addition we have carried out a full evaluation of the GRI Application Level against GRI G3 (2006)  and the requirements of the GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. This evaluation includes the  contents of the Report to Society, the GRI compliance table contained in this Supplement, and the  Operating and Financial Review 2011.  We are of the opinion that De Beers reporting is in line with Application level A+. Our full assurance statement can be found in the De Beers Report to Society 2011, p66-67. Feedback We appreciate your feedback on the 2011 Report to Society or any  other aspect of our sustainability performance. Please contact us at: External and Corporate Affairs De Beers UK Ltd, 17 Charterhouse Street, London, EC1N 6RA E livinguptodiamonds@debeersgroup.com T +44 (0) 207 404 4444 www.debeersgroup.com Independent Assurance Statement  2 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Improving our sustainability performance We engage with stakeholders in a number of formal processes to  inform our approach to sustainability reporting. Engagement on reporting  We engage with stakeholders on our sustainability performance  management at a Group level in two formal processes on an annual  basis. The insight, recommendations and constructive criticism we  receive through the Managers Perception Survey and the Multi- Stakeholder Forum, shape our sustainability management strategy  and practice. In 2011, findings from the two processes particularly  informed our approach to reporting (see Table 1, p3), and were  used to identify and prioritise issues of concern to stakeholders  (see both tables, p3). Multi-Stakeholder Forum, 2011 We held our fourth Multi-Stakeholder Forum in December 2011,  inviting external experts to critique our sustainability reporting  and approach, and engage with senior management. Discussions  focused on topics such as tackling the resource curse, policy  development, biodiversity, corruption, and De Beers role as an agent  for community development in Africa. As with our previous reports,  participants in the forum (see box right) elected to present a series of  questions regarding relevant and material issues instead of a formal  assurance statement. The Forum was facilitated by Salterbaxter, and attended by senior  De Beers management including the Head of Public Affairs, Head  of International Affairs, CEO Forevermark, Group Technical Director,  and the Group Environmental Principal. Our answers to some of these questions are presented  throughout the 2011 Report to Society in the boxes marked  as Stakeholder questions. Managers Perception Survey, 2011 Each year we implement a Managers Perception Survey to learn  more about how employees use our Report to Society and whether  it covers the appropriate issues. Our 2011 survey was sent to over  100 employees, including those who contributed to the Report  to Society 2010, as well as all senior leaders across the Family of  Companies. Diamond Dialogues De Beers has convened an ongoing series of Diamond Dialogues  since 2007, drawing together industry, civil society and policy actors  to discuss key sustainability issues relevant to mining, development  and Africa. Thirteen dialogues have been held to date in Brussels,  London, and Washington. In 2011, one dialogue was held in  London and focused on the challenges and opportunities of  water management. Issues of concern raised by stakeholders  in these sessions also informed the material issues reported in the  Report to Society this Supplement accompanies (see Table 2, p3). Participants in the 2011  Multi-Stakeholder Forum included  representatives from: Government   UK Governments Department for Business, Innovation  and Skills  UK Governments Foreign and Commonwealth Office NGO sector  CDP Water Disclosure  Fauna & Flora International  Institute for Human Rights and Business  WaterAid  Transparency International Sustainability service providers  PricewaterhouseCoopers  Lifeworth Consulting Services  SGS UK Media  The Sunday Standard, Botswana  3 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Table 1:  Stakeholder feedback on our reporting approach, 2011 MPS MSF Aspects of the Report considered most useful/favourable Performance  reporting Presentation of data for reference;  good coverage of all key topics and  material issues. Breadth and detail of information provided.  Shorter Summary Review  for 2010 preferred.  Management  approach Information on management  practices, policies and position. Clarity and detail on approach, frank tone.  Clarity on business case for action on each  issue. Compliance  and assurance Adherence to global best practice  standards. Independent third-party assurance  by SGS. Design and  layout Accessible, strong design. Engaging, easy to read, clearer messaging  than previous years. Reporting recommendations Tone Focus on opportunities as well as risks;  report on dilemmas/challenges as well as  successes. Use more accessible language. Content More safety information/case studies;  Breadth good, but more detail could  be reported. Bring out diamonds for development story  more strongly. Clarify risk identification  process, and definition of duration of risks.  Provide more context for the data within  the report. Format and  distribution Better web access; produce 2-page  summaries to distribute more  widely/increase accessibility. Ensure targeted distribution to stakeholders  and dont judge success by downloads.  Look for additional distribution channels  for information, outside report.  Performance  reporting Clarity on who is reporting, i.e. Family  of Companies. Set and communicate performance targets  and Key Performance Indicators. Management  approach Provide information on the overall  sustainability strategy and vision.  Show the linkages between management  of sustainability issues (i.e. water as a social  and environmental issue). Key MSF: Multi-Stakeholder Forum MPS: Managers Perception Survey DD: Diamond Dialogue Table 2:  Relevant and material issues identified through formal, Group-level  engagement with stakeholders, 2011 MPS DD MSF Page in  Report Economics The role of De Beers in contributing to social and economic  development, specifically in southern Africa.   17-23 Political lobbying, and the use of political leverage for diamond  revenue transparency/EITI support.  11,21 Ethics Corruption risk measurement and management.  29-30 Human rights management.  29 Conflict diamonds and the Kimberley Process.  28-30 Employees Safety.  38-39 Remaining an employer of choice. Managing the ongoing effects of  the global financial crisis on employees.  40-42 Communities Community engagement strategy and performance; transparency  around Impact Benefit Agreements in Canada.  46-53 Closure planning and management in relation to communities.  53,61 Environment Environmental rehabilitation activities, and monitoring of the  environmental impacts of seabed mining.  61 Water use and climate change policy.   59-60 No net loss to biodiversity.  62-63  4 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Internal Audit statement De Beers Internal Audit (DBIA) is an independent, objective assurance  and consulting activity designed to add value and improve the operations  of the De Beers Family of Companies. DBIA has been mandated by  the Board Audit Committee, a sub-committee of the Board of De  Beers Socit Anonyme (DBsa), to ensure that the major risks facing  the Family of Companies are identified and given appropriate audit  focus. Risk management, internal control and governance processes  are systematically reviewed to assist the Family of Companies accomplish  its objectives. DBIA submits an annual report to the Board Audit  Committee on the status of governance, internal control and  the appropriateness of risk management.  All DBIA reviews are performed in accordance with the International  Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing as prescribed  by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). Our Quality Assurance and  Improvement Programme (introduced in accordance with IIA  Standard 1300) found DBIA to be generally compliant with the IIA  Standards, the highest rating on the degree of conformity scale. Risk-based internal auditing DBIA follows a prescriptive, documented risk-based audit  methodology that culminates in its annual report on risk  management, the internal control environment and governance  to the Audit Committee. The audit plan is derived from the De Beers  Enterprise Risk Management system. The Group Risk Champion  consults on and assists with the facilitating risk management  workshops at all levels to ensure a complete and appropriate risk  management system. The risk management process collates  information from value centres and offices globally to business  units and ultimately to enterprise level. DBIA participates on the Principles Committee to ensure that good  governance and risk management are appropriately applied. Audit  work includes a thorough review of internal systems, procedures and  programmes of work for each business function and area of major  business risk. DBIA also collates reports from managers on the  integrity of internal controls, the safeguarding of assets and risk  management, as well as ethical, social and environmental matters.  It also considers reports produced by external assurance providers. The DBIA annual report to the DBsa Audit Committee, which was  submitted in February 2012, included the following opinion: I can  confirm that in my opinion the internal controls are adequate to  ensure that the financial records may be relied on for preparing  the reports to directors and shareholders, and for maintaining  accountability for assets and liabilities. In my opinion, in all material  instances, assets are adequately protected and used as intended  with appropriate authorisation and all significant business risks have  been identified and appropriate mitigating strategies are in place.  No matters have come to my attention during the year ended 31  December 2011 that indicate any breakdown of such magnitude has  occurred in the functioning of these internal controls, procedures  and system of the Group, which in my opinion, would affect the  fairness of presentation of such reporting, and therefore financial  decisions based thereon. Best Practice Principles In 2011, the scope of DBIAs review of the Best Practice Principles  Assurance Programme (BPPs) was focused on ensuring that the  programme continued to be supported by good governance. The  scope also provided for consulting on the Responsible Jewellery  Council (RJC) certification questions incorporated into the BPP  workbook process. Kimberley Process compliance The Kimberley Process is a joint government, diamond industry and  civil society initiative that requires participants to certify diamond  shipments are conflict free. Compliance with the Kimberley Process  is a legal requirement for participating countries. A review of the  fact-finding reports, issued by independent auditors, confirms that  relevant business units comply with the requirements for De Beers to  have its compliance with the Kimberley Process externally assessed.  These reviews sought to assess De Beers compliance with respect  to the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme (KPCS) on the  international trade in rough diamonds, in accordance with European  Council Regulation (EC) No 1574/2005. The assessments related to the  period commencing 1 January 2011 and ending 31 December 2011.  The major Kimberley Process compliance criteria are also reviewed  as part of the third-party verified BPP Assurance Programme. No  material breaches or non-compliance with the Kimberley Process  were identified in the 2011 BPP assurance cycle. First-party assurance on internal audit and risk management Statement from De Beers Internal Audit on selected material issues including internal auditing, the Best Practice Principles,  the Kimberley Process, anti-money laundering and integrated reporting.   5 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Implementation of the Anti-Money Laundering Policy In 2006, De Beers developed and communicated a policy on  Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism.  The policy reflects the deep-seated commitment of the Family  of Companies to maintaining the continued confidence of its  stakeholders and the integrity of its product. DBIAs 2011 review of  the implementation and progress of the policy highlighted that all  business units and applicable group functions have implemented  the policy. Integrated reporting In November 2010, the DBsa Audit Committee updated its Terms  of Reference to include a role for the Audit Committee in providing  oversight of integrated reporting by DBsa. This was in response  to the King Code of Governance for South Africa, otherwise known  as the King III Report. This reflects a broader drive for the integrated  reporting of financial and non-financial performance, to embed  sustainability considerations into commercial practice. In 2011, the  Audit Committee provided oversight of the further steps towards  integrated reporting undertaken in the 2010 Report to Society,  including commissioning third-party assurance. Brian Cleak Group Manager: Internal Audit De Beers Corporate Headquarters Johannesburg, South Africa, 24 February 2012 Independent Assurance of the Report to Society 2011 We commissioned SGS United Kingdom Ltd (SGS) to conduct an independent assurance of the Report to Society 2011. SGS evaluated  the content of the report according to the Global Reporting Initiative principles provided in the GRI G3 (2006) and AA1000AS (2008).  The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the text, and 2011 data in  accompanying tables, contained in the Report to Society. The full assurance statement is provided on p66-67 of the Report to Society, available for download from www.debeersgroup.com/ sustainability. In their statement, SGS provide the following verification/assurance opinion:  On the basis of the methodology described and the verifi cation work performed, we are  satisfi ed that the information and data contained within the Report to Society 2011 verifi ed  is accurate, reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of De Beers sustainability  activities in 2011.  The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report to Society 2011 can be used by the  reporting organisations stakeholders. We believe that the organisation has chosen an  appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting.  6 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Third-party assurance on the BPP Assurance Programme Statement from SGS on the De Beers Group 2011 cycle of the De Beers Best Practice Principles Assurance Programme (BPPs),  including scope, work undertaken, the BPP programme, veri cation methodology, key  ndings and recommendations.  Role of SGS in the BPP Programme Appointment of SGS  Following a tender process beginning in April 2003, SGS was invited  to present their proposal and following responses to additional  information was advised of their selection as the verification  partner in July 2003.  SGS is the worlds largest independent verification and certification  organisation and has no commercial interests. SGS continues to  maintain a vigilant system to ensure that conflicts of interest do not  arise through the provision of additional services to Sightholders  or the De Beers Family. This has been supplemented by further  safeguards since SGS gained accreditation as a Certification Body for  the Responsible Jewellery Council who also has interests in this regard. Scope of work and evolution of programme In 2011 the SMART system was updated to fully align question sets  with the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) Principles and Code,  maintaining the BPP requirements where these were already at a  higher level. For De Beers, findings on the on-site assessments  were rated in accordance with the RJC programme. In the  meantime, Sightholders were given the opportunity of integrating  RJC certification visits into their BPP programme during 2011 in  order to provide an efficient approach and to leverage the areas  of commonality.  The scope of work undertaken by SGS as the BPP verifier for the 2011  cycle comprised the following:  Desktop review of a sample of the workbooks submitted by  Sightholders and those submitted by the De Beers Family of  Companies. This process verifies that all required workbooks have  been submitted; that all questions have been answered; that the  responses to the questions support the compliance status declared  in each case and to test that conclusion by requesting supporting  evidence on a random number of questions.  Verification visits on up to 10% of the declared facilities to check  that the original first party assessments have been undertaken  thoroughly both by discussing this with the assessor and by seeking  first-hand evidence of compliance with the issues concerned.  A series of unannounced audits were conducted at a number of  facilities belonging to one Sightholder to follow up on previous  findings and evaluate level of compliance of facilities not previously  declared to the BPP programme.  Provision of information relating to the compliance status of  Sightholders and De Beers facilities and details of any significant  issues. This information is provided in accordance with the  confidentiality requirements imposed by the Supplier of  Choice Ombudsman.  Ongoing support in aligning the BPP and RJC processes. In 2011, responsibility for the hosting and maintenance of the  SMART system was transferred to the De Beers IT team. Work undertaken on De Beers Group facilities 73 workbooks were submitted across all eligible De Beers facilities  including six for contractors.  19 reviews were conducted and completed during the cycle.  10 verification visits were also completed including the three that  had been carried forward form the 2010 cycle due to problems in  gaining security clearance in time. The BPP programme The evaluation points of the Best Practice Principles have been fully  aligned to the RJC Principles and Code while the ratings continue  to take a more flexible approach, taking account of the common  practices and endemic issues in the industry and countries covered.  This is in line with the wider body of programmes covering business  partner evaluation.  For the De Beers Family of Companies, the requirement for the  submission of self-evaluations was completed to the agreed  deadlines. These were rated according to the RJC programme  in preparation for a full certification in 2012 and corrective action  plans have been submitted. This has included working with their  contractors to ensure that they also meet their requirements.  7 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Veri cation methodology The verification process is undertaken in three stages:  In the country of operation, workbooks are reviewed by  a qualified auditor. For Sightholders, this is a Social Auditor,  cross-trained in Environmental Management and briefed on  the requirements of the Best Practice Principles. For De Beers  this is an RJC accredited auditor.  Local reviews are then submitted to a central review point where  these are crosschecked to ensure consistency by country and  key points.  An average sample of 10% of facilities is selected centrally for onsite  verification to check the effectiveness of the first party assessments  and to evaluate at first hand the situation on the ground. In 2012 the RJC-aligned workbook was used with the SMART tool  applying the same risk assessment approach.  Key  ndings Workbooks were all received within the required timescales. Due to  the changes in key personnel within the De Beers companies there  were some delays in providing the additional evidence requested to  test responses and, as a result, verification for some workbooks had  to be based on the businesss declarations.  The facilities to visit were selected on a risk-based approach informed  by experience from previous cycles. Specific attention was paid to  facilities with mining operations based on the risk approach taken and  the increased requirements contained in the RJC Mining Supplement. Most infringements in the De Beers facilities found in the course of  previous cycles have been rectified with evidence of implementation  verified either on site or through the workbooks. However, a small  number of minor issues from previous cycles remain open and  discussions are continuing to ensure the evidence is uploaded  as required. In the 2011 cycle, Major Breaches were identified at four facilities.  Some relate to a lack of evidence to support compliance to the  additional requirements in the RJC-aligned workbook. However,  Health & Safety issues were also found at two locations. In the case  of one location, evidence of implementation of corrective actions  is still awaited in order to be able to close out these issues. Overall summary Policies and procedures are now generally embedded into normal  operations for De Beers facilities and there is a commitment to  meeting the requirements of the RJC and achieving certification  on 2012. In the 2011 cycle, no Material Breaches were identified during first-  or third-party assessments. The Major Infringements are being  tackled and communication is ongoing to obtain evidence  of corrective actions. Recommendations for future development 2012 will see the formal certification programme for the De Beers  Family of Companies which is to be undertaken by a separate team of  auditors with a different reporting line with no previous involvement  in the BPPs so as to avoid conflict of interest.  Sightholders who are certified to the RJC will be able to present this  as part of their evidence of compliance to the BPPs. Those who are  members of the Responsible Jewellery Council but have not yet  undergone certification will continue to have the opportunity to  undergo a combined BPP/RJC verification with the possibility of  this leading to a Recommendation for Certification against  that programme.  Effie Marinos SGS United Kingdom Ltd 9 March 2012 WWW.UK.SGS.COM www.uk.sgs.com  8 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  This table sets out how the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework has been  applied in our sustainability reporting, and how our reporting links to the UN Global Compact  and UN Millennium Development Goals. It primarily covers the De Beers Family of Companies  Report to Society 2011 (RtS) – Living up to Diamonds – and makes reference to the Operating  and Financial Review 2011 (OFR). We have prepared the table in order to help stakeholders  quickly  nd the information they want. Application of the GRI Reporting Framework forms a key part of our commitment to  continuous improvement and to achieving the highest levels of sustainability performance.  It is our belief, and the independent assessment of SGS, an assurance provider, that we have  applied the GRI Reporting Framework to the highest A+ standard. GRI Compliance Table De Beers Family of Companies Report to Society 2011 Report TO SOCIETY  2011 Kagiso Jacob is a Gemologist who apraises the nal cut gems at Steinmetz Botswana Report to Society  2011 Operating  and Financial  Review 2011 2011  Sustainability  Risks Supplement  9 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator shading  Extent of reporting  UN mechanisms core indicators   Partially reported  1 UN Global Compact Principles additional indicators   Fully reported  1 UN Millennium Development Goals Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Pro le 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision makers of the organisation  about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and  its strategy. 2-5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.  10-15, 18, 28,  38, 48, 58  2. Organisational Pro le 2.1 Name of the organisation Back cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Inside Front Cover  (IFC); back cover;  Operating and  Financial Review  (OFR) PDF 2-3 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions,  operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. IFC; OFR PDF 2-3 2.4 Location of organisations headquarters. Back Cover De Beers Socit Anonyme is headquartered in Luxembourg. 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names  of countries with either major operations or that are specifically  relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. IFC 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. IFC; OFR PDF p.3 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,  and types of customers/beneficiaries). IFC; 18-20; 21-22;  OFR 2-3; 6; 14-18 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including:  Number of employees;   Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues  (for public sector organisations);   Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity  (for private sector organisations); and  Quantity of products or services provided. IFC; 5; 8-9; OFR PDF  2-3; 5-8; 19-22 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size,  structure, or ownership. 2-4; 8-9; 18-20;  19-20; 40; 53; 61  10 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 3; 4; 14; 62; 63;  OFR PDF 10; 16 3. Report Parameters Report Profi le 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Contents page Information provided in the Report to Society 2011, and Operating  and Financial Review 2011, refer to the calendar year (January 1 to  December 31, 2011). 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Contents page 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Contents page 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Back cover Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for de ning report content  Determining materiality;  Prioritising topics within the report; and   Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report. 14-15; 10-11 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased  facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Contents page 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Contents page 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities,  outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect  comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. Contents page 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including  assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the  compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 19-20; 32; 42; 51 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information  provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement  (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of  business, measurement methods). 23; 39; 51; 59-60 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope,  boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI table No significant changes were made to scope, boundary or measurement  methods other than described elsewhere in the Report to Society 2011. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI table  11 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external  assurance for the report.  12-13; 14; 28; 32-33;  34-35; 48; 58; 66-67;  Assurance and  Compliance  document The 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement to the Report to  Society contains our first party assurance statement from De Beers  Internal Audit; a third party assurance summary of the 2011 Report  to Society by SGS; and a third party assurance statement on the  BPP Assurance Programme by SGS.  4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees  under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks,  such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 10; 12-13; OFR PDF  23-24; 26-27 10 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body  is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the  organisations management and the reasons for this arrangement). OFR PDF 23-24;  26-27 10 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the  number of members of the highest governance body that are  independent and/or non-executive members. OFR PDF 23-24;  26-27 10 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide  recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. OFR PDF 23-24;  26-27 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest  governance body, senior managers, and executives (including  departure arrangements), and the organisations performance  (including social and environmental performance). GRI table 10 The Remuneration Committee comprises a majority of directors who  do not hold executive office in De Beers, its subsidiaries or investments.  It approves remuneration for executive directors on the Board and  other senior managers including those on the Executive Committee.  The Remuneration Committee ensures that rewards are linked to both  group and individual performance and are commensurate with market  rates. Both group and individual performance include non-financial  performance metrics such as social and environmental criteria, which  include adherence to effective risk management and compliance. The exact remuneration structures of senior managers and other  employees at subsidiaries and investments is informed by group  policy and performance, but determined separately by the respective  boards, committees and finance and human resource functions of  each company.  12 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure  conflicts of interest are avoided. GRI table 10 A number of structures exist to ensure conflict of interest is avoided  in line with external best practice standards. These include the Best  Practice Principles Assurance Programme (BPPs) and the Directors  Conflict of Interest Policy. Existing statements in our Code of Conduct  and Business Ethics also require all personnel to act in the best interests  of De Beers and its shareholders. The Code also prohibits involvement  in business interests that conflict with the Principles and policies of  the Family of Companies or that might compromise independence  in decision-making. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the  members of the highest governance body for guiding the  organisations strategy on economic, environmental, and  social topics. GRI table 1-10 1-8 The appointment of directors is based primarily on the extent to which  they represent the interests of the shareholders and are able to provide  strategic guidance on the direction, values and performance of the  Company. This includes with respect to the Principles, ECOHS policies  and related sustainability and reputational risk management. The term of  office for each director is limited by law and the constitutional documents  of the Company to six years, but directors are eligible for re-election by  the shareholders. The terms of office of those directors appointed  by the majority consent of shareholders has been limited to periods  of three years, with the opportunity for re-election by shareholders.  Shareholders also have the ability to terminate appointments, if  necessary, prior to the completion of the appointed term of office.  Board continuity is fundamental to the sustained success of the De  Beers Group. This requires an on-going resource and skills identification  to be performed by the Board in consultation with shareholders. Board  members are able to supplement their own expertise on issues pending  decision by obtaining independent professional advice. The Company  Secretary coordinates the provision of professional advice to ensure that  advisors are appropriately briefed, provided with relevant information  and paid on completion of the assignment. The results of any advisory  engagement are also made available to other members of the Board. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of  conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental,  and social performance and the status of their implementation. 10; 12-13; 32-35;  48; 58-62; 68  1-10 1-8 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing  the organisations identification and management of economic,  environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and  opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally  agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 10; 12-13; OFR PDF  23-24; 25 1-10 1-8 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance bodys own  performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental,  and social performance. 12-13; OFR PDF  23-24; 25 1-10 1-8  13 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or  principle is addressed by the organisation. 2-3; 10; 12-13; 29-30;  32-33; 38-39; 43;  48-49; 52; 53; 58-62 7 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters,  principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes  or endorses. 11; 21; 28-29; 33; 59  1, 2, 4, 5, 10 1, 4-8 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or  national/international advocacy organisations. 11; 21; 33;  Membership of the World Economic Forums Partnering Against  Corruption Initiative (PACI). Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 10-11; Assurance  and Compliance  document p.2-3 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom  to engage. 10-11 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of  engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 10-11; Assurance  and Compliance  document p.2-3 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder  engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those  key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 10-11; 14-15; 19; 23;  30; 41; 49-50; 52; 61;  62; Assurance and  Compliance  document p.2-3  1-10 1-8 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators Aspect: Economic Performance DMA Management Approach disclosures. 8-9; 18-20; 21-23;  OFR PDF 4-8 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including  revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations  and other community investments, retained earnings, and  payments to capital providers and governments. 6-7; 8-9; 17; 18-20;  OFR PDF 5-8; 21-22 1-8 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the  organisations activities due to climate change. 59-60 8 7  14 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined benefit plan obligations. GRI table Employee benefits differ between operations and tend to include  leave, sick leave, maternity and paternity leave, medical aid, pension  plans, life insurance and compensation for injuries or disease at work.  In South Africa, for example, permanent employees have access to  the De Beers Pension Fund, which manages defined benefits and  a defined contribution scheme. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. GRI table No significant financial assistance was received from government  in 2011. Aspect: Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to  local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.  GRI table De Beers pays more than the local minimum wage in all of the  countries in which it operates. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based  suppliers at significant locations of operation. 6-7; 17; 23 See Figures 1a and 1b. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management  hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. GRI table At DBCM, a total of 77% of our permanent workforce is made up  of Historically Disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) (excluding  white females). HDSAs also make up 31.4% of managers at DBCM.  At Debswana, a total of 96.1% of the workforce is made up of local  citizens. Local citizens also make up 73% of managers at Debswana.  At Namdeb, a total of 87.8% of our permanent workforce is made  up of Historically Disadvantaged Namibians (HDNs). HDNs also  make up 43.9% of managers at Namdeb. (see also figure 8) Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Core EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services  provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in kind, or  pro bono engagement. 49-50; 51;  52-53 1-8 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic  impacts, including the extent of impacts.  17-25;  48-50 Environmental Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures. 57-58; 59-60;  61; 62; 64-65 Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. GRI table 8 7 The processes used within exploration laboratories and ore treatment  plants do in some cases require hazardous materials. Replacing,  minimising and eliminating the use of these hazardous substances  forms the basis of our hazardous materials and waste strategy. The  actual mining process does not require the use of hazardous substances.  See Figure 2.  15 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. GRI table 8 7 Water is a key input into the processing stages of treatment of ore for  diamond extraction. We recycle 46% of water at our southern African  operations (see EN10). Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 6-7; 60 8 7 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 60 8 7 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 60 8 7 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based  products and services, and reductions in energy requirements  as a result of these initiatives.  60 8 7 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and  reductions achieved.  60 8 7 Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 6-7; 59 8 7 Water use – as opposed to withdrawal – (by category of water type  e.g. potable and non-potable water) is reported and includes figures  for water withdrawn from sources such from the pit at Victor Mine.  For example at Venetia Mine, water is withdrawn and stored and  the use thereof is reported. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.  59; 64-65 8 7 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.  6-7; 60 8 7 Aspect: Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent  to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside  protected areas. 6-7; 62-63 8 7 In Southern Africa, both Namaqualand mines and the Namdeb operations  fall within the Succulent Karoo Biome – one of the Biodiversity Hotspots  of the world where 40% of the species found there are endemic. The  Diamond Route properties have or are associated with important  biodiversity e.g. the Dronfield properties lie adjacent to the  Kamfersdam KBA.  16 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services  on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity  value outside protected areas. 62-63 8 7 There are no activities within protected areas other than water  abstraction for Venetia Mine within the Mapungubwe National Park  (IUCN Category II) and this is managed according to strict licence  conditions. Outside of protected areas, the key mining activities by  their nature impact on biodiversity and involve application of the  mitigation hierarchy to avoid, minimise and mitigation through  both concurrent and post-production rehabilitation. EN13 Habitats protected or restored.  62-63 8 7 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts  on biodiversity.  62-63 8 7 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list  species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level  of extinction risk.  GRI table 8 7 This is collected in Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) and  associated specialist studies for every operation. Where relevant,  mitigating actions are taken and included in our Environmental  Management Plans (EMP). Numbers of species summarised from  across the Family of Companies are not currently included in  this report. Aspect: Emissions, Effl  uents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 6-7; 60 8 7 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 60 8 7 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and  reductions achieved.  60 8 7 EN19  Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. n/a n/a 8 7 Ozone-depleting substances that arise from air conditioners,  refrigerators and freezers that use these substances have not been  quantified but replacement of this equipment to that which does  not use ozone depleting substances is in line with legal requirement  time frames. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. GRI table 8 7 Our sulphur emissions relate almost exclusively to energy use  and changes in emission levels are directly linked to our energy  consumption. SO2 (sulphur dioxide) emissions from liquid fuels use  amounted to 618 tonnes in 2011 (2010:* 609 tonnes). Marine gas oil,  which contains higher concentrations of sulphur than most other  liquid fuels, contributed 74.8% of SO2 emissions, (2010: 76.3%) *  Sulphur emissions for 2010 have been restated slightly from the figure reported in  our 2010 RTS (from 610 tonnes to 609 tonnes). More work is to be done to refine our  sulphur emissions figures with site-specific factors.  17 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. GRI table 8 7 Water discharge data is not currently captured for our southern Africa  operations because water in these countries is typically reused and  recycled. Water discharge from our Canadian operations amounted  to 37.5 million m3 in 2011 (2010: 35.2 million m3). Discharged water  is the excess water from dewatering that is not used in operational  processes. The environmental impact of these discharges is managed  to strict requirements. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. GRI table 8 7 Waste is separated into categories at source to ensure appropriate  disposal and recycling. Hazardous waste produced during the mining  process is either responsibly stored onsite for future management or  disposed of through certified hazardous waste sites. Waste from our  Botswana and Namibian operations is generally disposed of through  facilities in South Africa. See Figure 3. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 58-59 8 7 Volumes of spills have not been included because of the differing  type of spills and their location which has differing impacts e.g.  hydraulic oil spilled into sea versus fine residue spill onto ground. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed  hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and  VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. GRI table 8 7 Any movement of hazardous waste is conducted in full compliance  with the Basel Convention for controlling trans-boundary movements  of applicable hazardous wastes e.g. between Botswana and South  Africa because no hazardous waste site exists in Botswana. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water  bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting  organisations discharges of water and runoff.  n/a n/a 8 7 Snap Lake, the receiving water body at the Snap Lake Mine, is 200 hectares  in area and has a limited absorption capacity because of its size and  low flow rate. The water aspects hence require careful management. Aspect: Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services,  and extent of impact mitigation. n/a n/a 8 7 The latent environmental impact of diamonds as products are  non-existent. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that  are reclaimed by category. n/a n/a 8 7 The nature of diamonds means they are rarely knowingly disposed  of. Packaging is negligible. Aspect: Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. GRI table 8 7 Following to an audit conducted in September 2011, Jwaneng Mine  was fined P4,000 (US$600) by the Department of Waste Management  and Pollution Control for various non-compliances related to licence  conditions for a landfill site and maturation ponds and hydrocarbon  disposal. These non-conformances have subsequently been addressed. An incident at Snap Lake during 2011 (see RtS p58-59) may result in a  fine but it is expected that the process may take 1-2 years to finalise  before whether a possible fine of up to C$100,000 (US$102,000) per  day for non-compliance being levied will be known.  18 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Aspect: Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and  other goods and materials used for the organisations operations,  and transporting members of the workforce. n/a n/a 8 7 The environmental impacts of transporting diamonds and other goods  and materials are (other than as described elsewhere in the Report  to Society 2011) negligible. Aspect: Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments  by type.  GRI table 8 7 Accounting procedures, spending classifications across the Family of  Companies do not separate out environmental expenditure because  it is integral to operational costs, e.g. earthmoving rehabilitation costs  may be included in the mining costs, water management costs within  overall engineering costs. Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures 37-43; 44-45 Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract,  and region. 6-7; 40; 42 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group,  gender, and region. 6-7; 40; 42 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided  to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations.  GRI table 3 This is governed by local employment legislation and different operations  offer various pensions and medical aid benefits for full-time employees  (see EC3). In South Africa, for example, the company subsidises medical  aid benefits to permanent employees and their families. In the UK we  must compensate for any benefits offered to permanent employees  that are not offered to temps or full-time-contractors. We cannot  discriminate against part-time employees. This will not always be  the case in other downstream jurisdictions. Aspect: Labour/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. GRI Table 3 Figure 4 shows union representation at our main operations in Africa.  Our operations in Canada are not unionised. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including  whether it is specified in collective agreements. GRI table 3 Employees at our Namibian operations are subject to a one month  minimum notice period regarding operational changes. For employees  at DBCM, De Beers Group Services (South Africa) and De Beers Marine  (South Africa), a two month consultation process in addition to the  one month notice period is applied where changes to our operational  requirements are contemplated. At Debswana the notice period is  either three months (for more junior grades) or six months (for more  senior grades).  19 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint  management–worker health and safety committees that help  monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programmes.  GRI table 1 Employees and contractors are represented in joint committees and  daily briefings with managers to monitor and advise on health and  safety programmes. In South Africa, for example, the law requires  that joint safety committees have 50% employee representation. At  Debswana, a Safety and Health Agreement is in place with relevant  unions covering health and safety committee meetings, as well as  the roles and responsibilities of safety representatives. For our downstream operations, the working environment differs but  there is a Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) representative covering  all areas who ensure that appropriate training and engagement  takes place. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism,  and number of work related fatalities by region. 6-7; 38-39; 43 1 Figure 5 shows Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and Lost Time  Injury Severity Rate (LTISR) by main business unit.  The Family of Companies has an outcome standard to maintain an  occupational illness frequency rate (OIFR) of less than five cases per  million hours worked. Definitions of occupational diseases and statutory reporting  requirements differ between business units. In 2011, across the  Family of Companies, 16 cases of occupational disease were  diagnosed and reported in employees; twelve cases of  noise-induced hearing loss; three cases of occupational malaria; and  one case of travel-related Deep Vein Thrombosis with Pulmonary  Embolism. All Business Units reporting cases of occupational disease in 2011 met  the De Beers OIFR standard of <5 cases per million person hours worked:  DBCM 0.22; Debswana 0.78; De Beers Marine 1.72; DBUK 1.5; Group  Exploration Division of De Beers Group Services 2.12 cases per million  person hours worked. Tuberculosis is an important endemic disease and health indicator in  southern African countries that are hyper-endemic for HIV infection.  The estimated national incidence rate of tuberculosis in South Africa  is 970 cases per 100,000 population. This compares to an incidence  rate among DBCM permanent employees in 2011 of 43 per 100,000.  20 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control  programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families,  or community members regarding serious diseases. 6-7; 43 1 Sub-Saharan Africa accounts for 67% of all global HIV infections  and most of our workforce is in the hyper-endemic countries where  exposure to HIV is a real threat to our employees health, their families  and the continuity of our business. Our holistic strategy for managing the HIV risk includes prevention,  treatment, care and support. We run awareness-raising sessions and  we provide confidential HIV counselling and testing to all employees,  spouses, life partners and contractors. Anti-Retroviral Treatment (ART)  is available free to HIV-infected employees and their spouses or life  partners where it can be provided in a responsible and sustainable  manner. Where it is not available through public health systems, we  continue to provide lifelong ART upon retirement or retrenchment. In addition to ART, our Disease Management Programme provides  employees with access to programmes that address physical and  psycho-social wellbeing related to HIV infection and treatment. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with  trade unions.  GRI table 1 At Debswana, a Safety and Health Agreement is in place with relevant  unions covering health and safety committee meetings, as well as the  roles and responsibilities of safety representatives. Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee,  by employee category. GRI table See Figure 6. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that  support the continued employability of employees and assist them  in managing career endings.  42 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and  career development reviews.  GRI table Our Talent Management Policy supports the recruitment, development,  succession and retention of employees across the Family of Companies.  It mandates the appointment of the best qualified internal or external  candidates in line with job requirements and national legislation  relating to employment equity. It also ensures employee performance  is gauged against a defined set of key performance indicators, through  regular dialogue and feedback. See Figure 7 (Please note that blank  entries may indicate either a lack of employees at a relevant grade,  or a lack of performance or career development review).  21 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees  per category according to gender, age group, minority group  membership, and other indicators of diversity. OFR PDF 26-28;  GRI table 6 3 The Family of Companies is committed to ensuring its workforce  is reflective of the societies in which we operate and to support  government efforts to offer opportunities to previously disadvantaged  groups. The Family of Companies ensures designated groups have  representation in decision-making positions that reasonably reflects  the demographics of the countrys economically active population.  A number of structures including our Employment Equity Committee  have been established in order to monitor our performance in this  respect. They include management representatives, union  representatives and functional personnel. The Family of Companies is actively supporting efforts to increase  the proportion of women achieving senior management positions.  In South Africa, this includes our support of the Women in Mining  programme, which is facilitated by the Department of Minerals and  Energy through the Da Vinci Institute of Technology. We also support  the establishment of mentoring schemes within our operations.  These schemes encourage women in senior positions to share their  experience and to motivate women in more junior positions to achieve  their full professional potential. See Figures 8a and 8b. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. GRI table 6 3 See Figures 9a and 9b. Human Rights Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures 29-30; 32-33;  34-35 Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements  that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human  rights screening. GRI table 1, 2 All investments over US$20 million are considered by the DBsa  Investment Committee. Social aspects, including some specific  potential human rights impacts identified through Social Impact  Assessments (SIAs), form part of the Committees considerations.  For example, potential impacts on Indigenous Rights are considered  through these and other social-management processes in project  development and the management of operations. In 2011, 100% of project-related investments approved by the  Investment Committee were supported by the relevant level  of social impact screening.  22 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have  undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. 32-35 1, 2 In the De Beers Family of Companies value-chain, the ethical, social  and environmental practices of our customers present a higher risk  than those of our suppliers. The Best Practice Principles Assurance  Programme includes human rights screening, and applies to  Sightholders, and to Significant Contractors that provide  goods or services to both De Beers and Sightholders. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning  aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including  the percentage of employees trained.  GRI table 1, 2 According to submitted figures, 245,923 hours were spent on human  rights training. A total of 3,454 employees participated in this process,  representing 31.38% of the permanent workforce. Aspect: Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. GRI table 1, 2, 6 No incidents of alleged discrimination were reported within the Family  of Companies in 2011. Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of  association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk,  and actions taken to support these rights. GRI table 1-3 The right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining  is not identified as being at risk at any of our mining operations. Trade  union and employee associations operate freely and have a strong  presence at all of our southern African mining operations. Our operations  in Canada are not unionised. At none of our downstream operations is the right to exercise freedom  of association and collective bargaining identified as being at significant  risk. At NDTC and DTCSA collective bargaining units are active, with  employees permitted to withhold their labour after the exhaustion  of prescribed disputes resolution procedures. At DTCB, collective  bargaining is permitted, but due to the critical nature of the diamond  industry in the context of Botswanas economy, legislation exists which  restricts the ability to strike. In the event of a dispute, mediation  followed by arbitration are the main remedies. Aspect: Child Labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child  labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of  child labour. GRI table 1, 2, 5 No operations have been identified as presenting a significant risk for  child labour. The De Beers Best Practice Principles (BPPs) Assurance  Programme ensures that forced labour/child labour does not occur at  any De Beers operations, operations of the DTC Sightholders, or at the  operations of significant contractors of either De Beers or Sightholders  (see p32-33 of the Report to Society).  23 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of  forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the  elimination of forced or compulsory labour. GRI table 1, 2, 4 No operations have been identified as presenting a significant risk for  forced or compulsory labour. The De Beers Best Practice Principles  (BPPs) Assurance Programme ensures that forced labour/child labour  does not occur at any De Beers operations, operations of the DTC  Sightholders, or at the operations of significant contractors of either  De Beers or Sightholders (see p32-33 of the Report to Society). Aspect: Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisations  policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that  are relevant to operations.  GRI table 1, 2 De Beers has a Group-level Security and Human Rights Policy that is  brought to the attention of security personnel as appropriate. Aspect: Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous  people and actions taken. GRI table 1, 2 No incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people were  recorded in 2011. Society Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures 10; 17-20; 22; 23;  29-30, 48-50;  51; 53 Aspect: Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices  that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities,  including entering, operating, and exiting. 22; 23; 48-50;  53; 61-62 1, 2 Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks  related to corruption. 29-30 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisations anti-corruption  policies and procedures. GRI index A formal training programme is under consideration. In 2011, awareness  and training sessions were held in Namibia, Johannesburg, Gaborone,  and London. The percentage of employees participating in these  sessions was around 1%. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 30  24 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy  development and lobbying. 10-11  We generally restrict our involvement in policy development to formal  participation in relevant forums and organisations, such as national  Chambers of Mines. In South Africa weve engaged indirectly with  policy matters that affect the mining industry as a member of the  Chamber of Mines. Issues in this regard include the proposed carbon  tax and policy discussions around maximising the developmental  impact of mining. Internationally, we engaged with the Kimberley  Process through our membership of the World Diamond Council. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties,  politicians, and related institutions by country. 21 Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour,  anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.  GRI table The Family of Companies works hard to ensure continued compliance  with competition and anti-trust laws and regulations in all jurisdictions  in which we operate. Employees are requested to report any breaches of this policy through  our whistleblowing hotlines. De Beers will not tolerate violations of  competition law, or mistakes resulting from carelessness or inattention  to legal compliance by its employees. In 2011, over 530 individuals were nominated to take part in online  competition compliance training. Three training programmes were  used: a long version (for a very small number of nominees who had  repeatedly not completed the training), a short version (for new  nominees) and a refresher version for those nominees who successfully  completed the short programme in 2010. The average completion  and pass rates across the group were 98.5% and 97.1% respectively. Aspect: Compliance Core SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. GRI table Other than described in the report, the Family of Companies was  not subject to any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for  non-compliance with laws and regulations in 2011. Product Responsibility Performance Indicators DMA Management Approach disclosures 27-35 Aspect: Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and  services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant  products and services categories subject to such procedures. n/a n/a Diamonds do not present any latent health and safety risks.  25 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and  voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products  and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.  n/a n/a Diamonds do not present any latent health and safety risks. Aspect: Product and Service Labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures  and percentage of significant products and services subject to such  information requirements. 28; 32-33; 34-35 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations  and voluntary codes concerning product and service information  and labelling, by type of outcomes.  6-7; 28; 32-33 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of  surveys measuring customer satisfaction. GRI table The DTC undertakes frequent surveys of Sightholder satisfaction  with the services they provide. External and Corporate Affairs also  undertakes surveys regarding Sightholder satisfaction with aspects  of the Best Practice Principles Assurance Programme (BPPs).  Forevermark undertakes frequent consumer-focused surveys. Aspect: Marketing Communications PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes  related to marketing communications, including advertising,  promotion, and sponsorship. GRI table External and Corporate Affairs and Forevermark – De Beers marketing  arm – seek to ensure all materials produced on behalf of De Beers are  not misleading and are in compliance with applicable advertising  rules and legislation. They also seek to ensure such materials do  not violate the intellectual property rights of third parties.  PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and  voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including  advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. GRI table No incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes  concerning marketing communications were recorded in 2011. Aspect: Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches  of customer privacy and losses of customer data.  GRI table No substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy  and losses of customer data were recorded in 2011. Aspect: Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and  regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. GRI table No significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations  concerning the provision and use of products and services were  recorded in 2011.  26 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Performance indicators – Mining and Metals Sector Supplement (2010) Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production  activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. 63 8 7 MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring  biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and  the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. 62-63 8 7 MM3  Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their  associated risks. 63 8 7 The amounts reported are provided in hectares, to provide a comparative  indicator of these materials within the total mining footprint. Volumes  of these materials will be provided in subsequent reports. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one weeks duration,  by country. 40 MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous  Peoples territories, and number and percentage of operations  or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous  Peoples communities. 48-51; 52  GRI table The only operations that took place in or adjacent to Indigenous  Peoples territories were the Snap Lake and Victor Mines in Canada  territories. In total, seven formal agreements have been entered into  with Indigenous Peoples Communities in relation to these operations. MM6  Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use,  customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. 50; GRI table;  Risk summary Our materiality process indicates that land claims is a lower-level risk  and is therefore only reported on in brief.  MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve  disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities  and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. 50; 52;  GRI table The structure and form of grievance mechanisms vary across the Family  of Companies. In 2011 an assessment and benchmarking of existing  grievance mechanisms commenced, to be completed in 2012. MM8 Number (and percentage) of company operating sites where artisanal  and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site;  the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate  these risks. GRI table X The materiality process for our 2010 Report to Society indicated that  artisanal mining was a lower-level risk for the Family of Companies and  it was removed from the materiality matrix. In 2011, our materiality  process again indicated artisanal mining as a lower-level risk and this  issue is not reported in the 2011 Report to Society. MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households  resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in  the process. 52; GRI table During the course of 2011 a small community of 72 persons, in 16  households, was resettled in the Lunda Norte region of Angola, in order  for safe exploratory drilling to occur. The resettlement process was  undertaken in line with the IFC Performance Standards, and externally  assured. In addition to compensation agreed through extensive  consultation with the community, on-going agricultural projects  supported by De Beers will continue to focus on livelihood restoration. MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. 53; 61-62 All mining operations have closure plans. These are at varying degrees  of resolution dependent on the remaining life of mine. Exploration  operations have EMP that cover closure of the exploration sites. MM11 Programmes and progress relating to materials stewardship. 58 8 7 See also figure 2.  27 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Performance indicators – Reporting Guidance on HIV/Aids Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Good governance Indicator 1 Describe the organisations HIV/Aids policy 43 4-6 Indicator 2 Describe the overall strategy for managing the HIV/Aids risk 43 4-6 Our approach to preventing HIV infection, both within our  workforce and more broadly, is built on awareness-raising, testing  and research. Awareness and training interventions are oriented  towards preventing and managing HIV and Aids, as well as related  risks such as tuberculosis. Indicator 3 Describe preparedness and contingency planning in anticipation of  expected impacts GRI table 4-6 Given that the Family of Companies operates in hyper-endemic  countries such as Botswana, Namibia and South Africa, the impacts of  HIV and Aids are current rather than anticipated. The Family of Companies  has a long-standing and comprehensive HIV and Aids management  programme in place in order to address the impacts of the disease. Indicator 4 Describe how your organisation monitors its progress and reports in  terms of Indicators GRI table 4-6 The Family of Companies conducts operational and in-field  research projects to improve the effectiveness of our existing HIV  and Aids risk management. Indicator 5 Describe how the organisation involves stakeholders in the  formulation of policy, strategy and implementation 43 10-11; 43 4-6 Our HIV and Aids principals engage actively with external  organisations at local, regional and international levels. Our ART  programmes in Botswana, Namibia and South Africa are  coordinated externally by Aid for AIDS. We engage in research  partnerships, for example, a longitudinal study with the Health  Economics and HIV/AIDS Research Division (HEARD) at the  University of KwaZulu Natal on the factors that challenge adherence  to HIV treatment services.  28 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Measurement, monitoring and evaluation Indicator 6 Indicate current and projected future HIV/Aids prevalence and  incidence rates among relevant populations (workforce, service  providers, communities, target consumers, direct suppliers) GRI table According to UNAIDS,* almost 60 million people have been infected  with HIV and 25 million have died since the beginning of the  epidemic. There are 33.3 million people living with HIV worldwide.  The 2009 national infection rate estimates for HIV amongst adults  (15-49 years) in our countries of operation are as follows:  Angola: 2%  Canada: 0.2%  China: 0.1%  Belgium: 0.2%  Botswana: 24.8%  DRC: no estimate  India: 0.3%  Israel: 0.2%  Japan: <0.1%  Luxembourg: 0.3%  Namibia: 13.1%  South Africa: 17.8%  United Kingdom: 0.2%  United States of America: 0.6% *www.unaids.org/documents/20101123_GlobalReport_Annexes1_em.pdf Indicator 7  Report current HIV/Aids-associated costs and losses to the  organisation – X Indicator 8 Indicate total assumed future HIV/Aids-associated costs/losses – X  29 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Indicator Description Page reference Extent UN Mechanisms Notes Workplace conditions and HIV/Aids management Indicator 9 Describe the workplace and workplace-related HIV/Aids programmes  and interventions and the extent to which they maintain a workplace  environment respectful of human and legal rights 43 4-6 Routine HIV Counselling and Testing (HCT) through Provider  Initiated Counselling and Testing (PICT) facilitates HIV testing of  employees during medical consultations at mine clinics, either  during occupational medical examinations or primary care  consultations. HIV tests are available to all employees, spouses, life  partners and contractors. Private-public partnerships also help to  make testing available in communities near our operations. Anti-Retroviral Treatment (ART) is available free to HIV-infected  employees and their spouses or life partners where it can be  provided in a responsible and sustainable manner. Our ART  programmes in Botswana, Namibia and South Africa continued to  be coordinated externally by Aid for AIDS as our principal Disease  Management Service Provider. Our goal is to encourage all HIV  positive employees and spouses or life partners to join a disease  management programme as early as possible and to maintain 100%  accessibility of treatment in the countries affected by HIV and Aids. Indicator 10 Indicate total allocated budget dedicated to HIV/Aids programmes  per annum 51 4-6 Approximately 0.4% of total Community Social Investment spend  was allocated to HIV/Aids programmes in 2011. Depth, quality and sustainability of programmes Indicator 11 Detail the organisations Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT)  programme 43; GRI table 4-6 See Indicator 9. Indicator 12 Describe other support and counselling programmes and measures GRI table 4-6 See Indicator 15. Indicator 13 Describe the organisations HIV/Aids education and training programmes 43; GRI table 4-6 See Indicator 9. Indicator 14 Describe the organisations condom and femidom distribution  programme GRI table 4-6 Condoms and femidoms are available free of charge to employees  through on-site medical centres, clinics, restrooms and offices. Indicator 15 Describe the organisations general health care and wellness provision  for employees (and/or ex-employees) and their families with specific  mention of STD-treatment for those Aids sick 43 4-6 In addition to ART, our Disease Management Programme provides  employees with access to programmes that address physical and  psycho-social wellbeing related to HIV infection and treatment.  This includes:  Post-exposure prophylaxis;  Medication to prevent opportunistic infections;  Pathology;  Counselling and support;  Wellness advice; and  Nutritional supplements. Indicator 16 Describe additional benefits and support for employees sick, dying  or deceased from Aids-related conditions – 4-6  1200 800 400 2011 2010 2009 86.0 58.2 182.2 327.9 94.0 98.8 115.4 271.7 345.8 98.9 336.8 408.4 30 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Figure 1a: EC6 – Preferential procurement spend , 2011 (US$ million)  Namibia* (Namibian suppliers)  Canada (aboriginal spend)  South Africa (HDSA owned, empowered, influenced)   Botswana (citizen spend, local spend)  Data note: * Preferential procurement spend in Namibia has been restated for 2009 and 2010 to reflect spending with Namibian suppliers.  Previously, reported spending in Namibia was based on proposed preferential procurement categories due to be passed into Namibian  law. This legislation has not been passed and preferential procurement has been restated to reflect local (in country) spending. Figure 1b: Preferential procurement spend as a proportion of total procurement spend,  2011 (US$ million) Country  Total spend (US$ million) % preferential procurement Botswana 587  69.6% South Africa 542  62.1% Canada 212  46.7% Namibia* 143  80.9% Data note: * Preferential procurement spend in Namibia has been restated for 2009 and 2010 to reflect spending with Namibian suppliers.  Previously, reported spending in Namibia was based on proposed preferential procurement categories due to be passed into  Namibian law. Figure 2:  EN1 – Materials used by weight or volume, 2009-2011 Materials 2009 2010 2011 Ferrosilicon (tonnes) 9,114 13,111 11,938 Oils and hydraulic fluid (litres) 2,558,300* 4,438,632 4,066,709 Grease (kilograms) 200,117* 287,964* 403,307 Hydrochloric acid (litres) 149,602 197,984 112,959 Sulphuric acid (litres) 17,250 21,705 25,202 Hydrofluoric acid (litres) 53,777 69,931 63,945 Nitric acid (litres) 14,094 35,438 38,321 Sodium hydroxide (litres) 14,678 5,832 9,484 Calcium carbonate (kilograms) 28,225 51,300 36,106 Sodium hydroxide (kilograms) 43,360 91,540 154,564 *  Certain 2009 and 2010 data points have been restated from those reported in the 2010 Report to Society.  This change reflects improved accuracy in data reporting and collation.    2011 2010 2009 100 75 50 25 84 72 81 89 84 90 89 72 85   Canada DBCM Namdeb Debswana Canada DBCM Namdeb Debswana 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 10 8 6 4 2 9.42 0.19 5.36 0.17 2.60 0.10 1.04 0.20 31 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Figure 3:  EN22 – Total weight of waste by type and disposal method, 2009-2011 Waste Type 2009 2010 2011 Non-Hazardous Waste to Land-Fill (cubic meters) 81,993 152,904* 59,509 Solid Hazardous Waste (cubic meters) 53,117 2,327 210,868 Liquid Hazardous Waste (litres) 537,077 516,467 376,143 Waste Incinerated (cubic meters) 35,786 47,236 23,186 Cardboard/Paper Sent for Recycling (tonnes) 2,738 8,879 1,602 Scrap Metal Sent for Recycling (tonnes) 43,606* 52,155* 25,041 Cans Sent for Recycling (tonnes) 178 7 19 Earthmoving Tyres Sent for Recycling (number) 264 33 76 Light Vehicles Tyres Sent for Recycling (number) 340 111 686 Conveyor Belting Sent for Recycling (tonnes) 96 215 139 Drums Sent for Recycling / Re-use (number) 2,764* 1,450 2,331 Lead Acid Batteries Sent for Recycling / Re-use (number) 1,442* 3,619 1,333 Plastic Sent for Recycling / Re-use (tonnes) 454 165 82 Toner / Ink Cartridges Sent for Recycling / Re-use (number) 1,076* 1,104 5,599 Electrical And Electronic Items Sent for Recycling / Re-use  (kilograms) 543 37,104 10,871 Used Oil / Grease Sent for Recycling / Re-use (litres) 1,999,250 2,244,201 2,709,501 Re-used Oil / Grease (litres) 442,720 988,549* 568,164 Contaminated Water (litres) 1,203,808 1,112,670 1,176,389 Glass Sent for Recycling (tonnes) 13 15 60 *  Certain 2009 and 2010 data points have been restated from those reported in the 2010 Report to Society.  This change reflects improved accuracy in data reporting and collation. Figure 4: LA4 – Union membership of semi-skilled workers at African operations,  2009-2011 (%)  Debswana  Namdeb  DBCM  Debswana data for 2009 and 2010 has been restated based on improved and more accurate reporting. Our operations in Canada are  not unionised. Figure 5: LA7 – LTIFR and LTISR by business, 2011  LTISR employees  LTIFR employees     TOTAL Exploration DTC De Beers Group Services Forevermark* Diamdel De Beers Marine South Africa DBCM De Beers Marine Namibia Namdeb Debswana De Beers Canada 100 75 50 25 84 81 89 84 90 89 72 85 17.9 15.4 21.2 20.3 15.6 24.8 18.1 16.7 29.9 11.9 28.6 26.4 22.0 2.3 25.5 19.5 33.3 16.2 65.2 0 54.5 60.4 38.5 66.7 43.9 21.5 36.6 44.3 22.8 37.1 25.6 17.6 34.7 23.1 18.0 30.8   175 125 100 75 150 50 25 154.1 74.5 57.8 59.7 23.2 75.8 1.6 64.0 52.1 F-Band / Grade 8 EU-Band / Grade 7 EL-Band /  Grade 6 DU-Band / Grade 5 DL-Band / Grade 4 CU-Band / Grade 3 CL-Band / Grade 2 B-Band / Grade 1 A-Band  32 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Figure 6: LA10 – Average training hours per employee, 2011 Figure 7: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and  career development reviews, 2011 (%) Job Band/Grade De Beers  Canada De Beers  Consolidated  Mines Debswana Namdeb F-Band/Grade 8 n/a 100 100 100 EU-Band/Grade 7 n/a 100 100 100 EL-Band/Grade 6 100 100 100 100 DU-Band/Grade 5 100 98 100 100 DL-Band/Grade 4 100 97 100 100 CU-Band/Grade 3 100 89 * 100 CL-Band/Grade 2 100 84 * B-Band/Grade 1 100 * A-Band n/a * *  Debswana A-C band employees were not formally appraised in 2011 as there was no PMS agreement in place with the Botswana Mine  Workers Union in 2011. Figure 8a: LA13 – Workforce and management diversity: Historically  Disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs), Historically Disadvantaged  Namibians (HDNs) and local Botswana citizens, 2011 (%) DBCM  (HDSA) Namdeb  (HDN) Debswana  (local  citizens) Workforce 77.0 87.8 96.1 Management 31.4 43.9 73 Figure 8b: LA13 – Workforce and management diversity 2011: Women (%)  Workforce (permanent)  Management  Senior Management  *  Forevermark figures for women in management and senior management exclude Forevermark Belgium.    Exploration DTC De Beers Group Services Forevermark Diamdel De Beers Marine South Africa DBCM De Beers Marine Namibia Namdeb Debswana De Beers Canada 1.02 0.97 0.92 0.94 0.91 0.82 0.62 0.99 0.96 0.99 0.95 1.2 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0   1.20 0.80 0.60 0.40 1.00 0.20 1.03 1.09 0.87 0.95 0.94 0.85 0.90 0.93 EU-Band / Grade 7 EL-Band /  Grade 6 DU-Band / Grade 5 DL-Band / Grade 4 CU-Band / Grade 3 CL-Band / Grade 2 B-Band / Grade 1 A-Band  33 2011 Assurance and Compliance Supplement  Figure 9a: LA14 – Male and female salary ratios, 2011 (by operation) Figure 9b: LA14 – Male and female salary ratios, 2011 (by grade)