54 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of  the organization.  2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and  opportunities.  4-5: key impacts Annex 1: KPI 1, 2, 3, 4 key impacts 54-58, 62-63; opportunities 59-61; risks 2 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization.  Colophon 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services.  16-17 2.3 Operational structure of the organization,  including main divisions, operating companies,  subsidiaries, and joint ventures.  25 2.4 Location of organizations headquarters.  Colophon 2.5 Number of countries where the organization  operates, and names of countries with either major  operations or that are specifically relevant to the  sustainability issues covered in the report.  25 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.  16 + colophon 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown,  sectors served, and types of customers/ beneficiaries).  7, 13-15, 25 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization.  4-5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period  regarding size, structure, or ownership.  16-17 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.  6, 28, 65, 72, 83  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported Appendix 3: GRI Indicators    55 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for  information provided.  Colophon, see reporting principles in annex 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any).  April 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)  Annual, see reporting principles in annex 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or  its contents.  Colophon 3.5 Process for defining report content.  59-60, see reporting principles in annex 2 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions,  subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures,  suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further  guidance.  16-17, colophon, see reporting principles in  annex 2 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or  boundary of the report (see completeness  principle for explanation of scope).  None, see reporting principles in annex 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries,  leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other  entities that can significantly affect comparability  from period to period and/or between  organizations.  16-17, colophon, see reporting principles in  annex 2 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of  calculations, including assumptions and  techniques underlying estimations applied to the  compilation of the Indicators and other  information in the report. Explain any decisions  not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the  GRI Indicator Protocols.  See reporting principles in annex 2 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of  information provided in earlier reports, and the  reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature  of business, measurement methods).  No material effects  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    56 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting  periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement  methods applied in the report.  No material changes, see reporting principles in  annex 2 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard  Disclosures in the report.  See annex 3 GRI content index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking  external assurance for the report.  Colophon 4 Governance, commitments, and engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization,  including committees under the highest  governance body responsible for specific tasks,  such as setting strategy or organizational  oversight.  87-93 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest  governance body is also an executive officer.  98-99 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board  structure, state the number of members of the  highest governance body that are independent  and/or non-executive members.  Not applicable 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to  provide recommendations or direction to the  highest governance body.  87-93 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of  the highest governance body, senior managers,  and executives (including departure  arrangements), and the organizations  performance (including social and environmental  performance).  85-86, 97, 107 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance  body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.  95-96, 101, 106  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    57 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and  expertise of the members of the highest  governance body for guiding the organizations  strategy on economic, environmental, and social  topics.  96, 101, 105 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or  values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant  to economic, environmental, and social  performance and the status of their  implementation.  18-24, 54-56, 87 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for  overseeing the organizations identification and  management of economic, environmental, and  social performance, including relevant risks and  opportunities, and adherence or compliance with  internationally agreed standards, codes of  conduct, and principles.  87-93 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance  bodys own performance, particularly with respect  to economic, environmental, and social  performance.  100-102 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary  approach or principle is addressed by the  organization.  43, 97 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental,  and social charters, principles, or other initiatives  to which the organization subscribes or endorses.  56 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry  associations) and/or national/international  advocacy organizations in which the organization:  * Has positions in governance bodies;  *Participates in projects or committees; * Provides  substantive funding beyond routine membership  dues; or * Views membership as strategic.  39, 56  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    58 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the  organization.  59, 60, Rabobank is into a dialogue concerning  issues that have a major impact on the bank, its  stakeholders and society at large. The annual  report includes a summary of the dialogue  based on the materiality principle. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of  stakeholders with whom to engage.  59 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including  frequency of engagement by type and by  stakeholder group.  18-24, 39, 59-61, see reporting principles in  annex 2. All local Rabobanks have a members council in  place to facilitate the stakeholder dialogue. The  members council is a formal statutory  instrument. The members council represents all  types of local stakeholders and is involved in  major policy. The statutes of the member bank  require the members council to meet at least 1x  per year, but usually maintains a frequency of 4  times per year. This mechanism is fundamental  to the cooperative structure of Rabobank. At group level the dialogue with internal and  external stakeholders is institutionalized in  policy development and employee participation  through the works council. It is based on an  issue management and stakeholder  engagement plan, and also occurs initiated by  stakeholders. All types of engagement are  admissible and used in practice. Wider and  highly structured engagement on future agenda  topics takes place every three years with  external stakeholders. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised  through stakeholder engagement, and how the  organization has responded to those key topics  and concerns, including through its reporting.  59-61  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    59 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in Disclosure on Management Approach PS FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social  components applied to business lines.  54-58 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening  environmental and social risks in business lines.  95 FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation  of and compliance with environmental and social  requirements included in agreements or  transactions.  Client due diligence policies and procedures are  implemented throughout the business lines. For  project finance, projects are assessed according  to Rabobanks norms. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to  implement the environmental and social policies  and procedures as applied to business lines.  Part of the policies referred to under FS3 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business  partners regarding environmental and social risks  and opportunities.  5, 38, 66-67, 101 DMA PS Disclosure on Management Approach EC - Economic Performance  6-12 - Market presence  25, 27-30 - Indirect economic impacts  13, 21 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach EN - Materials  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 - Energy  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 - Water  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 - Biodiversity  39, 59-61 - Emissions, effluents and waste  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 - Products and services  13-15 - Compliance  105-106 - Transport  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 - Overall  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA - Employment  81-86 - Labor/management relations  85 - Occupational health and safetyCOMM  84 - Training and education  81-82 - Diversity and equal opportunity  82  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    60 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR - Investment and procurement practices  59-61, 62-63 - Non-discrimination  59-61 - Freedom of association and collective bargaining  59-61 - Child labor  59-61 - Forced and compulsory labor  59-61 - Security practices  30 Not material See the corresponding indictor - Indigenous rights  Not applicable See the corresponding indictor DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO - Community  21 - Corruption  Accepting or giving personal gifts that could  affect the integrity of business decision-making  is not permitted. Corruption or involvement in  corruption is not acceptable, based on our Code  of Conduct and other business principles. See  www.rabobank.com/csr-guidelines. - Public policy  The policy is to not donate to or sponsor  political actors. - Anti-competitive behavior  All legislation, regulations and signed covenants  are strictly adhered to. - Compliance  All legislation, regulations and signed covenants  are strictly adhered to. Compliance policies are  based on our Code of Conduct and other  business principles. See www.rabobank.com/ csr-guidelines. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR - Customer health and safety  18-20, 95 - Product and service labelling  18-20, 95 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial  products and services.  18-20, 95 - Marketing communications  18-20, 95 - Customer privacy  30 - Compliance  95  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    61 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in Product and Service Impact Product portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by  specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by  sector.  6-10 Specific data by  region, size and  client type Proprietary  information Comptetion-sensitive information FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed  to deliver a specific social benefit for each business  line broken down by purpose.  21-23, annex 1 KPI 1 and KPI 2 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed  to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each  business line broken down by purpose.  Annex 1 KPI 1 and KPI 2 Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess  implementation of environmental and social  policies and risk assessment procedures.  43-53, tools, procedures and information of our  CSR monitoring system are externally audited  on an annual basis. Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the  institutions portfolio with which the reporting  organization has interacted on environmental or  social issues.  Percentage and  number Not available Rabobank has implemented such  interation in its credit policies, and  interactions take place fully embedded  in the loan process wherever necessary. 2015 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and  negative environmental or social screening.  37-38, 66-67 FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social  issues for shares over which the reporting  organization holds the right to vote shares or  advises on voting.  66-67 Economic Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed,  including revenues, operating costs, employee  compensation, donations and other community  investments, retained earnings, and payments to  capital providers and governments.  5, 21, 108-114  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    62 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in EC2 Financial implications and other risks and  opportunities for the organizations activities due  to climate change.  39, 59, 60, 71, 76-77, see also Annex 1 KPI1 and  KPI2, on sustainable finance and asset  management EC3 Coverage of the organizations defined benefit  plan obligations.  84 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from  government.  Not applicable Rabobank does not receive financial  assistence from government Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage  compared to local minimum wage at significant  locations of operation.  Not material EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on  locally-based suppliers at significant locations of  operation.  62 Not material It is common practice for local member  banks in the Netherlands to work with  local based suppliers as much as  possible. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of  senior management hired from the local  community at significant locations of operation.  Not material No specific policy available because this  is not material to Rabobank nor to  stakeholders Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure  investments and services provided primarily for  public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro  bono engagement.  22, 37-40 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect  economic impacts, including the extent of impacts.  30, 37-39 Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled  input materials.  Not material Use of reclycled materials is not  material to our business. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy  source.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    63 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency  improvements.  Annex 1 KPI 4 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable  energy based products and services, and  reductions in energy requirements as a result of  these initiatives.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption  and reductions achieved.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source.  Annex 1 KPI 4 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal  of water.  Not material Not material to our business EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and  reused.  Not material Not material to our business Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed  in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of  high biodiversity value outside protected areas.  Not applicable Not relevant to our business EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities,  products, and services on biodiversity in protected  areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside  protected areas.  Not material In 2011 WWF and Rabobank entered  into a partnership. One of the  objectives of this partnership is  identifying and analysing issues related  to biodiversity with which clients might  be confronted. EN13 Habitats protected or restored.  Not material EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for  managing impacts on biodiversity.  61 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national  conservation list species with habitats in areas  affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.  Not material Under review in the context of our  biodiversity policy Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions  by weight.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions  by weight.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    64 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and  reductions achieved.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by  weight.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by  type and weight.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 No breakdown by  type of  emmission/gas. Not material Climate footprint almost completely  consists of carbon emissions. Other  greenhouse gasses are expressed in  carbon equivalents and included in our  greenhouse gas emission statements.  The methodology is explained in Annex  2 of this document. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination.  Not material Not material to our business EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal  method.  62-63, annex 1 KPI 4 Incomplete  information by  types and disposal  methods Not material Such breakdowns are not deemed  material, neither business-wise nor  volume-wise. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills.  Not applicable Not applicable to our business EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or  treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms  of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and  percentage of transported waste shipped  internationally.  Not applicable Not applicable to our business EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity  value of water bodies and related habitats  significantly affected by the reporting  organizations discharges of water and runoff.  Not applicable Not applicable to our business Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of  products and services, and extent of impact  mitigation.  13-14, 38, 61-63, 66-67, 71, 76-77, the page  numbers cover strategy, WWF partnership, KPIs,  initiatives per business activity and internal  operations. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging  materials that are reclaimed by category.  Not applicable Not applicable to our business  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    65 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total  number of non-monetary sanctions for  non-compliance with environmental laws and  regulations.  None, no significant fines or non-monetary  sanctions in 2011 Not applicable Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting  products and other goods and materials used for  the organizations operations, and transporting  members of the workforce.  62-63, included in climate footprint Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and  investments by type.  Not material Not material to our business Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment  contract, and region.  Annex 1 social indicators LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by  age group, gender, and region.  Annex 1 social indicators Aggregate group  data only Not material Benefits and material relevance do not  outweigh the costs of implementation. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are  not provided to temporary or part-time  employees, by major operations.  Not available Non-core indicator. Cost of  implementation outweighs benefits 2013 Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective  bargaining agreements.  100% in the Netherlands with the exception of  senior and executive management (salary scales  senior and executive kader). Abroad, the  percentages vary considerable by region and  country, depending on local market and legal  circumstances. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant  operational changes, including whether it is  specified in collective agreements.  In the Netherlands 1 month, Internationally the  notice periods vary due to legal requirements.  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    66 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in  formal joint management-worker health and safety  committees that help monitor and advise on  occupational health and safety programs.  Not available Non-core indicator. Cost of  implementation outweighs benefits 2015 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days,  and absenteeism, and number of work-related  fatalities by region.  5 Rates of injury,  occupational  diseases, lost days,  workrelated  fatalities. Not material Other breaddowns and variables are  not deemed material because lost days,  injury rates and occupational diseases  are included in the absenteeism figures. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and  risk-control programs in place to assist workforce  members, their families, or community members  regarding serious diseases.  Not material Not relevant to our business LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal  agreements with trade unions.  83-85 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee  by employee category.  Not material Training cost figures are reported in the  social indicatores in annex 1. Benefits  and materiality of training in terms of  hours spent do not outweigh the cost  of implementation. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong  learning that support the continued employability  of employees and assist them in managing career  endings.  81-82 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular  performance and career development reviews.  Annex 1 social indicators Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and  breakdown of employees per category according  to gender, age group, minority group membership,  and other indicators of diversity.  Annex 1 social indicators Minority  breakdown not  available Not material Legal reasons prevent adequate  measurement LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by  employee category.  Annex 1 social indicators  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    67 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in Social: Human Rights Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant  investment agreements that include human rights  clauses or that have undergone human rights  screening.  Not material Rabobanks human rights policy was  updated in 2011. This policy is in line  with the UNs new human rights  framework for multinationals. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors  that have undergone screening on human rights  and actions taken.  61, 62, CSR criteria for supplier selection are  available, and Rabobank has included its human  rights policy in its requirements to suppliers and  business partners. Engagement with most  significant suppliers is ongoing. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and  procedures concerning aspects of human rights  that are relevant to operations, including the  percentage of employees trained.  Not available Non-core indicator. Cost of  implementation outweighs benefits 2015 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and  actions taken.  Four incidents reported in 2011 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise  freedom of association and collective bargaining  may be at significant risk, and actions taken to  support these rights.  55, 66-67, Rabobanks human rights policy was  updated in 2011. The principles of this policy are  embedded in credit policies, and in the  principles of responsible investing. Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for  incidents of child labor, and measures taken to  contribute to the elimination of child labor.  55, 66-67, Rabobanks human rights policy was  updated in 2011. The principles of this policy are  embedded in credit policies, and in the  principles of responsible investing. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for  incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and  measures to contribute to the elimination of forced  or compulsory labor.  55, 66-67, Rabobanks human rights policy was  updated in 2011. The principles of this policy are  embedded in credit policies, and in the  principles of responsible investing.  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    68 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the  organizations policies or procedures concerning  aspects of human rights that are relevant to  operations.  Not material This is not deemed a materially  significant indicator in view of the  nature of our sector. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving  rights of indigenous people and actions taken.  Not applicable Not applicable to our business Social: Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs  and practices that assess and manage the impacts  of operations on communities, including entering,  operating, and exiting.  22, 37-38, 55-57 FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically  disadvantaged areas by type.  4, 25, 37-38 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services  for disadvantaged people.  16-17, 22, 26-27 Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units  analyzed for risks related to corruption.  Proprietary  information Disclosing this information could be  potentially harmful to the company.  Rabobank Group has anti-corruption  policies in place. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organizations  anti-corruption policies and procedures.  Proprietary  information Disclosing this information could be  potentially harmful to the company.  Rabobank Group has anti-corruption  policies in place. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of  corruption.  78 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public  policy development and lobbying.  The policy is to not donate to or sponsor  political actors. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to  political parties, politicians, and related institutions  by country.  Total value is zero. Consequence of our position  on SO5  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    69 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive  behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and  their outcomes.  No legal actions to be reported in 2011 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total  number of non-monetary sanctions for  non-compliance with laws and regulations.  No significant fines, no non-monetary sanctions  in 2011 Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety  impacts of products and services are assessed for  improvement, and percentage of significant  products and services categories subject to such  procedures.  18-20, 95 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with  regulations and voluntary codes concerning health  and safety impacts of products and services during  their life cycle, by type of outcomes.  Not applicable Not applicable in view of the type of  products and services Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required  by procedures, and percentage of significant  products and services subject to such information  requirements.  Not material Product and service information is  largely regulated and leaves littel room  for discretion. To further improve the  transparency of financial products, the  details of our mortgage proposals have  been rewritten so that they are easier  to understand. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with  regulations and voluntary codes concerning  product and service information and labeling, by  type of outcomes.  18 incidents  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported    70 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 Rabobank Group Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer If applicable,  indicate the part  not reported Reason for  omission Explanation Reported in PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction,  including results of surveys measuring customer  satisfaction.  18-20, 26-27 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of  beneficiary.  18-20, 22, 26-27 Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and  voluntary codes related to marketing  communications, including advertising, promotion,  and sponsorship.  18-20 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with  regulations and voluntary codes concerning  marketing communications, including advertising,  promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.  8 incidents Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints  regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses  of customer data.  30 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for  non-compliance with laws and regulations  concerning the provision and use of products and  services.  No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions  in 2011  Fully reported   Partially reported   Not reported