Joining efforts, ensuring results ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Result- Oriented  3 2 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 InterCement believes in collective effort to achieve full operational  efficiency. Integration of efforts is a commitment from all those who  are part of the company. The internal processes are guided by a team  spirit with systemic management and adapted to the reality of the many  countries where InterCement operates. Shareholders, employees,  customers, and suppliers interact harmoniously, taking the company to  consistent and sustainable results.  Joining efforts, ensuring results  5 28 06 14 34 42 52 16 28 PROFILE MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN CULTURE OF INNOVATION DIVERSITY  THAT BUILDS STRENGTH OF RELATIONSHIPS SUSTAINABLE ATTITUDE RESULT- ORIENTED  7 6 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 profile Corporate InterCement Participaes S. A.(InterCement)  is a privately owned Brazilian company set up  for the purpose of controlling the business of  producing and distributing cement, concrete,  and aggregates that belongs to the Camargo  Corra Group. Controlled by Camargo  Corra S.A., it holds 99.90% of InterCement  Brasil and 94.53% of the Argentine cement  company Loma Negra, and has strategic  holdings in other companies in Brazil and  abroad linked directly or indirectly to the  sector. Also noteworthy are the shared  control of Yguaz Cementos in Paraguay  and Palanca Cimentos in Angola, as well as  minority holdings in companies that generate  electricity as self-producers.  Also relevant is a majority stake in  InterCement Austria Holding GmbH and  its subsidiaries, created in 2011 with the  objective of giving support to the trading  activities, and InterCement Portugal, set up  to monitor the growth of investment made  by Camargo Corra Group in Cimpor and  to give support the investments in Angola.  Also in Argentina, it owns the concession  of Ferrosur Roca, a railroad more than  3,000 kilometers long that is responsible  for transporting raw materials, finished  products, and other goods.  InterCement has one of the largest  manufacturing facilities in Latin America with  16 cement production units, 27 concrete  plants, and 3 aggregate mines. Its installed  capacity is 16 million metric tons of cement  a year. Loma Negra is the leader in the  Argentine market and has been in operation  for over 85 years. InterCement Brasil,  founded in 1968, ranks third in the cement  segment through the brands Cau and  Cimento Brasil, and it is the fifth concrete  supplier in the country. Furthermore, a new  plant is under construction in Cubato,  which will have a crushing capacity of  880,000 metric tons per year.  As part of its international expansion, it is  currently building an integrated factory of  cement production in Paraguay under the  name Yguaz Cementos, and another one,  also integrated, in Angola under the name  Palanca Cimento. InterCement stands for ethics and for  respect in the development of its operations  and relationship with its stakeholders,  values that it considers fundamental to the  sustainability of business. Its actions are  based on strict principles of sustainability  aimed at creating value for the entire  production chain and reducing the impact  of its activities on the environment.  Various social and environmental initiatives  undertaken with national and international  organizations strengthen this commitment.  Among them is the Global Compact led by  the United Nations (UN), of which it has been  a signatory since 2010, and the Cement  Sustainability Initiative (CSI), an arm of the  cement segment on the WorldBusiness  Council  for  Sustainable  Development  (WBCSD), of which it has been a member  since 2008. Investments are continually  being made in new technologies to reduce  and mitigate emissions of greenhouse gases  (GHGs). The company has ISO 9001, ISO  14001, and OHSAS 18001 certifications in  several units in Brazil and Argentina.  On December 31, 2011 the company had  5,061 direct employees, of which 2,076 in  Brazil and 2,985 in Argentina, and a portfolio  of over 5,000 active clients. Its net income for  the year totaled R$ 2.88 billion and net profit  was R$ 257 million. Cash flow, expressed by  EBITDA, was R$ 695 million.  InterCement has 16  cement production units,  27 concrete plants, and   3 aggregate mines. MISSION VALUES To operate in the value chain of the  cement industry in a sustainable way,  with  innovation  and  excellence  in  management, committed to customers  needs and peoples fulfillment while  generating value for our shareholders  and respecting the environment and   the community.  VISION To be one of the 20 largest cement  companies in the world, and one of the 5  most profitable and efficient.  RESPECT FOR PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT  To always act fairly and properly towards its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers,  governments, communities and society as a whole. To act responsibly towards the environment.  Corporate profile RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT  To comply with the established laws of the countries and regions where it operates; to assimilate  the values defined herein; to act with integrity and in accordance with the universal standards  of good human relations without discrimination on account of race, sex, creed, religion, job,  position, or any other motive.  TRANSPARENCY  To provide clear and ample information on its activities, accomplishments, policies, and  performance in a systematic and accessible way.   FOCUS ON RESULTS  To always strive to maximize performance as a way of ensuring its permanence, its investments,  return for shareholders, and suitable conditions for its employees.  QUALITY AND INNOVATION  To ensure customers the highest possible quality in the execution of services and the supply of  products and to invest continually in the improvement of its activities and that of its employees.  Cimpor  33.0% 80.0% 94.53% 99.9% 50.1% 9.0% 35.0% 6.35% 16.66% 100% 4.44% Camargo Corra S.A.  Cofesur (Ferrosur/ Recycomb/  La Preferida de Olavarra InterCement Participaes S.A. Baesa Maesa Estreito Loma Negra Cia S.A. InterCement Brasil S.A. Yguaz CC Escom  BV Itacamba InterCement Portugal InterCement ustria 100%  9 8 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES  Has a consolidated position as the  third largest cement company in Brazil  and Argentinas leader with well-known  brands in the market.  Owns the third largest industrial  park in South America and one of the  most modern and efficient.  Has programs in place for innovation  and continuous improvement through a  replicable management model focused  on operational excellence, which has  provided solid, systematic, and above- market-average financial results.  Has  one  of  the  lowest  rates  worldwide of emission of greenhouse  gases (GHGs) per metric ton of cement  on its production lines. Member of the Cement Sustainability  Initiative (CSI) and a signatory of the  UN Global Compact since 2008 to  encourage companies to adopt policies  for sustainability and corporate social  responsibility.  Invests in increasing the thermal  substitution rate (co-processing) in  Brazil and Argentina.  In Brazil it is a self-producer of  hydroelectric  energy,  which  directly  impacts the cost savings and emissions  of CO2. The total power of the plants  and investments owned by InterCement  are as follows: Machadinho HPP (1,140  MW - 6.35%), Barra Grande HPP (690  MW - 9%), and Estreito HPP (1,087 MW  - 4.4%). With this InterCement became  100% independent of third parties in  electric power generation, owning assets  with an installed capacity of 170 MW.  In  Argentina  it  has  a  railroad  concession of 3,300 kilometers that  connects its main plants to part of the  market, thereby increasing its logistic  competitiveness.  Owns reserves of limestone with  guaranteed  extraction  for  several  decades and wide availability of raw  materials and other inputs.  Its controlling shareholder is a solid  family group recognized internationally.  Has  easy  access  to  its  own  resources and that of others through  support agencies, bank loans, and  capital markets.  CIMPOR Still aligned to the strategy to grow  consistently in Brazil and abroad, the parent  company Camargo Corra S.A. acquired in  2010 approximately 33% of the shares of  the Portuguese cement company Cimpor  that operates in 12 countries, including  Brazil, where it holds 9% of market share.  In March 2012, InterCement presented a  public offering on the Portuguese Securities  Market Commission (CMVM) in Lisbon to  acquire the entire share capital of the cement  company. Thus, the integration of the  cement and concrete assets and operations  of Cimpor in South America and Angola is in  Is strategically positioned in the  value chain with operations in the  relevant markets of concrete in Brazil  and Argentina. Has two gravel quarries  in So Paulo and one in the province of  Buenos Aires, supplying the market and  ensuring the supply of this raw material  for the proper operation of concrete. Has teams prepared to execute  the  projects  of  expansion  and  internationalization Has planned investments of over R$  3 billion over the next years not including  mergers and acquisitions, which ensures  substantial growth in production volume  in the countries where it operates and new  capacity in Paraguay and Angola. Is the largest individual shareholder  of Cimpor, a company present in 12  countries in South America, Africa,  Asia, and Europe. It has a risk management process  that, among other objectives, identifies  and monitors the risks critical to the  business and process.  the planning. The goal is to provide Cimpor  with a stable shareholder structure and a  strong and effective growth strategy.  The reorganization, once approved, will  result in the expansion and strengthening  of this cement company, especially in  markets with a high growth potential.  InterCement will support the human  resources policy based on the motivation  of Cimpors employees in line with the  people management policy from the  Camargo Corra Group. In compliance  with the laws, the company will provide  more information about the operation only  after the preliminary analysis by CMVM.  Var. % 2011/2010 Main Indicators  The information from 2009 is in line with international accounting standards (IFRS). The information of 2011 includes the values of InterCement Participaes, from InterCement Austria Holding, and its subsidiaries. (1) Values refer to railroad concession.  (2) In 2011, the consolidated net profit of InterCement Participaes S.A. suffered non-recurring financial and tax expenses valued at approximately R$ 46 million.  Gross income (R$ million)   1,946 2,660 3,036 3,132 3,584 14% Net income (R$ million)  1,598 2,042 2,362 2,474 2,884 17% EBITDA (R$ million)   400 420 641 616 695 13% EBITDA Margin (%)  25% 21% 27% 25% 24% - Net profit attributable to controlling shareholders (R$ million)  211 186 538 225 257(2) 15% Investments (R$ million)  177 270 263 302 579 92% Sales of cement and by products (millions of tons)  8.8 10.2 10.1 11.5 12.7 10.0% Sales of concrete (millions of m3)  2.2 2.4 2.5 2.3 2.1 -9.1% Volume of aggregates (millions of tons)  - - - 1.3 2.9 124.3% Tons transported (millions of tons) (1)  5.5 5.6 5.1 5.2 5.6 7.7% Employees (at end of period)  4,000 4,808 4,751 4,787 5,061 5.7% Income per employee (R$ thousand)  487 553 639 654 708 8.3% EBITDA per employee 100 87 135 129 137 6.5% Corporate profile  11 10 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 HIGHLIGHTS 2011 InterCement Production Only cement transactions  JANUARY Restarted operations of the aggregate  deposits with very favorable performance  in the year.  MARCH Reached 23% market share of cement in  Paraguay, opening opportunities for the  plant being built in the country.  JULY Implemented SAP 6.0 in its integrated  version in Brazil and Argentina, making  it possible to increase the synergies  between the operations.  AUGUST Organized the Day of Doing Good at  InterCement with the participation of 4,353  volunteers, benefiting more than 20,000  people in Brazil, Argentina, and Paraguay.  SEPTEMBER  Was recognized in the Silver Category  in the Brazil GHG Protocol Program for  Inventory of Greenhouse Gases in Brazil  in 2010.  Reached  a  record  in  the  thermal  substitution rate by co-processing (burning  waste) at the Ijaci (MG) plant by 20.01%.    Implemented  the  risk  management  process of business and processes.  OCTOBER  Identified  opportunities  to  improve  processes through the program Reduce to  Add with reductions of costs and expenses  of R$ 10.2 million.  NOVEMBER  Differentiated participation of InterCement  Brasil in the Concrete Show in So Paulo.  DECEMBER  Signed the contract for building an  integrated  cement  plant  in  Angola  with operational startup scheduled for  December 2014.    Record yearly sales for InterCement of  12.7 million metric tons with a growth  of 10% over the previous year (10% in  Argentina and 7% in Brazil).  APRIL Launched  the  InterCement  brand  and consolidated the objectives of  InterCement Participaes, reflecting the  companys internationalization and its  ability to unite people and culture.  MAY  Developed new sustainable products in  Argentina: pervious concrete, concrete  with recycled aggregates, compound  cement, and blast furnace cement   in Catamarca. JUNE  Obtained a deployment license and a  permit to start the construction of cement  grinding in Cubato (SP) with a capacity of  880,000 metric tons of cement per year.  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 BRAZIL PARAGUAY BOLIVIA ARGENTINA 1 Suape 2 Santana do Paraso 3 Pedro Leopoldo 4 Ijaci 5 Jacare 6 Apia 7 Bodoquena 8 Bolivia 9 Paraguay 10 Ramallo 11 Lomaser 12 Olavarra 13 LAmal 14 Barker 15 Sierra Bayas 16 Catamarca 17 San Juan 18 Zapala Corporate profile  13 12 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 Timeline 150 200 302 423 503 580 680 624 923 1,481 1,598 2,042 2,362 2,884 2,474 Start-up of  concrete  operations with  building four  greenfield plants 2001  Acquisition of the  totality of CBCs  shares from  Equipav Group,  thus holding  100% of  its equity 2007  Entry into  aggregates  market in  Argentina with  acquisition of La  Preferida de  Olavarra S.A.  Start of  construction of a  plant in Paraguay  - Capacity of 0.4  million tons  2009   2006 Broadened the  scope in concrete  by closing a joint  venture with the  Equipav Group,  establishing the  Companhia  Brasileira de  Concreto (CBC)  Acquisition of the  Jacare (SP) plant  from the Equipav  Group   2004 Raises capital  with issue of  debentures  2003 Inauguration of  the Ijaci (MG)  plant -  Capacity of 2.0  million tons  1998 CCI comes to be  known as  Camargo Corra  Cimentos  2000 Shareholders  agreement to  create Yguaz  Cementos  (Paraguay)  1968  Foundation of  Camargo Corra  Industrial  (CCI) 1974 Inauguration of the  first plant in Apia -  Capacity of 0.8  million tons  Entered the  Minas Gerais  market with the  acquisition of  Cimento Cau  with plants in  Pedro Leopoldo  and in Santana  do Paraso –  Capacity of 1.2  million tons 1997  2010 Shareholders  agreement to  build a plant in  Lobito, Angola -  Capacity of 1.6  million tons Creation of new  cement holding:  InterCement  Participaes S.A. Acquisition by  Parent Company  Camargo Corra  S.A. of about 33%  of Cimpor -  Cimentos de  Portugal, SGPS,  S.A. Inauguration of  the cement mill in Catamarca,  Argentina     2008 Acquisition of  Cimec Mill in  Suape (PE)  Capacity of 0.3  million tons  1993 Entered the Mato  Grosso do Sul  market with the  inauguration of  the Bodoquena  plant - Capacity  of 0.8 million tons   1991 Inauguration of  the 2nd line in the  Apia plant –  Capacity grows  to 1.3 million tons  All the plants  of the Company  receive  certification  ISO 9001 1999  Entered the  Argentine market  with the  acquisition of  Loma Negra, the  leader in  Argentina -  Capacity of 7.0  million tons  Continued  concession of  Ferrosur Roca 2005   2011 Changed  company name  to InterCement  Brasil S.A.,  marking the  beginning of a  new phase of  expansion for  the company Acquisition of  4.4% of Estreito  Hydroelectric  Plant  Inauguration of  the cement mill in  Lamal, Argentina Opening office  in Austria     2012 Presentation of  Initial Public  Offering on the  Portuguese  Securities Market  Commission  (CMVM) in Lisbon  to acquire the  entire share  capital of Cimpor  2002 Net income  (R$ million) Corporate profile  15 14 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 READY FOR THE FUTURE The growth of our business in recent  years is significant—we know, however,  that all development needs to be paced.  It is not enough to just grow in volume if  that is not translated into results for the  company. That is why we adjusted our  vision in 2011. Besides being one of the  20 largest companies in the segment,  we want to be among the five most  profitable and efficient in the world.    This  affirmation  of  excellence  is  in  harmony  with  the  institutional  reorganization consolidated in the year,  which included all businesses in the  area of cement under the leadership  of  InterCement  Participaes.  The  change  in  the  institutional  design  provided more clarity to the challenges  and responsibilities and expanded the  corporate vision through alignment of  the business units. The standardization  of procedures and concentration of  demands improves our performance  and  qualifies  us  for  growth  and  internationalization.    Working together with the appropriate  methodology and tools, we put into  practice  transforming  actions  that  generate  results.  Our  improvement  groups conducted projects that can  significantly increase productivity with  safety through the program Lets Do  More, which used open innovation as a  method to obtain higher output in the  short term, and the risk management  project that allowed greater safety in  conducting business and its processes.  Our direct contact with customers in  all the markets that we operate allows  us to be ahead in the development  of products tailored to the needs of  the sector, such as the sustainable  initiatives of Loma Negra in Argentina  and the Cau Trends meetings in Brazil.  Our market share in Paraguay also grew  significantly in 2011.    With this performance, we reached a net  income of $ 2.88 billion, an increase of  17% over the previous year. The growth  in net profit, which reached R$ 257  million (15% higher than in 2010), was  in line with the increase in the volume of  cement and byproducts (10%) sold.    The suggestions made by the teams in  the program Reduce to Add deducted  more than R$ 10 million of expenses  in the fourth quarter, re-dimensioning  habits and priorities. This initiative is  being incorporated as a permanent tool  for InterCement, preserving the most  advantageous relations of cost over  benefit in all its areas and subsidiaries.  Our comfortable financial situation, with  net debt at low levels, gives us room for  important strategic actions and leaves  us ready for development.    All  actions  were  coordinated  with  the premise of being result oriented.  Activities of reflection and improvement  strengthened the competence among the  companys executives and brought this  commitment to the everyday activities.  This process will still be deepened and  shared with others throughout the entire  organization in 2012. We believe in  people and invest in their improvement,  as well as in enhancing the institutional  climate and quality of life.    Our Corporate Social Responsibility  Policy was introduced in 2011 and we  formed the Committees of Volunteer  Incentives and Interaction with the  Community in all units. The highlight  of the year was the Day of Doing  Good promoted in partnership with  the Camargo Corra Institute, which  benefited more than 20,000 people.    New challenges await us in 2012 with  the expansion of activities in different  countries.  In  alignment  with  our  strategy, we submitted a public offering  in the Portuguese Securities Market  Commission in Lisbon to acquire the  entire share capital of Cimpor with the aim  of achieving a shareholder composition  leading to the companys stable situation,  thus strengthening its capacity for  growth. This initiative demonstrates our  commitment to develop an international  presence and be among the largest global  producers of cements. Industrial units  will be built over the next few years in  Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, and Angola,  marking the presence of InterCement  in emerging countries and its important  market share in Latin America and Africa.  To do so, we will continue to depend on  the interaction among our stakeholders,  who are the ones responsible for all   these achievements.   17 16 InterCement  Annual Report 2011  19 18 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 on results Focus The focus on results promotes consistent  and sustainable performance, being  present  in  InterCements  strategy,  management, and institutional culture.  Guided by its corporate goals, the  company reaches new heights in the  market  from  collective  construction  and management based on best global  practices.  Our  orientation  toward  results  is  supported by a matrix management  system that provides the intersection  between strategy and execution in  an integrated way and adapted to  the different countries of operation  and products offered. Implemented in  2005, the Integrated and Replicable  Management System allows decisions  to be taken in a decentralized manner  and in line with the objectives and  corporate goals, while still respecting  local characteristics and peculiarities.  The decision process is shared with the  Executive and Management Committees,  made up of directors, superintendents,  and managers. All business units have  complete operational structures that are  supported by the corporate areas for  strategic issues.  The sum of efforts is evident in the  improvement projects and gains in  efficiency that bring higher occupancy  levels. This performance is mostly a result  of  continuous  improvement  groups,  demonstrating that the orientation to  results is already in the culture of the  people who make up InterCement.  The company has intensified its actions  of efficiency and cost containment in  order to be among the most profitable  companies in the world. Among the  instruments used for this purpose is the  annual assessment of the budget forecast  using the zero base model: all expenses  must be justified each year, without  taking into account only the reference of  the previous year. The process produces  annual reflection about the expenses of  the business units, adjusts the budget to  new situations, and eliminates comfort  zones  by  encouraging  systematic  analyses of the resources.  Result-oriented vision Strategic InterCement  follows  rigorous  sustainability principles that ensure its  financial strength, discipline the use of  capital, and respect the ethical, legal,  social-environmental criteria in actions  aimed at creating long-term value.  Managers and employees are aware  of the internal processes to take any  corrective actions with speed with a  focus on objectives and goals in order  to maintain the companys growth and  its competitive advantages.  InterCement has constantly invested  in  processes  for  improving   and expanding its productive capacity  and  infrastructure  while  keeping   a focus on operational excellence   in order to position itself among the  20 largest cement producers in the  world and be among the five most  profitable and efficient companies.  The  allocation  of  resources  is  planned according to market trends  and customer demand.  Among the goals established is to  maintain the market share gained in  Brazil and the leadership position in  Argentina. Furthermore, InterCement  foresees  expanding  its  business  through acquisitions into developing  countries, primarily in Africa and Latin  America. An example was the recent  acquisition by the parent company  Camargo Corra S.A. of approximately  33%  of  the  shares  of  Cimpor,   a  Portuguese  company  that  has  an  important  participation  in   emerging markets.  INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT In August 2011, all units in Brazil and  Argentina were given guidelines and a  checklist for assessing their Integrated  and  Replicable  Management  System  (SGIR). This process is fundamental to  measure the level of adhesion of the  respective units to the good management  practices established by InterCement.  The assessment takes into account eight  aspects:  Daily  Routine  Management,  Matrix Management of Expenses, Matrix  Management of Variable Cost, Matrix  Management of Revenue, Management  by  Guidelines,  Certifications,  Project  Management, as well as Health, Safety  and Environment.  Compliance Reports are prepared based  on assessments and are submitted to  the managers. Last year, the level of  compliance was 65%, up from 50% in  2010, which demonstrates the maturity  of the process and the high degree of  commitment of the teams involved. The  goal is to reach 80% by 2014.  The management process at InterCement  also has the support of multidisciplinary  groups brought together in cycles of  analysis of results and alignment -  PDCAs (Plan-Do-Check-Act), aimed at  continuously improving the management  actions.  Applied  consistently  across  all business units, the tool makes the  processes involved in the execution of  the management more clear and agile.  The best PDCA projects, those that are  translated into gains of efficiency and cost  reductions, receive awards during the  The management system  allows decentralized  decisions in line with  corporate objectives.  A InterCement wants   to be among the TOP 20 cement companies in the  world and also among   the most efficient.   21 20 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 year, encouraging the good results and   collective  participation  of  employees   and leaders.  MANAGEMENT TOOLS In 2011, InterCement gave a further  important step in the process of  unification of its operations between  Brazil and Argentina when it migrated  to a new integrated version of SAP on  a single platform. The initiative was  developed over a years period and  sets a standardized and integrated  working model. The benefits expected  include cost saving, simplification and  standardization of operational routines,  integration of InterCements international  business, gains in synergy, along with  higher quality in managing information.  The  development  and  deployment  actions included the dedication of more  than 100 of the companys professionals  and from the consulting company.  The rigorous management of expenses  is a focus of InterCement towards  excellence and because of this much  of its investments goes to creating  mitigation  tools  and  improving  processes. In 2011, for example, it  promoted the enhancement of the  Matrix  Management  of  Expenses  (GMD) program adopted over five years  ago. The initiative included hiring an  external consulting company that was  responsible for mapping the processes  and establishing new actions. The  advantage of the GMD is the grouping  of accounts into packages that are  managed using a matrix. This makes it  so that the item is much more relevant  and the manager can rely on more data  to analyze the nature of expenses, better  evaluate the practices, and propose  opportunities for improvement.  In line with the GMD program, the  company launched in 2011 the program  Reduce to Add, which aims to identify  possible gaps in processes in order to  reduce operating costs and establish  actions for short and medium term  improvements especially with processes  and tasks that do not add to the  business result. In the last quarter of  the year there was a reduction of costs  and expenses of R$ 10.2 million, which  led to gains in the generation of EBITDA  for the period of almost 5%. The tool  becomes effective beginning in 2012.  Also in the year, InterCement adopted a  computerized system for managing the  sustainability indicators of the cement  operations (Business Intelligence - BI).  The tool allows tracking the updated  sustainability indicators of each industrial  unit, as well as the consolidation of this  data by country and for all business units,  providing constant management while  striving for continuous improvement.  5% The Reduce to Add  program added  approximately performance Operational InterCement  maintains  a  strategic  direction  focused  on  sustainable  growth and the internationalization of its  business, seeking to generate value for  its shareholders and other audiences. In  2011, the total volume of cement and its  byproducts sold by the business units,  adding the operations in Argentina, Brazil,  and Paraguay, reached 12.7 million tons,  up 10% over 2010. In Brazil, the increase  was 7% and in Argentina 10%. In both  countries the volumes sold represent  new records in annual sales and were  above the average market growth.  To achieve these results, InterCement has  one of the most modern industrial parks  in South America, which brings together  state-of-the-art technology, automated  processes, and experienced teams.  Also part of this broad infrastructure are  limestone mines strategically located  within a radius of up to 20 kilometers  from the operating units and close to  major consumer markets, the railroad  network  in  Argentina  managed  by  Ferrosur Roca, and the trading activities  at the subsidiary in Austria.  CEMENT With a 10% market share in the Brazilian  market of cement and leadership in  Argentina, InterCement sold 12.7 million  metric tons of cement in 2011. In Brazil  sales totaled 6.4 million metric tons, while  in Argentina the volume totaled 6.1 million  metric tons.  Among the factors that contributed  to the results for the year are several  improvement projects for gaining in  efficiency and increase capacity. Some  examples were the inauguration of new  cement mill in LAmali, Argentina, which  doubled the milling capacity from 1 million  to 2 million metric tons a year. To receive  an additional volume, the Lomaser unit,  also in Argentina, had a project to expand  gains in EBITDA   earnings in the last  quarter of 2011.  Result-oriented  23 22 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 12.7 million tons of cement in 2011. InterCement sold its shipping capacity, which led to an  additional 800,000 metric tons a year,  raising the annual capacity to 1.8 million  metric tons.  Another  action  in  Argentina  that  resulted in a gain of productivity was  the installation of burning fuel oil in the  Zapala factory. This initiative will make  it possible to keep the furnace running  during the winter when there is a  restriction on the supply of natural gas.  The action resulted in a 12% increase in  plant capacity, meaning an extra 26,000  metric tons of clinker per year.  CONCRETE  In 2011, the concrete operation in the  region of So Paulo was 100% supplied by  the input of aggregates from InterCements  own  quarries.  The  action  reduced  manufacturing costs and provided gains  in the quality of the product. The company  continues optimizing the portfolio of mills  with a focus on customers who recognize  the value added in the operation.  The Loma Negra Technical Center in  Argentina ran a test during the year on  an industrial scale for the production of  pervious concrete. The product, which is  an important solution for parking lots, will  be commercially available in 2012. Another  novelty was the manufacturing of concrete  with recycled aggregates, which offer a  positive contribution to the environment.  The volume shipped in 2011 reached 2.1  million cubic meters, 9% lower than the  performance achieved in 2010 due to two  mills closing and the lack of pace of major  infrastructure projects underway in Brazil.    Sales of concrete (millions of m3) 0.8 2.2 2.4 2.5 2.3 2.1 1.4 1.6 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.8 1.7 2007 Argentina Brazil 0.5 0 1 1.5 2 2.5 2008 2009 2010 2011 1.5 1.3 AGGREGATES Recognizing the importance of the  segment to the strategy of its business,  InterCement  resumed  operations  in  2011 of the deposits of aggregates of  Guarulhos and Barueri in Greater So  Paulo. Even in an atypical year marked  by adjustments for raising the standards  of operation, the volume shipped in 2011  reached 2.9 million metric tons with an  EBITDA margin of 21.3%. Considering  that the market showed an average  performance in 2011 without highlights  of volume or price, the result is significant  and demonstrates the robustness of  business of aggregates. The year 2011  was one of learning and implementing  the management model for harvesting  results in the years to come. Sales of cement  (millions of tons)  0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0   Brazil Argentina Paraguay 2008 10.2 5.5 4.7 2007 8.8 5.3 3.5 2009 10.1 5.1 5.0 2011 0.2 12.7 6.4 6.1 2010 0.1 11.5 5.9 5.5   Sales of aggregates  (millions of tons)  0.1 1.2 1.3 2010 1.0 0.5 0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 2011 1.6   Brazil Argentina 1.3 2.9 Actions to improve gains in  efficiency and increase capacity  caused the cement production to  grow in 2011.  Result-oriented  25 24 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 With high levels of efficiency in using  the installed capacity, InterCement  obtained excellent results in 2011 in  cement sales volume while maintaining  market share—the volume grew 7%  in Brazil and 10% in Argentina. In  Paraguay, with significant expansion  of demand, the company increased  its share and reached 23% of the   local market.  To achieve these results, the company  invested in maintenance in recent  years, reaching the highest level of  reliability needed for the equipment at  a time with a strong market demand.  The high fixed cost of maintenance  gave the result expected and was still  below the growth in revenue in 2011.  The level of general and administrative  expenses on net income is very low and  did not increase compared to 2010.  In Argentina, the business has been  growing in recent years with a strong  growth in energy costs and other  items, which generated an impact on   financial results.  performance Financial  The year was also marked by increased  prices of petroleum coke, which gained  relevance in the variable costs. To  compensate the increase in energy costs  at least in part, the company increased  the thermal substitution, which increased  more than 30% in 2011 to levels that  open up the opportunity for establishing  more challenging goals.  The  repurchase  of  bonds  from  InterCement Brasil and Loma Negra  worth US$ 161 million improved the debt  profile and got the company ready for its  growth projects.  REVENUE  The  companys  consolidated  gross  income reached R$ 3.58 billion, 14%  above the R$ 3.13 billion from the  previous year. The result stems from  the increased volume and price with a  higher demand from the markets and the  prominent position of the brands, having  a guaranteed supply because of the high  level of occupation. Net income rose  17% to R$ 2.88 billion.  14% higher than the   previous year. The companys gross  income in 2011 was  Gross income by country (R$ million) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000   Brazil Paraguay Argentina +16% 2007 920 1,026 1,946 2009 1,641 1,395 3,036 2008 1,410 1,250 2,660 2010 8 1,905 1,219 3,132 2011 19 2,166 1,399 3,584   Net income (R$ million) 500 0 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 1,598 2007 2,042 2008 2,362 2009 2,474 2010 2,884 2011 +17% Result-oriented  27 26 InterCement  Annual Report 2011   PROFIT  In the year and as shown below,  InterCement reached an EBITDA of  R$ 695 million (13% higher than in  2010), and the EBITDA margin was  24%, one percentage point lower than  that reached the previous year. The  companys net profit was R$ 257 million  in 2011, 15% more than in 2010.  Cement production hit  records in 2011 in Brazil   and Argentina.  The orienTaTion To resulTs defines The   high-performance in managemenT and The pursuiT   of susTainable growTh, such as in The pdca,   for improving ijacis Technical index  Teamwork once again proved to be an excellent tool for reaching  corporate goals and efficiency in the business. This is what a  multidisciplinary group from Ijaci made up of eight employees from  various areas (Process, Operation, Maintenance, and Laboratory)  proved while leading a PDCA project to improve the units technical  index—productivity and availability of maintenance of the chains.    The development of the project, which lasted about three months,  included four methodological steps: Analysis of the phenomenon,  Process analysis, Action plan, Standardization of processes, and Team  training. A goal was set after identifying opportunities for improvements:  increase the operating performance index of mill I and II from 92.8% to  94% (cumulative target by December 2010).    The next step of the PDCA was to replace the bushing (one of the  parts of the mill) that was worn from the effect of high temperature.  This action made it possible to reduce the volume of water injected,  ensured a greater stability in the product quality and fewer downtimes  due to high temperature. Improved performance  in milling  The Ijaci team  reached an  increase of 241,600  metric tons   a year Reconciliation of EBITDA Net Profit  224,524 257,387 Minority Interest  1,880 4,514 Income Tax and Social Contribution  127,476 151,643 Net Financial Income  87,439 230,530 Depreciation, Amortization, and Goodwill  136,359 126,983 Other Operating Expenses (Revenues)  38,536 (75,886) EBITDA 616,214 695,171 2010 2011   Net prot (R$ million) 2007 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 2008 2009 2010 2011 +5% 211 186 538 225 257   EBITDA and margin 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 420 641 616 695 400 25 24 27 25 21   EBITDA (R$ million) EBITDA Margin (%) +15% 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 Result-oriented  29 28 InterCement  Annual Report 2011  31 30 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 Innovation, established as a collective  and continuous process, is a major factor  in the development of InterCement and  is present in all corporate structures,  from strategy to technology. In addition  to  stimulating  innovative  behavior  among its employees, the company  seeks to interact with customers and  research institutions in order to create  the solutions that are most adequate to  the sectors needs.  InterCement ensures the quality of its  products and processes through the  consolidated process of continuous  improvement, which has provided high  levels of excellence in the operations,  surpassing industry standards. Because  of this, in recent years it has invested  in the relationship with its stakeholders  in  order  to  identify  trends  and  demands. Partnerships arise through  initiatives such as Lets Do More,  an  internal  program  to  receive  suggestions for increasing productivity,  and Cau Trends meetings held with  industrial customers, which include  discussions about products. Loma  Negra was a sponsor of Tecnpolis  Del Bicentenrio, Ciencia, Tecnologia Y  Arte 2011, an event that celebrated 200  years of scientific and technological  activities in Argentina.  In addition to maintaining the incentive  for continuous improvement, in 2012  the company will deepen the concept  of innovation at the strategic level.  Much beyond the operational aspects  that follow under constant monitoring  and  qualification,  the  purpose  is  to reach the disruptive innovation,  enabling InterCement to structure its  projects in the long term, anticipating   market strategies.  of innovation Continuous process As part of its Management System,  InterCement  began  in  2009  the  implementation  of  Innovation  Management, encouraging the practice  of continuous improvement and the use  of creativity with accountability among  employees. In 2010 it went to the field  to better understand the expectations  of its customers. Through interviews  with businessmen and professionals,  opportunities to meet specific demands  were selected, which began to be  tested for their viability with the use  of prototypes. Conducted jointly with  research  institutions,  they  included  operational and commercial activities  and  have  been  under  evaluation  until 2011 with the purpose of being  transformed  into  new  processes,  products, and services.  In order to reach a new level of  innovation, the company will adopt a  new methodology to obtain permanent,  sustainable,  and  increasingly  more  radical results. The process implemented  in 2012 will become part of the  organizations culture, making disruptive  innovation a habit among employees.  Through reflection about its place in the  market and its strategy, InterCement  looks to the future, reinterpreting its  challenges. From the observation of  external factors such as customer  needs,  technologies  from  other  industries, trends, and paradigms, an  innovation network made up of the  companys professionals will work in  cycles for analyzing issues. The groups  will be transversal and multidisciplinary  to generate results Methodology with the support of communication  actions, human resources, and strategy.  Integration is the keyword of the system  based on the production of ideas   from collaboration. The movement causes one to look at  the strategy from another perspective,  bringing new concepts and possibilities.  This process adds value to the brands  of InterCement, which begin to be  recognized for their innovative character.  The new methodology also has at its  center a focus on results, which must  be robust, not just incremental, in all the  initiatives taken.  Culture of innovation 39 The innovation program  Lets Do More received   in 2011 The company encourages  innovative behavior  among its employees,  customers, and partners. suggestions from   different areas.   33 32 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 partnerships Research Do More Lets Launched in April, the program Lets  Do More promotes gathering ideas  to increase cement production in  reduced time. The proposals, which  are submitted through the companys  intranet portal, can be individual or  collective and must result in at least  10,000 additional metric tons of the  product in 30 days.  All suggestions received are analyzed  by the Area of Innovation and by a  Committee of Specialists, the technical  Institute  for  Technological  Research (IPT):  development of a new  technological route for the utilization  of construction and demolition waste.  The project, which has 50% of its cost  financed by BNDES, has its research  initiated in the first quarter of 2012.  VHSC Cement: the association  with the American company will result  in studies of better technologies for the  activation of pozzolana, a volcanic rock  that can be added to the cement.  Universidad Nacional de Cuyo:  construction of a pilot system to  capture carbon dioxide by microalgae.  The project will be developed at the  Loma Negra factory in San Juan.  team responsible for defining the  feasibility of implementing each project.  Those whose ideas are selected are  rewarded with points that can be  redeemed for merchandise such as  televisions and other electronic devices.  Were received 39 suggestions in 2011  from many areas and two of them were  put into practice in the same year. The  program, initially implemented in Brazil,  should be taken to the Argentina units  in 2012.  In  addition  to  having  consultants  specialized in setting up innovation  programs, InterCement is associated  with educational and research institutions  to  elaborate  prototypes  and  other  technologies. New partnerships were  initiated in 2011:  Federal  University  of  Minas  Gerais  (UFMG): construction of the  Center for Nanotechnology in order  to centralize the main research in  this field and its applications for the   cement industry. Federal University of Rio de  Janeiro (UFRJ): partnership with the  Foundation for the Coordination of  Projects, Research, and Technology  Studies (Copptec/UFRJ) for the study of  sustainable technologies of packaging.  The innovaTion culTure became even more presenT   in 2011 wiTh The acTions of leTs do more program.   The ijaci and bodoquena uniTs showed ThaT good ideas are  TranslaTed inTo gains for The enTire producTion chain Through the program Lets Do More created in 2011 to gather ideas  that contribute to increasing the volume of cement production in the  short term, employees from two plants presented innovative solutions  to improve the production processes.    The Ijaci project, proposed by a group of ten people, developed an  action for using the dust from the cement mills bag filter and generated  an additional volume in the production of cement of 10,800 metric tons  (August to October), which is an average of 3,600 metric tons (5.7%)  more per month, plus a 4.7% reduction in the consumption of specific  energy (kWh/t).    In Bodoquena, the idea was to increase the quantity of material utilized  in the mill. The average productivity before the project was 104,600  metric tons/h of cement, rising to 106,200 metric tons/h after the  change. With this, the monthly production gained an increase of about  3,000 metric tons.  Creativity and efficiency    Together, the Ijaci  and Bodoquena  units increased  their monthly  production   by almost  14,000 tons Culture of innovation  35 34 InterCement  Annual Report 2011  37 36 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 Respect and trust are the foundations  of InterCements relationship with its  stakeholders. Whether in its routines  with suppliers and customers or in its  interaction with society, the company  seeks to establish strong partnership  relations, developing joint solutions  through teamwork. With customers,  the daily contact is intensified in actions  and trust Respect directed to research, discussion, and  training. The social actions cause  the company to grow nearer to the  communities where it operates, taking  structured programs in partnership  with the Camargo Corra Institute and  Loma Negra Foundation, aligned with  local needs.  and suppliers Costumers Strength of relationships Several actions intensify the companys  links with its value chain. The Trade  Marketing program conducted by Loma  Negra with Austral University trained  100 business people who distribute  or use the companys products in  their concrete manufacturing process.  Directed to the owners or their children,  the course considers family aspects of  small and medium-sized companies  and  promotes  loyalty  and  better  performance of the sales channels.  Subjects such as models for business  analysis,  people  management,  negotiation, and sales were addressed.  In order to discuss the course of the  civil construction market in Brazil with  leading representatives of the industrial  sector, four Cau Trends meetings  were held on the themes of interlocking  floor tiles, concrete roof tiles, mortars,  and industrialized building systems.  InterCement has a department of  specialized technical consulting for  this consumer audience that assists  in the process of reducing costs and  reaching gains from improving products   and services.  The area of concrete also has a  strong proximity with the Brazilian and  Argentine markets. The development of  special solutions designed according  to the need of more sophisticated  building projects that require special  characteristics of the product enables  a personalized and effective customer  service. Loma Negra has the largest  technical center in the country for  studies on concrete technology.  The relationship with customers is  driven by marketing initiatives. During  the Concrete Show held in So Paulo,  the worlds second largest event for  technology in concrete products, nine  large customers from the industry  channel demonstrated the versatility of  Cau cement through their products by  using booths integrated into the stand  of InterCement Brasil.  In  the  media,  the  promotional  campaign entitled Cau More: Fast  drying, resistance + Quality focused  increasing sales of CPIII 40 RS in the  region of Belo Horizonte, and it also  encompassed an incentive campaign  with prizes for the retailers. The  distributors gained prominence with  a promotional ad developed by Loma  Negra that won the 2011 POPAI Award  granted by an international organization  that encourages communication and  promotional activities at the point   of sale.  The Suppliers Workshops promoted  an  exchange  of  experiences  and  consolidation of the Supplier Relations  Policy of the business unit in Brazil. The  policy deals with the assessment and  approval system of the contractors,  which emphasizes the reliability of  social  and  environmental  aspects.  In Argentina, the Value Program has  encouraged since 2009 the adoption  of sustainability practices among its  business partners, supporting social  responsibility programs. The strategic  procurement department was created  in 2011, which negotiates purchase  volumes jointly from the countries  where InterCement has operations, thus  increasing the companys bargaining  power  and  obtaining  commercial  advantages. Currently part of strategic  purchasing includes solid fuels such as  petroleum coke and coal, as well as  refractory, packaging, grinding media,  and additives.  The development of  special solutions for  the market also applies  in the area of concrete.   39 38 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 management Social The company has  11 Community  Development  Committees  that bring together  representatives and  community leaders. Childhood Brasil, an organ of the World  Childhood Foundation, an entity that  defends the rights of children around  the world.    Aware of the importance of road  transport in its business, InterCement  joins its commercial operations with  social initiatives in order to actively  participate in the On the Right Track  Program, created by Childhood Brasil  with a focus on protecting children  against sexual abuse and exploitation.   VOLUNTEERISM   InterCement  encourages  the  participation  of  its  employees  in  volunteer actions, even those that  are not related to the company. The  Ideal Volunteer Program values and  supports the volunteer efforts from  Os colaboradores da empresa  so incentivados a realizar aes  voluntrias na comunidade. the professionals of the group and  creates opportunities in line with the  programs developed by the Camargo  Corra Institute, including also the  participation of the employees family.  In 2011, the company included the  volunteering aspect as one of its  sustainability indicators.  One of the main actions of the program  is the Day of Doing Good held since  2009. At InterCement, the event was  attended by 4,353 volunteers and 348  partners, benefiting 52 entities and  20,649 people in Brazil, Argentina,  and  Paraguay.  The  participation  level was a record and the numbers  have grown each year, especially in   smaller communities.  In addition to promoting the development  of the communities where it operates  through  partnerships  and  local  recruitment, InterCement established its  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  Policy in 2011. The initiative defines the  standardization of actions and ensures  their alignment with the objectives  of the business.    The CSR governance, in line with the  Camargo Corra Institute model, has  four structures:  Civic (Committee to Encourage  Volunteerism  and  Community  Interaction):  strengthens  the  companys ties with the community and  encourages voluntary actions among  the companys professionals. Its formal  actions in all InterCement units total 18  groups and 129 members.  Gaiv  (Ideal  Volunteer  Action  Group):  comprised  of  volunteer  professionals interested in working more  directly in social activities, this group  develops  and  coordinates  activities  aligned in their priority to projects and  actions underway in the community.  CDC (Community Development  Committee):  brings  together  representatives  and  community  leaders from social organizations, the  government, and private sector to  develop projects that contribute to the  good of the community. Works with the  concept of giving support and has 11  CDCs, which includes most plants.  In 2011, the Civic was installed in all units  of InterCement in Brazil, Argentina, and  Paraguay. These committees are responsible  for monitoring all CSR actions in their units.  The model proposed by the CSR  Policy included the restructuring of  the  Loma  Negra  Foundation  with  the redefinition of the programs and  strengthening of the team. The change  allowed the expansion of the programs  to all locations where Loma Negra  has operations and increased social  investment in Argentina. The Foundation  integrates RedEAmrica, which is made  up of private entities that work to reduce  poverty and on social inclusion.    The fight against child labor and  exploitation is also the subject of  commitments. Loma Negra participates  in the Convention to Combat Child  Labor led by the Ministry of Labor,  Employment, and Social Security of  Argentina. With a focus on protecting  children against sexual abuse and  exploitation, InterCement is a partner of  Strength of relationships  41 40 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 In  Argentina,  the  Loma  Negra  Foundation has the Volunteers in  Action program that reinforces other  three projects, increasing its impact  and reaching confluence of goals  and interests. It is different because  of its focus on social projects as an  opportunity for growth and personal  realization  of  employees,  family  members, customers, and suppliers.  In 2011, there were 63 volunteering  actions that benefited directly over  17,595  people  and  more  than   52,000 indirectly.  STRUCTURAL PROGRAMS   In Brazil, the actions in the communities  are organized in accordance with the  structural programs of the Camargo  Corra Institute:  Ideal  Childhood:  a  program  aimed at protecting the rights of  early childhood (birth to six years  old) present in the municipalities of  Ijaci,  Apia,  Bodoquena,  Santana  do Paraso, Pedro Leopoldo, and  Cabo de Santo Agostinho. It has 22  projects that complement the actions  of  government  and  communities.  Ideal School: directed at improving    belief in The power of relaTionships has made   inTercemenT reach resulTs Through The engagemenT   of all iTs sTakeholders. business, governmenT,   and organized socieTy demonsTraTed in caTamarca   ThaT The sum of efforTs produces subsTanTial resulTs In July 2011, the agreement signed by Loma Negra with the Ministry of  Education of the Province of Catamarca, Argentina was the first step of  an initiative to bring together various local structures in the promotion of  vocational training courses for the community. The partnership was led  by the Civic Unit of Catamarca. The agreement provided teachers and  the equipment necessary. But the logistical support and dissemination  of the courses were the responsibility of the municipalities of Santa  Rosa and El Alto where the InterCement plant is located. The support  of the School Monotcnica No. 71 had a fundamental role in the speed  of implementation of the activities. El Club Independiente in the city of  El Alto and Loma Negra Foundation also collaborated with the activity.    In addition to community integration, the project promoted education  as a path of development and equal opportunities, resulting in the  inclusion of young people into the job market. The virtuous circle created  by the initiative is spreading to neighboring cities and in September the  CDC of El Alto was formed composed of 17 entities. Social integration  activities of young people in the region are already in the planning with  funding from the Loma Negra Foundation.  Shared leadership  STUDENTS  completed  vocational   courses 179 the management of public schools and  improving the quality of education. In  action in the cities of Apia (SP), Pedro  Leopoldo, and Ijaci (MG), it assists  children and adolescents ages 6 to 16.  Ideal Future:  encourages  entrepreneurship  and  creating jobs and income for young  people between the ages of 16 and 29 in  partnership with entities such as Senac,  Senai, and Sebrae.    An action plan has been created in Argentina  with the following program structure:  RecreAccin:  a program aimed at encouraging activities  to promote sports, entertainment, and  culture. Its proposal is the responsible use  of free time as a tool to promote human and  social values, teamwork, and development  of creativity.   EducAccin:  supports projects that propose actions to  promote education in both a formal and  informal way.   Jvenes en Accin:  supports innovative projects that propose  actions that promote job market integration  of young people at social risk.  InterCement employees are  volunteers in activities of the  Day of Doing Good.  Strength of relationships  43 42 InterCement  Annual Report 2011  45 44 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 Multiculturalism  and  integration  are the keys to the development of  InterCement. Knowledge and practices  come together in different countries with  diversity at its essence. The sum of the  collective efforts and the combination  between global and local are present  in the integrated management system,  which encourages the formation of  work groups and brings together ideas  and values.  An important step in the strategy of  sustainable growth was the corporate  and integration Multiculturalism 5,061 employees in   December 2011.  The company had restructuring, which resulted in the  formation of a new holding, InterCement  Participaes S.A., with 99.9% of the  shares held by Camargo Corra S.A.,  the holding company of the Camargo  Corra Group. The alignment of the  business units and standardization of  procedures brought gains of synergy  and efficiency. The new corporate  identity, sealed with the launching  of the InterCement brand, reflects  the movement of internationalization  and the ability to bring people and   cultures together.  The reorganization process done  by the company in 2011 made  the managing of all the processes  more agile and efficient.  47 46 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 Committed to transparency of information  to the market and to equal treatment to  its stakeholders, InterCement conducts  its business based on good practices  of  corporate  governance.  Its  actions  are decided based on the guidelines of  sustainability expressed in its Sustainability  Policy and on principles of ethics and  corporate responsibility.    In the quest for operational excellence,  InterCement initiated in 2011 the organizational  restructuring process approved at the end of  last year. The initiative aims to make decision- making more agile and efficient, contributing  to the generation of value for its shareholders  and other strategic publics. The idea is to  form a more participatory structure that is  capable of making feasible effective strategic  actions with a focus on lasting growth   of the business.  governance Corporate BOARD OF DIRECTORS This is InterCements highest organ of  governance. It is up to it to establish the  general business strategies and decisions  such  as  electing  directors,  defining  investment projects, and approving the  multiannual plan and annual budget.  The board consists of five members: the  chairman, three vice-presidents, and one  counselor, all with a term of two years.  EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE  It consists of 12 executives who have  the responsibility to put into practice  the actions necessary or convenient for  managing the business in line with the  decisions of the Board of Directors and to  propose investment plans and programs  to expand and modernize the company.  The directors meet twice a month and  extraordinarily whenever necessary.  BUSINESS UNIT COMMITTEES  InterCement has six standing Committees:  Executive, Sustainability, Audit and Risk  Management, Occupational Health and  Safety, Management, and Ethics They  are responsible for giving support to  the decision-making processes. These  committees are made up of members from  the Board of Directors and by executives  and they have the mission of ensuring the  quality for checking relevant information  related to the Companys business and  developing long-term strategies.  CONDUCT AND ETHICS  InterCements actions are also guided by  the Code of Business Conduct adopted  by the Camargo Corra Group, which  is available on the Internet and widely  circulated among employees, suppliers,  customers,  and  other  stakeholders.  The document establishes standards  and principles that should guide the  behavior in the relationship with different  publics: Ethics, Legality, Respect for  human beings, Repudiation of any form  of discrimination, Stimulation of personal  and professional development, as well  as Social, environmental, and cultural  responsibility. The management of the  Code rests with the Ethics Committee.  The company also maintains an Ethics  Hot  Line,  a  direct  communication  channel that is accessible to employees  and  other  stakeholders.  This  tool  can be used to make suggestions,  comments, and complaints of improper  Diversity that builds behavior. The management is done  by the Ethics Committee that uses an  external consulting company to receive  the communications and feedback of  the actions taken. Confidentiality is  entirely guaranteed. The channels for  contact are by phone; 0800-7022312 in  Brazil and 0800-6660120 in Argentina.   The email address for both countries is   linhaetica@pwco.com.br. INTERNAL  RECRUITMENT. In 2011, 27% of the  job openings in Brazil  and 26% of those made  available in Argentina  were filled by All production units have  their automated controls.  49 48 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 of human capital Management The  people  management  policy  at  InterCement values skills and results,  providing fair working conditions and  compensation, as well as giving priority  to  those  already  in  the  company  for  career  advancement  decisions.  Continuous improvement is encouraged  and has alignment with the companys   strategic objectives.  In 2011, 27% of the job openings in  Brazil and 26% of those made available in  Argentina were filled by internal recruitment.  The Hay system gives support to the  remuneration policy and is in agreement  with the industry standards. The variable  compensation is based on reaching targets   and is adopted for all employees in Brazil  and for managers and middle managers  in Argentina in accordance with the  specificities of each country.  With competence reaffirmed with the  companys leaders in the year, focus on  results has been the target of training  activities and reflection at various levels of  the organization.  RECOGNITION PROGRAM  InterCement created the Recognition  program to give credit to employees  who have attitudes in line with its  values and behaviors, strengthening the  management model and contributing  to the organizational climate. The  recognition  criteria  are  based  on  communication  and  presentation,  and are defined according to the  characteristics  of  each  activity  based on topics such as safety, loss,   and absenteeism.  interests, skills, and opportunities for   occupational mobility.  Development Scholarship: annual  training program for professionals in the  process of succession, recent promotion,  or other situations of changing positions  and functions that require specific or  intensified training.  Development Program: in partnership  with Dom Cabral Foundation and INSEAD,  in 2011 the program focused Orientation  DEVELOPMENT ACTIONS  Job Openings and You: intended to  announce the job openings in the company,  giving priority to internal recruitment and  selection of professionals.  Young Professionals: a selection  program  of  young  professionals  including training future specialists and  project leaders.  Succession  Maps:  constructed  based on the evaluation of performance,  these  maps  identify  gaps,  career  on Results, covering several levels from  top management to coordinators. The  initiative includes semiannual meetings of  executives from InterCement.   Portal + Integration: this intranet tool  was redesigned in the second half of 2011  with lighter interface and new services. The  portal, which is widely used by employees,  brings together people, makes it possible  to promote actions, and strengthens the  institutional culture.  The award involves employees at all  levels and takes place quarterly and  annually. The recognition does not  provide cash prizes. Developed in 2011,  the Recognition Program will be put into  practice beginning in 2012.  QUALITY OF LIFE  InterCements administrative reorganization,  with the installation of new headquarters in  So Paulo, has brought gains to the routine  of employees along with providing a better  conformity of its infrastructure to its growth  plans. Parallel to the change is that the  Quality of Life Program was launched in the  administrative headquarters in So Paulo  (districts of Naes Unidas and Jaguar).  Activities of health, leisure, and sports were  adopted as a pilot project to be extended  to all units. In the administrative areas,  the program includes workplace exercise  programs,  ergonomic  analysis,  quick  massage, and encouraging the creation  of jogging groups, but the unfolding of  the program will bring specific actions  according to the characteristics of each  unit. aes especficas de acordo com as  caractersticas de cada unidade.   Employees (at end of period) 4,000 5,061 2007 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 4,808 4,751 4,787 The integrated  management system  allows synergies and  efficiency wherever the  company is located.  Diversity that builds  51 50 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 HEALTH AND SAFETY  Safety is a priority for InterCement, which  has a full tool to protect the physical  integrity of its employees. The company  now has the challenge to internalize the  precepts of safety in its institutional culture.  Routines and processes to be followed by  all permanent employees and contractors  are set out in the Single Policy of Health,  Safety, and Environment. Best practices  are monitored by indicators and checked  by a specialized consulting company.  The development of two skills is in  focus in order to bring about better  performance: the ability to perceive  risks and safe behavior. To do so, four  fronts were created: technical, structural,  communication, and relationships with  suppliers. Training was given to internal  consultants and multipliers of health and  safety, leaders were engaged, and internal  committees were set up with the unification  of management tools in all units.  The  methodology  adopted  includes  reviewing real situations with field audits  and identification of critical positions,  collecting data through observation of  everyday  procedures,  and  signaling  the causes of risky behaviors. Group  and individual coaching along with  moments of reflection in daily practice  are instruments used for cultural change.  The measurements have everyones  involvement, our own employees and  contractors, as well as commitment  from all levels, especially for the leaders.  Disciplinary  actions  are  avoided.  The intention is to reinforce positive  behaviors and encourage motivation  and commitment.  The Golden Rules have been launched in  Brazil and reinforced in Argentina, which  highlight ten key points to minimize  the risk of accidents at the production  units and are based on the history of  occurrences in the cement industry. The  employees signed their commitment to  preventive actions that involve changes  in their behavior and being concerned  with their colleagues.  Two workshops on Transportation Safety  sought to build closer ties with the carriers,  giving greater attention and mobilization  to the topic. Among the relevant actions  are signing the terms of agreement on  safety of the operations, speed limits on  flows, training, and audits.  The Golden Rules  highlight 10 key points  to minimize the risk  of accidents on the  production units. The diversiTy ThaT builds is applied To all   The companys processes, which include The creaTion   of mulTidisciplinary Teams such as The ohsas   commiTTee of ijaci  The OHSAS 18001 certification process makes it possible for the  companies to critically evaluate their activities to detect and control  risks to health and safety. Through an integrated management system,  the focus of the work is on the zero accident rate in order to ensure the  integrity of the professionals working at the Ijaci unit.  To organize the action, the OHSAS Committee was created with  members in the area of Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE), as well  as Operation and Management. Beyond the committee, the hard work  had the collaboration of the entire HSE team and representatives from  the areas that were active in identifying the hazards and risks.  The activities started in January 2011. Over 1,000 activities were  mapped identifying 12,343 hazards— 242 significant risks were  identified and are being treated with an action plan for mitigation or  elimination. New control systems, training, procedures, and tools were  created for OHSAS compliance. The external audit took place in two  parts with it beginning in December and ending in February 2012 with  a recommendation for certification.  On-the-job safety  All areas  cooperated to  identify risks Diversity that builds  53 52 InterCement  Annual Report 2011  55 54 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 Sustainability is part of InterCements  strategy and it involves all of its  stakeholders from the perspective that  business  continuity  includes  being  responsible in economic, social, and  environmental aspects. The company  combines giving attention to results in the  present with the preparation of a better  future both for business and for society,  while being aware of the risks inherent to  its activities and the investments required  to constantly qualify its operations.  The fulfillment of this precept can be  seen all the way from hiring suppliers  to launching products, leading to a  collective commitment with sustainable  development. This view is consistent  with the Cement Sustainability Initiative  (CSI), the cement arm of the World  Business  Council  for  Sustainable  Development - WBCSD, an organization  of which InterCement has been a part  since 2008. Among the commitments  and indicators to be monitored by the  company with CSI is the reduction of  CO2 emissions per metric ton of cement  produced, which in 2011 was among the  lowest (531 kg CO2/ton of cement) from  CSIs global database (average 653 kg  CO2/ton of cement). Another significant  advance occurred with the installation  of continuous monitoring of pollutants  in all of the companys furnaces, which  will enable pollution control in real time in  the cement kilns. The link with WBCSD  also takes place in Argentina with Loma  Negras participation as a founding  member of the Argentinean Business  Council for Sustainable Development  (CEADS) since 1992.  The Global Compact, an international  initiative  to  mobilize  the  business  community led by the United Nations  (UN),  also  guides  the  conducts  of  InterCement.  Human  rights,  labor  relations,  environment,  and  anticorruption are topics treated in the  Compacts ten principles taken on by the   signatory companies.      of sustainability Strategy management Risk In  its  management  processes,  InterCement has tools that identify,  parameterize, evaluate, and propose  contingency or elimination plans of  adverse factors on its results. The  analysis of potential risks in all of its  operations is done by representatives  from various internal areas and follows  a methodology of controls of the  Committee of Sponsoring Organizations  of the Treadway Commission (Coso).  In 2011, the Integrated Risk Management  project was completed that produced  the Corporate Risk Map and the Critical  Processes  Map.  This  initiative  has  enabled InterCement to prioritize actions  to mitigate the risks that are critical to  the business. The new process, which  was  adopted  corporately,  includes  unique compliance techniques such as  self-assessment of risks and continuous  auditing. A strict Policy of Relations with  Competition (Antitrust) was also adopted  that strengthens proper behavior of  employees and the companys practices  in relation to the market, avoiding  situations that could be misinterpreted.  The Board of Risk Management and  Audit, which has a manager for each  business unit in Brazil and Argentina, is  responsible for defining and updating  the  methodologies  involved  in  the  management project, as well as monitor  and train the teams so they can participate  effectively. InterCement believes that risk  management is an activity inherent to all  those involved in each process (directors,  managers, coordinators, leaders, and  outsourced professionals).  Added to this structure is an Audit  and Risk Committee responsible for  discussing and directing solutions for  themes related to risks, crises, safety,  accounting, and auditing.  Sustainable attitude The emission of CO2 per  metric ton of cement  produced at InterCement  of 531 kg is among the  lowest in the world.  57 56 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 Unethical conduct and fraud  These risks are mitigated by an extensive  set of corporate policies, standards,  and procedures that inform, among  other things, what and how InterCement  understands that the activities and  attitudes should be carried out. The  main ones are as follows: Code of  Conduct, Corporate Policy of Relations  with Competition (Antitrust), Corporate  Policy of Sustainability, and Crisis  Management Manual. The company at  the same time carries out compliance  processes in order to make sure that  these policies and standards are met.  They  are  Ethics  Line,  Continuous  auditing, Self-assessment of controls,  and Audit of processes.  Reputation and image  InterCement  established  a  crisis  management and communication policy  providing contingency plans applied in  different situations that may represent  an impact on its image or reputation.   Business continuity   The Risk Management methodology  defines and monitors the tolerance  levels for each critical risk identified.  ISO 9001 The certification is present in  all cement plants.  of sustainability Management Internally, the engagement with the theme  manifests itself in different structures. The  Sustainability Policy and Code of Conduct  define the principles of action together  with the Sustainability Committee and  by  specific  corporate  management.  Beginning at hiring, the professionals  receive orientation on these guidelines,  which are reinforced with training and  capacity building. The system of evaluation  and approval of suppliers increases the  reliability of the companies contracted.  In the financial area, the program Matrix  Management of Expenses strengthens  the monitoring of costs and expenses.  The  management  of  indicators  is  done through a computerized system  that allows you to track the overall  performance and of each unit as well. The  traffic light, as it is called, brings together  economic, social, and environmental  aspects such as water consumption and  energy, and management of diversity. The  sustainability indicators of the concrete  operations were defined in 2011, and will  be integrated into the system in 2012. A  routine for the presentation and discussion  of indicators at the units was also created  with practice in visual management.   The tool Sustainability Meter completes  the system, providing an immediate  reading of how close InterCement, a  business unit, or a plant is toward reaching   the targets.  Aligned with the Camargo Corra Group,  InterCement uses specially designed  instruments  to  promote  sustainable  practices among its employees. The  Sustainability Radar did the mapping of  the current practices in the group and  of its short and medium-term objectives,  setting goals and guiding the multi-annual  planning and budget. On the other hand,  the Sustainability Academy promotes  expansion of knowledge and provided  training during the year for internal  audiences about climate change and  carbon management. There is the Forum  of Directors Guardians of Sustainability  to implement the corporate strategy,  which,  among  other  responsibilities,  takes care of the engagement of leaders  and employees. All executive officers  have their variable compensation linked  to sustainability, which can serve as a  reducer or multiplier.   Cost management  InterCement  conducts  activities  to  monitor the evolution of costs and  expenses through the processes of  Matrix Management of Expenses (GMD)  and  Matrix Management of Variable  Cost (GMCV). These tools organize  the management of package of fixed  costs (e.g. personnel, maintenance,  transportation, communications, etc.)  and variable costs (e.g. energy and raw  materials), which are monitored by those  responsible for each group of expenses.  Environment  In its production processes, InterCement  follows the principles of eco-efficiency  with continually less use of natural  resources and reducing impacts arising  from its operation. Its performance  in this regard is based on a sound  corporate policy of its own as well as  common to the Camargo Corra Group.  All  environmental  aspects  involved  in the processes and facilities in the  industrial units are identified, registered,  and managed on the basis of an  environmental management system that  follows the provisions of ISO 14001, as  well as relying on independent audits.  The main critical risks to the business  identified during the mapping process,  and their mitigation processes, are   as follows:  InterCement follows the principles  of eco-efficiency by using less  and less natural resources and  reducing impacts.  59 58 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 management Environmental Environmental  management  at  InterCement is structured on the values  of caring and respect for life based  on principles of mitigation of impacts  and risks to health and safety. To  this end, the company has adopted  technological advances of production  and process control in order to reduce  the negative effects that its actions  could cause in places where it is  installed. Among the advances made in  2011 was the consolidation of the waste   recycling project.  Loma Negra has developed cutting- edge  products  to  the  Argentine  market by combining innovation and  sustainability. In addition to porous  concrete, an important solution to  prevent flooding in urban centers, and  the concrete with recycled aggregates,  which is environmentally beneficial,  the  company  has  also  developed  blast furnace cement. Produced in the  factory of Catamarca, the cement has  a high content of blast furnace slag that  reduces the consumption of clinker in  its composition by about 50%, making  it the most sustainable cement currently  sold  in  Argentina:  its  production  generates less greenhouse gases and  has a lower consumption of energy and  limestone. The blast furnace cement is  used for building large structures such  as dams, bridges, and high resistance  construction projects.  CONTROL OF EMISSIONS Cement production, because of the  characteristics of its process, causes  high emissions of carbon dioxide  (CO2)  during decarbonation (burning of raw  materials for the composition of the  clinker, cement based) and the burning  of fuels to power the furnaces. In  Brazil, however, the industry has some  Scope Theme Target Status/Results/Comment Sustainability Commitments Environment Social Management (*) Considering own employees and contractors of all operations  (**) The original target of 2012 was revised due to the decision to focus efforts in the unification and integration of systems and databases. (***) The original target of 2014 was revised due to the decision to focus efforts in the unification and integration of systems and databases. Met: The emissions from InterCement's cement activity resulted in  531 kg CO2/ton. Cement in 2011, below the 1st quartile of CSI  global (585 kg CO2/ton. Cement). See the charts and additional  information on page 60.  Partially met: The installation of the last online gas analyzer took  place in March 2012. All furnaces that were in operation in 2009  are with this continuous monitoring equipment. Information  on emissions of these pollutants will already be available by  next report.  In progress: Initiatives are underway to develop corporate  guidelines for the theme in order to develop and consolidate the  restoration plans by December 2012.  Four fatal accidents occurred in the operations of Argentina and  Brazil in the cement, concrete, and railroad business. In order to  make the company a benchmark in safety, a specific group was  formed to achieve this goal by implementing the best practices in  the market. The plan is to develop a vision of excellence in safety  and health at all levels, to ensure that safety aspects are  embedded into the processes / procedures, and ensure safe  conditions at the workplace.  InterCement: TF = 2.33 and TG =1,198 Cement Operations: TF = 1.29 and TG = 1,079 Railroad Operations: TF = 7.24 and TG = 3,017 Partially met: Plans were drawn up for 90% of InterCement's  operations. For 2012, the goal is to have Engagement Plans  for all units of Cement, Ferrosur, Recycomb, and Concrete.  The aggregate business will have its plan drawn up by the  end of 2013.  Concrete and Aggregates Operations: TF = 5.75 and TG = 1,640 Have restoration plans in the CSI format  for 100% of the mines by 2012  Reach in 2012 the targets of TF and TG  proposed below (*): InterCement: TF = 2.22 and TG = 66 Cement Operations: TF = 0.9 and TG =13 Concrete and Aggregates Operations:  TF = 4.25 and TG =137 Railroad Operations: TF = 5.97  and TG = 258 Certify cement factories as listed below: 9001 - 100% by 2010 14001 - 100% by 2014** 18001 - 100% by 2015*** Have in 2011 Engagement Plans with  stakeholders developed and implemented  for 100% of the plants of cement,  concrete, Recycomb, and Ferrosur.  Partially met: In 2011, 67% of the cement factories implemented  the programs of the Camargo Corra Institute. InterCement is  expanding the introduction of its social projects as well to other  businesses such as Concrete and Ferrosur.  Met: All cement factories are ISO 9001 certified. In progress: 53% of the cement plants are certified In progress: The Ijaci factory received this certification, representing 7% of  the units. Have projects from the Camargo Corra  Institute and Loma Negra Foundation implemented in all locations where there  are cement plants.  Reach 100% of continuous measurement  of NOx, SOx, and particulate matter in  cement kilns by 2011  Keep the CO2 emissions of InterCement  among the companies part of the CSI  with the lowest emissions (1st quartile)  considering the "Global" and  "Geographic Regions" indexes  Restoration of  degraded areas Safety Stakeholders Certifications NOx, SOx and PM  (continuous  monitoring)  CO2 emissions  (in kg CO2/ton  of cement) Sustainable attitude  61 60 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 environmental advantages due to the  possibility of adding more slag and other  materials that reduce the emissions.  InterCement, through its strict control  and monitoring systems, manages to  remain below the national average and  be a benchmark for its low emissions. Since 2007, the monitoring of certain  work fronts with greenhouse gases  (GHG) is done on annual inventories  conducted in accordance with the  protocol of CSI and the Green House  Gases Protocol, a set of standards  and tools to measure these emissions.  The inventories are subject to external  verification and cover 100% of the  operations. The company increased  its scope to include indirect emissions  9.96% Thermal substitution   by co-processing   in Brazil reached  surpassing the target  for the year. The latter, acquired in 2011, made the  company self-sufficient in energy. The higher consumption in production,  however, is thermal energy. In order to  replace traditional fuels that are more  pollutant, InterCement is increasing its  use of co-processing, which is a system  of burning industrial and urban waste such  as tires, plastics, and paints. The supply  of waste is secured by long-term contracts  with industrial generators that provide even  favorable costs for the company.  In 2011, InterCement reached a  thermal  substitution by co-processing record in  Ijaci with 20.01%. The overall rate in Brazil  reached 9.96%, an increase of 25% over  the previous year and exceeded the target,  which was 7.5%.  There was an increase of 50% in the  rate of thermal substitution in the units of  Brazil. R$ 35 million was allocated during  the year to building projects related to co- processing such as building a platform  for blending (mixing and preparation of  waste for processing into fuel) at Ijaci  and structural improvements to enhance  the co-processing in the units of Pedro  Leopoldo and Apia.  In Argentina this practice is still in the initial  development stage. Actions were taken  in 2011 to expand the shredder and bulk  cargo of Solid fuel at the Recycomb Plant,  installation of solid injection system to the  furnace at the LAmali Plant, and acquisition  of mobile equipment for grinding scrap  pallets at Recycomb.   Thermal matrix  (%) Co-processing Charcoal Petroleum coke Mineral coal 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 58.0 57.0 49.5 43.7 41.0 36.0 4.0 6.0 7.5 13.3 16.0 21.0 14.0 12.0 12.0 12.0 12.0 12.0 21.0 25.0 25.0 25.0 25.0 25.0 project in concrete called 8k was  continued in 2011. The result for the  year was 8.9 kilograms of cement per  MPa (Mega Pascal, a measurement of  compressive strength), a 4.5% reduction  compared to 2010.  The goal is to reach  8 kilograms per MPa by 2014 with the  application of all the environmental  possibilities of the product such as  recovery of aggregates, use of recycled  water, and waste minimization.  ENERGY PRODUCTION Energy for production is another factor  strongly monitored at InterCement. To  ensure the use of renewable and reliable  energy, the company invests in the  industry by participating in three initiatives  in the area: Machadinho HPP (1,140 MW  - 6.35%), Barra Grande HPP (690 MW -  9%), and Estreito HPP (1,087 MW - 4.4%).  of polluting gases resulting from its  logistics and air travel. Member of the  public record of the Brazilian GHG  Protocol Program, the inventory for  2010 obtained the Silver Category for  the quality of data submitted. The company has the challenge of  becoming one of the companies with  the lowest emissions of GHG in the  world, and to do this it has defined work  fronts with actions, responsibilities, and  targets. It develops several research  and development projects in order to  reduce emissions and it is part of the  Brazilian platform of Companies for the  Climate, taking on the commitment to  create policies and management plans  of polluting gases. The sustainability    Evolution of the specic emission of CO2  (kg CO2 / ton cement) 544 2007 100 0 200 300 400 500 600 700 2008 2009 2010 2011 InterCement CSI-Global CSI-Latin America CSI-Brazil 535 531 530 533 653 615 567   Evolution of absolute emissions  (million tons of CO2) 2.137  3.210 0.037 0.235 2007 2.0 1.0 0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 2008 2.530 3.453 0.038 0.318 2009 2.760 3.000 0.036 0.234 2010 3.339 3.210 0.285 0.038   Cement Brazil Cal. Arg. Recycomb Ferrosur Concrete Aggregates Cement Argentina 2011 3.399 3.612 0.276 0.037  5.619 6.021  5.826 6.618 7.359 colocar ferrosur no lugar de  Cal. Arg (trocar apenas a  ordem, as cores esto  corretas. segue ordem: Cimento Brasil Cimento Argentina Ferrosur Concreto Agregados Recycomb Aggregates began to be recorded in the year 2011 and there were emissions of 8,800 tons, equivalent to 0.1%. At Recycomb, the emissions reached 631 tons in 2011, equivalent to 0.01% of total emissions. With Concrete, there were 25,556 tons of emissions of CO2, representing 0.3% of InterCement's emissions. Sustainable attitude  63 62 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 and future vision Investment InterCements  investments  are  focused on sustainable growth and the  internationalization  of  the  business.  Because of this, R$ 579 million were  invested along these lines, which is  91% higher than the amount invested  in 2010 (R$ 302.3 million). The size of  investments, both in proportion and in  absolute numbers, gains even more  prominence with the companys low level  of indebtedness, which makes room for  new market movements.  The funds were directed in 2011 to  strategic projects aimed at ensuring  market share in Argentina and preparing  Brazils operations for the growth planned  of the markets. Among the initiatives  contemplated by the investment plan  are the construction of new units and  increased  production  capacity,  the  development of programs to improve  products,  services,  processes,  and  systems, as well as the improvement  of corporate governance and training   of personnel.  91% The volume of  investments grew  Distribution of investments 84.78% 10.81% 4.39% 0.02% Cement Concret and aggregates Railroads Energy   Investments (R$ million) 2007 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 2008 2009 2010 2011 177 270 263 302 579 over 2010.  Sustainable attitude  65 64 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 IN BRAZIL InterCement obtained a deployment  license and a permit to start the  construction of cement grinding in  Cubato  (SP),  expected  to  begin  operations in October this year. The  project includes a mill, packaging center,  and a pallet machine with a capacity  of up to 880,000 tons of cement/year.  The new unit will allow the company to  increase its production capacity and  improve logistics efficiency and the  quality of its customer service in the  southeast region.  Funds were also approved for the  expansion of the production capacity of  a clinker in one of the furnaces of Apia  (SP) and Pedro Leopoldo (MG), an action  that will result in an additional 94,000  tons/year  and  400,000  tons/year,  respectively. Likewise, the cable car at  Apia underwent an overhaul in order  to increase its limestone transportation  capacity from 325 to 400 metric tons  per hour. InterCement also invested in improving  the energy efficiency in its Brazilian  factories. R$ 35 million was allocated for  construction projects such as building  a platform for blending, mixing and  preparation of waste for processing  into fuel, at Ijaci (MG), and structural  improvement projects to increase co- processing at Pedro Leopoldo (MG) and  Apia (SP). The idea is to increase by 50%  the thermal substitution rate in the units.  Another action was to acquire a 4.4%  stake in Estreito Energy Consortium  (CESTE), formed to build and operate  the Estreito Hydroelectric Power Plant  (Estreito HPP). Considered one of the  largest power generation projects currently  underway in Brazil, the Estreito HPP has  an installed capacity of 1,087 MW and  assured energy average of 584.9 MW.  Located on the border between the  states of Maranho and Tocantins,  the first turbine started commercial  operation in April 2011 and in December  there were already four machines in  operation, and the last one (eighth)  should be connected by October this  year. With this acquisition, InterCement  reaches almost 100% of self-sufficiency  in electricity production.  OTHER COUNTRIES Investments  were  announced  in  Argentina to increase capacity for the  next five years. Among the actions  highlighted is the construction of a new  plant in San Juan (region of Cuyo) with  a production capacity of 900,000 tons  of cement a year. Also in Argentina,  resources of US$ 75 million were  allocated for expansion projects. Among  them was the inauguration of a new  cement mill in LAmali, which doubled  the production capacity to 2 million  tons / Buenos Aires. The investments  also covered improvement projects in  logistics with the duplication of Ferrosur  railways and increasing the number of  wagons and locomotives in order to  improve the transportation capacity  between Lomaser and LAmali.  In Paraguay, efforts were focused on  approving a credit line of US$ 52 million  from the Interamerican Development  Bank for the construction of the  Yguaz Cement factory. The new unit  will become operational in 2013 with a  production capacity of 400,000 tons a  year of cement.  In December 2011 the company signed  a contract for the construction of an  integrated cement plant in Angola with a  production capacity of 1.9 million tons a  year and the beginning of operations by  December 2014.  US$ 52 million A credit line of  will enable the  construction of the   Yguaz Cement factory   in Paraguay.  LAmal Unit in  Argentina will have a  new cement mill.   Sustainable attitude  67 66 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 OUTLOOK  InterCement believes that 2012 will be  the year of maturity in its transformation  process. With the new consolidated  organizational structure, lower costs,  healthy cash generation, and especially  appropriate  capital  structure  and  investment discipline, InterCement is  prepared for growth in the coming years.  The company is investing heavily to grow  consistently and not only be among the  top 20 cement companies in the world  by 2016, but also to be one of the five  most profitable and efficient. To reach  this it needs committed, qualified, and  motivated people, as well as a strong  and  efficient  management  system.  Added to this structure is the Reduce to  Add program launched in 2011 in order  to identify opportunities for process  improvement and establish new actions  that translate into productivity gains and  cost savings.  Among  the  major  challenges  that  InterCement must face to reach its  target is the search for continuous  increase of the productive capacity of  its units. That is why it has prepared an  investment plan of over R$ 3 billion over  the next years, which does not include  mergers and acquisitions. This volume of  resources will ensure substantial growth  in production volume in the countries  where it operates and new capabilities  in  Paraguay  and  Angola  through  expansion projects and construction of  new factories.  InterCement  expects  to  reach  a  20% market share in Brazil by 2016,  taking on the second position. In  Argentina, the focus is to be the first  in profitability while maintaining market  leadership. In Paraguay, the effort will  be to consolidate second place in the  ranking. The strategic objective also  includes becoming the second largest  cement company in South America with  a selective participation in Africa.  To increase its presence in the Brazilian  market, InterCement plans on starting  to have operations in the north part of  the country by building a cement factory  and a logistics infrastructure. To do this,  it is carrying out feasibility studies of the  project, which involves environmental  issues  and  infrastructure,  as  well   as technical and operational aspects   of the business.    InterCement wants to reach a  market share in Brazil   by 2016. 20% To have a susTainable aTTiTude means To Think  of The business in all iTs dimensions, including iTs  inTegraTion in The communiTy. a real army of good  broughT abouT improvemenTs in 19 insTiTuTions in The  ciTy of pedro leopoldo in The day of doing good.  Created by the Camargo Corra Institute, the program brought  together 1,920 volunteers in Pedro Leopoldo including own and third- party employees, family members, and people from the community.  The actions focused on schools, daycares, and maternity clinics for  pregnant women benefiting more than 7,000 people from the local  communities. Among the activities carried out, we highlight the changing  of roofs, painting, facility improvements, and general remodeling.   To make the day even more special, a large Street Entertainment was  organized with several attractions. It was the space for presentations  of the own students (with parade of recycled clothing, hip hop shows,  among others), environmental awareness work with the distribution  of seedlings, health care with measurement of blood pressure and  glucose levels, and many toys such as a ball pool and trampoline.  To top it off the participants received free cotton candy, popcorn, hot  dogs, and soft-drinks.  Teams of the good  The Army of   Good had  1,920  VOLUNTEERS Sustainable attitude  71 70 InterCement  Annual Report 2011 CREDITS  General coordination  Executive Committee  Corporate Communications  Coordination  Fernanda Guerra  Tatiana Nelsen  Concept and graphic design  unodesign  Content and editorship  Editora Contadino  Translation Scientific Linguagem Pictures  InterCement File     Al Borges  (cover and pages 4, 5, 9, 16, 17, 28, 29,  30, 34, 35, 42, 43, 52, 53, 56, and 57)  Printing  Interfill