1 Geld(t) vertrouwen?    ASN Bank Annual Report 2011      Financial results and  social and environmental  performance  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 The Annual Report is published in Dutch  and English. In case of differences, the  Dutch version prevails.  Annual Report 2011    Contents Preface by the Management Board  3 1  Key figures and summary of results  5   1.1  Summary of economic performance  6   1.2  Summary of financial results  8   1.3  Summary of social and environmental performance  8 2  Supervision of ASN Bank   11   Report of the Supervisory Board  12   Report of the Advisory Council  14 3  Mission, strategy and policy  17   3.1  Sustainability mission  18   3.2  Strategy   18   3.3  Sustainability policy  18   3.4  Dialogue with stakeholders   20   3.5  Collaboration with social organisations  21 4  Transparency and dialogue  25   4.1  Dialogue through new and old media  26   4.2  Sustainability incentives   28   4.3  Recognition of our efforts  30   4.4  Continuing our sustainability efforts in 2012  31 5  Products and services  33   5.1  Savings    34   5.2  Payments   34   5.3  Investments  34   5.4  Asset management  36 6  Investment and finance  37   6.1  Sustainable lending  38   6.2  Government bonds  43   6.3  Other fixed-income investments  44   6.4  Mortgages  44 7  Sustainable investment in practice  45   7.1  Sustainability criteria  46   7.2  Selection   46   7.3  Voting    48   7.4  Engagement  49   7.5  Sustainable dilemmas  50 8  Operations    51   8.1  The environment  52   8.2  Business accommodation  53   8.3  Human resources  53  2 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 9  Financial results  57   9.1  Balance sheet  58   9.2  Income statement  59   9.3  Cash flow statement  60   9.4  Notes to the annual figures  61   9.5  Notes to the balance sheet  62   9.6  Notes to the income statement  67 10 Risk policy    71   10.1 Risk management organisation  72   10.2 Risk management at ASN Bank  73   10.3 Hedging and hedge accounting  77 11 Corporate governance  79   11.1 Capital structure  80   11.2 Corporate governance  80   11.3 Remuneration report  81   Independent Assurance Report  85   Appendix 1  Investments by ASN Bank   88   Appendix 2  Organisation and history  93   Appendix 3   Supervisory Board, Advisory Council and   95       Management Board   Regarding the pictures in this annual report The United Nations declared 2012 the International Year of Coopera- tives. ASN Bank takes part in numerous cooperatives. Together with  customers, we create a better world. Together with other banks, we   finance renewable energy projects. Together with social organisations,  we support projects related to our sustainability issues: promoting fair  trade and renewable energy and fighting child labour and the arms indus- try. Our collaboration with microfinance institutions allows us to extend  loans to small businesses in developing countries. The photographs in  this annual report show examples of all these types of cooperation.   Working together towards a   sustainable world 2011 witnessed some major social and economic changes. Certainties we used to rely  on, such as the safety of government bonds and stable countries, partly evapora- ted. On top of the food, climate and energy crises, the financial crisis intensified on  the back of euro problems. The combination of these factors has led to major global  imbalance. A weapon is available to every single individual of the seven billion people  on this earth, while at the same time we are unable to feed everyone sufficiently and  215 million children are forced to work. Enormous efforts as well as political willing- ness are indispensable if we are to achieve justice and a permanently more humane  distribution of wealth. These are discouraging figures and a good cause for cynicism. On the bright side,  though, many people and businesses are changing course. A growing number of  people are committed to saving oceans and forests, reducing CO2 emissions and  defending their own rights as well as those of their fellow human beings. From the  Tahrir Square activists to the Occupy movement, people everywhere are opposing  the establishment of undemocratic governments, major banks, oil companies and  media giants, combining the power of their ideas and the opportunities that new  media offer.  This instils hope, hope that is indispensable if we are to create the just, sustain-  able world of tomorrow. Linking hope with willpower allows us to resolve sus- tainability issues in the long term. Having identified the problems, we can work  towards solutions using new technologies and our own efforts as well as those of  future generations.  We say future generations, as it is beyond doubt that our generation alone  will not be able to solve those problems, no matter how hard we try. It is cru- cial for the future of mankind to convince our children that their commitment  is vital. This is a question of upbringing as well as setting an example.   Photograph: Lennaert Ruinen  4 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank aims to contribute to this. Using our online community Voor de Wereld van Morgen (For the  World of Tomorrow), we encourage young entrepreneurs who have sustainable initiatives. What strikes us  most is that the new generation is focused on sharing knowledge, networking and getting things done. It is  a hopeful sign that this generation is not so much aiming for personal gain, but rather subordinates individu- alism to a new sense of community.  ASN Bank wants to be a source of inspiration for those who join hands to create a just world. It is not wit- hout reason that the slogan of our very first TV commercial was It is what we do with money that makes it  good or bad. For us, this means together with our customers, social organisations and anyone who shares  our ideals. Together, we are able to make a change and create this just, sustainable world. This knowledge  gives us hope for the future.  Ewoud Goudswaard Jeroen Jansen Joyce van der Est    5 1.  Key figures and summary  of results Although a reasonably positive sentiment prevailed at the start of 2011, the euro crisis  still held Europe firmly in its grasp for a large part of the year. The financial sectors  image, which had already suffered from the banking crisis, deteriorated even further.  ASN Bank chose to emphasise in 2011 that all of us together are responsible for what  happens with our money. That message hit home, given the positive increase of our  customer base and assets under management. This chapter summarises our performance  in 2011. Please refer to the relevant chapters for more detailed information. ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Photograph: Van Beek Images  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 6 1.1  Summary of economic performance 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Customer base 575.344 516.902 471.118* 419.792 363.334  Assets under management   (in millions of euros) ASN Bank  8.969 7.992 6.346 4.966 3.632 ASN Investment Funds 1.296 1.375 1.193 983 1.255 Total assets under management 10.265 9.367 7.539 5.949 4.887 Sustainable savings and investments  market share**  TBD 53% 48% 44% 36% Savings market share*** 2,7% 2,5% 2,2% 1,9% 1,5% Interest donations from customers to  social organisations (in euros) 425.079 373.868 573.825 417.366 209.669 ASN Banks contribution to social   organisations (in euros) 2.020.354 729.013 621.246 387.973 257.087 Total contribution to  social organisations 2.445.443 1.102.881 1.195.071 805.339 466.756  *  At the end of 2009, the definition of customer was tightened. As a result, the figure for 2009 has been  adjusted.  ** Source: VBDO  *** Source: CBS Development of customer base In 2011, the customer base showed a marked  increase of more than 11%. ASN Banks savings  campaigns and growing brand recognition resulted  in a fine growth of the number of savings customers.  The number of customers with a current account  increased as well. The successful campaign Money  Moves explained how ASN Bank accommodates  customers in switching to a sustainable bank. Our  customers are furthermore very happy to recom- mend ASN Bank to friends and family – in 2011 we  achieved a Net Promotor Score (NPS) of no less  than +34%, compared to an average of -22% for the  three major Dutch banks. This figure is obtained by  deducting the percentage of customers in a survey  who would not recommend a company from the  percentage of customers who would.  Development of funds entrusted Driven by the customer base growth, the savings  and current account balances also grew markedly in  2011. Funds entrusted rose by  977 million (12%).  The turmoil in the financial markets greatly fuelled  competition in the Dutch savings market in the third  and fourth quarters. Still, ASN Bank was able to  increase its market share in 2011. At year-end 2011,  funds entrusted (balances on savings accounts and  current accounts) amounted to nearly  9 billion. Development of the investment funds 2011 was dominated by the euro crisis. Also, econo- mic growth slowed and US public debt was a cause  for great concern. Many investors lost confidence  in the financial markets. On balance, the US stock  exchanges were the best performers, while the ex- changes in Europe and the emerging economies saw  their stock prices plummet. The three equity funds  managed by ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer  B.V. – ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds, ASN Milieu  & Waterfonds and ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcap- fonds – posted negative returns of -6.94%, -10.39%  and -30.13%, respectively. The number of partici- pating interests in the latter fund showed a limited  increase in 2011. The bond markets faced great uncertainty about the  reliability of the public debts of the eurozone peri-  pherals – Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland.  Investors flocked to the government bonds of safe  havens such as Germany and the Netherlands, lo- wering the yields to maturity on these instruments.   7 ASN Duurzaam Obligatiefonds generated a 2.81%  return. Its stake in equities yielded a -1.72% return  for ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds.  The results of the tax-based funds ASN Groenpro- jectenfonds and the ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund  varied. The ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund generated  a fine return of 4.92%. Despite the government  phasing out the tax credit on investments for tax  purposes, this fund still raised new money. This  demonstrates investors continued interest in a  fund whose small loans offer people in developing  countries the opportunity to create a better future.  Conversely, many investors turned their backs on  ASN Groenprojectenfonds, which closed the year  with a 0.60% return.  Driven by an outflow of cash from nearly all the  funds and due to capital losses, total assets at the  ASN Investment Funds were down by  74 million in  2011 (-5.4%).  Savings market share Despite challenging market conditions in the second  half of the year, the market share was up 0.2% to  2.7%. The figures on the Dutch sustainable savings  market were not yet known at the time this annual  report was written. In 2010, our share in this market  rose from 48% (2009) to 53%.  Contributions to social organisations The economic slump did not affect the generosity  of ASN customers. The number of customers who  donated all or part of the interest on their savings  accounts to the charities we cooperate with was  up more than 5% from 2010. This resulted in total  donations amounting to  425,079. Cordaid Micro- krediet received the highest amount, which origina- ted from the interest of customers holding an ASN  Vrouwenspaardeposito. The interest on this wo- mens savings deposit is almost 0.25% higher than  the interest on a similar five-year deposit. ASN Jeugdsparen was a success in 2011 as well. As  total deposits increased, the contributions to the  children projects of Cordaid Kinderstem and Cordaid  Memisa grew, too. In 2011, Cordaid received    314,977 in total (2010:  312,000). Since July 2010, we have donated to our theme  partners the fees we receive from Interchange for  payments made with the ASN Credit Card (see sec- tion 3.3).  81,087 of the fees we received for 2011  ( 94,646.06) were transferred to the theme part- ners. The discrepancy between these two amounts  is due to the fact that the eighth theme partner had  not yet been selected. Since January 2011, we have  also donated a percentage on ASN Ideaalsparen to  the theme partners on behalf of our customers. The  payments made to the seven theme partners we had  in 2011 totalled  1,224,290. The theme partners  therefore received a total sum of  2.4 million. In addition, we distributed  50,000 to the five  winners of the ASN Bank World Award and made   50,000 available to the award organisers. The  winners use their prizes to work on five sustainable  projects, four of which in the framework of our sus- tainability issues. In total, we donated  70,000 to social projects of  our marketing partners:  Fair Trade Original ( 29,000), FNV Mondiaal   ( 6,000), Duurzame Waardekaart ( 20,000) and  10:10 ( 15,000). Just as in 2010, the ASN Foundation received a con- tribution of  300,000 from ASN Bank in 2011, which  it used to support sustainable projects.  2011 ASN Jeugdsparen ambassador Ella Verver   (age 16) visited a Cordaid Memisa project in Tanzania.  Photograph: Marieke van der Heijden.  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 8 1.2  Summary of financial results In millions of euros 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Investments 9.723 8.382 6.614 5.251 3.725 Funds entrusted* 8.969 7.992 6.346 4.966 3.632 Equity 242 103 105 139 19 Balance sheet total 9.888 8.542 6.662 5.302 3.773 Net interest margin 88,3 83,0 44,5 40,8 32,4 Other income 13,4 1,5 4,0 6,2 8,1 Total expenditure 33,7 26,7 35,2 24,3 17,5 Operating profit 68,0 57,8 13,3 22,7 23,0 Operating profit before  non-recurring expenses 67,4 57,8 24,3 22,7 23,0 Profit after tax 51,1 43,1 9,9 16,9 17,1 Profit after tax, before   non-recurring expenses 51,1 43,1 18,1 16,9 17,1 *   The funds entrusted to ASN Bank comprise savings and other amounts due to customers in the form of savings  held for legal entities (associations, foundations and trusts). The profit after tax amounted to  51 million in  2011, up 19% from 2010, mainly as a result of the  growth in funds entrusted. Our shareholders equity  is further strengthened by this net profit growth,  which is necessary to continue our investments in,  for example, wind and solar energy projects and to  meet the higher capital requirements of the Basel III  Accord. Income rose by  17 million to  102 million as a  result of various factors. Funds entrusted grew, but  the relative net interest margin showed a limited  decrease. Commission income rose as the number  of current accounts increased and we received  more management fees from the ASN Investment  Funds. The latter increase was mainly boosted by  the growth of the ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund. We  paid fewer management fees, mainly because the  arrangements regarding the fees of our mortgage  portfolio changed. The proceeds from securities  were positive in 2011 thanks to the capital gains on  our investment portfolio and the gains on futures  and forward contracts.  This income growth was partly negated by a 21%  increase of expenses on the back of rising staff costs  as more staff joined our organisation. Our growth  also raised the funds transfer costs, costs of postage  and printing costs. Lastly, marketing costs rose, in  part because of our successful television campaign  launched in 2011.  1.3   Summary of social and   environmental performance  Indirect social and environmental performance The sustainability performance objectives of   ASN Bank are derived from its mission, which is:  ASN Bank is a company committed to promoting  the sustainability of society and is guided by that  commitment in its commercial conduct. We mea- sure these objectives on three levels: quantitati- vely, qualitatively  and long-term, because we wish  to contribute to a sustainable society on all these  levels.  Accordingly, we have formulated objectives on each  of these three levels. We express our quantitative  goals in figures and our qualitative goals in achieved  or not achieved. As part of our long-term goals, we  aim to initiate processes that promote sustainability  in the longer term. We can translate these goals into  quantitative and qualitative terms.  Quantitative goals In 2011 we achieved all of our quantitative objec- tives for indirect social and environmental perfor- mance.  We exercised our voting rights at more than 207  shareholders meetings where the ASN Investment  Funds were permitted to vote. That is 98% of all the  shareholders meetings of companies in ASN Duur-  9 zaam Aandelenfonds, ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds,   ASN Milieu & Waterfonds and ASN Duurzaam Small  & Midcapfonds. This is well above our target of  90%. There were only four instances where we were  unable to vote as proxies could not be issued in  time.  98% of the banks debtors were rescreened (see   Appendix 3). That is above our 90% target. We conclude that the implementation of our voting  policy and the rescreening of debtors are now natu- ral components of our activities. That is why we will  no longer attach any targets to them in future; we  consolidate the current level. Targets for 2011 Achieved in 2011 Targets for 2012 Customer satisfaction 8 8.3 8 or more Exercise of voting rights for  ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds,  ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds,  ASN Milieu & Waterfonds and  ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds  90% 98% Maintaining current level Three-yearly sustainability rescreening  of the banks debtors at sector level 90% 98% Maintaining current level Qualitative goals The qualitative goals are aimed at developing our sustainability policy. Target for 2011 Achieved in 2011 Reformulating human rights policy ASN Bank Human Rights Issue Paper was updated  Reformulating climate change policy  Commenced Issue Papers on ASN Banks four sustainability  issues  Issue Papers on fair trade, anti-child labour, rene- wable energy and anti-arms industry were com- pleted Setting up sustainability studies at ASN Bank The Sustainability & Research Department now also  performs all sustainability studies We have set the following qualitative goals for  2012:   completing the ASN Bank Climate Change Issue  Paper;  updating the policy on government bonds. Long-term goals As a sustainable bank, ASN Bank wants to make an  active contribution to social processes that promote  the long-term sustainability of society. For 2011 we  had formulated one long-term goal, i.e. regarding  the equity funds carbon footprints. Another goal  was to improve the method used to measure this  footprint. We developed a method that assumes  an absolute reduction of CO2 emissions instead of a  relative reduction and where inflation does not af- fect performance. These changes will be introduced  in 2012.  In 2011, we started formulating several long-term  goals at the strategic level. These include goals that  translate ASN Banks mission into all its activities,  allowing all employees to work towards achieving  that mission. We aim to finalise this process in 2012.   10 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 2015 2020 Progress in  2011 Reduction of consolidated carbon footprint of the  ASN equity funds compared to 1990 30% 50% 48% Global Reporting Initiative We believe it is only obvious that we are transparent and communicate about our methods and perfor- mance. That is why, in this annual report, we report on how we implement our sustainability policy in  our products and operations. We also report on our social and environmental goals for 2011 and the  results we achieved in these areas in 2011. As we believe communication is a two-way street, we report  on our dialogue with ASN Bank stakeholders, too. In addition, in this annual report we render account  of ASN Banks financial results.  This report is mainly intended for our customers, but also for associates, social organisations, employ- ees, regulators and all other parties who are interested in ASN Banks performance in 2011 and its plans  for the future.  ASN Bank reports in accordance with the A+ application level of the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guide-  lines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The updated 3.1 guidelines are not tailored specifically  to financial institutions, which is why we use G3 as our reporting criteria. Our GRI table is available at  www.asnbank.nl.  In 2010, ASN Bank was among the thirteen Dutch companies that reported at A+ level (GRI Sustainabili- ty Disclosure Database). We asked KPMG Sustainability to review information selected from this annual  report. You will find the scope of the engagement and their conclusions in the independent Assurance  Report on page 85.  Direct social and environmental performance Targets for 2011 Achieved in 2011 Targets for 2012 CO2 emissions per FTE   (tonnes per annum)  Less than or equal to 2.17  (2006) 1.62 Less than or equal to  2.00* Paper consumption   (kg/client account)  Less than or equal to 0.35  (2009) 0.33 Consolidation Employee satisfaction More than or equal to 8.0 8.2 More than or equal to  8.0 New office accommodations Energy rating A and  Green Certificate Pending Energy rating A** *   ASN Bank moved into its new office on 19 March 2012. We anticipate that this will strongly contribute to lowe- ring the CO2 emissions per FTE, but there are more factors that determine the total carbon footprint. We will  modify the target once we know the energy consumption of our new premises. **  The goal to obtain a green certificate has been cancelled as the government is phasing out the green scheme.  We depend on other parties and technical possibilities in seeking to obtain an energy rating A. For example,  we need a permit from the municipality. These constitute additional limitations in renovating an existing city- centre property. You will find more information about our environmental and social results in Chapters 4, 6, 7 and 8.  11 2. Supervision of ASN Bank ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Photograph: Getty Images  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 12 Report of the Supervisory Board  To the General Meeting of Shareholders of ASN Bank N.V. Preliminary advice presented by the Supervisory Board We are presenting you with the companys financial statements for the 2011 financial year as prepared by  the Management Board, as well as the report of the Management Board. We propose that you approve these financial statements as presented, which will entail that: 	 	the	total	profit	of		51.1	million	generated	in	2011	will	be	added	to	the	shareholders	equity; 	 	the	Management	and	Supervisory	Boards	will	be	discharged	from	liability	in	respect	of	their	managerial	 and supervisory work during the past financial year. The Supervisory Boards membership was as follows during the 2011 financial year: Mr E.J.G.V. Boers Mr H.K. Kroeze (until 9 May 2011) Mr R.G.J. Langezaal, Chairman Mr B. de Ruigh (as from 9 May 2011) We follow ASN Banks commercial, financial and sustainable developments with great interest. At our mee- tings with the Management Board during the year, we gained clear insight into how ASN Bank achieves its  results and the resources it deploys to that end.  Topics under discussion The ASN Bank Supervisory Board and Management Board met three times in 2011. During the first two  meetings, we discussed the 2010 figures and annual report, which we adopted. In the autumn, we discussed  the 2012 operational plan with the ASN Bank Management Board. The course of affairs during 2011 was  a regularly recurring subject of discussion, also during the Chairmans monthly consultation with the ASN  Bank Management Board. The items discussed included the following: the banks financial position, the  monthly reports, the NPS score (see the Summary on page 5), the awards that ASN Bank had won, the move  into the new office building, new loans extended by the Sustainable Loans Department and workload at the  operating departments. We also talked about the development of savings and the investment funds, and  very specifically about the course of affairs at the relatively new activity ASN Asset Management. We will  highlight a number of items below. Credit risk policy We established the frameworks for ASN Bank loans. The bank uses four frameworks: for wind energy pro- jects, solar energy projects, thermal storage projects and other projects. These frameworks include guide-  lines to avoid concentration risks, stating the maximum amount of loans that the bank may provide respon-  sibly in any sector and in any country. The frameworks distinguish between countries of different sizes. We also devoted attention to risk acceptance and the customer due diligence policy. The latter entails that  the bank identifies and assesses the companies to which it provides financing. In that respect the bank as- sesses, for example, which activities the company performs, who the owners are and whether the company  or its owners could pose a reputation risk to the bank. The Sustainability & Research Department of   ASN Bank furthermore tests companies against the banks sustainability criteria. We also discussed with the Management Board the outstanding items of the audit that the Group Audit De- partment performs on a regular basis. This department performs audits at the Management Boards request  and at its own initiative based on a pre-determined risk analysis (see Chapter 10).   13 Commercial developments We regularly discussed the developments of the various product categories – savings, payments, invest- ments, asset management and finance – with the Management Board. In that context, we focused on the ef- fectiveness of the marketing campaigns and the development of the savings market. We also monitored the  banks strategic projects. In 2011 this mainly involved a project in which private and corporate customers  were separated in the administrative records and procedures, allowing the bank to serve the latter group  separately. We also talked about the strategic reorientation of the investment business and the option of  introducing new investment funds. We express our appreciation of the efforts made by the banks employees and Management Board. Lastly,  we would like to emphasise that we fully endorse ASN Banks sustainability mission and the ensuing policy. The Hague, 10 April 2012 On behalf of the Supervisory Board, Rob Langezaal, Chairman    ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 14 Report of the Advisory Council The Advisory Council of ASN Bank was founded in 1993 when ASN Bank introduced its first investment  fund. Originally the Council advised on investments, but that responsibility changed over the years. No- wadays, the Council monitors whether ASN Bank is delivering on its sustainability mission. The Manage- ment Board and the Advisory Council regularly consult about the banks activities and results, as well as its  sustainability course. The Advisory Council and the Management Board met three times in 2011. The items  discussed at those meetings included the following.  Composition and responsibilities of the Council The Councils responsibilities have expanded over the years. For that reason, we thought it advisable to  increase the number of members from three to five. Also, as Ms Saskia Noorman-den Uyl has been the Coun- cils Chair for many years, we consulted about candidates for her succession and possible additions to the  Council.  The Advisory Councils membership was as follows during the financial year: Ms Saskia Noorman-den Uyl (Chair) Mr Hans Kamps Mr Jan van der Kolk General developments The Management Board reported to the Council about the developments at ASN Bank and informed us of  the awards and honorary mentions that the bank received. It also reported staff changes in the management  team and the supervisory boards of the ASN Investment Funds.  Annual report 2010 The Council extensively discussed the 2010 annual report, focusing specifically on its sustainability aspects.  The Councils recommendations have been applied to the annual report for 2011. Products and services We discussed the situation in the investment market, which suffered from falling stock prices. The expan- sion of the banks investment business was a discussion item on several occasions. ASN Bank was confronted with major competition in the savings market. We discussed the possibilities  of attracting more savings and consulted with the Management Board about the possibilities of offering  sustainable mortgages. The conclusion was that ASN Bank will not introduce the latter for the time being.  The mortgage market is under extreme pressure, while at the same time major investments are necessary to  enable ASN Bank to offer mortgages. It is best to use the banks scarce resources for other purposes. Account number portability, which allows customers to switch to another bank while retaining their own  account numbers, is of paramount importance to acquiring current account customers. Like the ASN Bank  Management Board, we are great proponents, but we do realise that this is technically complicated and  requires major investments by the joint banks. Memberships and support We discussed a memorandum drafted by the Sustainability & Research Department about all the national  and international organisations active in the area of sustainability with which ASN Bank is affiliated in some  way. This is possible in three ways: 	 	ASN	Bank	expresses	its	support	of	organisations	that	act	in	line	with	the	core	issues	of	its	sustainability	 policy. 	 	The	bank	signs	a	declaration,	assuming	a	best-efforts	obligation,	for	example	with	regard	to	the	Arms	 Trade Treaty Statement and the Access to Medicine Index. The banks decides to do so if this is important  for the selection of its investments and its role in the public debate. 	 	The	bank	undertakes	to	comply	with	specific	standards	and	guidelines,	such	as	the	United	Nations	Glo- bal Compact, the GRI reporting guidelines and the Equator Principles for financing transactions.  15 Investments in government bonds The Council discussed the savings investments with the Management Board. In view of the banks sustai- nability policy, it is appropriate to invest in matters that help build the sustainable world of the future. The  challenge in that respect is to strike the right balance between the sustainability principles and risk and re- turn considerations. For example, the bank invests to a major degree in government bonds, bonds of lower  governments and mortgages, as well as in healthcare and elderly care, water boards and water companies,  social housing and sustainable loans.  The Council attaches importance to a wide spread without the bank running any irresponsible risks.  Sustainability policy We discussed the desirability of determining goals for ASN Banks sustainability in the long run. The bank  will continue to work on this in 2012. Corporate savings clients The Council and the Management Board talked about whether ASN Bank should focus on corporate clients.  They devoted attention to the sustainability aspect in particular. Accepting corporate clients should not  mean that ASN Bank chooses to dilute its sustainability principles, according to the Council. However, as  the bank has such a clear sustainable position, the Council and the Management Board did not believe there  would be a great risk of dilution. They concluded that extra customer screening, in addition to the screening  prescribed by laws and regulations, is not desirable. Internal developments In our discussions of the internal situation at ASN Bank, we also focused on its policy with regard to employ- ees with a physical disability. The banks current office makes it difficult to find a solution for such employ- ees. The new building is much more easily accessible, which offers opportunities to hire them. Performance of the Advisory Council Lastly, we evaluated the performance of the Council itself. We find it very important to continue to deliver  added value to ASN Bank and aim to further expand this value in the future. The Council concludes that ASN Bank acted in line with its sustainability mission in 2011. We would like to  express our great appreciation for the manner in which the banks Management Board and staff performed  their duties in 2011.  The Hague, 4 April 2012 On behalf of the Advisory Council, Saskia Noorman-den Uyl, Chair    ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 16  17 3.  Mission, strategy and policy   ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 For more than fifty years ASN Banks aim has been to invest its customers money in a  way that contributes to a fair distribution of the worlds wealth. Not only in the present,  among the various regions of the world, but also among our generations and future world  citizens.  Photograph: Sonu of FairMail.  This organisation supports underprivileged Indian  and Peruvian teenagers in working towards a   better future.  18 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 ASN Bank is an independently operating, sustaina- ble bank with its own banking licence, its own policy  and its own Management Board. ASN Bank is regula- ted by the Dutch Central Bank and the Netherlands  Authority for the Financial Markets. SNS Bank N.V.,  part of SNS REAAL N.V., is the sole shareholder of  ASN Bank. As ASN Bank is part of SNS Bank N.V., its  financial information is included in the consolidated  financial statements of SNS Bank N.V. KPMG Ac- countants has issued an unqualified auditors report  for the financial statements of SNS Bank N.V. More  information on our organisation can be found in   Appendix 2. 3.1  Mission Our economic conduct is aimed at promoting  sustainability in society. We help to secure changes  that are intended to put an end to processes whose  harmful effects are shifted to future generations or  foisted onto the environment, nature and vulnerable  communities. In doing so, we do not lose sight of  the necessity to yield returns in the long run that  safeguard the continued existence of our bank. We  manage the funds that our customers entrust to us in  a manner that does justice to their expectations.  3.2  Strategy  As a financial services provider, ASN Bank wants to  do its part in achieving a sustainable society. To that  end, we set demands for ourselves which ensure that  we keep our promises to external stakeholders, in  particular our customers. How do we do this?   We keep setting the bar higher for our activities,  according to strict criteria in the areas of sustai- nability, fairness, transparency, expertise and  reliability.   In order to achieve our mission, we cooperate as  much as possible with partners – both NGOs and  sustainably operating companies – that make a  positive contribution to our objectives.    We initiate sustainable developments and sup- port important sustainable initiatives by third  parties. As the largest sustainable bank in the  Netherlands, we want to be an expert in sustai- nable capital growth and the leading authority in  the Netherlands when it comes to the combina- tion of sustainability and financial returns.    ASN Bank is a direct writer, which means that  we communicate with our customers directly –  through the Internet, by telephone and post. 3.3  Sustainability policy Sustainability is the guiding principle in all of ASN  Banks activities. We subscribe to the generally ac- cepted definition set out in the 1987 United Nations  report Our Common Future: sustainable develop- ment means development that meets the needs of  the present without compromising the ability of  future generations to meet their own needs.  Sustainability and sustainable development are  frequently only regarded as environmental objec- tives, but that is a misunderstanding. The aim for  sustainable development is first of all inspired by a  sense of justice. The purpose of sustainable actions  is to arrive at a fair distribution of wealth, now and  in the future. Sustainability thus includes a social as- pect, which is why we build our sustainability policy  on three pillars: human rights, climate change and  biodiversity. These pillars dovetail with internation- ally accepted practices for distinguishing the various  aspects of sustainability, for example at the United  Nations. Human rights, climate change and biodi- versity cover all the issues that are important to ASN  Bank and its customers. The policy for each pillar has  been laid down in issue papers. Sector-specific issue  papers describe how we implement these policies in  the various sectors. Human rights  We understand human rights to mean both civil  and political rights, and economic and social rights,  such as employee rights. The foundations of our hu- man rights policy are the 1948 Universal Declaration  of Human Rights and the international standards  based on it. We are also referring here to the Gui- ding Principles on Business & Human Rights adopted  by the UN Human Rights Council in June 2011. These  principles are based on the work performed by the  American Professor John Ruggie as the UNs Special  Representative of the Secretary-General.  Ruggies work and the international developments  surrounding his work were important factors leading  us to review our human rights policy. In Novem- ber 2011, the new ASN Bank Human Rights Issue  Paper was published, which was received by Ruggie  himself. In this Issue Paper, we tightened our criteria  for assessing the companies in which ASN Bank, the  ASN Investment Funds and ASN Asset Management  invest. These companies should make more efforts  to rule out any violations of human rights. The main  consequence is that we have adopted an even more  critical attitude in approving or rejecting a company.   19 The Issue Paper now also explicitly states that we as- sess companies in respect of freedom of speech and  privacy. Trade union freedom will be playing a more  important part as well, especially in the assessment  of US companies. Climate change  Fossil fuels have been the driving force behind our  economy for the past few centuries, causing incre- asing greenhouse gas emissions, especially carbon  dioxide (CO2). Scientists say this is rapidly warming  up the earth. It is absolutely vital that we limit our  emissions if we are to prevent the global warming  from assuming disastrous proportions. In addition,  adjustments need to be made to absorb the conse- quences of global warming, which have now become  unavoidable.  We help reduce greenhouse gases and cushion cli- mate change by investing in:   energy generation without carbon emissions and  activities with the lowest emission of green- house gases possible; we invest, for example, in  energy-saving measures, renewable sources of  energy, low-energy buildings and energy effici- ency;   flexibility-increasing activities, such as water- related activities, microcredit and combating  poverty. We do not invest in fossil fuels, or – due to the  numerous adverse effects – in nuclear energy. These  principles apply to all investments in companies or  institutions. When selecting government bonds, we  also consider the contributions countries make to  reducing carbon emissions and the share of nuclear  energy in their total energy consumption.  Our own operations also make a contribution, be- cause we attempt to limit carbon emissions as much  as possible and compensate the remaining emissions  (see Chapter 8).  Biodiversity As a sustainable bank, we want to contribute to  maintaining and strengthening biodiversity and  ecosystems. Biodiversity is the diversity of living  organisms and the variety of their interrelations- hips in ecosystems. Biodiversity contributes to our  prosperity, but only part of that contribution can  be expressed in monetary terms. After all, many  people enjoy nature. In addition, biodiversity offers  valuable services through ecosystems, for example  in the production of oxygen, water purification,  food, fuels, raw materials, medicines, protection  and recreation. Our economy could not function wit- hout these services. In the ecosystems that provide  these services, there is a fragile balance between  the various animals, plants and micro-organisms. It is  vital that biodiversity be maintained. This is not only  desirable from a moral and ethical perspective, but  even necessary from an economic point of view. Communication about sustainability in four  issues Sustainability is a broad concept. More than half of  all people in the Netherlands do not have a specific  understanding of sustainable and social investment.  When they hear sustainability, they mainly think  the environment. Other aspects, such as human  rights, follow at a great distance, although people  did find it an important issue when they were asked  to give their opinion.  In 2010, we therefore decided to make the con- cept sustainability more tangible for our current  and prospective customers. We did so by focusing  on four sustainability issues: fair trade, anti-child  labour, renewable energy and anti-arms industry.  We chose these issues as surveys had shown that  our customers find these issues to be of greatest  relevance to their savings.  The issues were introduced in July 2010 and have  taken centre stage in our sustainability communi- cations ever since. Moreover, we want to respond  to customers personal interests with these issues.  Customers may indicate which issues they personally  prefer, as follows. Global Compact The Global Compact is an initiative of the United  Nations that encourages companies to include  and abide by ten principles in the areas of hu- man rights, employment, the environment and  corruption. In 2007 ASN Bank signed the Global  Compact to express its long-standing involve- ment with the ten goals of this international UN  initiative. This report shows how we implemen- ted it in 2011.  20 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 The issues are linked to the ASN Credit Card and  ASN Ideaalsparen. Customers who purchase these  products automatically support all four issues. If  they so desire, they may choose to focus on one or  more of the four issues. Together with our partne- ring NGOs, we translate each issue into projects. The  projects receive a contribution from ASN Bank for  each payment customers make with the ASN Credit  Card. As regards ASN Ideaalsparen, higher savings  balances of customers who have chosen to focus on  a particular issue raise higher contributions for the  corresponding projects.  At year-end 2011, we supported the following projects on behalf of our customers:  Issue Organisation Project Fair trade Solidaridad Textile industry in Asia Oxfam Novib Fair trade cocoa from the Ivory Coast Anti-child labour Plan Nederland and Plan Bangladesh A future for house slaves in  Bangladesh Cordaid Kinderstem  Help to street children in India Renewable energy Natuur & Milieu Sun looking for roof Anti-arms industry Amnesty International Nederland Special Programme on Africa War Child Help to war children in Congo 3.4  Dialogue with stakeholders  The opinions of ASN Banks stakeholders co- determine our banks strategy. Their input weighs  heavily in our consideration of what issues are truly  of the essence. We use this information to adjust our  methods and strategy. That does not mean that we  continuously change our approach, because stability  and continuity are also key values in our policy. Our  communications are geared to five target groups.  Customers Our customers are the reason why we exist. We  therefore devote much attention to customer com- munications, based on principles of simplicity and  transparency. We reach out to customers through  our website, social media, our customer magazine,  letters and meetings, and gauge their views in sur- veys. The next chapter will provide more details on  our customer communications in 2011.  The staff of the ASN Customer Service are availa- ble from Monday to Friday for customers who have  questions and can be reached through freephone  number 0800-0380. In 2011, we extended the times  the ASN Customer Service can be reached, so that  customers can now contact us directly from 8:00  a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Customers may also ask questions  by e-mail or post. Social organisations We frequently consult with social organisations in a  wide range of forums and are present at events and  seminars. For more details about the social organisa- tions we cooperate with, please refer to the follo- wing section. Sustainable businesses We are pleased to observe that more and more  business owners contribute to sustainable develop- ment. Our experience is that they are passionate,  practical individuals who translate sustainable  ideas into viable business cases in which they define  profit not only in financial terms, but also as profit  for society, the planet or a specific target group.  CSR Netherlands helps them on their way. Business  owners can join CSR Netherlands for advice, access  to an extensive network and knowledge of the CSR  Netherlands Academy. A number of sustainable  entrepreneurs helped set up De Groene Zaak, whose  founding partners include ASN Bank. We sponsor  CleanDrinks, which was established in 2009 by two  young entrepreneurs aiming to promote a sustai- nable economy by bringing together, informing  and inspiring sustainable, innovative people during  online and offline events. ASN Bank collaborates  with CleanDrinks at a variety of events.  Using our online community For the World of Tomor- row, we are intensifying our focus on sustainable  start-ups. This platform helps sustainable go-get- ters to develop initiatives and execute ideas and of- fers them an opportunity to enter into discussions,  share information and meet new people.  21 Staff It goes without saying that our employees are key  stakeholders of ASN Bank. We meet during employ- ee meetings after office hours four times per year  to update each other on current events and results  and to celebrate success. We also communicate  with each other through department meetings and  the Intranet, for example. We show new employees  around the organisation using the ASN Manual. We  discuss the results of SNS REAALs annual survey,  which is held to measure employee satisfaction. Our  human resources policy can be found in Chapter 8. Advisory Council The dialogue with stakeholders has been structured  in ASN Banks Advisory Council, comprising repre- sentatives with a wide range of social backgrounds.  The Council monitors whether ASN Bank is delive- ring on its sustainability mission and provides the  Management Board with solicited or unsolicited  advice. The Management Board and the Advisory  Council regularly consult about the banks activities  and results, as well as its sustainability course. You  can find a brief report of the Councils activities at  the beginning of this annual report.  3.5   Collaboration with social  organisations In order to achieve our mission, we cooperate as  much as possible with social organisations; they  make a positive contribution to our objectives and  enhance our effectiveness. Our partners are primari- ly NGOs, but also sustainably operating companies.  We distinguish four types of partners:  Theme partners   See section 3.3.  Strategic partners    We maintain structural, in-depth cooperation  with our strategic partners to flesh out our mis- sion. We also collaborate with these partners  to achieve our communication and acquisition  objectives. Some strategic partners are also  product partners.  Product partners    We support these partners with specific pro- ducts, such as Waddenvereniging with the ASN  Waddendeposito.   Marketing partners    Occasionally, we use our marketing partners  channels of communication to achieve our acqui- sition and communication objectives. Conver- sely, we also offer our marketing partners access  to our communication channels. Social organisations in 2011 Theme  partner Strategic  partner Product  partner Marketing  partner Amnesty International Nederland Cordaid Kinderstem Cordaid Memisa  Cordaid Microkrediet Fair Trade Original FNV Mondiaal / FNV Voordeel Natuur & Milieu Oxfam Novib Plan Solidaridad Stichting Duurzame Waardekaart Waddenvereniging War Child  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 22 ASN Banks close ties with Dutch trade union  FNV date back a long time. In 2011, we launched  a campaign with FNV Voordeel for the benefit of  FNV Mondiaal. Each FNV member who opened an  account with ASN Bank received a  20 welcome bo- nus. For each new customer, FNV Mondiaal received   5 for the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions. The  purpose of this contribution was to strengthen the  member trade unions and support the trade union  leaders in their battle for better employee rights. On the occasion of our fiftieth anniversary, in 2010  we gave our customers a Duurzame Waardekaart,  supporting the foundation Stichting Duurzame  Waardekaart. This card provides sustainable  consumers with an attractive marketplace, which  stimulates sustainable consumption. No fewer than  37 thousand customers activated their cards. This  collaboration continued in 2011. Changes in the partnerships We set up new partnerships in order to give sub- stance to our sustainability issues in the form of  projects. For example, we added Natuur & Milieu  and War Child to our partners.  Another new partner was Fair Trade Original. With  a  25,000 donation, we helped this organisation  to support Thai farmers in obtaining their fair trade  certification. In that context we launched a product  campaign in September, displayed on the back of  Voor u:  20,- bij het openen van een  rekening bij de ASN Bank www.asnbank.nl  Voor FNV-Mondiaal: doneert de ASN Bank  5,- per rekening om de  Zimbabwaanse vakcentrale te versterken De ASN Bank biedt u een concurrerende rente, maar niet over de rug van anderen.  De bank zet zich in voor duurzaamheid, mensenrechten en een beter milieu.  Benieuwd wat de rest van de wereld ermee wint als u kiest voor de ASN Bank?  Vergelijk de ASN Bank dan eens met uw eigen bank op eerlijkebankwijzer.nl, een  initiatief van de FNV, Oxfam Novib, Amnesty International en Milieudefensie. Ga voor het openen van een rekening en meer informatie  naar www.fnv-voordeel.nl FNV en ASN Bank  De samenwerking met  de ASN Bank is heel  bijzonder, want de  bank is in 1960 door  onder andere de FNV  opgericht. Inmiddels  is de ASN Bank  uitgegroeid tot de  grootste duurzame  bank van Nederland,  met meer dan een half  miljoen klanten. the Fair Trade Original chocolate sprinkles packages.  Anyone who opened an ASN account on the cam- paign website received a basket filled with products  from Fair Trade Originals new Asian cooking range.  We also transferred  10 per new account to the Thai  farmers project. Reducing CO2 emissions plays an important role in  our aim for sustainability. From this perspective, we  supported 10:10. Originating from Great Britain,  this initiative encourages everyone to cut their  carbon footprints by 10% every year, beginning in  2010. However, as the opportunities for collabo- ration turned out to be limited, we terminated this  partnership.  23 RENEWABLE ENERGY ANTI-ARMS INDUSTRY ANTI-CHILD LABOUR FAIR TRADE  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 24  25 4.  Transparency and dialogue ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Worldwide protests against the old economy gained momentum in 2011. Euro crisis  developments caused great dissatisfaction with the role of banks and financial markets.  ASN Bank in fact aims to be a bank for the new, sustainable economy, a bank that is  transparent, listens to its customers and actively involves them in its policy formation.  This idea of a common responsibility resulted in the slogan of our very first TV commer- cial: It is what we do with money that makes it good or bad. Photograph: Marcel Brands/NBB  26 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 The financial crisis created an unabatedly high de- mand for transparency at banks. A growing number  of people suggested that banks should be seen as  customer-focused utility companies from now on,  assuming limited duties. At the same time, fifty  percent of people in the Netherlands believe that  the financial sector should do more to finance the  change to a more sustainable society and the transi- tion to natural resources. Our own research further- more revealed that, in the customers opinion, banks  should take account of human rights.  ASN Banks sustainability mission is an excellent res- ponse to these demands, but we do not sit around  and do nothing. We are convinced that we can only  be successful if we keep up the dialogue with our  customers and other stakeholders. In 2010, we ac- ted on this by linking part of our services to the four  sustainability issues selected by our customers. In  2011, we continued along this course by intensifying  the exchange of ideas with stakeholders, also with  regard to our policy.  4.1   Dialogue through new and  old media It is impossible nowadays to listen to and communi- cate with customers and other stakeholders without  using new media such as the Internet, online com- munities like Facebook and LinkedIn, and Twitter.  Communication through these media is brief and to  the point. Messages can have a major impact as they  are reiterated on a large scale. For this reason, we  actively monitor message traffic, answer questions  and initiate messages, discussions and campaigns of  our own.  Our websites play an important part in the new  way of communicating. At www.asnbank.nl, custo- mers can find details about our sustainability policy,  news and our products and services.  Our online platform For the World of Tomorrow  (www.voordewereldvanmorgen.nl) is available to  anyone who wants to set up a sustainable initia- tive or company. At the end of 2011, this platform  had more than 45,000 members, up 65% from the  27,000 members at the end of 2010. At For the  World of Tomorrow, we conduct campaigns that are  inappropriate for the service-based website www. asnbank.nl but that do serve our mission, including  discussions about sustainable dilemmas that we  address in our customer magazine. We also support  campaigns as active members of the network sites  Facebook and LinkedIn. Members of these sites  and strategic partners of ASN Bank can also launch  campaigns and publish messages there. Twitter Where in previous years we were only active on  Twitter on an ad-hoc basis, in 2011 tweeting be- came a fixed element of our communications. Nearly  20,000 messages about ASN Bank, For the World of  Tomorrow, our products and our sustainability po- licy appeared in social media in 2011 as a whole. The  number of followers of ASN Bank grew to almost  2,800 and those of For the World of Tomorrow to  almost 4,000. We tweeted about the news publis- hed on our websites homepage, as well as about  First TV commercial  Research had revealed that many people who  are positive towards sustainable banking did  not yet know ASN Bank. We had to increase our  brand awareness if we were to grow any further.  That is why we created a TV commercial that ex- plained to viewers exactly, without patronising,  the values that ASN Bank represents. It was first  broadcast on 8 February 2011. The TV ad was  broadcast in five three-week periods during  the year, supported by train station posters  and radio commercials. The campaign created a  significant increase in brand awareness among  our target groups: spontaneous brand aware- ness in our key target group rose from 17% to  21%, while total brand awareness (spontaneous  plus supported) rose from 63% to 73%. We also  used the TV commercial as an opportunity for  dialogue with customers and other interested  parties at For the World of Tomorrow.  Discussion about sustainable  investment on LinkedIn In November, during the Sustainable Invest- ment Week, we organised a discussion about  this topic on LinkedIn. On behalf of ASN Bank,  the discussion was conducted by Bas-Jan Blom  (Managing Director of ASN Beleggingsinstel- lingen Beheer B.V.) and Piet Sprengers (Head  of Sustainability & Research). They answered  questions and advanced statements to discuss,  for example Sustainable investment is only for  idealists. We closed the discussion with the  question How can we make sustainable invest- ment mainstream?   27 campaigns such as our TV commercial, the ASN Bank  World Award and crowdsourcing about the ASN  Bank Human Rights Issue Paper (see box). Other  peoples tweets about ASN Bank mainly relate to  our sustainability policy and our services. Regularly  recurring topics were our products, mainly swit- ching, payment and savings, and online campaigns.  It is striking that we received nearly ten times more  compliments than complaints in that respect. The  ASN Bank World Award in particular was a popular  Twitter topic, as well as crowdsourcing about the  ASN Bank Human Rights Issue Paper.  Crowdsourcing about our human rights policy Following John Ruggies work, we reviewed our human rights policy in 2011 (see page 13) in consulta- tion with partnering NGOs such as Amnesty International. When the draft policy was completed, we as- ked everyone who was interested to join our discussion about the policy at For the World of Tomorrow.  Under the heading Wanted: critical discussion partners, we asked for a response to four dilemmas:   To what extent should we hold companies responsible for their suppliers?    Should we stick to our principle to only invest in companies with a supply chain that does not include  any child labour?   How much weight should be attached to our viewpoint on weapons when we select countries (in  connection with investments in government bonds)?  To what extent should we take into account the social impact of renewable energy projects? We received more than one hundred reactions, mostly substantive ones. In total, almost one thousand  messages were sent through social media, four hundred of which by ASN Bank. Our partnering NGOs  helped to spread the message. We concluded the crowdsourcing with a discussion meeting at our of- fice. Virtually all respondents were positive about the manner in which we set up this discussion and the  transparency we displayed in this way. Old media renewed New media are not popular with everyone. We find  it important to reach out to all of our customers,  also if they prefer information on paper. At the same  time, we are looking for new ways to draw attention  to information from traditional media. We let old  and new media exist side by side wherever pos- sible. Until the end of 2011, our customers received the  customer magazine Spaarmotief five times per year  and, if they were interested, our e-mail newsletter.  The December 2011 issue heralded a new era: we  made a test version of an online customer magazine.  It withstood the tests well, which means that we  will issue an online magazine in addition to our hard  copy magazine starting in 2012. The contents of  these two media are practically the same. Customers  may choose which of these two versions they prefer;  they may also choose both. After more than fifteen  years, the name Spaarmotief (Savings Motive)  seemed less appropriate for the online magazine and  the name no longer covered the contents of the ma- gazine. After all, we inform customers about more  than just saving: they can also pay and invest at ASN  Bank. That is why we changed the name of both the  hard copy and the online versions of the magazine to  Ideaal (Ideal).  The annual reports of ASN Bank and the ASN In- vestment Funds are key media to inform customers  and stakeholders about our policies and activities.  We do realise that many people are deterred by  the prospect of reading an annual report and that  is why we developed an annual online magazine. In  2011, we published this ASN Bank Jaarmagazine for  the second time, presenting our main activities and  results in 2010 in an accessible manner. The annual  magazine was frequently consulted; visitors to the  site accessed the various pages more than twenty  thousand times. Ethical Investment Day As we set great store by meeting our customers in  person, we regularly organise customer meetings.  On Thursday 28 April the General Meeting of Share- holders of the ASN Investment Funds took place. As  always, it drew many people. We also met customers  at the Ethical Investment Day at Lucent Dansthea- ter in The Hague on 7 December. The day revolved  around the theme Banking with manners, moral  leadership for the 21st century. Journalist Jeroen   28 ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Smit discussed this topic with Klaas van Egmond,  Professor of Geosciences (more specifically Environ- mental Science) at Utrecht University and author of  the book Een kwestie van beschaving (A matter of  civilisation). Jeroen Smit also discussed leadership  with Willem Lageweg, Managing Director at CSR  Netherlands, and Bas Haring, Professor of Public  Understanding of Science at Leiden University,  and subsequently with Liesbeth Unger of Human  Rights@Work and Voline van Teeseling, Head of  Marketing & Communication at ASN Bank. The  Hague childrens choir De Mussen concluded the  event. The reactions of customers during and after  the event were enthusiastic.  4.2  Sustainability incentives ASN Bank has a long-standing tradition of devoting  itself to a sustainable society in various ways: not  only through our activities as a bank, but also by  means of campaigns and support to other peoples  sustainable initiatives. The ASN Bank World Award At For the World of Tomorrow, we organised the  ASN Bank World Award for the fourth time. In 2011,  it was divided into five prizes of  10,000: one prize  for each of ASN Banks four sustainability issues and  one public award. Eligible projects had to contri- bute to the sustainability of society. The members  of For the World of Tomorrow shortlisted the best  forty entries by means of voting. A professional jury  selected eight finalists from this list, who presented  their plans in person. On the basis of their presen- tations, the jury chose four winners. Visitors to For  the World of Tomorrow chose the project that would  win the public award. The prizes were awarded  during an inspiring ceremony at Chizone in Scheve- ningen. The winners were:  Fair Phone (fair trade);  FairMail (anti-child labour);   Young Africa, with the project Sunny Future for  Young People in Namibia (renewable energy);   Campaign Against Arms Trade with the project  No Money for Violence (anti-arms industry);  Palestine Link (public award). Future Talents A growing number of young people dedicate them- selves to a better, more sustainable world. That is  why we teamed up with Timu Kota, Be More and  Morgen to launch the Future Talents competition,  in which we are looking for people under the age of  25 who are involved in sustainability, new energy or  a better world. The ten winners receive an honour-  able mention, a platform for their ideas, project  support and a sustainable workshop trip to Uganda.  The competition ran from November 2011 on For the  World of Tomorrow.  Call for ban on investment in  cluster munitions On 1 August 2010, the international Convention  on Cluster Munitions came into effect, prohibi- ting the use, production, stockpiling and trans- fer of cluster munitions. The creation of this  Convention was a major step towards banning  these controversial weapons. The Netherlands  also ratified the Convention, yet the govern- ment did not want to prohibit Dutch financial  institutions from investing in companies that  manufacture cluster munitions. In September  2011, the Dutch Lower House debated a statu- tory ban on investing in cluster munitions. APG  Asset Management, MN Services and ASN Bank  sent the members of the Parliamentary Com- mittees on Finance and Defence a letter urging  them to support this ban. We stated in that let- ter that the Dutch government has a moral duty  to do everything in its power to help ban cluster  munitions and other weaponry. It would be  incomprehensible if the Netherlands ratifies the  Convention while still leaving room for invest- ment in this sector, we said. On 13 October, the  government announced that it would work out  plans after all to prohibit financial institutions  from investing in cluster munitions.  Klaas van Egmond (left) in debate with chairman of the  day Jeroen Smit at the Ethical Investment Day.   Photograph: Josje Deekens  29 Sponsorship ASN Bank sponsors special, sustainable projects  that match our vision and that we want to stimulate.  In doing so, we aim to increase our brand awareness  and bring sustainability to the attention of a broader  and, if possible, young audience. That is why we  sponsor special projects each year, both small and  large ones. Below you will find a small selection. In the summer, we sponsored the Beeing Festival,  aimed at people of all ages. It called for awareness  of the bees imminent extinction and the harm this  causes to our food production. The whole day there  were workshops, lectures and films. Experts and  stakeholders crossed swords in a cutting debate. At  night, there was a dinner with dishes that can only  be made thanks to bees. The festival received much  media attention, making the bees predicament  known to visitors to the festival and a large target  group.  We sponsored the Pure Restaurant Week in Novem- ber. The purpose was to boost the consumption of  organic and fair trade food and sustainable fish. This  was done by informing guests of participating res- taurants about the origin of the dishes. More than  three hundred restaurants participated in the Pure  Restaurant Week.  We closed 2011 by sponsoring the fair trade pro- ject Meet Your Scarf. More and more clothing is  produced using sustainable methods, but Fair Wear  Foundation is looking for a bit more trendiness. To- gether with the Max Havelaar Foundation, the Clean  Clothes Campaign and the brand Charlie + Mary, this  organisation accepted the challenge to make a fair  scarf produced with sustainable methods. Elsien  Gringhuis, the winner of the first Green Fashion  Competition, designed the scarf. ASN Bank funded  the launch.  ASN Foundation For many years, ASN Bank has been making dona- tions to projects and organisations that contribute  to our mission. We make these donations through  Stichting ASN Foundation, which makes money  available to organisations and projects to realise  sustainable initiatives. We support projects across  the globe. The organisation requesting the donation  must be based in the Netherlands. The donations –  137 in 2011 – range from  250 to  15,000. Large  donations in 2011 were made to organisations  including the World Life Foundation for a reaffore- station project in Kenya, We Women Foundation for  a university education for a Thai refugee and, in the  framework of our fair trade issue, to the Fair Wear  Foundation. You will find more information in the  The winners of the 2011 ASN Bank World Award. Photograph: Josje Deekens  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 30 ASN Foundations annual report and newsletter and  on our website.  4.3  Recognition of our efforts In 2011, we received various honourable mentions  and awards. We are convinced that they are granted  to us because of our customer-driven operations.  In addition, our customers know that their money is  managed in an appropriate and transparent manner.  The main mentions included the following: Sustainability  February: good score in Fair Bank Guide    The Fair Bank Guide screened Dutch banks that  invest in Shell, Vedanta Resources and Barrick  Gold. These three companies are active in the oil  and mining industries, violating human rights.  ASN Bank is one out of three Dutch banks that do  not invest in these companies at all.   May: high score from verhuisjegeld.nl    The independent website www.verhuisjegeld. nl rated the fifteen main savings banks in the  Netherlands with regard to their savings rate  policy and the investment of money with norms  and values. ASN Bank received the highest score  for Norms & Values: 9.7 out of 10.   October: best financial sector employer    Effectory, market leader in employee surveys,  rated ASN Bank the second best employer of  companies with fewer than one thousand staff,  making us the best employer in the financial  services industry in 2011.  November: Sustainable 100    Both Ewoud Goudswaard and Jeroen Jansen  were listed in the Sustainable 100 of newspaper  Trouw, which ranks influential sustainable Dutch- men.  Customer friendliness   April: Dutch Consumers Associations Bank   Monitor    The Dutch Consumers Associations Bank  Monitor reflects customers appreciation of the  services rendered by their banks. We achieved  the highest score together with Triodos Bank:  8.1.   April: Varas Kassa    The Vara TV programme Kassa asked customers  about their satisfaction with their banks. Our  total score was 8.5 out of 10. 99% of the ASN  customers interviewed had faith in our bank, and  94% thinks ASN Bank is customer-friendly.   May: Customer Centric DNA Award 2011    A survey by TNS Nipo revealed that Dutch con- sumers regard ASN Bank as the most customer- focused bank. We also achieved the highest  scores in all eight survey categories. This made  ASN Bank the most customer-driven company of  2011.    September: ASN Bank most customer-friendly bank    Research agency Marketresponse investigates  every year which company people in the Nether- lands find most customer-friendly. ASN Bank  ranked fourth and was therefore considered the  most customer-friendly bank of the Netherlands.  November: best website in the category Finance    The public chose ASN Banks website as the  Best Website of the Year 2011 in the category  Finance. More than 700,000 people in total cast  their vote. Products   April: ten out of ten from the Dutch Investors   Association    The 2011 Savings Survey of the Dutch Investors  Association VEB awarded ASN Ideaalsparen ten  points out of ten as the only savings account of  the thirty that were included in the survey.  New roadmap to sustainability In 1987, Our Common Future was published, in  which the Brundtland Commission set out cur- rent sustainability issues. The report offered an  inspiring view of the future and set the sustaina- bility agenda of the past few decades. However,  25 years after its publication, the reports vision  has lost its relevance for today. That is why  Our Common Future 2.0 took the initiative to  rewrite it. In the autumn of 2010, a few hundred  volunteers – including sustainability consultant  Maritta Smid of ASN Bank – formed teams to  work out the various issues. Their goal was to  write an innovative, inspiring story about issues  that will truly matter in the years ahead, a story  that will encourage people to contribute to the  necessary changes. On Friday 20 May 2011, the  results of Our Common Future 2.0: Roadmaps for  Our Future Society were presented at a congress  sponsored by the ASN Foundation. We offered  the book to all ASN employees.  31 Investment funds   January: ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds  leading in 2010    According to www.duurzaam-beleggen.nl, ASN  Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds was the best  performing sustainable equity fund in 2010.    March: ASN Milieu & Waterfonds wins FD   Morningstar Award    ASN Milieu & Waterfonds won the FD Mor- ningstar Award in the category Sector Equity  Funds.   November: ASN Milieu & Waterfonds wins fifth  Gouden Stier (Golden Bull)    On 10 November 2011, ASN Milieu & Water- fonds won the Gouden Stier for best sustainable  investment product. The website Belegger.nl  awarded the prize.    December: ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds Product  of the Year 2011    The expert panel of the website OverGeld.nl of  the De Telegraaf newspaper chose ASN Duur- zaam Aandelenfonds as Product of the Year  2011.  We would sincerely like to thank our customers and  other interested parties for these wonderful tokens  of appreciation. We will continue to dedicate our  efforts to serving our customers with transparent  products, excellent, duly earned interest rates and  good service. 4.4   Continuing our sustain-  ability efforts in 2012 We have been able to work towards a sustainable  world for more than fifty years now thanks to the  trust our customers place in us. We are transparent  about our activities in order to be worthy of that  trust. We also want our sustainability policy and our  services to be in line with our customers wishes. In  2012, we will achieve this in the following ways:   We will establish our sustainability policy for the  longer term in relation to our investments, our  funding and our operations (ASN Banks office).  We aim to abide by this policy for a period of ten  years and identify indicators in order to be able  to measure its level of success. We will also con- tinue the dialogue with our customers regarding  our sustainability policy.   We will review the ASN Bank Climate Change  Issue Paper in consultation with customers and  social organisations. The same applies to the  ASN Bank Government Bonds Issue Paper.    We want to finance more renewable energy  projects, particularly wind and solar energy in  Belgium, France, Germany and the United King- dom.   Transparent banking and simplicity in finance:  those are the principles of our services in 2012 as  well. We will investigate what makes our current  and prospective customers satisfied with ASN  Bank so that we can enhance this satisfaction.  Two aspects we will investigate are the services  and products that customers expect us to deliver  and our customers expectations regarding our  website, which plays an ever-increasing role in  our services.   We are expanding our services in respect of  payments, for example with a mobile phone ap- plication.   We are exploring the possibility of introducing  structured sustainable investment products for  large investors such as pension funds.   We will move into a larger office that was renova- ted using sustainable methods. This office uses  less energy than our current building and gives us  more room to serve our customers.    ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 32  33 5.  Sustainable products and   services  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 The simplification of our savings range took effect in early 2011. Various instant-access  savings products were combined into one, revamped and non-conditional savings  product: ASN Ideaalsparen. We also introduced the ASN Jongerenrekening account  for youngsters in 2011. Our corporate clients got their own savings and investment  products. This chapter provides an overview of the main developments regarding our  sustainable savings, investment, payment and asset management services. Photograph: Olaf Kraak/Hollandse Hoogte  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 34 5.1  Savings In 2011, the savings deposits grew by 12% from    7.90 billion to  8.85 billion. This growth was mainly  achieved in our instant-access savings products: the  revamped ASN Ideaalsparen for private customers  and the new ASN Sparen Zakelijk. In the second half  of the year, the savings market was dominated by  banks campaigns offering high interest rates for  short-term deposits. The amounts deposited in our  deposit products remained stable throughout the  year. The same was true for total deposits in our in- vestment products for private and corporate clients. At the end of April and at the end of June, we sent  prior announcements of interest rate changes to our  customers by e-mail for the first time. These interest  rate announcements were well-received. From now  on, savings customers will receive them before each  interest rate change. savings accounts with one click. ASN Saldo is just as  secure as ASN Online Banking; it is secured with the  users login name and password. In addition, ASN  Saldo states our main service numbers.  5.2  Payments At the end of 2008, we introduced our current ac- count for private customers, the ASN Bank Account.  In 2011, almost 29,000 accounts were opened, in  part thanks to our media campaign Money Moves,  which focused on the ASN Bank Account and the  Switching Team. At the end of 2011, our records  stated in excess of 82,000 current accounts. The  ASN Bank Account is an inexpensive online current  account for customers from the age of 18. Custo- mers receive interest on positive balances and pay  only low monthly costs, which we succeeded to lo- wer even more as from July 2011. Especially for our  younger target group aged 12 to 25, we introduced  the ASN Jongerenrekening account in May 2011. It  offers practically the same facilities as the ASN Bank  Account, but is even more inexpensive: it is free of  charge. More than 8,000 of such accounts had been  opened at the end of 2011. ASN Credit Card In July 2010 the ASN Credit Card was introduced to  the market, the result of a successful team effort  with credit card expert ICS. Almost 17,000 cards  were in use at the end of 2011. As with the renewed  product ASN Ideaalsparen, ASN Credit Card holders  have a choice of supporting the sustainability issues  that ASN Bank is aiming to advance, promoting  fair trade and renewable energy and fighting child  labour and the arms industry. A small percentage  of each payment made with the card is donated to  the themed projects of our partnering NGOs. This  amount is also deducted from ASN Banks earnings,  which means that customers do not have to pay  anything extra. This brought in another amount of  more than  80,000 for the relevant projects for the  full year 2011. 5.3  Investments We introduced the ASN Beleggen Zakelijk account  in 2011 for associations, foundations, funds, chur- ches and companies that want to make investments.  This account enables them to invest in the seven  sustainable ASN Investment Funds.  Due to the financial crisis, investing lost ground to  Assets under management  (Millions of euro's) 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000 10000 11000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 Funds entrusted Investments Sustainability issues With the revamped ASN Ideaalsparen, we actively  support four sustainability issues, promoting fair  trade and renewable energy and fighting child  labour and the arms industry. Customers may select  one or several of these issues, to which we contri- bute on their behalf. Our partnering NGOs receive  an annual contribution from ASN Banks profits for  their themed projects. This contribution is related  to the amount of the savings deposits and the issues  selected by ASN customers. For the full year 2011,  we contributed more than  1.2 million in total to  seven different projects (see Chapters 1 and 3). This  support on behalf of all ASN Ideaalsparen account  holders replaced the individual option to donate  interest that had existed from 1991. ASN Saldo  In November, we introduced ASN Saldo (ASN  Balance) for iPhones. This tool allows customers  to check their current balance and the most recent  transfers to and from their ASN Bank current and   35 saving in the year under review. Sustainable invest- ment at ASN Bank was no exception. Total assets at  the ASN Investment Funds were down  79 million  in 2011 (-5.8%) due to an outflow of cash as well as  capital losses. However, there was one fund that  managed to escape the downturn: the ASN-Novib  Microcredit Fund. The ASN Investment Funds did  win various awards in 2011 (see Chapter 4). ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund  The ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund provides microcre- dit to small business owners in developing countries.  In 2011, customers invested fresh capital to the  sum of  50 million in the fund, especially in the last  month of the year. As from 2011, the tax authorities  use 1 January as the reference date for calculating  the capital gains tax. Customers that wanted to use  the (remaining) additional tax benefits of this socio- ethical fund in 2012 therefore had to invest before  that date. We anticipated this by launching a cam- paign in which customers that invested  1,000 or  more received the Oxfam Novib calendar for 2012.  Growth of ASN Investment Funds  2011 2010 (amounts x 1,000/ 1,000) Number of shares Net assets Number of shares Net assets ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds  5.376 292.661 5.454 318.869 ASN Duurzaam Obligatiefonds  4.217 114.369 4.416 119.733 ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds  2.035 124.395 2.156 136.550 ASN Milieu & Waterfonds  11.481 184.549 12.024 213.703 ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds                  2.013 39.080 1.997 54.766 ASN Groenprojectenfonds  12.073 309.240 13.657 353.186 ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund  4.152 231.264 3.236 178.059 Total net assets of investment funds  1.295.558 1.374.866 List of ASN Investment Funds Fund Invests in: Return* in % 2011 past three  years** past five  years** ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds Global listed companies -6,94 11,73 -2,35 ASN Duurzaam Obligatiefonds Government and corporate bonds 2,81 2,09 3,25 ASN Duurzaam Mixfonds  Bonds and equities -1,72 6,70 1,08 ASN Milieu & Waterfonds  Renewable energy, water and the  environment -10,39 13,26 -1,39 ASN Duurzaam   Small & Midcapfonds  Small, medium-sized and large  European enterprises -30,13 13,64 -5,57 ASN Groenprojectenfonds  Projects covered by the Green  Scheme 0,60 1,17 1,78 ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund Microfinance institutions 4,92 5,11 4,59 * Return based on share prices, including reinvestment ** Average per year Notes to the results and investments of the indi- vidual funds can be found in the ASN Investment  Funds Annual Report, the ASN-Novib Microcredit  Fund Annual Report and the ASN Groenprojecten- fonds Annual Report, which we publish as separate  documents.   ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 36 5.4  Asset management At the end of 2010, ASN Asset Management was  introduced for private individuals, foundations, as- sociations and social institutions with investable as- sets of  250,000 or more. ASN Asset Management  structures tailor-made portfolios on the basis of the  wishes and financial position of the client and ASN  Banks special investment criteria. These activities  gained momentum in 2011. In spite of turbulent  times in the financial markets, the assets that clients  entrusted to ASN Asset Management grew by 114%.  Returns based on stock market developments were  good. Retaining its sustainability criteria, ASN Bank  succeeded in having its investment results compete  with those of non-sustainable colleagues. This con- firms that sustainable investment is not necessarily  inferior to regular investment. We organised two successful meetings for clients of  ASN Asset Management. Especially the traditional  spring walk, combined with a visit to the island of  Pampus, attracted a host of people.     37 6.  Sustainable investment and   finance ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 It ensues from ASN Banks mission that we help create a society in which people are   free to make their own choices, without this being at the expense of others. A just  society without poverty, in which everyone has access to education, good housing and  medical care. ASN Banks current investments therefore reflect the sustainable society  of tomorrow.  Photograph: Ger Loeffen/Hollandse Hoogte  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 38 ASN Bank exists by the grace of its customers and  their trust. They must be able to depend on us to  invest their savings in a careful, risk-averse man- ner. Accordingly, we invest mainly in loans to public  authorities (central, regional and local) and, in the  context of home mortgages, to financial instituti- ons. Other major asset categories are water boards,  energy companies, healthcare institutions, housing  corporations, education, culture and leisure, and  renewable energy. This spread creates a good  balance between the various sectors. Appendix 3  to this report shows where we invest your money;  section 9.5, Notes to the balance sheet, shows the  spread across sectors of our investments and loans.  Here, you will find notes to the main investment  categories.  Principles and developments in 2011 Our objective is to contribute to sustainable eco- nomic development as a bank. This means that we  act within the parameters imposed on us as a bank.  We base our actions on two key principles. First, we  invest our customers money only in ways acceptable  to them. Second, we must satisfy the requirements  set by regulatory bodies.  The capital requirements set by regulators deter- mine our investment policy to a great extent. We  ourselves can mainly determine the levels of risk and  liquidity. The more liquid the investments, the faster  your savings are available if you wish to withdraw  them. The level of risk is a more complicated issue.  It is related to the risks associated with a particular  investment and the amount of capital we must have  to hedge those risks. We opt for investments with a  low risk profile that meet our sustainability criteria.  As shown by the list of our investments, over the  past few years our investments have shifted from  government bonds towards mortgages. This is  because we invest in mortgage-backed loans that  are linked to our sustainability criteria (see the ASN  Bank Banks and Insurers Issue Paper). By investing in  such mortgages, we ensure – as with investments in  the social housing sector – that people can still buy  a home of their own. The money we invest in loans  to the relevant banks allows them to provide new  mortgages.  In addition, we particularly focus on investing in the  renewable energy sector. Taking account of our low  risk profile, we can finance projects in this sector  every year. If we want to step up our investments in  this sector, we need more shareholders equity. To  that end, we add the annual profit to our sharehol- ders equity. This allows us to maintain our modera- te risk profile while having more capital available for  investing in renewable energy projects. Our current  capital level enables us to achieve further growth. 6.1  Sustainable lending The business sector is increasingly interested in  practising corporate social responsibility. We consi- der it important that helpful innovative technologies  and products get the opportunity to develop and  spread. To this end, we provide business loans based  Solar power plant Lavansol – Photograph: ANP  39 on the knowledge of the market of our Sustainable  Loans Department. This department provides and  manages business loans for ASN Bank, ASN Groen- projectenfonds and ASN Groenbank (see the organi- sational chart including notes in Chapter 11).  ASN Bank funded new projects totalling  138 mil- lion and ASN Groenprojectenfonds  13 million in  the aggregate in 2011. A list of investments made  by ASN Bank is included in Appendix 1. Below are a  number of examples of our sustainable loans. ASN Bank loans: renewable energy  Global Tech We extended a  29 million loan to Global Tech I, the largest German offshore wind farm constructed  so far. The project has three major shareholders, including energy companies from the German city of  Munich and the federal state of Hesse. These shareholders have strategic goals in the area of renewable  energy. Stadtwerke Mnchen, for example, aims to be fully energy-neutral within twenty years. That is  why this utility company invests in onshore and offshore wind projects. Global Tech I consists of eighty  wind turbines that jointly generate 400 megawatts of electricity, sufficient to serve 445,000 house- holds. The total investment in Global Tech I is more than  1 billion and is provided by sixteen commer- cial banks – including ASN Bank – and other parties. That makes it the largest loan to wind energy ever.  The internationally acclaimed magazine Project Finance International declared this project Wind Deal of  the Year, as Europes best wind project in 2011.  Lavansol The Provenal village of Les Mes, on the Puimichel plateau, is one of the sunniest locations in France.  In the environs of Les Mes, a solar power plant is being built. ASN Bank is financing two of its projects,  Lavansol M7 SAS and Lavansol II SAS, for a total of  25 million. Together, these projects have an annual  capacity of 18.2 megawatts. That is enough to provide around ten thousand* households with electrici- ty. Doric Asset Finance has bought the projects from Enfinity. Enfinity was responsible for the construc- tion and operates the farms. This international property developer in renewable energy has extensive  experience in setting up and selling solar power projects and is well acquainted with the French market.  Doric Asset Finance, an independent fund manager, gives private investors in Germany the opportunity  to invest in infrastructural projects including renewable energy. The financing was structured by Nord- deutsche Landesbank Girozentrale (NORD/LB). This bank is highly experienced in financing renewable  energy projects. ASN Bank is the mandated lead arranger of the financing. Lavansol M7 and II became  operational in April 2011. Akuo Corsica In 2011, ASN Bank extended a long-term loan of  22 million to Akuo Corse Energies Solar. This loan was  used to develop three French solar power projects in Corsica, which are now operational and located  near the cities of Corte and Sainte-Lucie-de-Porto-Vecchio. Generating 12.15 megawatts of electricity  per year, the projects can provide approximately 6,500* households in Corsica with electricity.  Akuo Corse Energy Solar is part of the Akuo Energy Group, an independent producer of electricity and  energy from renewable energy sources. Akuo develops projects around the globe. The French bank  Dexia, which has broad experience with financing renewable energy projects, structured the transac- tion. Dexia provided the other half of the long-term loan.   ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 40 Newsolar In December 2011, ASN Bank extended a long-term loan of  13.4 million to Newsolar. Newsolar is a  French solar power project in Saint-Lger, Charante-Maritime, one hundred kilometres north of Bor- deaux. Generating 10.7 megawatts of electricity per year, this project can provide almost five thousand*  households with electricity. The project is now operational. Newsolar is part of the Spanish company Longsol, an independent producer of electricity from solar  power. Longsols portfolio comprises Spanish and French projects. The French bank Dexia, which has  broad experience with financing renewable energy projects, structured the transaction. Dexia provided  the other half of the long-term loan. *   Households in France consume an average of more than 2,500 kilowatt hours of electricity per year   (excluding heating), one thousand less than Dutch households. ASN Bank loans: sustainable construction and renovation Renovation of, and introduction of sustainability in, former Soviet flats In the former Eastern Bloc, identical blocks of flats were built on a large scale in the last century. After  the Soviet Union collapsed, the occupants could buy their flats at a trifling amount. However, many of  them do not have money for maintenance and renovation, although the flats are of low quality and con- sume a lot of energy. As a result, more than half of the population is suffering from high energy bills and  are watching their homes decay. Renesco invests in maintaining and modernising such blocks of flats.  At the beginning of August 2011, ASN Bank – through the Dutch International Guarantees for Housing  Foundation (DIGH) – provided Renesco with a  1,150,000 loan to renovate five blocks of flats in Latvia  and make them more sustainable, with a guarantee from housing corporation AlleeWonen. Renesco is  renovating the faade, window cases, balconies, staircases and other aspects. It is isolating roofs and  basements and adding new hot water pipes, radiators and controlling equipment. In some cases, it  is also replacing the old, inefficient district heating with modern, geothermal storage. The result is a  reduction of energy costs by some 75%.  Sustainable heating for seven large offices  ASN Bank provided financing to Unica in excess of  8 million for the placement of thermal storage sys- tems in seven office buildings. Thermal storage is an energy-efficient, reliable, affordable way to heat  and cool buildings. Unica will install the systems and operate them for many years. The offices have a  joint floor area of 124,000 m2. The following projects are involved:  The building of the Faculty of Science of the University of Amsterdam at Science Park Amsterdam  Irdeto in Hoofddorp  Residential care centre Spikvoorde in Deventer  Het Facet in Utrecht  Shopping centre Centrumplan in Geleen  KPMG office Victoria in Rotterdam   Oostereiland in Hoorn, a housing, working and leisure project  41 Equator Principles The Equator Principles for large project loans require the loans to meet the social and environmental cri- teria set by the International Finance Corporation (IFC). ASN Bank has adopted the Equator Principles,  which reaffirms our policy to provide loans only to projects that are developed in a socially responsible  manner and are in line with the requirements for sound sustainability policies. In addition to our own  sustainability criteria, we apply the Equator Principles to all the projects we finance whose total value  exceeds $ 10 million (we apply a limit of  8 million). The Equator Principles distinguish three project  categories, ranging from a high possible adverse effect on the environment and human rights (category  A) to a low effect (C). As we apply our own sustainability criteria, we do not finance any projects from  category A. We did finance three projects in category B and six in category C.  The table below shows how many projects from each category we assessed and approved in 2011. Project category Assessed Approved A 0 0 B 3 3 C 6 6 Finance through ASN Groenprojectenfonds  ASN Groenprojectenfonds provides loans in the  fields of sustainable construction and renewable  energy, e.g. energy generated by wind turbines and  decentralised energy supplies (thermal storage,  cogeneration and solar energy). We have acquired  considerable expertise in these fields, particularly in  respect of thermal storage.  In 2011, ASN Groenprojectenfonds could lend sig- nificantly less than in 2010. Resources decreased as  investors withdrew  40 million from the fund on the  back of a reduction of the tax benefit and – in part as  a result – of the net return. Moreover, ASN Groen- projectenfonds had to maintain more liquidity than  usual. In order to somewhat compensate the tax  benefit reduction for investors, we raised the rates  for loans provided by ASN Groenprojectenfonds.  Sustainable projects must now pay higher interest  rates. Especially housing corporations suffered from a  lack of funds, as they had just submitted sustaina- ble renovation and construction plans on a larger  scale. Although NL Agency issued green certificates  for their plans, the corporations were unable to  obtain the favourable loans they had been hoping  for. According to the umbrella organisation AEDES,  housing corporations had to adjust their ambitions  as fewer green loans were available at all the green  banks and funds. The Dutch Banking Association (NVB) urged politici- ans until late 2011 not to phase out the tax credit in  full, but to no avail. We did not take part in this lob- by. According to the NVB, maintaining the tax credit  should be combined with a limitation of the total  amount that may be extended with a tax exemption.  This limitation could affect the size of the invest- ments of our other tax-based fund, the ASN-Novib  Microcredit Fund. This is unacceptable to us because  the objective of the ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund –  to provide microcredit to small business owners in  developing countries – is more important than main- taining a tax exemption for high-net-worth investors  in the Netherlands. ASN Bank is represented at the Green Funds Council  [Beraad Groenfondsen], which explicitly continues  to be a discussion partner of the government. The  Council urged the government to carefully monitor  the impact of phasing out the tax credit. In order  to support the Green Project Regulations, we are  also member of the Renewable Energy Organisation  [Duurzame Energie Koepel]. We have joined these  bodies to establish the highest level of harmonisa- tion between the government and interested parties  in the area of renewable energy.  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 42 ASN Groenprojectenfonds loans: renewable energy  TexelEnergie TexelEnergies objective is to provide the entire  island of Texel with renewable energy, genera- ted from local energy sources to the greatest  extent possible. The revenues earned by this  local energy supplier go to the Texel economy.  TexelEnergie has been granted a subsidy under  the Sustainable Energy Production Stimulation  (SDE) Scheme to place solar panels with a total  capacity of 175 kilowatts-peak onto four com- pany roofs. For the purposes of this solar energy  project, TexelEnergie created a wholly-owned  subsidiary, TEzon B.V. In 2011, TEzon received a loan of more than  400,000 to finance the four solar  energy systems.  ASN Groenprojectenfonds loans: sustainable construction  Spoolderwerk In the spring of 2011, ASN Groenprojectenfonds invested in the thermal storage system of the Spool- derwerk office building in Zwolle. Belgian energy supplier Electrabel will lease this building as its new  head office. The complex comprises two towers of thirteen and nineteen floors. The design focuses  especially on energy efficiency and sustainability. Voorst Energie B.V. will install the thermal storage  system with a loan of nearly  1.1 million from ASN Groenprojectenfonds.  Villa Flora Along the A73 motorway near Venlo, Villa Flora was created as part of the world horticultural expo  Floriade 2012. ASN Bank finances the construction of Villa Flora for  8.15 million. The building was  designed according to the cradle-to-cradle concept. The construction materials are environmentally  friendly, the energy is renewable and the water in the building is reused. The building will be entirely  self-supporting in its energy consumption, including thermal storage for comfortable ambient tempe- ratures in all seasons. Electricity will be generated from the organic waste that is collected. In addition,  Villa Flora will serve as a test lab for recent technological breakthroughs that may accelerate sustaina- ble construction developments, such as the low-temperature technology and the breathing window. Yellow Step Solar In June 2011, ASN Groenprojectenfonds issued a loan in excess of  1 million to Yellow Step Solar (YSS).  YSS used this loan to install 39 solar energy systems at 27 primary schools in Amsterdam. YSS is a joint  venture of Greenchoice, the largest green energy supplier in the Netherlands, and solar energy produ- cer International Solar. YSS responds to the interest of provinces, municipalities, housing corporations  and other parties in placing solar energy systems on buildings. However, it is as yet not possible to do  so in a profitable way without support in the form of subsidies. Yellow Step Solar provides investment  capital and expertise to roof owners and installers who have been granted subsidies in order to help  them execute the projects. The 39 solar energy installations in Amsterdam are owned by the special pur- pose vehicle YSS Projects 1 VOF, which has been set up especially for this purpose. The comprehensive  schools will obtain the ownership for no consideration after fifteen years.  43 6.2  Government bonds Government bonds are loans extended to countries  governments, which often require capital. Issuing  government bonds allows them to obtain capital  quickly. They repay these loans with taxpayers  money.  Governments play an important role in a societys  sustainability. They provide basic facilities such as  housing, education and healthcare and rules to sti- mulate renewable energy, for example. Investments  in government bonds are in line with our policy as, in  our view, governments are vital to the functioning of  a just, sustainable society. On top of that, govern- ment bonds are readily marketable and the invest- ment risk is relatively modest – although the euro  crisis recently demonstrated that the risk is higher  than had been assumed for a long time. The Dutch  Central Bank requires all banks to maintain part of  their assets in readily marketable investments such  as government bonds. As we do not want to run any currency risks on our  government bond investments, only government  bonds denominated in euros are eligible for in- clusion in our investment universe. We assess the  countries that issue these bonds on the basis of hu- man rights and environmental criteria. A number of  countries are excluded automatically, as we do not  invest in government bonds of countries that violate  human rights, such as China and the United States.  After all, these countries impose death sentences.  We measure the performance of the remaining  countries in the areas of the environment and human  rights on the basis of the indicators listed below. In  that regard, we rate a country higher as the outco- mes of the various indicators are closer together. A  country with a disparate spread across the indicators  is given a lower rating.  ASN indicators to measure the performance of countries Topic Indicator Human rights Child labour Risk of the occurrence of child labour  Trade union freedom Risk of low trade union freedom Forced labour Risk of the occurrence of forced labour Discrimination Risk of discrimination Defence expenditure Share of defence in a countrys budget  Corruption Risk of corruption Distribution of income Difference between highest and lowest incomes Freedom Freedom of the press  Development contribution  Share of development funds in GNP Environment Climate change Per capita emission of greenhouse gases Share of renewable energy Hydropower and renewable energy as a percentage of total  electricity generated  Nuclear energy Per capita consumption or production  Water pollution Phosphate and nitrate emissions to water Air pollution Per capita emission of sulphur oxides  Waste processing Paper and glass recycling Nature conservation Share of nature reserves in total nature The ASN Bank Government Bonds Issue Paper, avai- lable at www.asnbank.nl, includes an explanation of  these indicators. The countries of which ASN Bank  owned government bonds as at 31 December 2011  are stated in Appendix 1. We will update the ASN  Bank Government Bonds Issue Paper in 2012.  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 44 6.3   Other fixed-income invest- ments We invest not only in government bonds, but also in  fixed-income securities of parties including:  Local and regional governments    Just like national governments, they play an  important role in a societys functioning. If we  have approved a countrys government bonds  based on the criteria laid down in the ASN Bank  Government Bonds Issue Paper, the local govern- ments have also automatically been approved. In  this category, we invest mainly in bonds of Dutch  municipalities and provinces.  Water boards    In the Netherlands, water management is very  important indeed. Water plays a key role in the  development of our living environment, for  example with regard to housing, working, nature  conservation and leisure. As far as the environ- ment is concerned, since 2007 a number of water  boards have been intensifying their activities  in the areas of climate change, water quality,  nature conservation and biodiversity, and expor- ting knowledge to Third World countries. As the  water boards activities are highly harmonised,  we assess the sector as a whole in terms of hu- man rights and the environment.  Health and old-age care    We consider good healthcare to be an essen- tial element of a just society. It is a key human  right to which we wish to contribute with our  investments. Healthcare institutions play a major  social role as they provide healthcare with due  attention to quality and safety for patients and  staff. We verify whether the organisation of the  healthcare institutions is such that they contri- bute to good healthcare, now and in the future. 	 Housing	corporations    Housing corporations have a social objective:  they provide good, affordable housing, speci- fically for low-income households. They incre- asingly add environmental goals to this social  objective, which makes them eligible for invest- ment by ASN Bank.  6.4  Mortgages When investing in banks and insurers, we are  confronted with the fact that they are usually not  transparent about their loans and investments. We  do not know to whom they extend loans and for  what purposes. They may include sectors in which  we definitely do not want to invest. That is why we  do not invest in banks and insurance companies.  However, there are a few exceptions. Especially  the loan portfolios of banks and insurers can be an  investment option, as details are available regarding  the investments included in these portfolios, for  example mortgages, student loans, loans to semi- public institutions and microcredit. In that regard,  we verify whether the bank or insurer that issues the  loan portfolios, as well as the loan portfolios them- selves, satisfy our sustainability criteria.  Although ASN Bank does not sell individual mortga- ges, such loan portfolios give us the opportunity to  invest in mortgages after all. Mortgage investment  is in line with our sustainability vision, because the  right to a home is one of the human rights. Good,  affordable, energy-efficient homes are necessary  in the sustainable society of the future as well. If  mortgages meet the criteria as laid down in the ASN  Bank Banks and Insurers Issue Paper, they may be  approved for investment. These are mortgages that  have the features of mortgages extended under the  National Mortgage Guarantee Scheme (NHG mort- gages), i.e. loans to average-income households  that need a little support to be able to buy their own  homes. ASN Bank recognises the current problems in the  Dutch housing market. In part as a result of the  mortgage interest tax relief, the prices of homes are  higher in the Netherlands than in surrounding coun- tries. This and other factors have made it difficult  for first-time buyers to buy a home. We recognise  the necessity to critically review the Dutch housing  market in all its facets, based on the principle that  everyone has a fair chance of a comfortable home.    45 7.  Sustainable investment in   practice  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 One of the foundations of trust, transparency, is a key theme at ASN Bank. Our custo- mers know where we have invested their money, because we think it speaks for itself  that we are completely open in this respect. The financial crisis demonstrated once again  how important it is that banks clearly show how they invest their money.  ASN Banks Sustainability & Research Department Photograph: Lennaert Ruinen  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 46 We can only be fully transparent if the companies  and countries we invest in also provide full insight  into their affairs. Only then can we establish how  countries and companies deal with their citizens  and employees, nature and the climate. In respect  of companies, we are convinced that the future lies  with companies that invest in, for example, proper  working conditions and solutions to the climate  change issue. We select them on the basis of our  sustainability policy. 7.1  Sustainability criteria Our sustainability policy is laid down in the ASN  Bank Issue Papers, which formulate the sustaina- bility criteria we use to select investments. These  criteria apply to all loans extended by ASN Bank (see  Chapter 6). ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V.  (ABB, the manager of the ASN Investment Funds)  and ASN Asset Management have adopted these  special investment criteria in full as the basis for  their investment policies. Companies, government bonds and institutions that  meet our sustainability criteria have been included  in the ASN Investment Universe. When structuring  their portfolios, the managers of the ASN Invest- ment Funds, the ASN Bank savings and ASN Asset  Management make a selection from this list of  approved companies and institutions. It depends on  the financial performance of a company or institu- tion whether it is indeed selected. In the aggregate,  303 listed companies satisfied the sustainability  criteria at the end of 2011.  We implement the concept of sustainable investing  at ASN Bank and the ASN Investment Funds using  three tools:    the sustainability criteria laid down in the ASN  Bank Issue Papers when selecting investments;    engagement, or the dialogue with the companies  or institutions in which we invest;    exercising the voting rights associated with  equity investments.  Each of these activities is performed according to a  standard procedure, ultimately leading to a specific  result, i.e. approval or rejection of a company, bond  or institution, the casting of a vote at a meeting of  shareholders, or completion of engagement with a  company. We will explain these procedures below. Into our own hands Until 2011, we largely outsourced the assessments  of the sustainability of countries and companies to  SNS Asset Management. As from January 2011, the  Sustainability & Research Department performs all  assessments in-house. To that end, the department  was expanded from two to six employees. They are  responsible for sustainability policy formulation,  the assessments, the dialogue with companies and  the execution of the voting policy. In addition, the  department takes part in social debates about sus- tainability issues on behalf of ASN Bank (see the box  about cluster munitions in Chapter 4).  7.2  Selection The selection process is one of the key procedu- res that we use to implement ASN Banks mission  for our customers. Our sustainability is, first and  foremost, expressed in the selection of investments  on the basis of criteria in the areas of human rights,  climate change and biodiversity. Accordingly, it is  key that we can be certain that the selection occurs  in accordance with our sustainability criteria.  The selection of sustainable investments is a  complicated and thorough process that takes place  according to a standard procedure. We continuously  verify whether investments meet our investment  criteria. In that process, we use information from  the company itself, as well as information provided  by specialised research institutes, the media, NGOs  such as Amnesty International, and trade unions. We  discuss the assessments in the ASN Selection Com- mittee after completion. The Committee consists of  the Management Board of ASN Bank, the Managing  Director of ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer  B.V. and the Head of Sustainability & Research.  The Committee is advised by the Sustainability &  Research Department. It met six times in 2011. The  ASN Selection Committee is the only body that has  the power to approve or reject an investment for  the investment universe. If the Committee decides  positively on an investment in a company, govern- ment or institution, we include it in our universe. All  companies and countries in the universe are revie- wed based on the criteria and discussed within three  years. If new information shows that the review  should be performed earlier, we will do so.   47 Carbon emissions When you invest in a company, you also invest in its carbon emissions – or reduction. The investments  of the ASN Investment Funds are selected on the basis of our sustainability criteria for human rights and  the environment. We measure our climate policy effectiveness by calculating the carbon emissions of  our equity funds. To do so, we have engaged Trucost, an English research organisation specialising in  determining the impact that business operations have on the environment. In 2012, we will improve the  methods, for example by removing the impact of inflation. In 2011, on balance carbon emissions of ASN Duurzaam Aandelenfonds, ASN Milieu & Waterfonds  and ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds were reduced. In the first half of the year, emissions of ASN  Duurzaam Aandelenfonds in particular were rising. We anticipated an economic upturn at the time,  which is why we invested relatively much in cyclical companies such as DSM, Umicore and Stora Enso.  Such companies tend to place a heavier burden on the climate than non-cyclical companies. In August  we started to substantially reduce our stakes in such companies, which significantly lowered the funds  carbon emissions. We are glad to see that the carbon emissions of the MSCI All World Index, which  represents companies worldwide, have likewise decreased. Unfortunately, that is certainly not enough  – it is important that the emissions of all companies are reduced to a considerable extent.  CO2 emission in tonnes per million euros Fund % above the  MSCI* Improve- ment from  2010 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 ASN Duurzaam   Aandelenfonds  68.9% 25.7% 142 191 213 239 293 ASN Duurzaam Small &   Midcapfonds  45.8% 24.2% 247 326 343 403 473 ASN Milieu & Waterfonds  30.3% 6.5% 318 340 338 344 639 Consolidated 54.8% 17.6% 206 250 261 277 392 MSCI All World Index*  - 10.8% 456 511 515 555 491 * MSCI All World Index is the benchmark  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 48 The ASN Investment Universe: always in flux Admitted in 2011: Wolters Kluwer Wolters Kluwer is a Dutch online publishing company. It also provides information to professionals in a  variety of areas, including law, finance and accountancy. Wolters Kluwer has a solid human rights policy,  in which it explicitly refers to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and various ILO (International  Labour Organization) guidelines. The company visits other businesses to verify whether its suppliers  also abide by those rules. In order to reduce its paper consumption, Wolters Kluwer digitises as many  products as possible. The products that are still published in hard copy are largely made from sustaina- ble paper: 98% of the books and all of the journals and magazines.  Removed in 2011: Whole Foods Market  US supermarket chain Whole Foods Market specialises in natural and organic food, household products  and personal care products. The company uses its own criteria with regard to the sustainability of its  natural food products. On account of its focus on natural and organic food, Whole Foods Market is an  example of sustainable operations. However, it does not take trade union freedom as a fundamental  employment right seriously. This right is often violated in the United States in particular. We contac- ted Whole Foods Market about this matter. The company indicated that it has no intention to change  anything in that regard. That is sufficient reason for us to remove the company from the investment  universe. 7.3  Engagement We regularly contact the companies and institutions  that we or our funds invest in, with a question or a  request. We do this in order to make them increa- singly aware of their performance in the areas of  human rights, climate change and biodiversity and  to improve this performance. We avail ourselves of  this engagement in the following cases:  1.  With small and medium-sized European compa- nies in which ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcap- fonds invests. If they do not yet fully meet our  criteria, we encourage them to pursue a business  strategy of maximum sustainability. If a company  fails to show any improvements within two years,  it is removed from the universe.  2.   If a company in the investment universe possibly  no longer meets our investment criteria. Such a  suspicion may arise from the three-yearly review  or from new information. We will ask the com- pany specific questions in that regard or request  it to adjust its policy or improve the implementa- tion of its policy. Depending on the answers we  receive, we will contact the company again. If the  desired response is not obtained, the ASN Selec- tion Committee decides whether the company  should be removed from the universe.  3.  By way of encouragement. Companies, instituti- ons and projects appreciate it greatly if they are  selected for our universe. This is why we inform  them of their admission where possible. If we  regularly contact the companies and institutions  we invest in, they will understand more clearly  what we expect of them in the fields of human  rights, climate change and biodiversity perfor- mance.  In 2011, we conducted a dialogue with:   19 companies from the ASN Duurzaam Aandelen- fonds universe;   77 companies from the ASN Duurzaam Small &  Midcapfonds universe;    4 companies from the ASN Milieu & Waterfonds  universe.  ASN Duurzaam Small & Midcapfonds mainly involves  companies that do not yet perform adequately on all  sustainability criteria. For that reason, their admissi- on to the universe is tentative. By actively engaging  them in dialogue, we steer them towards impro- vement. When they fail to show any improvement  within two years, we remove the company from the  funds universe.   49 7.4  Voting The ASN Investment Funds are entitled to vote at  shareholders meetings of the companies in which  they invest, which enables them to influence the  policies and management of those companies. The  funds cast their votes according to the mission and  sustainability criteria of ASN Bank and ASN Be- leggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. In recent years,  we have been exercising our voting rights in an  increasing number of companies. In 2011 we voted  according to this sustainable voting policy at 207  shareholders meetings worldwide.  Principles for Responsible Investment In 2010, we signed the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). These principles  were introduced in 2006 as a set of voluntary best practice standards for wealthy individuals and asset  managers who want to consider the environment, society and good governance in their investment  procedures. The PRI provide investors with a platform to jointly engage with companies, giving them  more power to make a difference. They can also jointly submit agenda items, or shareholder resolutions,  to shareholders meetings. The PRI organisation has submitted many agenda items, mainly on issues  concerning climate change and human rights. The PRI members are committed to providing insight into  their engagement with companies and their voting conduct.  Voting for a sustainable world Here are a few examples of the votes we cast at shareholders meetings in 2011: Recycling at Starbucks In the United States, it is quite common for shareholders to submit their own agenda proposals. More  than half of the time, those proposals concern matters such as climate change and human rights. One  shareholder at Starbucks, for example, submitted a proposal for much more ambitious goals with regard  to recycling plastic, glass, paper and cans. Although the Starbucks management recommended voting  against this proposal, we voted in favour of it on 23 March 2011.  Nike, British Telecom and KPN We only vote in favour of fees and bonuses if they are linked to sustainability results, and not only to  the financial results. Companies can do so, for example, by making a directors bonus dependent on a  reduction of the number of accidents or the achievement of climate change targets. In 2011, we voted  according to this principle at companies including Nike, British Telecom and KPN. Purchase of company shares  If a company has a surplus of cash, it can use that money to repurchase its own shares. As fewer shares  remain, the value of the other shares increases. That is a gift to the companys existing shareholders.  However, we believe that this money could be put to better use: to increase the companys sustainabi- lity. That is why we always vote against a repurchase of the companys own shares.  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 50 Sustainable dilemmas in 2011 Trade union rights in the United States In the area of trade union rights, we follow the ILO, the International Labour Organization. This creates  a dilemma for us with regard to investments in the United States, as this country did not sign all of the  ILO Conventions. US companies are often unsympathetic to trade unions. Some US companies even  lobby in countries like China to ease labour standards. This negative attitude towards trade unions is  a common phenomenon among US companies. Should we take account of US societys acceptance of  such viewpoints? Or should we stick to the ILO principles? That would mean that many US companies  are ruled out as investment options. We choose to abide by the ILO Conventions. We therefore engage  sustainable US companies in dialogue about their policies regarding trade union rights.  Onshore wind farms  One of the ways in which ASN Bank executes its sustainability mission is to invest in wind farms. But  should we also finance large-scale onshore wind farms? After all, local residents often object to their  construction. This is relevant as our choice for a particular investment also depends on the degree to  which the local populations interests are taken into account. In our assessments, we not only comply  with laws and regulations, but also consider whether we find them sufficient. We therefore weigh both  interests – the necessity to switch to clean energy and the desire of local residents to keep their living  environment intact.  Animal welfare For a long time, we maintained the following viewpoint in respect of animal testing: it is only allowed to  test medical products, and then only under proper, controlled conditions. But what are medical pro- ducts? There is often no clear distinction between medical products and personal care products. Zinc  ointment, for example, cures damaged skin but is freely available. On top of that, the law only allows  the introduction of chemical products to the market if they have been extensively tested. The same  applies to paint, for example. Paint is important in sustainable construction as it contributes to the life  span of buildings, but the substances in the paint may have been tested on animals because of statutory  requirements.  Climate change Global warming is upon us. Chances that the temperature increase will be less than 2 degrees Celsius are  falling. Considerable investments are necessary to absorb climate change effects. Does this mean that  ASN Bank will invest not only in renewable energy, but also in raising the dikes, for example? After all,  that could be regarded as an acceptance of climate change as something unavoidable – and therefore as  an acceptance on our side of higher carbon emissions.    7.5  Sustainable dilemmas ASN Bank regularly faces dilemmas in its sustaina- bility policy, because the choice for sustainability  or ethics is not always an unequivocal one. Do we  invest in a wind turbine manufacturer without a  human rights policy? How do we act if a company is  accused of corruption that is not proven? By formu- lating our sustainability policy as clearly as possible,  we attempt to obviate such dilemmas. For example,  we lay down in the policy that we do not invest in  nuclear energy on account of the safety hazards and  the resulting waste. Accordingly, we assign more  weight to safety and the waste problem than to the  contribution that nuclear energy can make towards  reducing the greenhouse effect. That is a clear  choice in this dilemma. However, policy can never  solve all dilemmas. If a specific dilemma so requires,  we will look for an answer that is in line with our  mission and our customers wishes. We do so on the  basis of our own research, consulting our stakehol- ders as well as specialists.   51 8.  Sustainable operations  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 In our office in The Hague we have over one hundred people working with a passion to  achieve a sustainable, liveable world. We are also faithful to our mission as an office  organisation, which drives us to improve our direct sustainability performance in many  ways. Since energy and paper consumption account for by far most of the burden on the  environment, we will discuss these aspects in more detail in this chapter.  Students of the agricultural college in Oaxaca, Mexico,  study the growth of coffee plants.  Photograph: ric St. Pierre/www.ericstpierre.ca  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 52 8.1  The environment In 2011 we continued working on the main environ- mental effects of the ASN Bank office, which are  paper consumption and the emission of the green- house gas CO2. Because of their volume, they con- tinue to be a spearhead in 2012 as well. In the past  we shared our building with third parties, but we  have occupied the entire building since early 2008.  This growth of ASN Bank resulted in higher absolute  energy, gas and water consumption figures.  2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 CO2 emissions1 CO2 emissions: tonnes 140 143 141 144 114 CO2 emissions: tonnes per FTE2 1.62 1.75 1.82 2.22 1.98 Energy consumption Electricity: kWh 198,126 181,101 199,744 180,711 139,051 Electricity: kWh per FTE 2,290 2,217 2,584 2,782 2,421 Gas: m3 gas  27,053 29,434 24,167 26,743 19,760 Gas: m3 per m2 13 15 12 13 13 Paper consumption Paper consumption in kilograms 249,766 258,919 211,103 214,538 179,113 Kg of paper consumption per client   account 0.33 0.36 0.35 0.36 0.37 Water consumption Water consumption: m3 677 637 604 585 458 Water consumption: m3 per FTE 7.8 7.8 7.8 9.0 8.0 Waste Paper waste: tonnes 13.0 14.8 17.7 18.4 15.4 1  This figure comprises all transport (commuting and business mileage) and heating of ASN Bank, excluding   ASN Asset Management. The latter is responsible for 16.6 tonnes of CO2 emissions (commuting and business  mileage). 2 FTE (full-time equivalent): converted to the number of full-time staff. CO2 emissions Our office activities lead to carbon emissions as we  use fossil fuels for transporting employees, use gas  for heating, and consume electricity. We are redu- cing the net emission levels of greenhouse gases in  various ways. Firstly, all our electricity is generated  in sustainable ways. Secondly, we are continuously  working on a reduction of energy consumption,  both in the office and in the transport of employees.  For example, the stricter environmental guidelines  adopted in 2008 resulted in lower carbon emissions  levels in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Effective 2011, we  have again tightened the criteria of our lease cars.  Our restrained use of airlines also translates into a  reduction of carbon emissions per FTE. We do not aim to offset our remaining carbon emis- sions in the usual way (purchasing carbon certifi- cates), but by supporting projects with a broader  purpose. In 2012, we will search for a project that  meets this requirement. We will therefore reserve  the compensation for 2011 (140 tonnes of CO2) and  offset it, along with the CO2 emissions for 2012, in  2013.  Reduction of paper consumption It takes a lot of paper to inform all of ASN Banks  customers (over half a million) through, for example,  bank statements, letters and our customer maga- zine. Our strategy is to reduce paper and envelope  consumption in part by further developing as an  Internet bank. The target for 2011 was to keep the  paper consumption at the same level as 2009 or to  reduce it. Ultimately, paper consumption per client  account dropped by 5.7% compared to 2009 and  8.1% compared to our reference year 2006. Absolu- te paper consumption fell sharply compared to 2010   53 in spite of the strong growth of our customer base.  Measures like a reduction of the number of bank  statements contributed to this achievement.  We do not believe that we will be able to achieve  any further substantial paper reduction, because we  meet the request of customers who prefer to receive  information in writing. Still, we continue to aim for  a long-term reduction of paper consumption, for  example by offering our magazine Ideaal in electro- nic form to customers who wish to avail themselves  of this option. Other measures The third important way to accomplish our mission  at the office is our purchasing policy. We assess all  suppliers in terms of our supplier policy. The social  and environmental impact of the hundreds of pro- ducts we purchase are highly varied, which is why we  divided all products into three categories.  Category Comprises Policy A:  high priority Products that we purchase in large  quantities, such as bank cards We examine these products  ourselves in order to determine  whether they meet our criteria B:  average priority Products that have a large  purchasing volume, such as IT  services Endorsing the SNS REAAL sustai- nability declaration C:  low priority Products that represent low vo- lume, low value or low risk Compliance with SNS REAALs  sustainability policy 8.2  Business accommodation ASN Bank has experienced tremendous growth in  the past few years, also in terms of its workforce.  Our current building no longer provides sufficient  room to everyone. In 2012, we will therefore move  into a new office at Bezuidenhoutseweg 153, a  1970s office building that has been unoccupied  for some time. It is in line with our sustainability  vision to choose an existing building for our new  office, which consequently will not remain vacant  but is given a new, sustainable purpose. This way,  we contribute to a reduction of the number of voids  among older offices and maintenance of undevelo- ped space. In 2011, the building was renovated and  made more sustainable within reasonable financial  frameworks. It will obtain an energy rating A or B,  depending on technical possibilities and the Muni- cipal Executives decision on whether it will grant a  permit to install a thermal storage system. We will  also create an enjoyable working environment for  our staff, who are closely involved in the design of  our office.  8.3  Human resources ASN Banks human resources policy is grafted onto  that of SNS REAAL. The SNS REAAL Collective  Labour Agreement, which contains good primary  and secondary benefits that comply with the market  standard, also apply to our bank.  Objectives, competencies and development The human resources policy is based on mature  labour relations: on principles of mutual responsi- bility, equality and due care. This is expressed, for  example, in the performance and competency as- sessment cycle. Supervisors use the annual planning  meeting to provide specific targets for their employ- ees that reflect their expectations of the employees  for the year ahead. They also focus on the develop- ment of competencies in view of the employees  current position and ambitions for the future. In 2011, we initiated an assessment of the job  grading applied at ASN Bank. All positions will be  regraded, in part in view of our banks larger size.  We will finalise this process in 2012. In 2010, SNS REAAL introduced a new core value:  CARE! The CARE! values are in close harmony with  the way in which we execute ASN Banks sustaina- bility mission and the services to our customers. We  have included these values in our performance and  competency assessment cycle. Furthermore, ASN  Bank has a business-specific competency: coope- ration. We can deliver better performance if we  cooperate, both within departments and between  the banks various departments.  The personal development plan (PDP) is an im- portant tool that empowers employees to control   ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 54 their own development. The PDP lays down in what  direction an employee wants to improve and con- tains arrangements about the way in which he or she  Representation  Since the works council elections of May 2010, the  SNS REAAL works council also represents the ASN  Bank employees. Two members of the works council  have ASN Bank as their area of attention.  Workforce developments  The number of staff rose by 18% to 107, in part as a  result of an increase in workload at ASN Customer  ASN Squirrel Team walks for refugees CARE! dovetails well with the enthu- siasm and commitment displayed by  our staff as they fight for a sustaina- ble world. Ten ASN employees and  sympathisers walked forty kilometres  in the Night of the Refugee on 19  June. The walk started on the Erasmus  Bridge in Rotterdam and ended in   The Hague at Humanity House, a  museum that lets visitors experience  what it is like to be a refugee. The  ASN Squirrel Team raised approxi- mately  1,800 for Stichting Vluchte- ling. The amount raised by all teams  together,  136,671, was donated to  backpack doctors in Burma. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of new staff 22 7 16 18 13 Leavers 6 5 4 6 5 Absenteeism (in %) 3.2% 2.9% 4.2% 2.6% 2.8% Part-time staff (in %) 39.3% 39.6% 38.2% 37.7% 30.8% Workplace health and safety costs (in euros) 25,530 27,316 20,116 19,100 17,760 Training costs (in euros) 68,208 87,592 54,519 73,800 42,600 can reach that goal. We make internal and external  training available for the further development of our  employees. Service. The Marketing & Communication, Sustai- nable Loans, Sustainability & Research and Capital  Management Departments also expanded their staff  numbers.  Absenteeism was low in 2011: 3.2%. Absenteeism  meetings and, where necessary, proper support  from the occupational physician take centre stage in  our sick leave policy.  55 Composition of personnel (age) Composition of personnel (gender) 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 30-39 Number 20-29 50+ 40-49 7% 32% 42% 19% 5% 37% 44% 14% 10% 36% 38% 16% 11% 30% 41% 18% 12% 31% 38% 19% 14% 29% 39% 18% 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 Female Number Male 37% 63% 40% 60% 35% 65% 38% 62% 34% 66% 32% 68% Employee satisfaction SNS REAAL conducts an employee survey every  year. In 2011, the satisfaction of ASN Bank employ- ees was 8.2, down from the high figure for 2010  (8.6). Accordingly, ASN Bank achieved the Manage- ment Boards permanent target, i.e. a score of at  least 8 out of 10. The employees are proud to be  working at ASN Bank and enjoy their work. That is  also demonstrated by the high score we achieved in  the 2011 Best Employer Awards. We reached second  place in the category of companies employing fewer  than one thousand staff.  The management team and the employees have  discussed the results of the survey. The 2010 survey  had revealed that improvements could be made in  respect of internal communications. We devoted  extra attention to this issue in 2011.     ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 56  57 9.  Financial results  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Fair trade rice, Thailand. Photograph: ric St. Pierre/www.ericstpierre.ca  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 58 9.1  Balance sheet In thousands of euros before profit distribution 31-12-2011 31-12-2010 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 140 36,987 Loans and advances to banks 4,985,440 3,576,283 Loans and advances to customers 1,962,296 1,639,755 Derivatives 28,265 12,618 Investments 2,775,242 3,166,359 Tangible fixed assets 8,785 6,565 Intangible fixed assets 525 525 Deferred tax assets 5,376 21,010 Other assets 122,323 82,191 Total assets 9,888,392 8,542,293 Liabilities Funds entrusted 8,969,059 7,991,567 Other amounts due to customers 25,608 27,874 Derivatives 67,123 42,486 Deferred tax liabilities 14,365 271 Other liabilities 570,047 377,209 Share capital 11,350 11,350 Other reserves 179,755 48,432 Profit for the year 51,063 43,098 Minority interests 22 6 Equity 242,190 102,886 Total liabilities 9,888,392 8,542,293    59 9.2  Income statement In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Income Interest income 311,304 281,196 Interest expenses 222,985 198,227 Net interest margin 88,319 82,969 Commission and management fees 19,046 17,829 Commission and management fees due 7,994 9,801 Net commission and management fees 11,052 8,028 Result on investments 2,361 -6,536   Total income 101,732 84,461 Expenditure Impairments 97 24 Staff costs 9,350 8,190 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 121 121 Other operating expenses 24,116 18,345 Total expenditure 33,684 26,680   Profit before tax 68,048 57,781 Tax 17,067 14,824 Net profit 50,981 42,957 Minority interests -82 141 Net profit attributable to shareholders 51,063 43,098    ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 60 9.3  Cash flow statement In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Cash flow from operating activities Net profit for the period 51,063 43,098 Adjusted for: Depreciation and amortisation of fixed assets 121 121 Changes in deferred taxes 29,728 -25,986 Cash flow from operating activities 80,912 17,233 Changes in loans and advances to customers -324,807 -40,647 Changes in loans and advances to banks -1,409,157 -1,828,095 Changes in funds entrusted 977,492 1,645,538 Revaluations and exchange rate differences in investments -79,527 80,033 Changes in other operating activities 249,921 31,846 Net cash flow from operating activities -586,078 -111,325 Cash flow from investing activities Purchase of investments 3,356,028 873,207 Purchase of investments and derivatives -2,885,384 -836,664 Purchase of intangible fixed assets - -525 Purchase of tangible fixed assets -2,341 -6,324 Net cash flow from investing activities 468,303 29,694 Cash flow from financing activities Dividend paid - - Share premium paid in by holding company - 100,000 Minority interests 16 6 Net cash flow from financing activities 16 100,006 Cash and cash equivalents on 1 January 36,987 1,380  Net increase of cash and cash equivalents -36,847 35,607 Cash and cash equivalents on 31 December 140 36,987    61 9.4  Notes to the annual figures General Since 5 January 1998, ASN Bank N.V. has been a  wholly-owned subsidiary of SNS Bank N.V., whose  financial statements are filed with the Trade Regis- ter in s-Hertogenbosch. The companys figures have been incorporated in  the consolidated financial statements of SNS Bank  N.V. Based on a guarantee issued by SNS Bank N.V.  in accordance with Book 2, Section 403 of the Dutch  Civil Code, the company financial statements of   ASN Bank N.V. have not been audited. Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts are stated  in thousands of euros. Valuation principles Investments All investments are stated at their market value. The  market value of private loans and mortgages is equal  to their amortised cost. Bonds are stated at their fair  value. Any gains and losses ensuing from changes  in their fair value are accounted for in shareholders  equity if unrealised, and as part of the result on  investments in the income statement if sold. Fixed assets This item only consists of business equipment and  real estate, which are stated at their historical cost  less straight-line depreciation based on their esti- mated useful life. Real estate under construction is  not depreciated during the renovation period. Provisions The provision for deferred tax liabilities pertains  to taxes that are due and payable in the future in  connection with taxable temporary discrepancies.  These deferred taxes are stated at face value. Income and expenditure Income and expenditure are allocated to the period  to which they relate. Losses are accounted for when  they become known, while income is only accounted  for when realised. Tax Corporate tax is levied on taxable profits. ASN Bank  N.V. and its subsidiaries ASN Beleggingsinstellingen  Beheer B.V. and ASN Groenbank B.V. constitute  part of the SNS Bank N.V. tax unit and pay the rele- vant corporate tax thus calculated each year. Cash flow The cash flow statement outlines the changes af- fecting the funds held by ASN Bank, broken down by  operations, investments and lending. These funds  consist of cash and cash equivalents. The cash flow  statement has been prepared using the indirect  method. Financial instruments Interest rate risk The company is exposed to interest rate risks. The  interest rate risk on our investments in government  bonds is partly hedged through fair value hedge  accounting (see Chapter 10 for more information).  The other interest rate risk is hedged for SNS Bank  as a whole. Credit risk Disregarding any security obtained, the maximum  credit risks involved in the financial assets on the  balance sheet date consist of the nominal value of  the debtors accounted for in the balance sheet.  Given the nature and term of the debtors and/or the  security that has been obtained, these credit risks  are limited. There are no major concentrations of  credit risks. Currency risks There were no assets stated in a foreign currency as  at the balance sheet date. Consequently, there are  no currency risks.    ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 62 9.5  Notes to the balance sheet Investments In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Loans and advances to banks 4,985,440 3,576,283 Loans and advances to customers 1,962,296 1,639,755 Investments  2,775,242 3,166,359 Total investments 9,722,978 8,382,397 ASN Bank uses the funds entrusted to it for invest- ments and loans to banks and customers, which are  divided into the following categories:  In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Government bonds 2,596,614 2,881,800 Municipal and provincial councils 578,964 639,130 Banks 797,278 537,803 Residential construction 331,100 158,356 Health and old-age care 422,470 340,227 Education, culture and leisure 22,793 25,426 Water boards and power companies 339,853 292,324 Renewable energy 188,775 111,681 Mortgages 4,392,891 3,262,273 Shares 650 485 Other  51,596 132,897 Total investments 9,722,984 8,382,402 Provision for impairments -6 -5 Total 9,722,978 8,382,397 See Appendix 3 for a breakdown of investments and loans. Movements in loans and advances to banks In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 3,576,283 1,748,188 Investments 1,200,000 1,600,000 Disposals/redemptions - -1,263 Amortisation - - Other 209,157 229,358 Balance as at 31 December 4,985,440 3,576,283  63 Movements in loans and advances to customers In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 1,639,755 1,582,819 Investments 466,803 141,286 Disposals/redemptions -142,609 -84,685 Amortisation 268 251 Other -1,921 84 Balance as at 31 December 1,962,296 1,639,755 Investments Investment listings In thousands of euros Shares Fixed income   investments Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Listed - - 2,766,201 3,158,070 2,766,201 3,158,070 Unlisted 9,041 8,289 - - 9,041 8,289 Total 9,041 8,289 2,766,201 3,158,070 2,775,242 3,166,359 Valuation of investments In thousands of euros Shares Fixed income   investments Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Amortised cost 8,872 7,255 2,670,965 3,148,377 2,679,837 3,155,632 Revaluation 169 1,034 58,634 -55,782 58,803 -54,748 Accrued interest - - 36,602 65,475 36,602 65,475 Total 9,041 8,289 2,766,201 3,158,070 2,775,242 3,166,359 Movements in investments In thousands of euros Shares Fixed income   investments Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 8,289 5,313 3,158,070 3,277,622 3,166,359 3,282,935 Investments 1,622 2,453 2,883,763 834,211 2,885,385 836,664 Disposals -5 - -3,356,023 -873,208 -3,356,028 -873,208 Revaluations -865 523 114,416 -74,133 113,551 -73,610 Amortisation - - -5,152 -9,568 -5,152 -9,568 Other - - -28,873 3,146 -28,873 3,146 Balance as at 31 December 9,041 8,289 2,766,201 3,158,070 2,775,242 3,166,359 Derivatives In thousands of euros Positive fair value Negative fair value Balance 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Derivatives 28,265 12,618 67,123 42,486 -38,858 -29,868 ASN Bank uses derivatives to hedge undesired inte- rest rate risks on an economic basis. We use futures  and swaps, for instance, to hedge our interest rate  risk in part of the bond portfolio. For more informa- tion, see section 10.3 of the chapter Risk policy.   ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 64 Tangible fixed assets In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Buildings under construction 8,563 6,263 IT equipment 22 29 Other tangible fixed assets 200 273 8,785 6,565 Movements in tangible fixed assets In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Accumulated acquisition costs 9,307 7,044 Accumulated depreciation -522 -479 8,785 6,565 In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 6,565 362 Investments 2,341 6,624 Divestments - - Depreciation -121 -121 Balance as at 31 December 8,785 6,565 Intangible fixed assets In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Goodwill 525 525 In 2010, ASN Bank acquired a majority stake of  62.99% in NBC Vermogensbeheer B.V. (now called  ASN Asset Management). ASN Bank paid goodwill  of  525,000 for this acquisition. This goodwill  valuation is assessed by means of an impairment test  each year. Deferred tax asset In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Deferred tax asset 5,376 21,010 Interest-bearing financial instruments are stated at  their market value. The revaluation of the interest- bearing financial instruments has produced an unre- alised result. The result has been used to establish  a provision for deferred tax liabilities equivalent to  the applicable corporate tax rate. The tax liability  has been broken down into an active and a passive  component.   65 Other assets In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Interest receivable 84,887 59,513 Prepayments and accrued income 37,436 22,678 Total other assets 122,323 82,191   Funds entrusted In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Private customer savings 8,300,451 7,548,383 Other amounts due to customers 668,609 443,184 Total funds entrusted 8,969,059 7,991,567   Amounts due to customers In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Mortgage account 22,274 24,798 Private borrowings 2,795 2,871 Due on demand 539 205 Total amounts due to customers 25,608 27,874   Deferred tax liability In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Deferred tax liability 14,365 271 Interest-bearing financial instruments are stated at  their market value. The revaluation of the interest- bearing financial instruments has produced an unre- alised result. The result has been used to establish  a provision for deferred tax liabilities equivalent to  the applicable corporate tax rate. This pertains to a  passive deferred tax liability. Other liabilities In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Other debts 357,546 211,333 Accrued interest 208,931 162,555 Other accrued liabilities 3,570 3,321 Total other liabilities 570,047 377,209  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 66 Shareholders equity In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Share capital 11,350 11,350 Share premium reserve 115,886 115,886 General reserve 103,829 60,629 Revaluation of shares and bonds -39,960 -128,083 Minority interests 22 6 Profit 51,063 43,098 Total shareholders equity 242,190 102,886 A revaluation reserve for shares and bonds constitu- tes part of the shareholders equity. This revaluation  reserve reveals the effect that an immediate sale of  ASN Banks share and bond portfolios would have  on its result. The retention of the bonds until the  end of their term has no effect on ASN Banks share- holders equity or result.  Excluding the revaluation reserve on the bond  portfolio, shareholders equity was  282 million as  at year-end 2011 and  232 million as at year-end  2010. In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Shareholders equity excluding revaluation reserve on bond  portfolio 282,332 231,740 Breakdown of movements in shareholders equity In thousands of euros Share  capital Share  premium  reserve Reva- luation   reserve Other  reserves Profit for  the year Minority  interests Total Balance as at 1 January 2010 11,350 15,886 17,334 50.745 9,884 105,199 Profit for the previous financial year Movements in revaluation  reserve -145,417 -145,417 Share capital movements Movements in share premium 100,000 100,000 Movements in other reserves 9,884 -9,884 0 Profit for the year 43,098 43,098 Minority interests           6 6 Balance as at 31 December 2010 11,350 115,886 -128,083 60,629 43,098 6 102,886 Balance as at 1 January 2011 11,350 115,886 -128,083 60,629 43,098 6 102,886 Profit for the previous financial year Movements in revaluation  reserve 88,123 88,123 Share capital movements Movements in share premium Movements in other reserves 43,200 -43,098 102 Profit for the year 51,063 51,063 Minority interests 16 16 Balance as at 31 December 2011 11,350 115,886 -39,960 103,829 51,063 22 242,190  67 Off-balance sheet liabilities In thousands of euros 2011 Liabilities from pledges and guarantees given 32,341 Liabilities from committed and uncommitted facilities 33,161 ASN Bank offers products such as pledges and  guarantees in order to meet its finance customers  wishes. We do not recognise the underlying values  of these products as either assets or liabilities in  the balance sheet. The aforementioned amount is  ASN Banks maximum potential credit risk for these  products, assuming that all parties to contracts with  ASN Bank cease to comply with their contractual  obligations and all existing securities have no value.  The committed facilities consist primarily of credit  facilities promised to customers but not yet claimed.   9.6  Notes to the income statement Net interest margin In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Interest revenue from investments 311,304 281,196 Interest paid to customers 222,985 198,227 Total net interest margin 88,319 82,969 Interest rate risks are partly hedged at group level,  to which end ASN Bank pays its parent company a  fee. Any capital gains realised on investment portfo- lio sales are accounted for directly in the result and  are set off against this fee. The increase in interest  income can be attributed to the strong growth of  savings. The relative net interest margin was lower  in 2011 compared to 2010. Other income In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Commission income 19,046 17,829 Commission expense 7,994 9,801 Result on investments 2,361 -6,536 Total 13,413 1,492 Other income largely consists of commission income  which ASN Bank receives from its investment clients  for managing its investment funds and income  related to other products, such as the ASN Bank  Account. The increase is mainly the result of the  growth of the ASN-Novib Microcredit Fund. It is  partly offset by the commission the bank pays to  SNS Asset Management and SNS Financial Markets  for the management of its assets. Commission ex- pense decreased compared to 2010 as we paid SNS  Asset Management less commission for managing  our assets, mainly because the arrangements regar- ding the management of our mortgage portfolio  changed. The proceeds from securities are positive as a result  of the capital gains realised on our investment port- folio and the gains on futures and forward contracts.   ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 68 Impairment In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Impairment 97 24 Impairments in 2011 largely concern amortisation  of debit balances on private current accounts. Only  0.08% of total balances of the ASN Bank Account  are involved.  Staff costs In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Salaries 5,215 4,843 Pension costs 953 948 Social security 646 641 Other staff costs 2,535 1,758 Total staff costs 9,350 8,190 The average number of employees amounted to 86.5  in 2011 (2010: 81.7), all of whom work in the Ne- therlands. Staff costs rose due to the increase of the  average number of staff. The highest gross salary at  ASN Bank is 5.5 times higher than the lowest gross  salary. The other staff costs rose due to the incre- ased number of temporary workers we hired relative  to 2010, which followed from an absorption of peak  workloads and the temporary filling of vacancies. Other operating expenses In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Office and general expenditure 15,845 11,541 Marketing costs 8,271 6,804 Total other operating expenses 24,116 18,345 In 2011, office and general expenditure rose due to  the increased number of payment transactions and  rising printing and postage costs. This expenditure  was also adversely affected by a claim under the  deposit guarantee scheme in connection with DSBs  bankruptcy, which was recognised as an  11 million  expense as early as 2009. In 2011, an additional  expense of  0.6 million was recorded. The marketing costs rose due to extra activities,  mainly a TV advertising campaign, supported by  radio commercials, advertisements and train station  posters.   69 Tax In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Taxable profit 68,048 57,781 Tax burden 17,067 14,824 Net profit 50,981 42,957 Minority interests -82 -141 Net profit attributable to shareholders 51,063 43,098 Provisions in the Articles of   Association regarding profit   appropriation Profit appropriation is provided for in Article 34 of  the Articles of Association. This article reads as follows: 1.   Any profit is at the disposal of the general mee- ting. 2.   Distributions can only be made to the extent that  shareholders equity exceeds the amount of the  issued capital plus the reserves to be kept pursu- ant to the law. Profit appropriation  It is proposed that the profit of  51,062,949 gene- rated in 2011 be added to the shareholders equity. The Hague, 10 April 2012 Management Board: Ewoud Goudswaard Jeroen Jansen Joyce van der Est Supervisory Board: Ernst-Jan Boers Rob Langezaal (Chairman) Bart de Ruigh    ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 70  71 10.  Risk policy  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 The Controlling Department is responsible for controlling the risks to which ASN Bank  is exposed. It controls ASN Banks risks in close cooperation with SNS REAALs risk  committees and departments. You will find a description of the entire risk management  organisation of SNS REAAL in the SNS REAAL annual report. Photograph: Frans Lemmens/Hollandse Hoogte  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 72 ASN Bank maintained its moderate risk profile in  2011 despite continuing turmoil in the financial  markets. Concerns about the adequacy of the gover- nment finances of several eurozone countries were a  continuous topic of discussion. Particularly Greece,  Italy, Spain and, to a lesser extent, Portugal and  Ireland were countries of concern. However, coun- tries that were considered safe until recently were  considered as well. The difference in risk premium  between Northern and Southern European countries  increased considerably. Pressure on Greece and Italy  to introduce reforms rose to such an extent that new  governments took office in these countries.  ASN Bank hedges the interest rate risks of the  government bond portfolio by means of hedge  structures. However, these do not hedge the value  fluctuations ensuing from country risks. ASN Banks  exposure to the euro countries in question had  already partly been scaled down in 2010. In 2011,  this exposure was reduced to nil. More information  about our position as at year-end 2011 may be found  in section 10.2.2. A sum of  68 million was added to  the revaluation reserve in 2011. Key figures Balance sheet total  9.9 billion Risk weighted assets  1,282 million Qualifying capital  283 million Tier 1 ratio 22% 10.1   Risk management   organisation Various risk committees prepare SNS REAALs risk  policy and advise the Executive Board on it, which  then adopts the policy and gives mandates to the  committees working out the policy. More explicitly  than in the past, the committees are responsible for  developing and enforcing group policy. The primary  committees that support ASN Bank in fleshing out  policy are the Asset Liability Committee and the  Product Market Pricing Committee. Acting as common service centres and bearing  responsibility for modelling, measuring, monitoring,  reporting and advising on risks, the risk manage- ment departments advise ASN Bank through the  ASN Investment Committee on risk management  and report on the risk profile. They are not responsi- ble for formulating definitions or making policy. The  ASN Bank Controlling & Compliance Department is  in contact with various SNS REAAL risk management  departments, including: Group Risk Management (GRM) GRM supports ASN Bank in    identifying changing market conditions and rules  that are of interest to strategy and policy;  pricing products;    setting up and performing asset & liability ma- nagement;   coordinating strategic projects related to finan- cial risk management (Basel III).  Compliance, Security & Operational Risk   Management  ASN Bank has its own compliance officer, who is  managed by the Director of Compliance, Security  & Operational Risk Management. This department  advises the Executive Board and the Management  Boards of the business units on controlling non- financial risks, i.e. the risks related to employee  behaviour and the structuring of business proces- ses. The local compliance officers main duties are  formulating policy, advising on ethical, controlled  operations, coordinating and stimulating operati- onal risk and integrity risk control, and permanent  supervision of process execution.  Legal Affairs The Legal Affairs Department prepares risk manage- ment policy and supports the operational aspects.  This departments main duties in this area are the  following:   identifying and advising on current and future  laws and regulations;  advising on integrity and the duty of care. Credit Risk Management Credit Risk Management prepares policy on credit  risk management and supports the operational  aspects. This departments duty in support of ASN  Bank is the following:   Credit Risk Management gives binding advice on  general lending policy and on the credit risks of  individual loans exceeding  3.5 million. In the context of credit risk management,   ASN Banks Sustainable Loans Department annually  revises all loans extended by ASN Bank.   73 Group Audit Group Audit comes under the Chairman of the SNS  REAAL Executive Board and also reports to the  Supervisory Board audit committee. This allows the  department to perform its work independently of  the business units. Group Audit performs studies  for the Management Board starting from a prede- termined risk analysis. The department studies the  internal risk management and control system, the  related processing system, management information  and the reliability of this information. In addition, Group Audit regularly tests the effects  of the control measures included in the procedures.  The department weighs its findings based on a pre- determined standard to create adequate manage- ment information related to the organisation and  process objectives. In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Investments 2,775,242 3,166,359 Loans and advances to customers 1,962,296 1,639,755 Loans and advances to credit institutions 4,985,440 3,576,283 Total investments 9,722,978 8,382,397 Cash and cash equivalents 140 36,987 Total 9,723,118 8,419,384 10.2  Risk management at   ASN Bank The risks to which ASN Bank is exposed can basically  be divided into five categories: credit risk, market  risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and reputation  risk.  10.2.1 Credit risks Credit risk is the risk of a debtor defaulting in whole  or in part, or of its rating deteriorating to such an  extent that it has a negative impact on ASN Banks  results or financial position. ASN Banks credit risk profile The risk of our loan portfolio remained stable in  2011. This portfolio is formed based on sustainable  objectives. The increase of funds entrusted led to  a further growth of the portfolio to  8,969 million  in 2011. In 2011, too, we extended more loans to  sustainable projects (+ 138 million), such as solar  energy projects Lavansol and New Solar, and wind  farm Global Tech. Due to our investments in BLG,  RegioBank and SNS Bank mortgages, our exposure  to credit institutions was 39% up. The fixed-income  investment portfolio decreased by 12.4% to  2,766  million at year-end 2011. The credit risk to which ASN Bank is exposed is  divided as follows:  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 74 Credit risk profile of investments Part of our investments (28.5%) are fixed-income in- vestments, mainly government bonds. A minor part  of the investment portfolio is held in other bonds,  and shares.  The credit rating of investments is an indication of  the credit risk of the relevant investment. The in- vestment portfolio predominantly (93%) comprises  investments with an AAA rating.  The table below shows the division of the investment portfolio into rating classes: In thousands of euros 2011 2010 AAA 2,589,708 2,080,897 AA 144,469 221,118 A 22,278 850,741 BBB 1,452 1,452 BB - 3,862 Unrated* 17,335 8,289 Total 2,775,242 3,166,359 * Shares Mortgages Municipal &  provincial councils Energy Social economy Miscellaneous 7% 8% 62% 11% 12% AAA AA A Unrated AAA 93% A 1% Unrated 1% AA 5% Credit risk profile of loans and advances to  customers and credit institutions ASN Banks lending to companies, municipalities,  water boards and healthcare institutions supports  our mission, as explained under Investments (Chap- ter 6). The loan portfolio comprised 73.3% of the  total investments at year-end 2011. Our stringent  sustainability criteria exclude many sectors from our  lending operations in advance, resulting in concen- tration risks. These concentration risks are limited  thanks to our knowledge of the relevant sectors and  because we provide sufficient security to be able to  absorb any defaults. The chart and table show the  division of the loan portfolio into sectors. Category: Investment category: Mortgages Mortgages 62% Municipal & provincial councils Municipal & provincial councils 8% Energy Water boards and energy companies, renewable energy 7% Social economy Healthcare and care of the elderly, housing sector, education,  culture and leisure 11% Miscellaneous Shares, miscellaneous and liquid assets 12% Loans and advances to customers by category Rating of ASN Banks government bonds  75 Special Credits  An essential element of risk policy is the timely  deployment of the SNS Bank Special Credits De- partment, which is part of Credit Risk Management.  This department supports ASN Bank in managing  payment arrears. A uniform procedure has been  implemented to identify high-risk items. Payment  10.2.2 Market risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices  will adversely affect ASN Banks results and financial  position. Market prices include interest rates, share  prices and exchange rates.  In ASN Banks moderate risk profile, the interest  rate risk is an important component. Interest rate  risks arise due to differences in the interest rate  sensitivity of assets and liabilities on the banks  balance sheet. The duration of investments on the  banks balance sheet is generally longer than that of  the funding, for example, including savings depo- sits. Because of this balance sheet structure, we will  normally benefit from a drop in interest rates. SNS  Banks ALM Committee manages our market risks.  When managing SNS Banks interest rate position,  assessments are made to establish whether the risks  fall within the pre-set limits. Risks are controlled  within these limits by weighing returns and risks in  conjunction with short and medium-term interest  rate forecasts.  The market risks of our investments in government  bonds comprise interest rate risks and country  risks. Both factors influence the market price of  the underlying government bonds. Although 2011  was off on a good start, the solvency of the Greek,  Italian and Spanish government finances fuelled  investors concerns about eurozone stability in the  course of the year. Several European summits were  held under pressure of the financial markets, credit  rating agencies and the ECB. The Italian and Greek  governments were replaced and Spain called early  elections. Due to slow political decision-making, the  0,025% 0,020% 0,015% 0,010% 0,005% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2011 2010 0 Provisions in % for loans and advances to customers ECB was forced to buy distressed debt from coun- tries and provide the financial system with sufficient  liquidity. We had already partly sold our positions in Irish, Ita- lian and Spanish government bonds in 2010 and the  first six months of 2011. In August 2011, we trans- ferred the remaining part to our parent company by  means of an intercompany transaction. As at year- end of 2011, ASN Bank invested in Dutch, German,  Austrian, French and Belgian government bonds. The table below shows the exposure to the relevant  eurozone countries, stating the nominal value of the  underlying government bonds.  In thousands of euros 2011 2010 Portugal 0 0 Ireland 0 198,000 Italy 0 691,600 Greece 0 0 Spain 0 60,000 Total 0 949,600 We use hedge accounting to limit the interest rate  risks, reducing the impact of interest rate fluctuati- ons on our capital position. An explanation of hedge  arrangements made for ASN Bank can be found in  section 10.3.  arrears are controlled in close consultation with   ASN Bank. The Special Credits Department reports  to ASN Bank every month.  At year-end 2011, the provision for loans and advan- ces to customers was  40,017, of a total provision  of  1.96 billion (0.002%).  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 76 10.2.3 Liquidity risks  Liquidity risk is the risk that the bank cannot release  sufficient cash to satisfy its immediate payment  obligations. We raise entrusted funds among private  individuals, associations and foundations for the  provision of loans and investments in government  bonds and (private) loans.  Our funding is therefore fully comprised of savings  deposited by private and corporate clients, making  us independent of the money and capital markets.  4.000 500 1.000 1.500 2.000 2.500 3.000 3.500 Millions of euros 2007 2006 2008 2009 2011 2010 0 Liquid assets The funds entrusted grew by 12% to  8,969 million  in 2011. This increase was largely invested in busi- ness loans, mainly in mortgages.  Although only a minor part of the funding has been  secured for a longer period of time (time deposits),  our liquidity risk is limited. After all, the investments  in liquid assets are substantial, as shown in the  chart, and amount to 39% of funds entrusted. 10.2.4 Operational risks Operational risk is the risk that we do not achieve  (strategic) objectives or targets due to the unpredic- tability of performances, unreliable information or  unanticipated losses, caused by fraud, inadequate or  failing internal processes, external events, systems  or security. ASN Bank is supported by the SNS REAAL de- partments stated in section 10.1, such as Group  Audit and Compliance, Security & Operational  Risk Management, in controlling its operational  risks. This support includes staff screening, system  information security and support in cases of fraud.  Group Audit monitors the procedures embedded in  the organisation and performs periodic checks. ASN  Bank also has a remote backup facility that allows it  to continue its activities under all circumstances. The Management Board declares that the inter- nal risk management and control systems provide  a reasonable degree of certainty that ASN Bank  properly controlled its operational risks during the  financial year. 10.2.5 Reputation risks Reputation risk is the risk that losses arise due to a  negative image among stakeholders, and customers  in particular. For ASN Bank, this risk mainly concerns  the manner in which customers believe we imple- ment our sustainability policy and provide services  to them.  We present ourselves as a bank with a sustainabi- lity mission, which is one of the main reasons for  customers to choose our bank. They will not so much  question the actions of a sustainable bank, because  sustainability is not a clearly defined concept, but  rather whether we keep our promises when se- lecting our investments. In order to help control  this risk, we have laid down our sustainability policy  in thirteen ASN Bank Issue Papers. These papers,  which are all publicly available, give a detailed  description of our interpretation of sustainable  banking. Furthermore, we have recorded our inter- nal processes and Group Audit (see section 10.1)  regularly assesses the structure and effectiveness  of those processes. All this guarantees that we keep  the promises laid down in our sustainability policy.  77 10.3  Hedging and hedge   accounting  ASN Bank uses derivatives to hedge undesired mar- ket risks on an economic basis. We use futures and  swaps, for instance, to hedge our market value risk  in part of the bond portfolio.  Under IFRS (International Financial Reporting  Standards), derivatives must be valued at market  value and market value changes must be recognised  through profit and loss. If changes in the market  value of the hedged risk are not recognised through  profit and loss, there is a mismatch in profit accoun- ting, making the results more volatile. In these ca- ses, hedge accounting is applied as much as possible  to mitigate accounting mismatching and volatility.  10.3.1 Hedging at ASN Bank Under IFRS, we value our fixed-income investment  portfolio in the category available-for-sale, which  means that valuation is at fair value and that value  changes are recognised in equity. This carries unde- sired market value risks.  Consequently, we hedge the value of part of the  fixed-income investment portfolio against this un- desired interest rate risk. Fixed-income investments  with a market value exceeding par value are hedged  by means of futures and swaps. The development of  their market value is diametrically opposite to that  of the underlying fixed-income investments. As a  result, negative market value fluctuations are offset  by positive value changes in derivatives, and vice  versa. 10.3.2  Fair value hedge   accounting In fair value hedge accounting, the developments in  fair value of the hedged risk are recognised through  profit and loss in order to counterbalance the mar- ket value movements of the related derivatives. The  par value hedged against undesired market value  fluctuations at year-end 2011 totalled approxi- mately  1,625 million. The hedged position thus  amounted to approximately 63% of the par value  and decreased relative to 2010, when approximately  80% of the par value was hedged. In 2011, changes  in the fixed-income portfolio triggered a reduction  of the average duration of government bonds. As a  result, a more limited hedging of the interest rate  risk sufficed.    ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 78  79 11.  Corporate governance  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Teaching nature to primary-school children Photograph: Marc de Haan/Hollandse Hoogte  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 80 11.1 Capital structure  ASN Bank N.V. (ASN Bank) is an independent legal  entity within SNS REAAL N.V. All ASN Bank shares  are held by SNS Bank N.V.  ASN Vermogensbeheer B.V. ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. ASN Groenbank N.V ASN Bank N.V 100% 100% 62,99% ASN Groenbank N.V. is a wholly-owned subsidiary  of ASN Bank, established to attract green savings  deposits with tax benefits from private individuals  and to offer green sustainable loans. ASN Groen- bank did not engage in any new activities in 2011.  ASN Beleggingsinstellingen Beheer B.V. is the fund  manager of the investment funds offered by   ASN Bank. ASN Vermogensbeheer B.V. is a subsidiary of   ASN Bank, which holds 62.99% of the shares.  11.2 Corporate governance  ASN Banks governance (its management structure)  focuses on the optimum deployment of our operati- onal processes for the benefit of our customers. This  is done in collaboration with several supporting SNS  REAAL business units.  11.2.1 Governance highlights ASN Bank has a Management Board and a Superviso- ry Board carrying all powers assigned to supervisory  boards by law. In 2011, the ASN Bank Supervisory Board comprised  three members of the Management Board of SNS  Retail Bank. On 9 May 2011, Mr Kroeze retired and  Mr De Ruigh joined the Supervisory Board. At the  end of 2011, the Supervisory Board consisted of Mr  Boers, Mr Langezaal and Mr De Ruigh. 11.2.2  Dutch Corporate Gover- nance Code (Frijns Code) The Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the Frijns  Code) applies to all companies listed on the Dutch  stock exchange and therefore to SNS REAAL. ASN  Bank endorses the principles of the Frijns Code. Its  aim is to abide by the principles and best practice  provisions of this Code to the extent possible.  81 The Banking Code contains principles that are in  line with those of the Frijns Code. The Banking Code  applies to all of SNS REAALs banking activities, and  therefore also to ASN Bank.  SNS REAAL applies the Banking Code. Consequently,  compliance with the Banking Code is mainly orga- nised at group level - e.g. as regards internal audit  and the remuneration policy. SNS REAALs risk  management architecture also complies with the  Banking Code. Please refer to the SNS REAAL annual  report for SNS REAALs application of the Code.  ASN Bank puts the customer focus required by the  Banking Code into practice in its open, transparent  communication with customers about its mission,  products and investment policy. Customer focus  is part of the ASN Bank culture. We promote this,  among other things, through individual employee  targets and on the basis of the product development  process, which is structured in accordance with the  Banking Code. Please refer to the SNS REAAL annual report for  more details on compliance with the Banking Code. 11.2.3  ASN Bank Advisory   Council ASN Bank has an Advisory Council that provides re- quested and unrequested advice to its Management  Board on policy in relation to the banks mission and  the investment criteria derived from this mission.  The name of the Council is Raad van Advies ASN  Bank. The Advisory Council advises solely on policy in the  interests of ASN Bank and with due observance of  ASN Banks vision and mission. The Advisory Coun- cils function and position indirectly contribute to  the principle of diversity of the Supervisory Board  and the Management Board. The composition, (re) appointment and methods of the Council are laid  down in rules.  11.3 Remuneration report  The remuneration report deals with the remunerati- on of the ASN Bank Management Board and Super- visory Board, the way the remuneration policy was  put into practice in 2011 and remuneration policy  developments in 2011.  The remuneration policy of ASN Bank Managing  Directors is in line with SNS REAALs remuneration  policy. In 2011, the policy was adjusted following  amendments in European legislation and the Dutch  Regulation on Restrained Remuneration Policies  under the Financial Supervision Act 2011 (Regeling  beheerst beloningsbeleid Wft 2011), which entered  into effect on the basis of that legislation. At an Ex- traordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of SNS  REAAL, the remuneration policy was adopted. The  policy entered into effect with retroactive effect as  from 1 January 2011.  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 82 In 2011, the remuneration policy was revised as fol- lows:   Regular increase of fixed salary by 10% on  average.    Increase of the fixed salary under the Collective  Labour Agreement by 1% as at 1 January 2011.   No payment of variable remuneration for perfor- mance in 2011. The fact is that the remuneration  policy provides that, as long as SNS REAAL has  not repaid the financial support from the Dutch  State, no variable remuneration will be paid out  to senior management. Ms Van der Est is not part  of senior management; she has been granted a  performance-related bonus in accordance with  arrangements laid down in the Collective Labour  Agreement.    Payment of a long-term bonus for performance  period 2008-2011: 1% of the fixed salary.   In 2011, a one-off payment was made for the  suspended salary increases since 1 January 2010.  This has been included in the table above under  one-off payment. As a result, the total remuneration of the ASN Bank  Management Board is 3.5% higher than in 2010; Ms  Van der Ests data have been disregarded, because  she was not yet a member of the Management Board  in 2010. Other remuneration components  The members of the ASN Bank Management Board  received a net expense allowance until 1 July 2010.  This allowance was cancelled as from that date.  For business travel (including commuting), the  Managing Directors are allocated a company car, for  which they pay a personal contribution where appli- cable. The members of the ASN Bank Management  Board receive a health insurance contribution.  Pension The Management Board of ASN Bank participates  in the pension scheme in accordance with the SNS  REAAL Collective Labour Agreement and the current  pension scheme rules-I. The members contribution  to the pension premium, which is charged on the  pensionable earnings, is 4.5%. The employers pen- sion contribution is included in the table. Short-term variable remuneration  The Supervisory Board determines the short-term  bonus based on the performance of the ASN Bank  Managing Directors in three areas:    financial, operational and sustainability perfor- mance,    contribution to achieving the strategic objecti- ves,   individual performance based on individual com- petencies.  If a Managing Director achieves the pre-set objec- tives, he receives the variable remuneration. When  selecting performance measures, the various stake- holders are borne in mind. The performance mea- 11.3.1 Remuneration of the ASN Bank Management Board In thousands of euros Fixed  salary (1) Pension Variable remuneration One-off   payment (4) Total Short-term (2) Long-term  (3) Amortisation  of previously  granted 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Ewoud Goudswaard 160 146 34 30 0 24 2 3 0 2 21 0 217 205 Jeroen Jansen 140 130 28 27 0 21 1 2 0 2 15 0 184 182 Joyce van der Est 112 - 22 - 10 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 144 - Total  412 276 84 57 10 45 3 5 0 4 36 0 545 387 1)  Fixed salary including holiday allowance and thirteenth months salary, social security charges, expense al- lowance (until 1 July 2010) and contribution to health insurance. 2)  As from 2011, the short-term variable remuneration is the part that has been granted for 2011. 3)  This is the payment of the long-term allotment of 2008. During the performance period (three years), the fair  value of the shares conditionally allotted is recognised as an expense under staff costs. 4)  In connection with the re-evaluation of the salaries of Mr Goudswaard and Mr Jansen, a one-off payment  relating to 2010 was made in 2011.  83 sures are aimed at long-term success for ASN Bank,  with due regard to the desired risk profile. The  standards for sustainability performance are related  to the qualitative sustainability objectives described  in Chapter 1. They also include other objectives, for  example with regard to customer satisfaction and  employee satisfaction. Long-term variable remuneration  The long-term variable remuneration scheme  introduced in 2007 was cancelled as from 2010.  Consequently, no new rights were granted in 2010  and 2011. The existing benefits for the members of  the Management Board of ASN Bank were calcula- ted annually in accordance with the old scheme in  the form of a claim entitling the holder to payment  in cash. Three years after the conditional granting,  the actual bonus is calculated based on the extent  to which the Managing Directors have satisfied the  performance criteria. This long-term bonus as de- finitively granted is paid in cash. In 2011, payment  was made for the 2008-2011 performance period. Overview of the number of rights still outstanding for the ASN Bank Management Board: Number of rights granted in Fair value at the end of 2011 2009 2010 2011 Ewoud Goudswaard 5.968 0000  841 Jeroen Jansen 5.300 0000  747 Joyce van der Est 0 0000 - 11.3.2  Remuneration of the   Supervisory Board for  2011 The members of ASN Banks Supervisory Board  perform their duties as members by virtue of their  position at SNS Bank. They do not receive a separate  fee for these duties.    ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 84  85 Independent Assurance Report  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 Photograph: Van Beek Images  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 86 To the readers of the Annual   Report of ASN Bank  Introduction We were engaged by the Management Board of ASN  Bank to provide assurance on selected information  in the Annual Report 2011 (further: the Report).  The ASN Bank Management Board is responsible for  drawing up the Report, including the identification  of material issues to be reported. It is our responsi- bility to issue an assurance report on the selected  information.  Our engagement was designed to provide limited  assurance as to whether the information in Chapters  1.3 and 3 through 8 of the Report (further: the Se- lected Information) is fairly stated. The information,  including the financial data, as presented in Chap- ters 1.1, 1.2, 2, 9, 10 and 11 of the Report was not  included in our investigation. ASN Banks financial  data form part of the financial statements of SNS  REAAL N.V., of which ASN Bank is a subsidiary. To  obtain a thorough understanding of the financial  results and financial position of SNS REAAL, the rea- der should consult the audited financial statements  of SNS REAAL N.V. for 2011. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of as- surance are aimed at determining the plausibility of  information and are less extensive than those for a  reasonable level of assurance. We do not provide as- surance concerning the feasibility of the objectives,  expectations and ambitions of ASN Bank. Which reporting criteria did   ASN Bank use? ASN Bank applies the Sustainability Reporting  Guidelines (G3) of the Global Reporting Initiative  for drawing up the Report, as detailed on page 10 of  the Report.  Which assurance standard did   we use?  We carried out our engagement in accordance with  Standard 3410N Assurance engagements relating  to sustainability reports of the Royal Netherlands  Institute of Chartered Accountants (NIVRA). This  Standard requires, among other things, that the  members of the assurance team possess the specific  knowledge, skills and professional competencies  needed to understand and review the Selected  Information, and that they comply with the requi- rements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional  Accountants, including independence. What did we do?  Our work included the following procedures:    a media and Internet analysis of social issues for  ASN Bank in order to deepen our understanding  of relevant sustainability topics and issues during  the period under review;   a review of the systems and processes for the  gathering and processing of information, and  internal controls with regard to the Selected  Information;   interviews with relevant staff in relation to policy  and the application of the special investment  criteria for the investment and lending activities;    a review of internal and external documentation,  based on sampling, to determine whether the  Selected Information is supported by sufficient  evidence.  During our investigation we discussed the neces- sary changes to the Selected Information with ASN  Bank and determined that these changes have been  included in the final version.  87 What are our conclusions?  Based on our work, nothing came to our attention to  indicate that the Selected Information (Chapters 1.3  and 3 through 8) is not fairly presented, in all mate- rial respects, in accordance with the G3 Guidelines  of the Global Reporting Initiative. Amstelveen, 29 March 2012 KPMG Sustainability, part of KPMG Advisory N.V. W.J. Bartels (partner)  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 88 Appendix 1 Investments by ASN Bank  Accounts Receivable Amounts x  1,000  Government bonds 2,596,614 Germany 1,435,274 The Netherlands 616,449 Austria 288,192 Belgium 134,125 France 122,574 Banks 797,278 SNS Bank 733,083 FMO 50,825 CEB 8,039 Nederlandse Waterschapsbank 2,357 Nederlandse Financieringsmaatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden 1,744 Bank voor Nederlandse Gemeenten 1,230 Mortgages and other loans and advances to customers  4,392,885 ASN Bank Particulier 55,477 ASN Bank Zakelijk 1,564 ASN Bank: private customer debit balances 884 Mortgage-backed loan portfolios: 4,334,960 SNS Bank 3,200,000 BLG 550,000 SNS Regiobank 500,000 Storm BV 27,014 Colonnade 26,261 Candide Financing 19,501 Eleven Cities 7,954 Arena 4,230 Municipal and provincial councils 578,964 Gemeente Rotterdam 50,000 Gemeente Enschede 45,000 Gemeente Venlo 41,807 Gemeente Zwolle 35,500 Gemeente Middelburg 28,748 Gemeente Nieuwegein 26,000 Gemeente Kampen 26,000 Gemeente Apeldoorn 20,000 Gemeente Bergen op Zoom 20,000 Gemeente Groningen 16,000 Gemeente Almere 15,000 Gemeente Leeuwarden 15,000 Gemeente Zevenaar 15,000 Gemeente Veldhoven 14,286 Gemeente Haaksbergen 13,000 Gemeente Pijnacker 13,000 Gemeente Diemen 12,000 Gemeente Hengelo 12,000 Gemeente Alphen aan den Rijn 10,000 Gemeente Kaag & Braassem 10,000  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 90 Accounts Receivable Amounts x  1,000  Healthcare / care of the elderly 422,470 Academisch Ziekenhuis Maastricht 46,193 Universitair Medisch Centrum Groningen (UMCG) 38,550 Stichting Zorggroep Noord- en Midden Limburg 20,165 Academisch Medisch Centrum 20,000 Stichting Dimence  19,727 Stichting Antonius Ziekenhuis 17,736 Stichting Volkaert SBO 17,525 Stichting Arduin  14,713 Vincent van Gogh voor geestelijke gezondheidszorg 14,400 Stichting Zorgsaam Zeeuws-Vlaanderen 13,000 Stichting Sint Elisabeth Ziekenhuis 12,750 GGZ Breburg  12,000 Stichting Zeevesta 11,000 Stichting Magenta Zorg  10,514 Stichting Franciscus Gasthuis 10,000 Stichting Protestants Christelijk Ziekenhuis Ikazia 9,750 VieCuri Medisch Centrum 9,000 Catharina Ziekenhuis 8,667 Christelijke Zorgcombinatie Zwolle 8,640 Stichting Parnassia Bavo Groep 8,434 Stichting Tragel 8,175 Stichting Argos Zorggroep 8,000 Stichting Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Ziekenhuis 7,500 Regionale Stichting Zorgcentra De Kempen 7,485 Stichting Verbeeten Fonds 7,453 Stichting De Blink 6,000 Stichting Geestelijke Gezondheidszorg Oost Brabant 5,000 Maastro Clinic 4,950 Stichting Amphia 4,900 Stichting Revalidatie-Centrum De Hoogstraat 4,821 Stichting De Stromen  4,084 Stichting Saxenburgh Groep 3,749 Stichting Reinaerde  3,220 Stichting Medisch Spectrum Twente  3,080 Stichting Rode Kruis Ziekenhuis 2,500 Zorggroep Noorderbreedte  2,000 Stichting Woon- en Leefcentra Lichamelijk Gehandicapten West-Brabant 1,921 Zeeuws Radio-Therapeutisch Instituut 1,768 Stichting De Vlasborch 1,620 Promens Care 1,563 Stichting Het GORS 1,400 Stichting Interakt 1,318 Stichting Odion 1,238 Stichting Woon & Zorgcentrum Herfstzon 1,069 Stichting Zorgverlening s Heeren Loo 649 Stichting Radar 611 Stichting Gelre Ziekenhuizen 528 Stichting Blixembosch 516 Stichting Mondriaan Zorggroep 515 Stichting Frion 472 Stichting Heliomare 434 Stichting Aveleijn/SDT 333  91 Accounts Receivable Amounts x  1,000  Stichting De Driestroom 278 Stichting Dichterbij 258 Stichting Revalidatie Centrum Roessingh 104 Stichting Wende 87 Brabantzorg 57 Stichting Groenhuysen 46 Stichting Pameijer Keerkring 4 Residential construction 331,100 Woningstichting Rochdale  35,971 Stichting Duwo 25,000 Stichting Ymere 25,000 Woningcorporatie R&B Wonen 20,000 De Woonmensen 15,000 Woonstichting SSW 15,000 Woningcorporatie de Alliantie, formerly SCW 14,952 Stichting Woongroep Holland  13,000 Stichting Woonzorg Nederland 11,021 Stichting Waterweg Wonen 11,000 Stichting Portaal  10,000 Stichting Woonbedrijf SWS 10,000 Woningbouwvereniging St. Laurentius  10,000 Woningstichting Servatius 10,000 Stichting Sociale Woningbouw en Beheer 8,000 Woningbouwvereniging Onze Woning 8,000 Woningstichting Haag Wonen 7,941 Stichting Woonbeheer Betuwe 7,500 Woningstichting SWZ 7,500 Woonstichting Triada 7,500 Intervolve Credit B.V. 5,506 Woningstichting Omnivera 5,500 Woningstichting Groninger Huis 5,000 Woningstichting Weststellingwerf  5,000 Stichting Woonzorg West Zeeuws-Vlaanderen  4,800 Stichting Woonpunt  4,538 Woningcorporatie Weller  4,538 Woonstichting Domesta 4,538 Woonstichting Vaals 4,000 Stichting Wonen Wierden  3,500 Woningcorporatie de Alliantie, formerly Atrium  3,398 Woningcorporatie Staedion 2,269 Woningbouwvereniging Ons Doel 2,098 Vieya, formerly DWV Woningcorporatie 2,046 Stichting Dutch International Guarantees for Housing (DIGH) 1,126 Stichting Habion  627 Stichting Mooiland Vitalis 231 Education, culture and leisure 22,793 Erasmusacademie 11,550 Nationaal Groenfonds  4,854 Stichting Texels Museum 1,796 Bibliotheek Vlissingen  1,636 Stichting Kinderopvang 2Samen 1,622  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 92 Accounts Receivable Amounts x  1,000  Stichting Vrijburg 1,275 Den Haag Centraal B.V.  60 Shares 650 Triple Jump 568 Oikocredit 82 Renewable energy 188,775 Wind energy 70,275 Belwind N.V.  31,001 C-Power N.V.  21,896 Windpark Rijnwoude B.V. 6,611 Windpark Logistiekweg B.V. 5,254 Sailwind B.V. 2,500 Global Tech I Offshore 1,499 Offshore Windpowercentre Nederland 1,320 Vaanster Services B.V.  172 Kriekewind B.V. 22 Solar energy 101,986 Lavansol II SAS 19,330 Centrale Photovoltaque Du Gabardan 16,952 Newsolar SAS 15,999 Lavansol M7 SAS 10,275 Belfuture CVBA 10,171 SECP OLMO2 SAS  8,092 FPV Pascialone SAS  7,908 NPG Willebroek N.V. 7,314 FPV Santa Lucia SAS  5,945 Other 16,514 Unica Financial Services B.V. 8,123 Dif Renewable Energy Fund 4,735 Dif Infrastructure Fund 3,619 Impax New Energy Investors II 37 Other 51,596 Foreign public and semi-public institutions 10,345 Land Nordrhein-Westfalen 10,345 Microfinance 1,452 BlueOrchard Loans for Development 1,452 Other 39,799 TenneT 22,278 CAIW 16,714 Wereldwinkels 245 Stichting Chizone 165 Algemeen Verbond van Volkstuinders Verenigingen in Nederland (AVVN) 120 Groen Vervoer 119 Basic Water Needs B.V. 100 Nuon energiebesparende investeringen in het MKB 41 Almeerse Reddings Brigade  17  93 Appendix 2 Organisation and history Organisation Capital Management Sustainable  Loans Executive Secretariat Sustainability Marketing &  Communication Customer &  Account  Management Controlling &  Compliance Management Board Customer  Contact Centre Facilities  Management Operations Information  Management ASN Asset Management Explanation of the organisational chart   Controlling & Compliance is responsible for all  financial flows, including information, financial  reporting and analyses, the annual and interim  reports of the investment funds and the annual  report of the bank. Controlling also supervises  compliance with regulations, risk management,  accounting procedures and internal control.    Marketing & Communication is responsible for  communicating ASN Banks policy and sustai- nable values, and for customer acquisition and  retention through campaigns. The department  develops and creates distribution channels for  the ASN products and maintains relations with  our partners.    Sustainability & Research is responsible for for- mulating and implementing ASN Banks sustai- nability policy. The department writes ASN Bank  Issue Papers, conducts research with regard to  countries and companies in which ASN Bank and  the ASN Investment Funds may invest, carries out  the voting policy and engages in dialogue with  companies. It also advises on the banks sustaina- ble operations.   Operations comprises several components. Infor- mation Managements activities include ensuring  that all systems and resources, such as telephone  and Internet access, are available in the various  workspaces. Customer & Account Management  processes customer and account details and  sends out requests for information. ASN Custo- mer Service provides services to customers by  telephone, e-mail and correspondence. Finally,  Facilities Management makes sure that all ASN  staff have the space and resources they need for  their work.    ASN Asset Management manages capital of   250,000 or more for private customers and  institutions based on ASN Banks sustainability  criteria.   Capital Management is responsible for the  development and sale of savings and investment  products. In addition, this department is respon- sible for implementing legislation and regulati- ons to the extent they relate to customers and  products. It manages the day-to-day affairs of the  ASN Investment Funds and also represents ASN  Bank and the ASN Investment Funds at meetings  for intermediaries and interested parties.   Sustainable Loans lends money on behalf of ASN  Groenprojectenfonds, ASN Bank and ASN Groen- bank, and manages those loans.  Triple Jump ASN Bank holds 25% of the shares of Triple Jump,  which is responsible for the investments of the ASN- Novib Microcredit Fund in its capacity as project  manager. Oxfam Novib, NOTS Foundation and   ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 94 management are the other shareholders. The aim of  Triple Jump is to invest capital in developing coun- tries mainly through microfinance institutions (MFIs)  to facilitate the fight against poverty. Triple Jump:   supports MFI start-ups by providing expertise  and loan capital;    provides high-risk loan capital and equity to MFIs  that are growing from start-up to maturity;   provides low-risk loan capital and equity to ma- ture, stable MFIs.  In addition to the loans provided by the ASN-Novib  Microcredit Fund, Triple Jump manages the loan  portfolios of Oxfam Novib, Calvert Social Invest- ment Foundation and SNS Institutional Microfinan- ce Fund. At present Triple Jump manages an equity  and loan portfolio of approximately  270 million. The ASN Foundation Our involvement goes beyond sustainable banking.  Every year, ASN Bank donates part of its earnings to  projects and organisations that contribute to its mis- sion. The ASN Foundation was established in 2004  in order to standardise our donation policy. The  Foundation publishes its own annual report.  History On 21 January 1960, ASN was established as the  bank of the socialist workers movement. Its main  object was to provide socially responsible employee  savings schemes. However, from the outset the  inflow of private savings exceeded the inflow of  savings schemes. In order to absorb that inflow,  ASN - as the first savings bank in the Netherlands -  introduced saving by funds transfer in 1960.  From the very start, the bank invested the savings  deposits in accordance with trade union principles  as much as possible, for example in the public sector  and in the socio-cultural field. Nevertheless, it never  became the bank for the trade union movement  envisaged by its founders. That is why in the 1970s  ASN shifted its focus to a new target group: people  involved in issues such as war and peace, human  rights and discrimination, international economic  relationships and the environment.  ASN grew to become a truly idealistic bank in the  1980s and 1990s, with regard to both its products  and its office setup. It introduced sustainable in- vestment funds, the first one being ASN Aandelen- fonds in 1993. ASNs special investment criteria in  the areas of human rights and the environment were  formulated as a point of departure in the selection  of the funds investments as well as the investment  of savings deposits.  In 1996, ASN changed its name to ASN Bank. The  closer collaboration with the financial institutions  affiliated with the trade union movement had resul- ted in the REAAL Group in 1990, in which ASN held  an independent position. In 1997, the REAAL Group  merged with SNS Group and ASN Bank became a  subsidiary of SNS Bank.  ASN Bank increased the number of investment funds  to seven, including a green fund and a socio-ethical  fund. However, the main emphasis was still on  saving, and the bank introduced several successful  savings accounts. It also developed considerable  expertise in financing sustainable construction and  renewable energy production.  In 2009, it introduced a current account (ASN Bank  Account), followed by the ASN Credit Card in 2010.  In 2010, ASN Bank also acquired a majority interest  in ASN Asset Management, which manages capital  starting from  250,000 on the basis of ASN Banks  sustainability criteria. As a result, ASN Bank has  positioned itself as a comprehensive financial servi- ces provider for customers who look for simplicity,  transparency and ideals.     95 Appendix 3 Supervisory Board,  Advisory Council and Manage- ment Board  Supervisory Board Mr Ernst-Jan Boers Mr Rob Langezaal (Chairman) Mr Bart de Ruigh Advisory Council Ms Saskia Noorman-den Uyl (Chair) Mr Hans Kamps Mr Jan van der Kolk Management Board of ASN Bank N.V. Mr Ewoud Goudswaard Mr Jeroen Jansen Ms Joyce van der Est Personal details Supervisory Board Mr Ernst-Jan Boers Ernst-Jan Boers (1966) has been the CEO of SNS  Retail Bank since January 2012. He started working  at SNS Reaal in 2007 as the Group Finance Director.  As from 2009, he acted as CFO of SNS Retail Bank.  He worked for Ernst & Young during the first seven  years of his career, and then joined REAAL Verzeke- ringen, where he worked for six years. Subsequent- ly, he held the position of Managing Director of ABN  AMRO Hypotheken Groep and its legal predecessors  for eight years. Ernst-Jan Boers is also Chairman of  the Supervisory Board of ASN Groenbank. Mr Rob Langezaal Rob Langezaal (1958) has been a member of the SNS  Retail Bank Management Board since November  2007. He is responsible for the marketing and sales  portfolio and the labels SNS, ASN Bank, Regiobank  and BLG Hypotheken. Rob Langezaal has more than  thirty years experience in various positions in the  retail and business markets, such as CEO, division  manager and general manager. Rob Langezaal is a  member of the Advisory Council of XS4all Internet  B.V., member of the Supervisory Board of ASN  Groenbank, member of the Supervisory Board of  Regiobank, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of  SNS Beleggingsfondsen Beheer B.V. and a member  of the Board of Stichting Weet Wat Je Besteedt. Mr Bart de Ruigh Bart de Ruigh (1956) has been COO and a member of  the SNS Retail Bank Management Board since 2010.  He is responsible for product management and  transaction processing by different service centres  and holds the IT and facilities management portfo- lios. Bart de Ruigh has worked in management po- sitions in the financial services sector, i.e. at banks  and insurance companies, for almost thirty years. He  has extensive experience in operations, IT, product  management and organisational issues, as well as  in finance & control, risk management and facilities  management.  Advisory Council Ms Saskia Noorman-den Uyl Saskia Noorman-den Uyl (1946) joined the Heemste- de town council in 1978 and became alderwoman  for welfare, culture, social affairs, employment and  staff in 1985. She was appointed Director of Social  Services in Leiden in 1990 and Director of the citys  Economic and Social Affairs department in 1992.  She was a member of the Dutch Lower House for the  labour party Partij van de Arbeid from 1994 to 2007,  with Social Affairs and Finance as her focus area. She  was also Chairman of the standing committee for  the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.  Saskia Noorman-den Uyl was appointed Chairman of  the Supervisory Council of Koninklijke Visio effec- tive 1 January 2008. She has been a member of the  Supervisory Council of Stichting De Jutters, a centre  for youth mental health in The Hague, since 2009.  She also holds various other positions: Chairman of  Landelijke Organisatie Sociaal Raadslieden, Chair- man of the Board of feminist monthly Opzij, and  Secretary of the Board of Stichting Dr. J. M. den  Uyl-lezing. Mr Hans Kamps Hans Kamps (1952) combines numerous positions.  He is Chairman of Algemene Bond Uitzendonderne- mingen (ABU), Chairman of Jeugdzorg Nederland,  the Netherlands Museums Association and Crown  member of the Social and Economic Council of the  Netherlands (SER). His other positions focus on –  but are not limited to – youth, the labour market and  business acumen. He is a member of several super- visory boards and a member of the Advisory Council  or Supervisory Council of different companies, inclu- ding KPC Groep, FD Mediagroep and Staatsloterij.  ASN Bank Annual Report 2011 96 Mr Jan van der Kolk  Jan van der Kolk (1953) studied environmental  science and management consultancy at univer- sity. Over a period of twenty years, he held various  positions at KPMG, including member of the KPMG  Consulting Board of Directors and managing partner  of KPMG Sustainability. He is currently an indepen- dent consultant, executing many projects for major  companies in the area of sustainability strategy and  reporting, management systems and sustainable  investing by financial institutions. He holds several  other positions, including Chairman of the invest- ment advisory committee for church social welfare  work of the Protestant church in The Hague, Chair- man of the jury for the Verantwoord Ketenbeheer  Award of the Vereniging van Beleggers in Duurzame  Ondernemingen (VBDO) and member of the Envi- ronmental Advisory Council of Studiecentrum voor  Bedrijf en Overheid. Management Board of   ASN Bank N.V. Mr Ewoud Goudswaard Ewoud Goudswaard (1958) has been ASN Banks  Managing Director since 2001. He is also Chairman  of the Supervisory Board of ASN Vermogensbeheer  B.V. and member of the Supervisory Board of ASN  Groenbank N.V. Ewoud Goudswaard started his  career at NMB Bank, later ING Bank, in credit risk  management for (large) corporate clients. He held  management positions in Haarlemmermeer, Amster- dam and Rotterdam starting in 1992 and became  Chairman of the Management Board of the Midden- Holland district in 1997. Ewoud Goudswaard has se- veral external positions: he is treasurer of Nationaal  Comit 4 en 5 mei and Nationaal Fonds 4 en 5 mei,  member of the Advisory Council for the Dutch Asso- ciation of the Club of Rome and the Advisory Council  of Plan Nederland, and treasurer of the Netherlands  Museums Association and Stichting Museumkaart.  Mr Jeroen Jansen Jeroen Jansen (1962) has been Director of ASN Bank  since 2005, primarily focusing on marketing, com- munication, public relations, asset management,  sustainability policy and research. Jeroen Jansen  started his banking career at Triodos Bank. He  joined Hollandse Koopmansbank (currently SNS As- set Management) in 1995, where he developed asset  management services and sustainability research for  institutional investors, social institutions and ASN  Bank. He took up his position as manager of Social  Strategy at SNS REAAL Corporate Communications  in 2000. He was also part of the ASN Bank Ma- nagement Boards support staff. He was appointed  deputy Director of ASN Bank in 2001. Among other  positions, Jeroen Jansen is treasurer of Stichting  Avondster and a member of the programme council  of CSR Netherlands.  Ms Joyce van der Est Joyce van der Est (1965) has been deputy Director  of ASN Bank since 2011 and is responsible for the  banks operations, which includes customer service,  customer and account management and IT. In this  position, she creates the conditions for professional  services to customers. Joyce van der Est has years of  experience in managing operational and IT proces- ses in branch banking. She started her career at  Robeco in 1988. After nearly ten years, she conti- nued her career at Bank Labouchere, where she also  professionalised customer and IT processes. Since  2003, she has managed ASN Banks operations. Her  focus is on the continuous development, profes- sionalisation and innovation of the internal organi- sation with the objective of achieving high-quality  service and transparent products.  175 ASN Bank Bezuidenhoutseweg 153  2594 AG The Hague P.O. Box 93514 2509 AM The Hague ASN Customer Service  0800 – 03 80 (freephone) Fax 070 – 361 79 48 E-mail informatie@asnbank.nl www.asnbank.nl 175