Innovative  by conviction  Annual Report 2011  2011 – LANXESS Year of High-Tech Plastics High-tech plastics are among the key materials of the 21st century. The auto- motive industry in particular but also the electrical and construction industries  are making increasing and more extensive use of these innovative materials.  Audi's  agship A8, for example, has a front end made from aluminum and a  thermoplastic-based PA composite sheet supplied by LANXESS. The advantages  are obvious: our plastics are lightweight and  exible and facilitate a wide range  of design options. This makes them indispensable to modern life, future mobility  and sustainability – and one of the key growth drivers for LANXESS.   This annual report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG management. Various known  and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material differences between the actual future results,  nancial situation, development or  performance of the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes no liability whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements or to  conform them to future events or developments. Key Data  million 2010 2011 Change % Sales 7,120  8,775  23.2  EBITDA pre exceptionals 918 1,146  24.8  EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 12.9%  13.1%  EBITDA 890  1,101  23.7  Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 635  826  30.1  Operating result (EBIT) 607  776  27.8  EBIT margin 8.5%  8.8% Net income 379  506  33.5  Earnings per share () 4.56  6.08  33.5  Dividend per share () 0.70 0.85  21.4  ROCE 17.0%  17.2% Cash flow from operating activities 430 1) 672  56.3  Depreciation and amortization 283  325  14.8  Cash outflows for capital expenditures 501  679  35.5  Total assets 5,666  6,878  21.4  Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,761  2,074  17.8  Equity ratio 31.1%  30.2%  Pension provisions 605  679  12.2  Net financial liabilities 913  1,515  65.9  Employees (as of December 31) 14,648  16,390  11.9  Personnel expenses ( million) 1,141 1,244  9.0  Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 days absence (per million hours worked) 2.3 2.7  Energy consumption (petajoules) 52 1) 55 5.8 Total water consumption (in million cubic meters) 292 292 0.0 Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalents in thousand tons) 1,906 1) 1,935 1.5 Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand tons) 8.0 1) 7.8 (2.5) Total waste (in thousand tons) 259 1) 267 3.1 Total wastewater (in million cubic meters) 31 33 6.5 1) Figure restated Sales by Region %   EMEA (excluding Germany)     Germany   North America   Latin America   Asia-Paci c    16.6 13.7 22.8 29.0 17.9 Employees by Region (as of December 31) %   EMEA (excluding Germany)     Germany    North America   Latin America   Asia-Paci c    20.5 13.2 47.9 9.7 8.7  Market Position The Performance Polymers segment brings together all the activities  of the LANXESS Group in the production of rubber and plastics. Our  technologies give us a strong position in the global market. For example,  LANXESS is among the leading manufacturers of butyl and polybuta- diene rubber, used mainly for the production of car and truck tires. Our  high-tech Durethan and Pocan plastics are strong brands with signi - cant potential for growth and innovation. Business Units   Butyl Rubber (BTR)   Performance Butadiene Rubbers (PBR)   Technical Rubber Products (TRP)   Semi-Crystalline Products (SCP) Performance Indicators   million 2010 2011 Change  % Sales 3,692 5,059 37.0 Proportion of Group sales 51.9% 57.7% EBITDA1) 548 768 40.1 EBITDA margin1) 14.8% 15.2% Cash outflows for  capital expenditures 298 437 46.6 Employees (as of Dec. 31) 4,281 4,977 16.3 2010  gures restated 1) Pre exceptionals Performance Polymers Performance Indicators  million 2010 2011 Change  % Sales 1,411 1,545 9.5 Proportion of Group sales 19.8% 17.6% EBITDA1) 259 264 1.9 EBITDA margin1) 18.4% 17.1% Cash outflows for  capital expenditures 73 107 46.6 Employees (as of Dec. 31) 2,903 2,883 (0.7) 2010  gures restated 1) Pre exceptionals Advanced Intermediates Market Position The operations that LANXESS combines in its Advanced Intermediates  segment make it one of the worlds main suppliers of basic and  ne  chemicals. Our core competencies lie in the production and marketing  of industrial and  ne chemicals, and in research and development in  these  elds. Many years of experience, successful brands and a highly  ef cient integrated aromatics production network give LANXESS  leader ship posi tions in the global market. Business Units   Advanced Industrial Intermediates (AII)   Saltigo (SGO) Performance Chemicals Performance Indicators  million 2010 2011 Change  % Sales 1,978 2,130 7.7 Proportion of Group sales 27.8% 24.2% EBITDA1) 281 289 2.8 EBITDA margin1) 14.2% 13.6% Cash outflows for  capital expenditures 114 112 (1.8) Employees (as of Dec. 31) 4,907 5,819 18.6 1) Pre exceptionals Market Position LANXESSs Performance Chemicals segment combines all the  Groups  application-oriented activities in the  eld of process and functional  chem icals. With strong brands, we rank among the worlds lead ing  producers. For example, we hold a leadership position in the  eld of   or ganic colorants for plastics. Our major strengths include a global  sales and service network, outstanding product quality, high innovative   capability and patent protection for our companys technologies. Business Units   Material Protection Products (MPP)   Inorganic Pigments (IPG)   Functional Chemicals (FCC)   Leather (LEA)   Rhein Chemie (RCH)   Rubber Chemicals (RUC)   Ion Exchange Resins (ION)  With innovative premium products, first-class  technical   expertise and German inventiveness,  LANXESS  contributes  to its customers success around the globe. We are a  specialty chemicals company with businesses that hold  leading market positions worldwide. Resource efficiency  and environmentally friendly solutions are the key to our  sustainable growth.  By focusing on four megatrends and the worlds growth  markets, we aim to increase our EBITDA pre exceptionals  to 1.4 billion by 2015. With selective investments and   acquisitions in 2011, we remained on course to achieve  this objective.  Contents 34 Corporate Responsibility 58 Investor Information 4 Letter to Stockholders 8 Management  18 Segments 10 Strategy 68 Financial Information 120 Corporate Governance 130  Report of the Supervisory Board 134 Consolidated Financial Statements  186  Responsibility Statement 187  Auditors Report 188 Glossary 190 Index 191 Graphics and Tables 192 Financial Calendar/Contact  4 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 In my letter to you last year, I promised that we saw our successes not as a reason to rest on our laurels but  as a further incentive to become even better and exploit growth opportunities. We have kept our word. 2011 was an outstanding year for LANXESS. At 1.146 billion, EBITDA pre exceptionals, our companys  key indicator, surpassed the billion euro mark for the  rst time in our history.  That is a record achievement.  We were also pleased to see our net income reach a new high of 506 million. Thus, we remain well on our  way to achieving our ambitious business targets, which include particularly an EBITDA pre  exceptionals of  1.4 billion in 2015. The economic environment varied widely last year. Growth in the industrial nations was very modest in  light of the escalating debt crisis in some eurozone countries and the persistently high level of public debt  in the United States. Once again, the global economy was driven by the emerging markets, especially the  BRICS countries. This situation con rmed once again that it was both right and necessary to position LANXESS as a global  enterprise – to be present especially in those markets where we can expect the strongest growth for our  businesses. It is a strategy that paid off again last year. We increased sales signi cantly in all regions. Our  success was particularly impressive in the Asian market, where we achieved sales in excess of 2 billion for  the  rst time in our companys history. The key contributors to this growth were our synthetic rubbers and high-tech plastics businesses, which  bene ted particularly from brisk demand from the global tire and automotive industries. We are the world  market and technology leader in the production of rubbers for high-ef ciency green tires, the fastest  growing segment of the tire industry. These tires, which reduce emissions without compromising on safety,  can only be manufactured using high-performance synthetic rubbers and additives. We expect further  signi cant  momentum to come from the tire labeling requirements that are set to enter into force in the E.U.  this year. Other  countries with large automobile markets will follow. Voluntary tire labeling already exists  in Japan and South Korea. The latter has decided to introduce mandatory tire labeling based on the E.U.  model at the end of this year. Alongside signi cant operational improvements last year, our innovative products and technologies enabled  us to further cement our position as one of the worlds leading specialty chemical companies. These  products and technologies make a substantial contribution to improving the quality of peoples lives and  are the principal drivers of our business. They are essential to the ongoing enhancement of our competitive- ness. That is one of the reasons we are raising our research and development spending and further in- creasing the number of employees in R&D. Most of our product innovations are targeted at meeting the  growing requirements arising from the global megatrends of mobility, urbanization, water and agriculture.   5 Letter to Stockholders   6 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 For LANXESS, 2011 was also characterized by numerous measures aimed at generating additional growth  in the years ahead. We decided, for example, to build a new plant for high-performance neodymium poly- butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) in Singapore, alongside the world-scale butyl rubber facility that is already under  construction there. Nd-PBR has higher elasticity than many other tire rubbers and its lower abrasion reduces  rolling resistance and makes tires last longer. It therefore has precisely the properties that are  needed for  manufacturing green tires. We chose Singapore as the location for our facility because of its close proximity  to the growing Asian markets as well as for its excellent infrastructure and highly skilled workforce. A further milestone was achieved in summer 2011 when we commissioned our new plant in Bitterfeld  to produce membrane  ltration technology for water treatment applications. This facility is further proof of  LANXESSs sustained commitment to systematically investing in Germany and creating new jobs.  We are also exploiting external growth opportunities as a means of expanding our enterprise. Of  particular  note in the year under review was the acquisition from DSM of the Keltan EPDM business, which has   already contributed substantially to earnings by our Technical Rubber Products business unit.  One key aspect of our entrepreneurial activities is reconciling our business dealings with our commitment  to society and the environment. For us, economy and ecology are inseparable. We act and work in strict  accordance with the motto Good for business, good for society. Against this backdrop, we are particularly pleased that we became one of the signatories to the worlds  largest and fastest growing corporate social responsibility initiative, the United Nations Global  Compact, in  2011. By signing the initiative, we have pledged to comply with its principles and to promote the sustain- ability of the global economy by exercising entrepreneurial responsibility. Our innovative products and highly ef cient processes help to conserve resources and energy. They enable  us not only to make an important contribution to climate protection, but also to reduce costs. That is why we  will make green mobility our focus for 2012. In the long term, however, sustainable business requires  innovations because these help safeguard our competitiveness.  One milestone in this regard was the world premiere achieved by our Technical Rubber Products  business  unit at the Triunfo site in Brazil in October 2011, when it started industrial-scale production of the new  bio-based EPDM rubber Keltan Eco. The ethylene used as the precursor for this product is not derived  from oil, but obtained entirely from a renewable resource: sugarcane. I am con dent that we will become faster at  nding ways and processes for accessing alternatives to oil as  the starting product for our rubbers, plastics and chemicals.  Another aspect of our entrepreneurial responsibility is preparing LANXESS for the human resource   challenges we will face in the coming years because of globalization, demographic change and  international  competition for the best talents. We have responded promptly and comprehensively to these challenges.  Following the launch of our XCare program in 2010, the global Diversity X Inclusion initiative was started  in 2011. Our social and environmental responsibility and our key sustainability indicators are discussed in  further detail in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Annual Report.   7 Letter to Stockholders    Following record results in 2010 and 2011, the economic environment has worsened in  scal 2012.  Growth expectations remain very modest because of the unresolved debt crises in the European Union  and the United States. Low growth rates or even a slight recession are expected in the countries most  affected by the debt situation, which may slow momentum in the chemical industry. However, we remain  con dent that LANXESS will continue to grow pro tably. We will be focusing particularly on the growth markets in the emerging economies, most notably in the  BRICS countries, where the uptrend is likely to continue at a strong pace. The  LANXESS Group now   makes about a quarter of its total sales in Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. We expect to bene t  from our strategy of focusing on these  ve countries and the key megatrends that are especially signi cant  there.  We are also prepared to face any new challenges that may be thrown up by the worlds crises. Our  strategic  focus enables us to move quickly and ef ciently when it comes to dealing with dif cult situations. When  faced with demanding problems in the past, we successfully resolved them with a great deal of hard work  and dedication.  Today,  LANXESS is ideally positioned to achieve its medium-term growth target for EBITDA pre exceptio n- als of 1.4 billion in 2015. We have the right products; we are present in the main markets; we make  investments that are compatible with our strategy; and we are strongly committed to innovation and research.  We have thus set the course for continued stable growth.    We owe much of this to our employees around the world. Day after day, they show commitment in facing  new challenges. They see opportunity in change. Through their enormous dedication and efforts, they  were a vital factor in  LANXESSs successful business performance in 2011. On behalf of the entire Board  of Management, I would like to express appreciation and gratitude for their hard work.  I want to thank our business partners for working with us in a spirit of trust. We hope to continue these   valuable relationships going forward. I also want to thank you, our stockholders, for the con dence you  have placed in our company. Each and every one of us at  LANXESS will continue to do all we can to   ensure that  LANXESS remains a valuable investment. We hope that you will accompany us on this   successful course in the future as well.  Yours sincerely,  8 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Management Bernhard Dttmann was born in Dsseldorf in 1959. He studied   business administration at the University of Cologne, where he also  obtained his doctorate. In 1989 he joined Beiersdorf AG in Hamburg,  Germany, where he was latterly the Executive Board Member respon- sible for Finance/Human Resources and held regional responsibility for  the Middle East, Africa and Turkey. Bernhard Dttmann was appointed  by the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG on February 3, 2011, to  become Chief Financial Of cer of the specialty chemicals company.  He is married and has three children. Dr. Bernhard Dttmann Chief Financial Officer Werner Breuers was born in Mnchengladbach, Germany in 1958.  He studied chemistry and obtained his doctorate from Aachen Technical  University before beginning his career at Hoechst AG in 1989. After  holding managerial positions at various companies in Germany and  abroad, he latterly worked for the Basell Group as President of Basell  Polyole ns Europe. Werner Breuers was appointed to the Board of  Management of LANXESS AG effective May 14, 2007. He is married  and has two children. Dr. Werner Breuers Member of the Board of Management  9 Management   Axel C. Heitmann was born in Hamburg in 1959. After graduating in  chemistry from Hamburg University and Southampton University, United  Kingdom, and obtaining his Ph.D., Heitmann joined Bayer AG in 1989.  Following a succession of roles at Bayer, including international assign- ments in the United Kingdom and China, he was appointed Chairman  of the LANXESS AG Board of Management on September 16, 2004.  Axel C. Heitmann is married and has two children. Dr. Axel C. Heitmann Chairman of the Board of Management Rainier van Roessel was born in 1957 in Oisterwijk in the Netherlands.  He studied business administration at the University of Cologne, where  he also obtained his doctorate, and joined Bayer AG in 1988. When the  LANXESS organization was set up in 2004, he became Head of the  Rubber Chemicals business unit, and in June 2006 he was additionally  appointed Managing Director of LANXESS N.V., Antwerp,  Belgium.  Rainier van Roessel was appointed to the LANXESS AG Board of   Management on January 1, 2007. He is married and has three children. Dr. Rainier van Roessel Member of the Board of Management  (Industrial Relations Director)  Strategy  Lower weight and fewer assembly steps thanks to a high level of functional inte- gration in the injection molding process – these are the bene ts of the Audi A8  front end produced using plastic-metal composite technology. For the  rst time,  this hybrid component uses lightweight PA composite sheets in addition to   aluminum. Compared to its aluminum equivalent, the PA composite can reduce  the components weight by around 10 to 20 percent. A customized Durethan  polyamide 6 is used in both the PA composite sheet and the injection molding  process. Fuel Saves  12 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 On course for   sustainable growth As a highly innovative supplier of pre- mium products, LANXESS is one of  the worlds leading specialty chemicals  companies. We will be continuing to  strengthen our position in the coming  years through selective investments  and acquisitions. Our overriding goal  is to achieve EBITDA pre exceptionals  of around 1.4 billion in 2015. Ideally positioned at the core of the chemical industry As one of the worlds leading specialty chemicals companies, we  are positioned at the core of the chemical industry. Our specialist  expertise, our applications know-how and our capacity for innovation  are demonstrated by our three segments: Performance Polymers,  Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals. Our aim is to  position all our businesses at the forefront of their respective markets.  The 13 business units in our three segments have global responsi bi lity  for their business operations and manage their activities autonomously  as entrepreneurs within the enterprise. This ensures short communi- cation lines,  at hierarchies and motivated employees – all of which are  crucial in ensuring that we can respond quickly to speci c customer  requirements and to changes in market and regulatory conditions.  Through selective additions to our product portfolio and our distinctive  innovation culture, we are increasingly becoming a high-tech supplier,  reliably delivering premium-quality products, actively supporting our  customers innovation processes and thus adding measurable value.  This enables us to strengthen customer loyalty, differentiate ourselves  clearly from our competitors, and remain highly competitive even in  economically challenging times.  LANXESS Focuses on the Core of the Chemical Industry Performance  Chemicals Performance  Polymers Advanced  Intermediates Pharma Agro Bulk plastics Petrochemicals Specialty chemicals Polymers Intermediates Feedstocks, gas and oil   Here we can perfectly leverage our expertise in  chemicals and  our applications know-how.   We have excellent and long-standing customer relations.   We see a lot of room for maneuver in these three segments.   Our balanced portfolio in these segments reduces the volatility  of our business.  13 Strategy The steadily growing signi cance of research and development at  LANXESS is re ected in the change in two key R&D indicators over  the past  ve years. Since 2007 we have raised our innovation budget  each year by an average of 13 percent and increased the number  of research and development employees by a total of 79 percent.  Over and above this, we have in our Innovation & Technology Group  Function an ef cient central organizational unit that coordinates all  research and development activities within the Group and handles  cross-business unit projects.    The stability of our business development is rooted in our broad di- versi cation, in terms of both product applications and the regions  in which we operate. Our main markets are the tire, automotive, con- sumer goods, chemical manufacturing, agrochemical and construction  industries. We also supply products for electronics, water treatment,  medical supplies, coatings, printing technology and packaging. This  diversi cation means we are not dependent on individual custom- ers. In 2011 our ten biggest customers accounted for only around  28 percent of our business. We have steadily improved our regional pro le in recent years. In the  key growth regions of Asia and Latin America, we now have a sig- ni cant market presence backed by an effective modern production  network, which we will continue to expand in the future. Clear growth target  In  scal 2010, on the basis of our excellent strategic and economic  position, we communicated a new mid-term growth target. We aim  to raise our key  nancial indicator – EBITDA pre exceptionals – to  1.4 billion in 2015. En route to this target, all of our businesses are  expected to report average annual EBITDA pre exceptionals growth  of at least  ve percent.  Each Business to Contribute to EBITDA 1) Growth 1) Pre exceptionals 2010 2011 Minimum EBITDA1) growth for each business: 5% CAGR 918 1,146 ~1,400 ~1,300 2015 Performance  Polymers Advanced  Intermediates Performance  Chemicals Additional  organic and external growth EBITDA1)  million Approved and announced projects  14 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Two areas of strategic focus have been de ned as the framework for  our business activities: 1. Participation in the global megatrends We are systematically aligning our product portfolio to four of the most  important global megatrends, where we anticipate steady, above- average growth in the coming years.   Mobility The growing desire for mobility, particularly in the emerging  markets and especially in China and India, together with the need  to improve the environmental compatibility of mobility throughout  the world, opens up excellent perspectives for LANXESS. As the  worlds leading supplier of high-quality synthetic rubber, we stand to   bene t from rising demand for high-performance tires. In addition, our  Semi-Crystalline Products business unit offers the automotive in dustry   future-oriented concepts for replacing metals with high-tech plastics  that reduce vehicle weight and improve fuel ef ciency.  Agriculture Rapid growth in the worlds population is signi cantly  increasing global demand for food. Our Saltigo and Advanced Indus- trial Intermediates (formerly Basic Chemicals) business units already  market a wide range of products to help boost agricultural productivity  and protect crops.  Urbanization Throughout the world, people are relocating from rural  areas to cities. Current forecasts estimate that the urban population  will grow by 40 percent this decade. All these people will need homes,  of ces and an ef cient infrastructure. These are the applications of  our products for the construction sector, for example the inorganic  pigments produced by our Inorganic Pigments business unit. Water Population growth and climate change are steadily increas- ing the importance of water as a valuable resource. Studies indicate  that demand for clean water will exceed the current supply by about  40 percent in 20 years. LANXESS aims to make a signi cant con- tribution to closing that gap. Products and processes marketed by  our business units, for example Ion Exchange Resins, are playing an  increasingly important role in the treatment of drinking water, waste- water and process water.  2. A stronger presence in emerging markets We consider a local presence to be a further strategic success factor.  In regional terms, we will therefore be concentrating principally on ex- panding our business and production capacities in the booming BRICS  countries, with the focus on Brazil, India and China. Our business data  clearly re ect the growing signi cance of the BRICS countries, which  accounted for about 24 percent of Group sales in 2011.   We regard the  rst-time increase of our EBITDA pre exceptionals to  more than 1 billion as clear evidence that our strategy has put us well  on the way to achieving our ambitious mid-term goal. What is more,  we have already set the course for the next stage in our sustainable  growth strategy. Orange Capacity expansions  (PBR, TRP) Porto Feliz Burzaco New facilities (SCP, RCH) Capacity expansion (RCH) Gastonia New facility (SCP)  15 Strategy Focus on organic growth We aim to generate most of our future growth organically – by expand- ing existing production facilities and increasing investment in new  state-of-the-art sites, through product innovations and, last but not  least, through further improvements in process ef ciency. In 2012  alone, we plan to invest around 600 million. Performance Polymers segment   The Butyl Rubber business unit is constructing a state-of-the-art  butyl rubber facility in Singapore that is scheduled to start pro- duction at the beginning of 2013. Costing some 400 million,  this is the largest investment project in the history of LANXESS.   Close by, the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit is  investing some 200 million in a new production plant for its  high-performance neodymium polybutadiene rubber (Nd-PBR).  This additional production capacity is scheduled to come on  stream from 2015.   A joint venture of LANXESS and the Taiwanese company TSRC  Corporation is currently building Asias most advanced facility for  the production of NBR rubber in Nantong, China.   At the same time, our Performance Butadiene Rubbers and Tech- nical Rubber Products business units are expanding capacities  at a total of  ve sites in Europe, North America and Latin America.   To strengthen our Semi-Crystalline Products business units high- tech plastics operations, we are building new compounding plants  in Gastonia, United States, and Porto Feliz, Brazil; expanding the  Hamm-Uentrop site in Germany operated by our joint venture  with DuPont; and increasing capacities for key intermediates in  Antwerp, Belgium. Capacity  expansion  (TRP) Technology  changeover  (TRP) Leverkusen Geleen Capacity  expansion  (SCP) Hamm-Uentrop Capacity  expansion  (PBR) Port Jrme Capacity  expansion  (AII) Krefeld-Uerdingen Antwerp Zwijndrecht Dormagen Capacity  expansions  (PBR, TRP, SCP) Lipetsk New facility (RCH) New facility  (LEA) Changzhou Nantong New facility (TRP) Singapore New facilities  (BTR, PBR) We have initiated major capital expenditure  projects in all our regions in order to achieve  further  organic growth.  16 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Advanced Intermediates segment   Through 2012, the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business  unit will be expanding production capacities for synthetic menthol  at the site in Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany. Performance Chemicals segment   Starting in 2013, the Leather business unit will be supplying  premium products to China, the worlds largest market for leather  chemicals, from a new facility in Changzhou.   The Rhein Chemie business unit is building a new facility in Porto  Feliz, Brazil, and expanding capacities in Burzaco, Argentina.  Rhein Chemie is therefore preparing for further growth in Latin  America as well.    In Lipetsk, Russia, Rhein Chemie is also constructing LANXESSs   rst production facility in that country to supply additives and  release agents to the rubber processing and tire industries there.  Further information about these projects and the activities successfully  completed before the editorial deadline of this Annual Report can be  found in the segment sections starting on page 18. Continuing our successful acquisition strategy We also intend to continue generating additional growth through  selective acquisitions. Our M&A record shows that we understand  how to further grow our leadership positions in this way. In the past   ve years, we have added a large number of activities to our portfolio.  All these acquisitions have had a positive impact on earnings per  share within just a short time, thanks to the new business and cost  synergies generated. Strengthening the LANXESS Group with Selective Acquisitions Year Company/business Business unit Economic driver 2006 CISA Leather Vertical integration 2008 Petro ex Performance Butadiene Rubbers Growth in the BRIC countries ICOS Corporation laboratories Saltigo Expand activities in the United States R&M E.M.S. GmbH metering  instruments business Material Protection Products Improve international market penetration of Velcorin stabilizers  Jinzhuo Chemicals Inorganic Pigments Expand activities in Asia 2009 Gwalior Chemicals Advanced Industrial Intermediates Strengthen global position Jiangsu Polyols Advanced Industrial Intermediates Expand activities in Asia 2010 Clariant product line (phenolic active  ingredients for disinfectants) Material Protection Products Strengthen product portfolio  Parts of the Flexsys primary  accelerators business Rubber Chemicals Strengthen product portfolio  2011 DSM EPDM business Technical Rubber Products Expand portfolio of premium EPDM products; access ACE technology Syngenta material protection business Material Protection Products Strengthen product portfolio in response to urbanization megatrend Verichem Material Protection Products Strengthen product portfolio in response to urbanization megatrend;  access EPA-registered active substances Unitex Functional Chemicals Expand product portfolio; access  exible production facilities Darmex Rhein Chemie Strengthen product portfolio in response to mobility megatrend;  access bladder technology Flexsys product lines (Vocol and Santoweb) Rhein Chemie Expand product portfolio for the rubber industry Wacker Chemie AG tire release  agents business Rhein Chemie Expand market position; access new growth opportunities  in the United States  17 Strategy We are continuing to seek out small to mid-sized enterprises that  immediately bene t our core business. In this respect, 2011 was the  most active year in our history. A milestone in our growth strategy was the acquisition of the Keltan  EPDM business from Dutch company Royal DSM N.V., which took  economic effect at the start of May 2011, following approval by the  antitrust authorities. This acquisition strengthens the position of our  Technical Rubber Products business unit in the steadily growing market  for the synthetic rubber EPDM and gives us access to the innova- tive ACE technology. Compared to conventional technologies, ACE  reduces energy costs in the production of EPDM and, at the same  time, increases the range of applications for these types of rubber.  We are currently investing 12 million to build new capacities using  this technology at the site in Geleen, Netherlands, that was acquired  with the transaction.  Through the acquisitions of Darmex in Argentina, Unitex and Verichem  in the United States, and the material protection operations of Syngenta  AG, plus selective purchases of individual product lines from competi- tors, we have improved the market positions of the Rhein Chemie,  Functional Chemicals and Material Protection Products business units  in our Performance Chemicals segment. Further information about  these transactions can be found in the segment sections starting on  page 18 of this Annual Report. We are also monitoring the market for mid-sized businesses or tech- nologies that might be a good  t with our portfolio. Our liquidity and  undrawn credit lines put us in a very good  nancial situation that will en- able us to implement our growth strategy through further acquisitions. Outlook for 2012 In recent years, we have used our product portfolio to successfully  position our company in the key customer industries and the worlds  growth regions. We aim to further strengthen our position in the com- ing years as well. Although we must expect growing economic uncertainty and greater  customer restraint in 2012, we still anticipate robust business per- formance by our three segments. Our key customer industries are  expected to continue developing positively, though with regional varia- tions. We are extremely well-positioned worldwide in all segments to  again bene t from this growth in 2012.  Our successfully concluded capital expenditure projects and other  measures for future organic growth initiated during 2011 are ex- pected to make a signi cant contribution. Moreover, we will generate  additional growth from the acquisitions we have made, our successful  price-before-volume strategy, the focus on premium products, and  product and process innovations. Against this background, we are con dent overall for 2012. We are  making better progress than ever toward achieving our medium-term  growth target of 1.4 billion EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2015.  The coolant pipes in modern cars must satisfy a number of exacting require- ments. Firstly, they transport a water/glycol mixture under pressure and at high  tempe ratures. This may have a corrosive effect on many materials. Secondly, their  surfaces have to be as smooth as possible: inside to minimize  ow resistance  and outside to ensure the tightest possible connection to other components.  Customized high-tech plastics from our Durethan product line not only display  particularly high resistance properties and surface quality. They offer the engineer  considerable design freedom.   Segments Hard on the soft on the  Performance   Polymers The Performance Polymers segment brings together all  our polymer activities and comprises the Butyl Rubber,  Performance Butadiene Rubbers, Technical Rubber Prod- ucts and Semi-Crystalline Products business units. They  all hold leadership positions in their respective markets.  People and a vehicle are transported across the Genipabu Lagoon in north eastern  Brazil. An entry in LANXESSs employee photo competition entitled  Megatrends –  Megaphotos, this picture artistically illustrates the mobility megatrend which is  bene ting the Performance Polymers segment in particular. 20 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Overview of the business units The Butyl Rubber business unit produces high-quality butyl and halo- butyl rubbers for the tire and rubber industries. A key advantage of  these products is their high impermeability to gas and moisture. The  Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit produces polybuta- diene rubber (PBR), solution styrene-butadiene rubber (SSBR) and  emulsion styrene-butadiene rubber (ESBR), synthetic rubbers that  meet the most stringent requirements. Neodymium polybutadiene  rubber (Nd-PBR) and SSBR are used especially for manufacturing  modern, fuel-ef cient tires. However, the products of the Performance  Butadiene Rubbers business unit are also an indispensable component  of many everyday products such as footwear, yogurt pots and golf  balls. As one of the leading suppliers of technical rubber products, the  Technical Rubber Products business unit delivers materials that are  used in functional components in a wide range of applications – from  seals, hoses, pro les and cable sheathing to special  lms and adhe- sives. The Semi-Crystalline Products business unit is successful with  the high-tech plastics Durethan and Pocan and their key strategic  feedstocks. These products are used primarily in the automotive and  electronics industries. Mobility megatrend is main growth driver With economic growth and prosperity on the rise, particularly in  emerging markets and developing countries, our world is becoming  increasingly mobile. However, greater mobility goes hand in hand with  increased emissions and higher consumption of resources. Making   mobility environmentally friendly is therefore one of the greatest   technical challenges of our time. The business units in the Perfor- mance Polymers segment can use their pioneering technologies in  two areas to signi cantly contribute toward mastering this challenge. The future belongs to green tires The rolling resistance of tires accounts for around one quarter of a  cars fuel consumption. Improving the energy ef ciency of tires is,  therefore, the  rst important starting point for making mobility more  environmentally friendly. As the market leader in high-performance  rubbers, we make it possible to achieve the key tire properties de-  ned in the magic triangle of tire technology, combining low rolling  resistance with good wet grip and excellent mileage. If all the vehicles  in the world were  tted with these tires, annual fuel savings of some  20 billion liters could be achieved and CO2 emissions reduced by  around 50 million tons each year. The success of electric mobility,  too, will depend crucially on the degree to which tires with low rolling  resistance can extend the still very limited range of electric vehicles. Legislators have now also recognized the huge potential of these  tires and introduced corresponding regulations. From November 1,  2012, all new vehicle tires in the European Union will have to be  labeled to show their fuel ef ciency, wet grip and noise emissions.  Tire manufacturers are already responding by marketing products  that comply with the new standards. However, the European Union  is not alone in its efforts. South Korea, too, has decided to introduce  mandatory tire labeling based on the E.U. model at the end of 2012.  Similar legislation is also being debated in the United States, Brazil  and China. Japanese tire manufacturers voluntarily introduced a com- parable labeling system at the start of 2010.  As a key supplier to leading tire manufacturers, LANXESS will bene t  from these initiatives, which will result in signi cant and, above all,  sustainable growth potential. This is because they will translate into an  increase in demand for green tires, which can only be produced with  high-tech synthetic rubber and additives. We expect around 2 billion  tires to leave the production lines in 2015 – some 25 percent more  than today. Over the same period, the proportion of green tires is  likely to increase from 35 percent at present to around 50 percent.  To satisfy this growing demand, we are making selective investments  in the global expansion of our production capacities. Global expansion of production capacities The construction of our new,  high-tech butyl rubber plant in Singapore is on track. Costing around  400 million, it is our biggest investment project to date. From the   rst quarter of 2013, this facility on Jurong Island should provide us  with additional annual production capacities of up to 100,000 tons to  meet the growing demand for butyl rubber in Asia. The plant will also  set new standards in terms of environmental protection, with between  10 and 15 percent of the investment volume going into technologies  that will cut energy and water consumption and reduce emissions.  In June 2011, we also announced plans to build a new production  facility for neodymium polybutadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) close by. Cost- ing around 200 million, this facility will be the largest of its kind in  the world with an annual capacity of 140,000 tons. It is scheduled  to come on stream in the  rst half of 2015. As was the case for the  butyl rubber plant, the key arguments in favor of the Singapore site  were the good supply of raw materials, the excellent infrastructure, the  availability of highly skilled employees, the large port and the proximity  to our growth markets in Asia. 21 Segments Performance  Polymers  LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Company Ltd. – a  joint venture company between LANXESS and the Taiwanese TSRC  Corporation – is constructing a new facility for the manufacture of  NBR products in Nantong, northwest of Shanghai, at a cost of around  36 million. Asias most modern NBR plant will start with an annual  capacity of 30,000 tons and supply the fast-growing Chinese market  with high-quality NBR grades from the  rst half of 2012.  In addition to these major new construction projects, we are also  systematically expanding our existing facilities.  For example, we have invested 20 million in increasing the annual  production capacity of our butyl rubber plant in Zwijndrecht, Belgium,  by ten percent – or 14,000 tons. This project was  nished at the end  of 2011, ahead of the scheduled completion date in mid-2012.  Capacities for Nd-PBR have been expanded by a total of 50,000 tons   a year at our sites in Dormagen, Germany; Orange, United States; and  Cabo de Santo Agostinho, Brazil. We have already started a second  expansion phase in Orange, which will increase annual capacities for  SSBR and Nd-PBR by an additional 20,000 tons. With an investment  volume of 10 million, this project is scheduled for completion in  the third quarter of 2012. The aforementioned measures will result  indirectly in increased capacities for SSBR at our production site in  Port Jrme, France. In response to the considerable increase in global demand for our  synthetic high-performance rubber Therban, we are expanding pro- duction capacities at our sites in Leverkusen, Germany, and Orange,  United States, by 40 percent each. This investment is in the low single- digit million euro range. The work in Leverkusen is due to be completed  in April 2012 and the work in Orange by the end of 2012. At our site in Dormagen, Germany, we are investing 17 million in  the expansion of our production capacities for the polychloroprene  solid rubber Baypren. This project is scheduled for completion  by the end of 2012 and will increase production by 10 percent to  63,000 tons a year. The expansion work will also see the deployment  of a new technology that will make production more energy-ef cient  and resource-friendly. We announced last year that we would be signi cantly expanding  EVM capacities at our site in Dormagen, Germany, to meet the steady  rise in demand for special elastomers. 9 million is being invested to  increase production by 30 percent to 15,000 tons each year. The new  capacities will be available from the second half of 2012. Acquisition of DSM elastomers business completed At the start of  May 2011, we successfully completed the second largest acquisition  in our companys history by purchasing the elastomers business of  Dutch-based Royal DSM N.V. This transaction, worth 310 million, signi cantly improves the position  of our Technical Rubber Products business unit in the global market  for the synthetic rubber ethylene-propylene-diene monomer (EPDM),  which we are marketing under the brand name Keltan. EPDM is used  above all in the automotive industry but also as a modi er for plastics,  in the manufacture of oil additives and in the wire and cable and  construction industries. Single-digit growth is forecast for the global  market in the next ten years, driven primarily by increasing demand  from China and Brazil.  As part of the successful integration process, we are transforming the  site acquired with the transaction at Geleen, Netherlands, into the new  headquarters of our global EPDM business and an innovation center  within the global LANXESS network. A new administration building  accommodating up to 120 employees is scheduled for completion  at the start of 2013. During 2013, we also plan to invest 12 million  in converting the largest of the three production lines – and therefore  half the sites capacities of 160,000 tons a year – to the innovative  Keltan ACE technology. Compared to conventional technologies,  ACE reduces the energy and production costs for EPDM and, at the  same time, increases the range of possible applications for these  rubber products.  Pioneer of sustainable rubber production In 2011, we achieved a  number of successes in the development of sustainable technologies  and processes for the production of synthetic rubber.  We increased our holding in listed U.S. biofuel and biochemical  manufacturer Gevo Inc. to 9.1 percent and signed a ten-year supply  agreement. In cooperation with Gevo, we are seeking to manufac- ture isobutene from renewable raw materials. A key precursor for the  manufacture of butyl rubber, isobutene is conventionally produced in  steam crackers using petroleum derivatives as a feedstock. Gevo is  developing an alternative fermentation process using corn biomass.  Tests performed over several months in a small unit in Leverkusen have  shown that the butyl rubber produced there using biologically based  isobutene meets the high standards of the tire industry.  22 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Under the name Keltan Eco, we introduced the worlds  rst bio-based  EPDM rubber in September 2011. This material is made of ethylene  derived from sugarcane. In terms of quality, it is on a par with conven- tionally produced ethylene. In future, we aim to supply the global market  with around 10,000 tons of Keltan Eco each year from the plant at  Triunfo, Brazil, which we acquired with the DSM elastomers business. In 2011, we continued our successful series of Rubber Days con- ferences designed to foster and expand our international network  of manufacturers, customers and research institutes. Four events in  Germany, South Korea, Japan and China brought together leading  industry experts for discussion and an exchange of views.  Our Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit received the inau- gural Michelin Supplier Award 2010 in June 2011 in recognition of  its outstanding quality and innovative strength. This award is presented  to suppliers that have made a special contribution toward helping  Michelin achieve its quality targets. Performance Butadiene Rubbers  is the only supplier to produce top-quality high-performance rubber  in three regions of the world – and is therefore the ideal partner for  exacting tire manufacturers. Partnerships strengthened in growth regions We have strengthened  several successful long-term partnerships with customers in Asia by  concluding new agreements.  For example, we will now be supplying South Korean tire manufacturer  Hankook with SSBR and Nd-PBR until 2015. The world number seven  in the tire industry is currently expanding its production capacities in  South Korea, China, Indonesia and Hungary. We have concluded an  agreement that will run until 2014 to supply premium halobutyl rubber  to the Triangle Group, one of Chinas biggest tire manufacturers. This  company has been a customer for regular butyl and halobutyl rubber  for more than a decade. We have also signed a long-term agreement  to supply high-grade EPDM rubber to South Korean automotive sup- plier Hwaseung Corporation. Additionally, there are plans to expand  our joint research and development activities in the  eld of special  rubber applications. In a system similar to the one already used  for domestic appliances, classes from A (best  performance) to G (worst performance) are  intended to ensure greater transparency for  consumers and support their decision-making  process when buying new tires. The rolling  resistance of category A tires will be around  40 percent lower than that of category G tires,  which translates into a fuel saving of around  ten percent.  Noise emissions/ external rolling noise Rolling resistance/ fuel efficiency Wet grip/ braking performance 23 Segments Performance  Polymers  Lightweight construction –   a market with a promising future The second important starting point for environmentally friendly mobility  is the substitution of traditional materials, such as steel or aluminum,  with innovative high-tech plastics and intelligent composites. Currently  in Europe, plastic parts account for around 15 percent of a vehicles  weight. Due to the trend toward lightweight construction and the in- creasing importance of electromobility, we expect this to increase to  more than 20 percent in the near future. Using hybrid technology – a plastic/metal composite technology that  combines the strengths of sheet steel and polyamide – the Semi- Crystalline Products business unit has for some time had available an  innovative solution that can be used to reduce the weight of vehicles  and thus their fuel consumption. This solution is subject to ongoing  optimization and makes no compromises in terms of design and safety.  Hybrid components are up to 30 percent lighter than their all-steel  counterparts but deliver the same performance. Thanks to this know-how, we are the preferred partner to many major  automotive manufacturers. As a result, we too are bene ting from the  rising demand for cars, particularly in the BRICS countries. Overall,  we expect global demand for high-tech plastics to grow annually by  around 7 percent through 2020. In Asia, and especially in China,  growth rates are likely to be considerably higher. We are responding  to this market growth by signi cantly increasing capacities.  New capacities for precursors and end products At our site in Wuxi,  China, we have already completed the second capacity expansion at  our state-of-the-art compounding facility for high-tech plastics since  production started in 2005. This expansion phase came on stream  in July 2011 and has boosted our capacities by almost 50 percent  to around 60,000 tons a year. At the end of January 2012, production also started at our  rst com- pounding facility in India, located at our site in Jhagadia. Built at a cost  of more than 10 million, this plant has an initial annual capacity of  Polyamides like Durethan and polybutylene  terephthalates like Pocan have a whole host  of applications in the cars on our roads today,  including on-board electronics, media hoses  and weight-saving bodywork parts. 24 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  20,000 tons and, together with our facility at Wuxi, China, will supply  the entire Asia-Paci c region with our high-tech plastics Durethan  and Pocan.  Through mid-2013, we intend to invest a similar amount in construct- ing a facility of comparable size in Porto Feliz, Brazil. This will reinforce  development of the site as our production center for cutting-edge  technologies in Latin America. Construction of our Semi-Crystalline Products business units  rst  production facility in the United States got under way in the second  quarter of 2011. On the worlds largest market for high-tech plastics,  demand is currently being driven by, in particular, stricter fuel con- sumption standards for cars and light commercial vehicles. The new  compounding facility in Gastonia, North Carolina, will also have an  initial annual capacity of 20,000 tons and will come on stream at the  end of 2012. This investment will create up to 55 new jobs. In response to growing global demand for polybutylene terephthalate  (PBT), we will also be doubling capacity at the compounding facility  in Hamm-Uentrop, Germany, owned jointly with U.S. chemicals group  DuPont. This project represents an investment of around 10 million  and is scheduled for completion in 2012. At our site in Antwerp, Belgium, the expansion by 10 percent of our  caprolactam capacities was concluded as planned at a cost of around  35 million and we have already initiated the next project there –  expansion of our glass  bers production plant. We will be investing  15 million to raise capacities by 10 percent from the current level of  60,000 tons a year. Like caprolactam, glass  bers are an important  intermediate in the manufacture of our high-tech plastics.  Our global production network and our ability to deliver at all times,  no matter how complex the requirements, are key factors for success  in the high-tech plastics business. This is evidenced by the Global  Supplier Award 2011 we received at the end of 2011 from our  longstanding customer MANN+HUMMEL. This award from the worlds  leading provider of  lter systems recognizes not only our product quality  and innovative capability but also our delivery reliability and  exibility. The Durethan oil pans  tted in the engines for  the Mercedes Actros trucks from Daimler are up to  120 centimeters long, 40 centimeters wide and  35 centimeters deep. These three dimensions rep- resent a real pioneering achievement because never  before have polyamide 6 and 66 been used to make  such large engine oil pans. This record size con rms  the enormous performance potential in high-tech  plastics that can be unlocked by applying the services  marketed under the HiAnt brand. We used a series of  calculations and simulations to con rm the feasibility  of the project, thus helping to ensure that the pans  could be designed on the computer properly and cost- effectively over a relatively short development period. HiAnt thanks toRecord 25 Segments Performance  Polymers  Advanced  Intermediates The Advanced Intermediates segment comprises our businesses  with basic and fine chemicals. The Advanced Industrial Intermediates  business unit (formerly Basic Chemicals) produces a wide range of  high-quality industrial chemicals, while Saltigo operates on the custom  synthesis market, specializing in tailored solutions for customers in  the agrochemical and pharmaceutical sectors. Both business units  are leading suppliers in Europe and are consistently expanding their  positions in other regions, too. This photo of the impressive Longji Rice Terrace was  taken close to the city of Longsheng, China, and  depicts the agriculture megatrend. The Chinese word  longji means dragons backbone, an apt description  of the terraces appearance. 26 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Advanced Intermediates bene ts from   agriculture megatrend  The worlds population is growing steadily, particularly in the emerging  economies. According to the United Nations, the global population  exceeded 7 billion in October 2011 – and it will continue to rise to  around 9.2 billion by 2050. This development is a key driver of the  agriculture megatrend because, as the number of people on our planet  increases, so too will the demand for food. For example, the demand for  cereals is expected to grow by 1.5 percent each year through 2025.  At the same time, however, climate change and increasing industria l - ization are likely to actually decrease the amount of land available for  agriculture, thus necessitating a considerable improvement in the  ef ciency of cultivation.  The product portfolios of our Advanced Industrial Intermediates and  Saltigo business units include many key intermediates for synthesizing  agrochemicals that can help farmers protect their plants and increase  their yields.  Major investments improve competitiveness  2011 saw the completion of two major capital expenditure projects  with a total volume of around 40 million, a clear signal from the  Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit of its commitment  to Germany as a production location.  In Krefeld-Uerdingen, LANXESSs second largest production site world- wide, a new formalin plant came on stream in December 2011. As a  result, we are no longer dependent on buying in this feedstock, which  is needed for the production of trimethylolpropane (TMP). This is used,  among other things, to make products for the furniture, construction  and automotive industries. Synergy effects in energy utilization and  lower transport costs will contribute to improving the competitiveness  of our TMP. We optimized the process for manufacturing this product  alongside constructing the formalin plant. The same production pro- cess is also used to manufacture our popular and successful brands  Rovelan, an animal feed additive, and Folanx, a leaf fertilizer. As we had announced, we began work to expand our menthol produc- tion operations in Krefeld-Uerdingen in July 2011. Demand for syn- thetic menthol, a key component of many aromas and pharmaceutical  products, continues to grow steadily. Working together with a producer  of fragrances and  avorings, LANXESS is one of the worlds leading  manufacturers of synthetic menthol and thymol. Our entire output is  coordinated with this contractual partner and its processes. The capital  expenditure project will not only double our plants capacity, but also  yield signi cant improvements in process ef ciency. For example, we  intend to use a highly ef cient new catalyst developed by LANXESS  in the expanded plant. We will also implement an energy recovery  technology developed by our own engineers that will greatly improve  the energy balance of our menthol production. The expansion project  is scheduled for completion in the  rst half of 2012. Ef ciency also characterizes Mebo x, the new drying accelerator from  Advanced Industrial Intermediates for conventional calcium sulfate  screeds. It reduces drying times by more than half and ensures that  freshly laid screeds can be walked on after just two days. This greatly  improves environmental compatibility because far less water is needed  than when using conventional drying accelerators. Further development of Saltigo strategy   At Saltigo,  scal 2011 was characterized by further development of  the business units strategy. In the future, while still focusing on its  core business of custom and exclusive synthesis, greater emphasis  will be placed on harnessing business opportunities in the  eld of  non-exclusive  ne chemicals. Saltigo already has an attractive portfolio of  ne chemicals produced  on an industrial scale. These include precursors for polymer addi- tives, fragrances and  avorings, and intermediates for electronics  and cosmetics. The attractive target markets include, for example, the  active ingredients segment of the agrochemical industry. In the com- ing years, Saltigo aims to further strengthen its market position with  multi-customer products by attracting new customers for its existing  product portfolio and systematically expanding its range of services.  One example of the successful introduction of a multi-customer product  is the insect repellent Saltidin. Highly rated by consumer organiza- tions and recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO)  as the substance of choice for malaria prophylaxis, this product has  enjoyed an excellent reputation on the market for many years. With  Saltidin CombiSun, Saltigo has now developed its  rst product for the  consumer market. This water-resistant preparation contains 15 percent  Saltidin combined with UVA and UVB  lters. It is therefore perfectly  suited for use in tropical climates. Customers in the cosmetics and  pharmaceuticals industries, for example, can apply for a license to use  the frame formulation and then produce and market the preparation  under their own brand name.  27 Segments Advanced  Intermediates  Performance  Chemicals The Performance Chemicals segment groups together our seven  application-oriented business units in the field of process and  functional chemicals: Material Protection Products, Inorganic  Pigments, Functional Chemicals, Leather, Rhein Chemie, Rubber  Chemicals and Ion Exchange Resins. They are all among the top  suppliers worldwide in their respective markets. Rapid urbanization: Pudong, Shanghais pulsating  nancial and  high-tech  hub, has developed in just two decades and is representative of the   urbanization megatrend. From the start, this district has posted high levels  of economic growth. 28 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Overview of the business units The Material Protection Products business unit is one of the leading  global manufacturers of preservatives and biocidal active ingredients.  Inorganic Pigments is one of the worlds biggest producers of iron  oxide and chrome oxide pigments for a wide range of applications.  Functional Chemicals provides the plastics industry and many other  industries with plastics additives, phosphorus-based and specialty  chemicals, and organic and inorganic colorants. As one of the few  suppliers to the leather industry, the Leather business unit offers all  the products needed to process leather. Rhein Chemie produces  chemical specialties for the rubber, plastics and lubricant industries.  Rubber Chemicals is among the worlds main suppliers of high-quality  rubber chemicals. The Ion Exchange Resins business unit is one of  the leading international producers of ion exchange resins, adsorbers  and functional polymers. With the introduction of reverse osmosis  membrane technology, the business unit now offers end-to-end solu- tions for water treatment.  This broad portfolio of innovative and increasingly sustainable premium  products enables the business units of the Performance Chemicals  segment to participate in several of the megatrends that are the focus  of our activities. Various solutions address mobility megatrend   The Rubber Chemicals and Rhein Chemie business units of the Per- formance Chemicals segment are bene ting most from the mobility  megatrend.  Following the acquisition of the Argentina-based Darmex group in  January 2011, Rhein Chemie is now one of the worlds leading sup- pliers of release agents for rubber products. It also has access to  the market for vulcanization bladders, which is worth an estimated  300 million. Bladders are used in the production or vulcanization  of tires to give them their  nal shape. We are now the  rst manufac- turer in the world to offer perfectly coordinated release agents and  high-performance vulcanization bladders as a single-source solution.  An increasing number of tire manufacturers are outsourcing the pro- duction of vulcanization bladders to specialists and we aim to bene t  from this trend in the coming years. In Burzaco, Argentina, we are  currently expanding our production capacities by 40 percent. We are  also investing some 10 million to construct a new plant at our Porto  Feliz site in Brazil which, from the fourth quarter of 2012, will produce  rubber additives and high-performance vulcanization bladders.  Our market position was strengthened by two further transactions in   scal 2011. With the purchase in April of the Vocol and Santoweb  product lines from U.S. company Flexsys, we systematically expanded  our portfolio for rubber processors. By acquiring the tire release agent  activities of Wacker Chemie AG in July, we improved our leading posi- tion on this market and gained access to new growth opportunities,  especially in the United States.  We plan to strengthen our market position in Russia by constructing  LANXESSs  rst production facility at the Lipetsk site, starting in spring  2012. Manufacturing rubber additives and release agents for our Rhein  Chemie business unit, this facility is scheduled to come on stream in  the  rst half of 2013 and will serve especially the automotive and tire  industries in Russia and the CIS. The total investment for the project  amounts to approximately 5 million. Our current planning for the site  envisages adding a facility to produce vulcanization bladders in 2016. Portfolio expansion in response to  urbanization megatrend   With urbanization continuing unabated, the United Nations estimates  that around 70 percent of the worlds population will live in cities by  2050 compared to just under 50 percent today. This trend is most  evident in the emerging markets and developing countries. In China  and India alone, around 100,000 people are migrating from the  country to cities every day. It is believed that eleven new megacities  – cities with more than 10 million inhabitants – will develop in these  two countries by 2020. Our products are used in a large number of  customer industries that are bene ting from increasing urbanization. Strengthening the Material Protection  Products business unit In  scal 2011, we focused particularly on strengthening the activities  of our Material Protection Products business unit in response to the  urbanization megatrend.  Since acquiring the material protection business of Swiss-based  Syngenta AG, we are now one of the leading suppliers of biocides  for protecting construction materials such as wood, plasterboard  and coatings. The purchase in April 2011 largely covered patents,  customer lists, supply agreements and registrations for Syngenta  products. This transaction has given us access to a broad range of  active ingredients for fungicides and insecticides and to application  technologies. It also marks the beginning of a long-term strategic  partnership in which Syngenta will grant us access to substances and  technologies developed in the future for use in material protection. 29 Segments Performance  Chemicals  The purchase of Pittsburgh-based biocide specialist Verichem in  November 2011 strengthens our position on the North American  material protection products market. It expands our existing portfolio  and gives us access to other active ingredients registered with the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). These agents protect  coatings, adhesives, construction materials,  bers and paper from  destruction or discoloration by microorganisms. Concrete at its most spectacular In 2011, the Colored Concrete Works campaign by the Inorganic  Pigments business unit continued to demonstrate the technical, es- thetic and design potential of Bayferrox pigments when it comes to  coloring architectural concrete. For example, the campaign focused  on two museums: the Polish Aviation Museum in Krakow, Poland, and  the Casa das Histrias Paula Rego in Cascais, Portugal. Designed  by star architects, the museum in Poland echoes the fascination of  aviation and aviation technology. The Portuguese museum brings  together architecture and nature to create an esthetic of contrasts.  It was designed by one of Portugals most famous architects and is  considered by art, a leading German art and design magazine, to  be among the worlds most spectacular exhibition venues. Expanding business in response  to the water megatrend Usable water is a rare commodity. Today, around one billion people  have no access to clean water. Even in areas where water is available  in suf cient quantities, it often cannot be used due to high levels of  contamination. State-of-the-art industrial processes like those used  to generate electricity cannot be operated safely and economically  without ultra pure water. Population growth, environmental pollution  and climate change will greatly exacerbate this situation in the decades  ahead. Against this backdrop, water treatment products are gaining  in signi cance – and with them the activities of our Ion Exchange  Resins business unit.   End-to-end supplier for water treatment Following the successful start of the pilot and development phase in  May 2011, we commissioned our production plant for reverse osmosis  membrane technology at the Bitterfeld site in September. We are now  the only manufacturer of these membrane elements in Europe. The  new production units, laboratories, logistics facilities and of ces at the  site represent an investment of around 30 million that will result in  some 200 new jobs in the long term.  Complementing our ion exchange resins, reverse osmosis membrane  elements make it possible to remove minute particles from water, along  with other undesirable substances such as nitrates, pesticides, viruses  and bacteria. They are mainly used to treat water for power plants and  to produce ultra pure water for the microelectronics industry. In future,  the membrane elements manufactured in Bitterfeld will also be used  to produce drinking water from brackish water or seawater. The global  membrane market is currently estimated to have a volume of around  1 billion, and this  gure is set to rise further still. Membrane elements  marketed under the brand name Lewabrane were introduced at the  beginning of 2012. This has made LANXESS an end-to-end supplier  in the  eld of water treatment.  Alongside the new facility, an extensive research and development  program has been initiated at the site and at other locations in the  region. Already home to a plant for the production of ion exchange  resins, Bitterfeld is now the center for our water activities in Germany. In March 2011, following a successful test phase, we started regu- lar production at Asias most modern ion exchange resins plant at  our site in Jhagadia, India. The facility boasts an annual capacity of  35,000 tons. Around 200 employees at the site manufacture products  for industrial water treatment in the semi-conductor, pharmaceutical,  food and energy industries. The Asia-Paci c region is already the  largest market for ion exchange resins. Ongoing industrialization and  continued population growth will result in an above-average increase  in demand for clean water in the coming years.  Successful expansion of international  production network We announced our  rst acquisition of a U.S. production facility in   October 2011. The purchase of Unitex Chemical Corporation in  Greensboro, North Carolina, broadens our Functional Chemicals  business units portfolio of environmentally friendly phthalate-free  plasticizers, which are posting growth of around seven percent each  year. The facility at Greensboro has an annual capacity of more than  50,000 tons and is characterized by its  exible production units.  In July 2011, we started work on the construction of our new leather  chemicals production facility in Changzhou in Jiangsu province,  China.  Equipped with cutting-edge technologies and environmen- tally friendly processes, this facility will have an annual capacity of up  to 50,000 tons. From the  rst half of 2013, it will produce premium  leather chemicals such as Tanigan, Isoderm, Euderm and Levotan  for the steadily growing local market. The investment of 30 million  will create around 150 new jobs. 30 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  The photo competition entry that illustrates the water megatrend shows a small boy  playing on the Marina Barrage in Singapore. This structure protects the heart of the  city state from  ooding, has created a freshwater reservoir covering 240 hectares,  and is a popular place for Singaporeans to spend their leisure time. In India, we have now relocated the production of leather chemicals,  material protection products and products of the Rhein Chemie busi- ness unit from Madurai to Jhagadia, thus concentrating more of our  Indian manufacturing activities at this state-of-the-art site.  As well as expanding our production network, we are also broadening  our service offering in China. For example, we opened a new tech- nology center at our research and development facility in Qingdao  in July 2011. Ten specialists from the Material Protection Products  business unit are working at this center to expand our service offering  for the Chinese beverage industry. Alongside analytical, technical and  consulting services, our portfolio includes customized solutions based  on our Velcorin cold sterilization technology. China will become the  worlds largest beverage market in the next ten years. 31 Segments Performance  Chemicals  The 2011 Colored Concrete Works campaign by the Inorganic  Pigments business unit showed impressive examples of the uses  of Bayferrox pigments: the Polish Aviation Museum in Krakow,  Poland (below), and the Casa das Histrias Paula Rego in  Cascais, Portugal (left). German art and design magazine art  considers the latter to be one of the worlds most spectacular  exhibition venues. 32 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  New premium products underline commitment to  sustainability   A range of innovations in 2011 underlines our commitment to combin- ing cutting-edge technology and sustainability to generate pioneering  solutions. With Natural Choice, the Material Protection Products business unit  launched its  rst product consisting entirely of natural ingredients. This  innovative  avoring with stabilizing properties is a sustainable alterna- tive to conventional preservatives for beverages containing fruit juice  such as still lemonade or isotonic sports drinks. Initially available only  in the United States, the worlds largest beverage market, Natural  Choice is to be introduced successively in other countries. In 2011, our Inorganic Pigments business unit was honored once  again as the best supplier of iron oxide color pigments by the re- spected Brazilian trade journal Paint & Pintura. The judges praised  the outstanding product quality and, in particular, the business units  innovative strength and high environmental standards in production.  For more than 85 years, our high-performance iron oxide pigments  have combined optimum shade and color strength with easy process- ing and very good dispersibility.  The products manufactured by Inorganic Pigments do more than just  add color, as evidenced by the successful launch of two new  Bayoxide  products in 2011. With high-purity technical iron oxides for the pro- duction of lithium iron phosphate (LFP), we have strengthened our  focus on the mobility megatrend. LFP is a cathode material used in re- chargeable lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. In response to the  agriculture megatrend, we have also introduced a new technical iron  oxide that can be used to remove sulfur from biogas. This was tested  together with the Chamber of Agriculture of North Rhine-Westphalia  and complies with the provisions of Germanys fertilizer legislation. Starting 2012, the Functional Chemicals business unit – in a strategic  partnership with U.S. company BioAmber Inc. – plans to manufacture  phthalate-free plasticizers from succinic acid derived from the waste  from agriculture and sugarcane production. The fermentation process  used to produce the acid requires much less energy, is signi cantly  more cost-effective and emits less CO2 than the conventional process  using fossil fuels. This partnership is further evidence of our high level  of commitment to green chemistry.  The Leather business unit, too, has committed to sustainable and  ecologically compatible products and processes with its pioneering  Sustainable Leather Management initiative. A unique technology  platform will be used to develop innovative solutions for improving  ef ciency in the production, processing and recycling of this favorite  age-old natural material. The Leather business unit already develops  and markets the X series portfolio of premium products and system  solutions tailored speci cally to the sustainable production of leather.  This portfolio includes the X-Tan organic tanning system launched  in September 2011. One key feature of this entirely new tanning  process is the high degree of whiteness, which makes it possible  to produce brilliant colors during subsequent dyeing. Moreover, no  environmentally hazardous or harmful substances occur at any stage  of the process. X-Tan combines  rst-rate performance with ecologi- cal bene ts and therefore perfectly  ts the objectives of Sustainable  Leather Management. A plastics additive launched by the Rhein Chemie business unit in  2011 signi cantly improves market opportunities for bioplastics.  BioAmide extends the service life of bio-based polyesters, enabling  their use for the  rst time in long-life high-end applications. It also makes  it possible to increase the proportion of renewable raw materials in  ready-to-use plastics. In recognition of this innovative product devel- opment, Rhein Chemie received the prestigious Global New Product  Innovation Award from respected consulting  rm Frost & Sullivan. The Rubber Chemicals business unit has been producing zinc oxide  for 80 years. Originally an important additive in rubber production, it  has in recent years become a popular specialty chemical with a broad  range of uses. With applications ranging from ceramics, electronics and  household products to specialty pharmaceuticals and UV protection,  zinc oxide products are becoming increasingly important. They owe  the bene cial properties that make them so popular to a very special  and complex production process mastered by only a few manufactur- ers worldwide apart from LANXESS. To support the market launch of Lewabrane membrane elements  for water treatment (see page 30), the Ion Exchange Resins business  unit also introduced a completely revised version of its calculation  software for customer-speci c engineering. This enables users to  switch seamlessly from designing reverse osmosis systems to ion  exchange resins – all in the same package. Customers can therefore  utilize the bene ts of our end-to-end water treatment solutions to  generate real added value. 33 Segments Performance  Chemicals  Corporate Responsibility  Thanks to its outstanding stability, highly reinforced polyamide 6 can be  used in many automotive engineering applications. As an alternative to sheet  steel, aluminum and glass-mat-reinforced thermoplastics (GMT), the material  boasts a large number of advantages in terms of design and  production.  One example is the spare wheel recess with integrated  reinforcing channels  for the Audi A8. Using our high-tech plastic Durethan, it is possible to  accu rately produce the complex component geometry in just one injection  molding step – which could not be done using sheet metal.  steel substitute for A   Corporate  Responsibility As an international specialty chemicals  group, we bear a major responsibility  toward people and the environment.  Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this  sense of responsibility. Safety, environ- mental protection, social responsibility,  quality and commercial efficiency are all  key corporate goals at LANXESS. Good for business, good for society   In its business activities,  LANXESS is committed to taking account of  the demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure.  Good for business, good for society. This short sentence perfectly  sums up our approach to business. It re ects our conviction that our  products and our expertise in the area of sustainable development can  make a signi cant contribution to supporting our customers, protecting  the environment and improving the quality of life of people everywhere. The greatest bene ts of our corporate responsibility (CR) activities  are achieved if they are balanced with entrepreneurial and, especially,  economic objectives. They must therefore be linked to our core busi- ness or to our available expertise. Alongside climate protection, our  commitment to education is a key area of activity.  Management system drives success We have established a globally integrated management system to  breathe life into the concept of sustainable development in our everyday  business. In addition to internal directives and operating procedures,  strict quality and environmental standards in line with ISO 9001  and ISO 14001 apply worldwide. Our central management system  provides the necessary global structures to ensure sustainable work  practices throughout the company. With this toolbox, we have created  a transparent framework of values and rules that unites management  and employees across national borders.  In 2007, we started integrating all our sites worldwide into a single  management system covered by one global matrix certi cate. We  regularly commission external, independent experts to audit and verify  the implementation status of this process. In 2011, the sales of ce in  Moscow, Russia, was included in the management system for the  rst  time. By the end of the year, a total of 81 sites (mainly production facili- ties, technical laboratories and sales of ces) had been integrated into  our matrix certi cate, thus making it one of the most comprehensive  industrial certi cates in the world. For our sites in the United States,  we have also received certi cation to RC 14001 (RC = Responsible  Care). In 2012, we plan to integrate our facilities in Liyang, China,  and Jhagadia, India, and the sites we acquired from DSM in Geleen,  Netherlands, and Triunfo, Brazil, into the matrix certi cate. Good for Business   Strengthening reputation   Improving image   Transparency, trust and good partnership  with stakeholder groups   Satis ed employees and stakeholders   Increasing awareness among customers and public Good for Society   Protection of climate/environment   Social responsibility   Training and education   Culture   Safety and security   Neighborhood Corporate  Responsibility 36 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Resource and energy ef ciency is a critical factor in climate and  environ mental protection. We have in the past taken measures to  ensure the ef cient utilization of both resources and energy. However,  in light of the greatly increased signi cance of resource and energy  ef ciency in both ecological and economic terms, we decided in 2010  to introduce a global energy management system at  LANXESS. With  a uniform approach, process transparency and energy ef ciency as  part of a well-structured operative energy management system, we  aim to preserve resources, reduce energy costs and thus considerably  improve our competitiveness. In February 2011, we published our  correspondingly revised corporate policy in which climate protection  and resource ef ciency are given a more prominent position. We established a project group to drive forward the introduction of  an energy management system based on ISO 50001. This has been  developed with practical application in two pilot facilities in Leverkusen  and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany. In the reporting period, we drafted  a global energy management guideline and compiled an accom- panying handbook to ensure the optimal implementation of energy  management at operational level. All business units have appointed  energy management of cers with responsibility for global energy  management. The focus of our activities is on transparently mapping  energy  ows and identifying potential for improving ef ciency as the  basis for systematic analysis and a prioritization of our measures. We  are using the experience gained in our two pilot facilities to develop  standards for analysis and process development. We aim to complete  implementation of our energy management system in Germany by  the end of 2012. Roll-out to other countries should then take place. All management systems are based on values and guidelines that pro- vide a clear framework for a companys management and em ployees.  Our system is based on established global standards and on our   companys own basic rules, which are subject to ongoing amendment. By signing up to the worlds largest and fastest growing corporate  social responsibility initiative, the U.N. Global Compact, we once again  raised our sustainability pro le during the reporting period. With its  established principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards,  environmental protection and anti-corruption, the pact now numbers  more than 8,000 participants from over 135 nations. Transparency and improved public dialogue are among the stated  objectives of the Responsible Care Global Charter launched by the  International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). This is the only  way to build con dence and trust in an industry that plays a crucial role  in improving peoples living standards and quality of life.  LANXESS  has supported this initiative since 2006, when it also became one of  the signatories to the ICCA charter. For us, applying the Responsible  Care Global Charter to our business means working consistently to  improve our processes and services in terms of environmental and  climate protection, health, safety and quality. Amended in February  2011, our corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter  are integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy.  We  rmly believe that our companys future can only be safeguarded  by acting responsibly. The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Area Principle Human rights  1)  Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.  2)  Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor  3)  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  4)  Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.  5)  Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor.   6)  Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment  7)  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.  8)  Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.   9)  Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10)  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 37 Corporate Responsibility  Our Corporate Compliance Guideline is a code of legal compliance and  responsible conduct that is binding on all  LANXESS employees and  commits them to act in accordance with the law, apply the principles  of Responsible Care and demonstrate ethical conduct. In our view,  such conduct also includes respect for human rights and the avoidance  of child labor. The guideline also covers issues such as competition,  occupational, product and plant safety, environmental protection,  and interactions with other people. To oversee implementation of  the Corporate Compliance Guideline, the Board of Management has  established the Compliance Committee, comprising representatives  from a range of specialist backgrounds. This Committee handles all  referrals concerning compliance violations, with the goal of countering  illegal or unethical conduct by  LANXESS employees at an early stage  and introducing suitable measures to prevent improprieties altogether.  All globally applicable  LANXESS directives and guidelines are   contained in a system that is accessible to every employee.   First stakeholder roundtable meetings Current ecological and social issues and related opinions are very  important to  LANXESS. We therefore actively seek dialogue with  key stakeholders on issues that are or may become relevant to our  company and our economic success. We see this dialogue as an  oppor tunity to actively engage in public debate and, at the same time,  receive direct feedback on our business activities, especially with  respect to corporate responsibility. The stakeholders of relevance to  LANXESS are the groups, institutions  and people with whom we are linked directly or indirectly through our  business units and who therefore have an interest in our activities.  The primary purpose of our dialogue with customers, employees,  suppliers, and representatives of the capital market, politics, public  authorities and NGOs is therefore to identify topics that we consider  to be signi cant in terms of our corporate responsibility. At the same  time, we seek to encourage mutual understanding and build trust  through open and constructive dialogue.  Following our  rst telephone survey in 2010, we engaged in a more  personal dialogue with our stakeholders at two roundtable meetings  held as planned during the reporting period. In September 2011, representatives from the tire industry, the certi ca- tion organization TV, various NGOs and  LANXESS came together in  Leverkusen to discuss the potential of modern green tires in reducing  fuel consumption and thus also CO2 emissions in vehicles. The key  topics on the agenda included:     The importance of the proposed tire labeling regulations in the E.U.;     Ways of raising the still relatively low level of consumer awareness  for the advantages of high-performance tires and tire labeling;   Potential instruments for preventing tire labeling abuse;   The considerable differences between regional tire markets;  The outlook for the tire industry through 2020. The consequences of E.U. tire regulations and the associated chal- lenges in communication with consumers were also a main focus of  our second roundtable meeting in Brussels in December 2011. For  the  rst time, representatives from the tire industry were joined by  politicians and representatives from the automotive industry.   Given the positive feedback from both events, roundtable meetings  will continue to be an important instrument for stakeholder dialogue  in 2012. We generally aim to expand dialogue to include other   areas where our expertise can make a key contribution to a more   sustainable future.     Praise from all sides for our CR activities We consider the large number of external ratings and awards we  received in 2011 as con rmation that we are on the right track with  our CR strategy.    In recognition of our ambitious sustainability initiatives, oekom  research – a leading independent rating agency for sustainable  investment – increased our corporate responsibility rating to C+.  This upgrade applies to both social and environmental activities.    The capital market recognized our improved sustainability pro le  by including  LANXESS in the renowned FTSE4Good index and  the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World.   Our business units, country companies and individual sites also  received a host of awards for their sustainable product inno- vations, environmental initiatives and social commitment. 38 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Employees  Our successful growth strategy and the associated increase in   employee numbers in all key target markets have made human   resources activities an increasingly important strategic factor. Com- pared to the prior year, our workforce grew by 1,742, including 301  women and 1,517 non-German employees. At our companies in  Germany, we hired 382 new employees across all age groups. Our  main focus was on specialists in the areas of production and technol- ogy, especially engineers and chemists.  Recruiting young talent As part of its sustainable corporate policy,  LANXESS is continuing  to position itself as an attractive employer on all key markets. We  are giving particular attention to the BRICS countries and our home  market in Germany.  By means of various activities, we aim to attract, integrate and retain the  best talents for our company. In recent years, we have worked closely  with our employees to develop the basis for an employer brand with  the goal of conveying an authentic image of  LANXESS. Our corporate  culture is based on  at hierarchies and encourages employees to   assume responsibility in an international context at an early stage. This  gives our employees unique development opportunities.  In  scal 2011, we continued to seek direct contact with talented uni- versity and school students through our presence at a large  number  of career fairs and university events and by organizing our own events.  We also cooperate with university career centers and fund a range of  scholar ships as part of the German governments Germany Scholar- ship program. In the United States, we support high school and   college students interested in pursuing a career in chemistry through  the American Chemical Society. In Brazil, we identify future talents  through a structured intern program encompassing both training and  practical phases. With the Inside  LANXESS program, we give high  school graduates an insight into working life. In China, alongside our existing alliances, we have now entered into a  partnership with the Changzhou Institute of Engineering Technology.  This aims to share practical and scienti c expertise with the university,  give students an insight into the working world through internships  and thus arouse their interest in working for  LANXESS. In Pittsburgh,  United States, we support the Carnegie Science Center in a variety of  ways – for example, as a founding sponsor of the Center for STEM  (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Education and  Career Development. Activities include projects for high school stu- dents and events for young women interested in science. At a large number of recruiting  events, university graduates  gained interesting insights into  the LANXESS Trainee Program  and also had the opportunity  to experience our products up  close. 39 Corporate Responsibility  We also intensi ed our cooperation with selected schools and uni- versities worldwide with a view to giving teachers, children,  faculty  and students the opportunity to discover more about the many   interesting functions in process engineering, chemical research and  central  administration that we can offer on account of our chemical  and process diversity. Establishing early contact with schools close to our sites in Germany  and around the world, for example, as part of specialist project weeks,  and promoting science education at local high schools are two of the  focal points of  LANXESSs extensive education initiative, which we  continued to extend in  scal 2011. As a company, we consider this  initiative to be part of our social and corporate responsibility.  International partnership with Teach First Our special commitment  to education is also re ected in our partnership with Teach First in  Germany and India. We have been one of the main sponsors of this  not-for-pro t organization since 2010. Teach First, which is already  established in a number of countries, has set itself the goal of helping  school students who have had a dif cult start in life, fostering their  indi vidual talents and supporting them in developing career prospects.  Specially quali ed university graduates from all disciplines, who also  have the requisite soft skills, act as fellows for a period of two years,  helping schools in socially disadvantaged areas with education and  schooling tasks. In Germany, we focus particularly on supporting fel- lows specializing in mathematics and science. Activities at schools in  North Rhine-Westphalia will continue from February 2012. In addi- tion to providing  nancial support, we are also making a practical  contribution through activities such as vocational training preparation  for school students, personal coaching for fellows and a mentoring  program supported by our experienced managers. A parallel aim is  to recruit fellows to  LANXESS after their assignments in schools. A  number of the fellows from the  rst year of the program are now work- ing for the company. We also offer the school students we support the  opportunity to visit our facilities and help them apply for a vocational  training place at  LANXESS. We started working with Teach First in India in December 2010. The   rst fellows assigned to the Indian partner schools in Mumbai and  Delhi were given the opportunity to complete internships at our sites  in India as part of the program. The school students they support are  also given career guidance and an insight into working life through  visits to our facilities. In addition,  LANXESS employees support projects  in the schools in their free time. Developing young managers Each year, under the motto Prepare for  the Future, our  LANXESS corporate trainee programs attract highly  skilled university graduates. Our aim is to prepare the participants  for an international career within the  LANXESS Group and establish  a global pool of young managers with international experience. In    scal 2011, our marketing, controlling,  nance and human resources  programs were complemented by a new engineering program. Since  the initiative started, we have offered a wide range of entry-level posi- tions to 51 university graduates with an interest in embarking on an  international career.  In 2010, we created the China Management Trainee Program specif- ically for the Chinese market. This two-year program aims to prepare  highly quali ed business and technology graduates for management  roles and create a pool of local talent. In China, we were again  honored  as Chinas Top Employer by the CRF Institute. In the United States, we  received two prestigious Best Places to Work awards: in Pennsylvania  and in Ohio. At our Pittsburgh site, we were also named Manufacturer  of the Year by the Pittsburgh Business Times. Encouraging and supporting individual development   LANXESS has put in place a multi-tiered process of global HR develop- ment conferences enabling us to review the potential of talented  employees and assess the performance and leadership skills of mana- gerial staff on a regular basis. Moreover, the Development Center has  become an established tool worldwide for assessing the potential of  future managers and supporting their development. Management  workshops are a special way of fostering and recording the potential  of top managers. The results of this multi-dimensional approach are  an integral part of our HR development policy, which is augmented  by systematic succession planning for key positions.  We do not impose a uniform leadership style on our managers.   Instead, we expect them to  nd a personal balance between strategic  vision (Head), empathy (Heart) and the courage to make decisions  (Guts). We also provide our managerial staff with a wide range of  consulting services, including personal coaching and 360-degree  feedback. In addition, the range of special modular and multi-dimen- sional programs available at the  LANXESS Academy was extended.  Designed speci cally to prepare trainee managers for their future  tasks, these programs prove to be a very successful component of  our structured management training. 40 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  2011 also saw the creation of the International  LANXESS Sales   Academy (ILSA) as part of the  LANXESS Academy. This one-year  modular program is the  rst ever functional training offering for sales  teams around the world and aims to develop both the specialist knowl- edge and soft skills of our sales employees. It perfectly complements  the programs already in place in the business units and countries by  facilitating communication and the sharing of best practices across  business units and national borders. We consider this training to  be a targeted investment in our employees and an important lever  in our efforts to further improve our customer relationships. It also  gives  LANXESS a crucial competitive edge in todays global markets. The  LANXESS Forum, featuring high-caliber lectures and a subsequent  plenary discussion, explores societal trends and company issues,   providing a platform for dialogue between employees and manage- ment. In 2011, it focused on topics such as Japan and China and the  unusual scienti c  eld of economics and happiness.  With a view to optimizing our corporate culture, we conducted our   rst ever employee survey in 2011. Using the Great Place to Work  approach, 800 employees were asked to evaluate the strengths and  weaknesses of their current work environment at  LANXESS in  Germany.  The aim of the survey is to further enhance our appeal as an employer  and optimize our attractive, motivating and performance-oriented  workplace culture. Development opportunities and diversity for   international markets  Our global alignment is a key strategic advantage. Today,  LANXESS  employs people from 67 countries across the world. Our successful  focus on the BRICS countries is a deliberate strategy to increase prox- i mity to local customers and markets. However, training, the transfer  of know-how and practical experience are not one-way streets, which  is why  LANXESS is increasingly sending employees from the BRICS  countries to its sites in Western Europe and North America. In this way,  LANXESS is providing both new and experienced managers  as well as skilled non-managerial employees with the opportunity for  short stays abroad and longer international assignments.  The International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA)  teaches new approaches to ensure that our sales  employees have the best-possible training. Our  aim is always to be that crucial one step ahead in  international competition. 41 Corporate Responsibility  In 2011, 241 employees – around eight percent of our managers –  worked as expatriates outside their home countries. In addition to the  possibilities for sharing know-how and acquiring intercultural skills,  these overseas assignments also provide employees with the chance  for personal development. Sending employees abroad will remain a  central HR policy in 2012. To encourage the transfer of know-how  between  LANXESS companies, we are increasingly also sending  non-managerial employees abroad for periods of up to twelve months  for training purposes and project work. Our long-term goal is still to  equip local managers with expertise and international competencies.  We are supporting achievement of this goal with, for example, our  regional Leadership Academy in Brazil which  rmly embraces the   LANXESS leadership principle of Head, Heart and Guts. The global Diversity X Inclusion initiative The business environment  in which  LANXESS operates is changing at a dramatic pace. Globali- zation, demographic change and global competition for the best talents  are among the many and increasingly varied factors that in uence the  economic success of companies like  LANXESS.  Our employees with their diverse qualities and skills are the key to  our success in the international arena. We aim to foster this diversity  and the differences within our global team to an even greater extent.  This approach is bene cial both to our employees and to  LANXESS.  Ensuring diversity within the workforce generates new ideas, impetus  and greater creativity – and therefore continued success. Moreover,  accepting differences and deviations from the norm, and embracing  and encouraging these in a spirit of inclusion, creates a culture in  which people feel accepted and enjoy their work.  We aim and need to continue fostering and increasing diversity at   LANXESS if we are to maintain our competitive position on the global  market in future. This also applies particularly to attracting and inspiring  new talents for  LANXESS. We are therefore committed to systematically  harnessing the power of diversity, to a culture of valuing our employees  and, above all, to equal opportunities worldwide. We want  LANXESS  to become an even more diverse and inclusive company in which our  employees feel motivated and valued for their individuality.  With the  ve pillars of our XCare demo- graphic concept, we are developing  answers to the challenges of demographic  change. 42 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  However, if we want to improve and increase diversity within the com- pany in the coming years, we  rst need to know how diverse  LANXESS  already is. That is why, in fall 2011, we launched our global Diversity X  Inclusion initiative. In a  rst project phase, we are analyzing the gender,  nationality and age spread of  LANXESS employees worldwide. We  are initially focusing on three pilot areas: the Inorganic Pigments and  Technical Rubber Products business units and the Accounting group  function in Germany, the United States, Brazil, China and India.  Alongside the evaluation of processes within the HR department and  anonymous personal data, interviews with employees comprise a key  element of the analysis. Following the survey, the project team will  develop targeted measures for the pilot areas with a view to improving  diversity within the company. An international team comprising HR  experts and specialists from various business units and group functions  is responsible for project implementation. Dr. Rainier van Roessel is  the member of the Board of Management with overall responsibility  for the project. Since completion of the pilot phase, roll-out of the  project to all other areas of the company began at the start of 2012. Achieving corporate goals – successfully mastering  challenges  Long-term training and ongoing employee development ensure that  we achieve our corporate goals and safeguard the competitiveness of  our company. In view of the challenge posed by demographic change,   LANXESS cooperated closely with the employee representatives in  2009 to develop XCare, a comprehensive demographic concept for  the German  LANXESS companies based on the collective agreement  on lifelong worktime and demography in the chemical industry. This  project was continued in 2011 and aims to  nd answers to the chal- lenges posed by a steady rise in the average age of the workforce  coupled with a shortage of skilled young people.  LANXESS Employee Structure Germany 1) Age group Female Male Total < 20 — 2 2 20 – 29 119 379 498 30 – 39 257 1,212 1,469 40 – 49 581 2,595 3,176 50 – 59 366 2,236 2,602 > 60 13 86 99 Total 1,336 6,510 7,846 1) Permanent employees excl. trainees  LANXESS Employee Structure Rest of the World 1) Age group Female Male Total < 20 1 8 9 20 – 29 315 1,081 1,396 30 – 39 566 2,040 2,606 40 – 49 363 2,038 2,401 50 – 59 279 1,627 1,906 > 60 35 191 226 Total 1,559 6,985 8,544 1) Permanent employees The XCare project is based on an extensive demographic analysis of  the entire  LANXESS organization in Germany, which resulted in  ve  areas of activity – people and health; work and training; time and organi- zation; career and family life; and savings and retirement provision.  One aspect of work and training was the analysis of our trainee  gures  from a demographic perspective. Among the measures based on our   ndings was the decision to increase the number of vocational training  places we offer. By 2015, some 600 training places will be available  at our sites throughout Germany. In 2011, 123 young people (97 men and 26 women) took the oppor- tunity to start a technical, commercial or scienti c training program at   LANXESS, sometimes combining a regular job with a part-time course  of study. With a total of 317 trainees in 14 different career paths (as  of December 31, 2011),  LANXESS continues to train more young  people than it needs to meet its own requirements. Despite  uctuating  employee numbers, we have directly or indirectly hired 253 trainees  for temporary and permanent positions in recent years. Another main focus of our demographic project is balancing career  and family life, which remains an important issue for a large num- ber of  LANXESS employees. Around four percent of our employees  in Germany aged between 20 and 40 made use of the option to  take parental leave. Of this  gure, almost 50 percent were fathers. In  2011, in support of parents looking for care for their children, we also  started offering our employees reserved places at childcare facilities  in  Cologne ahead of the relocation of our company headquarters to  that city planned for 2013.  The introduction of caregiver leave has long been an important aspect  of career and family life. The aim is to support employees who care for  family members. In line with the German governments draft legislation  on family caregiver leave, which comes into force in 2012, we are one  of the  rst companies to conclude a comprehensive agreement with  employee representatives on a multi-stage caregiving program that  43 Corporate Responsibility  includes advice from an external service provider, short-term release  from duties, and individually agreed part-time working for caregivers.  This allows employees to reduce their working time to a greater extent  than their salary during the care phase and to make up the shortfall  when they return to work. We have expanded our projects in the area of people and health.  Our primary goal is to raise awareness of occupational health among   employees and managers and to facilitate the reintegration of   employees who have suffered prolonged illness. To this end, work- place integration teams comprising integration of cers and employee  representatives are now in place at all  LANXESS sites. In the area of  occupational health management, we have increased the number  of our facilities participating in pilot projects. These, too, are steered  individually by working groups made up equally of employee and  employer representatives who, with the support of external specialists,  analyze the existing health situation and develop a participatory action  model. The projects encompass management workshops, preven- tion concepts, advice on ergonomics for plant workers and nutrition  programs for shift workers. Since Canada is experiencing a similar development to Germany, our  subsidiary there has been actively addressing demographic change  since 2010. By regularly updating succession and training plans, all  business units aim to ensure that knowledge is transferred in due time  and the handover to the next generation is achieved in an orderly way.  Rewarding performance  LANXESS has established a fair remuneration policy that is linked to  the long-term success of the company and offers employees worldwide  a transparent and market-oriented compensation system. Collective  bargaining agreements provide the main basis for the compensation  of non-managerial staff in Germany and numerous other countries. The   xed salaries of managerial staff are supplemented by performance- based compensation components that are linked, on the one hand,  to the attainment of the Groups de ned EBITDA targets and, on the  other, to employees individual performance. Following our excellent business performance in 2011, we made  a total of 100 million available to give our employees worldwide a  share in the companys success. Much of this amount was paid out  in the form of an additional bonus. Our managers are able to reward  outstanding employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically.  In  scal 2011, this resulted in payments of 8.7 million worldwide  – 6.4 million to employees in Germany – for outstanding individual  performance. We again offered an employee stock plan in 2011. All  LANXESS Group  employees in Germany were given the opportunity to buy  LANXESS  shares at a 50-percent discount. The shares were purchased at an  average price of 57.54 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The par- ti c ipation rate was 75 percent. At the reporting date, our employees  and Board of Management members held around one percent of the  companys shares through stock plans.  For some time now, we have also offered a long-term incentive program  for managers in Germany and similar programs in the United States,  Canada, India and China. This stock performance plan compares the  companys value against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM  index over a period of three years. Since participants make a personal  investment and there is the chance that the stock will increase in  value, the program is an attractive long-term incentive and a means  of boosting employee loyalty.  For the period 2010 to 2013, the Board of Management has drawn  up a new long-term incentive plan (LTIP) for  LANXESS. The Long-Term  Stock Performance Plan 2010–2013 (LTSP) comprises four tranches,  one commencing each year. This plan compares the companys value  against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index over a period  of four years. The participation rate is 89.7 percent. Acting in partnership A key pillar of our HR policy is close cooperation with labor unions  and employers associations in accordance with the principle of active  codetermination. Almost 70 percent of our employees worldwide are  governed by collective agreements. In Germany, the  gure is more  than 90 percent. 44 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  We regularly discuss our corporate objectives with employee repre- sentative bodies in Germany, Europe and around the world and involve  these bodies at an early stage in the event of organizational changes.  In Germany, in the crisis year 2009, we responded to declines in  production by implementing QUEST, a training, deployment and job  management center, as part of our Challenge09-12 program. This  helps employees affected by low capacity utilization levels to prepare for  and  nd new challenges. An internal team of consultants  supports the  affected employees in qualifying for new tasks and  nding jobs inside  or outside the company. As of December 31, 2011, the  center had  already found a permanent solution or a new challenge for more than  87 percent of applicants. It also helped place employees in temporary  positions within and outside the  LANXESS Group. This innovative  instrument has already proved its value as a means of preventing job  reductions. Open to ideas When  LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work proce- dures, plants and processes, these ideas pay off. An idea management  system fosters the development, processing and implementation of  suggestions for improvements to ensure that  LANXESS will continually  receive proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, occupational safety  and environmental protection. In 2011, employees at  LANXESSs  German companies submitted a total of 3,191 new suggestions, a  rate of 445 per thousand employees. In the same period, 1,199 ideas  were implemented, yielding total savings of 2.2 million. 759 of these  ideas led to improvements in occupational safety and environmental  protection. A total of 908,000 was paid out to employees whose  ideas were put into practice. The highest individual payment amounted  to 36,000.  Compared to the record year 2010 when savings amounted to  4.8 million, the  gure in 2011 was much lower because the num- ber of ideas that yielded  nancially quanti able bene ts declined by  31  percent. The average processing time for ideas – including a one- year trial phase to determine the cost savings, as de ned in the General  Works Agreement on Idea Management – was around 500 calendar  days. This means that the relatively low number of new ideas sub- mitted in 2009 because of plant shutdowns and short-time working  only took effect in 2011. As a further incentive to attract ideas, the  LANXESS Ideas Competition  was launched in 2008. Each year, the companys organizational units  can measure themselves in terms of team bene t1). The focus is on  identifying further cost-cutting potential, increasing both implemen- tation and participation rates, and shortening processing times. In  2011, the Inorganic Pigments business unit won the Ideas Competition  for the fourth year in succession. 241 employees submitted an idea  that was implemented and contributed to the business units success.  They each received an additional payment of 300. All ideas that are  implemented are evaluated in accordance with our _FormulaX criteria.  At 65 percent, Come up with solutions was the most important  component in the creativity process. With its attractive, performance- related bonus system, our idea management system is an essential  element of inno vation management at  LANXESS and will continue  to play a key role in our companys future success. 1)  The team bene t is calculated from the proven cost savings yielded by ideas with a  nancially   quanti able bene t and from the bonuses paid (= bene ts) for ideas with no quanti able bene t  and set in relation to the number of eligible employees in an organizational unit.    Take on responsibility   Come up with solutions   Dare simplicity   Accelerate progress FormulaX 45 Corporate Responsibility  Health, safety, environment and climate protection  Global HSEQ management  HSEQ (health, safety, environmental protection and quality) manage- ment is an important part of  LANXESSs integrated management  system. From the outset, we have aligned this system toward ensuring  uniform standards and reference bases for all our sites worldwide.  The key performance indicators (KPIs) required for this purpose are  recorded electronically, thus enabling us to systematically determine  and analyze performance in each business unit and at each site and  to develop this sustainably in the future.  The HSEQ Committee, comprising  LANXESSs senior executives under  the direction of Board of Management member Dr. Werner Breuers, is  tasked with ensuring worldwide compliance with uniformly high  quality  management, safety and environmental protection standards. The  committee has responsibility for initiating and monitoring the global  implementation of all necessary HSEQ guidelines, strategies and  programs, as well as for de ning our HSEQ objectives and monitoring  their achievement. It also de nes the global strategy for our integrated  quality and environmental management system in accordance with  ISO 9001 and ISO 14001.  Systematic recording of key performance indicators We use an elec- tronic system for the systematic global recording of KPIs in the areas of  safety and environmental protection. This proprietary system enables  us to de ne a broad range of KPIs for each business unit and location  worldwide. These provide a valid database for internal and external  reporting and map the progress we are making toward achieving our  globally applicable HSEQ objectives (see table on page 52). Data  for all indicators except the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) are  gathered only at those of our production sites in which  LANXESS has  a holding of more than 50 percent.  We are aware of the challenge involved in de ning and ensuring  the use of uniform indicators for all sites and regions. Our internal  standards and criteria for recording safety and environmental perfor- mance data are aligned with the G3 guidelines of the Global Report- ing  Initiative (GRI G3). We are working continuously to better comply  with these requirements. If we deviate from the currently valid GRI  de  nitions, then we indicate this with an explanation. In the year under review, auditors KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprfungs- gesellschaft assessed our data recording processes and system in the  course of a business audit. Most of our HSE indicators for 2010 and  2011 were tested with a view to achieving a reasonable assurance  rating. The certi cate can be viewed at www.lanxess.com.  Environmental and Safety Performance Data * 2010 2011 Safety    Occupational injuries to LANXESS employees  resulting in at least one days absence  (per million hours worked) 1) 2.3 ++) 2.7 ++) Volume sold 2) (in thousand tons) 6,404 +), 3) 6,434 +) Emissions, waste and wastewater     Emissions into air (in thousand tons)    Emissions of greenhouse gases as CO2   equivalents (Scope 1) 4)  1,906 ++), 3) 1,935 ++)    Emissions of greenhouse gases as CO2   equivalents (Scope 2) 11) 2,650 3) 2,893    Emissions of volatile organic compounds 5) 8.0 ++), 3) 7.8 ++)   CO emissions 2.1 ++), 3), 10) 3.0 ++)   NOx emissions 6) 2.6 ++), 3), 10) 2.8 ++)   SO2 emissions 7) 1.7 ++), 3), 10) 1.9 ++)   NH3 emissions 0.2 ++) 0.2 ++)   Emissions into water (in thousand tons)   Total nitrogen 0.54 ++), 3) 0.54 ++)   Total organic carbon (TOC) 2.1 ++) 2.2 ++)    Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium,  copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc) 0.0047 +), 3) 0.0045 +)   Waste (in thousand tons)   Total waste generated 259 ++), 3) 267 ++)      Hazardous waste 141 ++), 3) 143 ++)      Non-hazardous waste 118 ++), 3) 124 ++)   Wastewater (in million cubic meters)   Total wastewater 31 ++) 33 ++) Consumption of resources    Total water consumption  (in million cubic meters) 292 ++), 3) 292 ++)    Cooling water consumption 8)  (in million cubic meters) 235 ++), 3) 239 ++)    Process water consumption  (in million cubic meters) 57 ++), 3) 53 ++)    Energy consumption 9) (in petajoules) 52 ++), 3) 55 ++) Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data  *)   The aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an  interest of more than 50 percent, but excluding the site at Redmond, U.S.A. The new  Keltan sites (since May 2, 2011) at Geleen, Netherlands, and Triunfo, Brazil, and the Darmex  sites assigned to Rhein Chemie (since January 11, 2011) at Burzaco and Merlo, Argentina, and   Colonia, Uruguay, are already included. The newly acquired Unitex site at Greensboro, U.S.A.  (since  October 2011) and the Verichem site at Neville Island, near Pittsburgh, U. S. A. (since   November 9, 2011) were not included in 2011. On account of limited recording and control  options and the resulting estimates, the base data contain some inherent uncertainties.    Data recording in 2011 was aligned with GRI G3. To ensure better comparability, we are   reporting our HSE performance data in the same way as in 2010. Our full HSE performance  data recorded in 2011 in accordance with GRI G3 can be viewed online at www.lanxess.com.   +)  Indicator was assessed (limited assurance) by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprfungsgesellschaft in  the course of a business audit. ++)  Indicator was assessed (reasonable assurance) by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprfungs- gesellschaft in the course of a business audit. 1)  LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one working day or more lost following  the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including subcontract workers) at all sites   2)  Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS  company or externally (excluding commercial products) 3)  Values corrected compared to the values shown in the Annual Report 2010 4)  All Scope 1 Kyoto gases are calculated as CO2 equivalents (CO2e). In accordance with the  GHG Protocol, the CO2 emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and  are not included in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during  the reporting period: 2010: 153 kt CO2; 2011: 241 kt CO2. 46 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  5)  Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone 6)  Nitrogen oxide (NOx) calculated as NO2 (excluding N2O - nitrous oxide) 7) Sulfur dioxide (SO2) + SO3 calculated as SO2 8) Equivalent to circulating cooling water 9)  The energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simpli ed assumptions and  typical  substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy (e.g. the energy  contained in raw materials). 10)  Signi cant increase compared to the published value on the basis of the full inclusion of the  CO, NOx and SO2 emissions from the use of renewable energies, diesel and gasoline. 11)  The conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009.  Where these were not available, factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2009  were used. Further details on data quality:     The emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42  from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006).     In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO2e are based on  the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) de ned in the IPCC Second Assess- ment Report (SAR 1995). Health and safety   The health and safety of our workforce are among our top priorities.  We aim to protect our employees from accidents by maintaining high  standards in health protection and plant safety and implementing  continuous improvements in workplace safety precautions.   Xact initiative To systematically and sustainably improve all aspects of  occupational, process and plant safety, including environmental and  health protection, we initiated the global Xact program in 2011. In  the analysis phase, which began in mid-September 2011, 22 pilot  plants in Germany and abroad were tested carefully and thoroughly.  From the second half of 2012, the program will be introduced at all  our plants worldwide after adaptation to the speci c requirements at  each site and business unit. All existing safety programs will then be  combined under one roof and re ned to meet our objectives. Occupational safety Thanks to our global electronic Incident  Reporting  System (IRS), we are able to record accidents and incidents using   standardized procedures. The incidents that are documented include  accidents involving people, transport accidents, environmental inci- dents and downtime caused by, for example, bad weather or strike   action. We communicate signi cant incidents worldwide via our intra- net or by newsletter. Each incident is carefully analyzed to identify  measures that can be taken to avoid similar accidents or disruptions  in the future. The LTIFR, known as MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked)  in Germany, is the key indicator we use to assess occupational safety.  In 2011, the LTIFR was 2.7, a slight deterioration on the previous  year (2.3). This resulted primarily from a number of accidents at just  one site – our chrome ore mine in South Africa. The site has gained  statistical relevance through the inter national harmonization of our  reporting structures and the employee situation there. We are already  implementing a special program that aims to signi cantly and sustain- ably reduce the number of accidents at the mine. Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting  in Absence from Work (LTIFR) Uniform standards for process and plant safety, occupational safety  and environmental protection  Across the globe,  LANXESS ope rates at  47 production sites in which it holds an interest of at least 50 percent  (as of December 31, 2011). The diversity of the Groups product port- folio necessitates the use of many chemical and technical processes.   Uniformly high standards for planning, engineering and operating  facilities are applied to ensure a high level of process and plant safety.  We use a systematic approach to identify risks and hazard potential  and to reduce these by implementing safety measures. To help us  achieve this, we have established a comprehensive HSE management  system that governs procedures for all safety-critical processes in our  production facilities. All  LANXESS facilities around the world must  verify their safety standards with a certi cate.  Regular monitoring and employee training ensure systematic imple- mentation of the HSE management system. We have been carrying  out HSE compliance checks at  LANXESS facilities in Germany since  2005. Experts conduct speci c spot checks to assess whether all  necessary measures are being taken to ensure the safe operation of  facilities. Since 2007, HSE compliance checks have also been car- ried out at key production sites operated by  LANXESS subsidiaries. In  2011, a total of 32 facilities were checked, 11 of which are assigned  to  LANXESS Deutschland GmbH.  Safety also plays an important role in all our acquisition projects. Before  making any acquisition, we carry out technical due diligence tests  alongside the economic appraisals. Gap analyses are performed by   LANXESS soon after the takeover of a production site. These are used  to identify any differences between the HSE system already in place  at the site and  LANXESSs own system. The results serve as the basis  for drawing up action plans to implement  LANXESSs binding global  HSE standards at these locations. In 2011, we performed four such  gap analyses. 0 1 2 3 4 5 3.7 3.1 3.0 2.3 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 2.7 47 Corporate Responsibility  Global product stewardship The International Council of Chemical  Associations (ICCA) launched the Global Product Strategy (GPS)  initiative with the primary aim of establishing global standards for  product stewardship and thus minimizing the impact of chemicals on  human health and the environment. We believe it is only right that we  should implement this initiative. From the moment that  LANXESS was  founded, we have sought to introduce uniform, global safety standards  for the handling and transportation of products. Product safety is a  top priority in all the processes along the value creation chain – from  research and development, through production and transportation,  to downstream processing and disposal. Product stewardship begins  for us with the procurement of raw materials and services. Our product portfolio also includes substances that are classi ed as  hazardous. In order to prevent possible harm to health, we sys tem- at ically test the properties of our products and draw our customers   attention to the risks associated with their use.  LANXESS views product  stewardship as a responsibility to continually improve product safety  for the sake of both human health and the environment. Our Product  Safety Directive steers the Group-wide observance of product steward- ship throughout the product life cycle and secures the necessary  participation of everyone involved in the supply chain. Our internal  Central Product Surveillance Directive governs worldwide tracking  of the health-related and ecological implications of raw materials and  products.  Successful product safety demands globally standardized substance  data and systems for documentation and processing. These also  ensure compliance and provide support for business operations  worldwide. We control the transportation of our products around the  world by employing standardized classi cations and interpretations of  transportation regulations for hazardous goods. Moreover, we operate  a globally applicable electronic system for generating safety datasheets  and managing our SAP system in terms of marketability and hazardous  goods data. In 2011, we introduced this system in Brazil, Indonesia  and South Korea and in three of the businesses we acquired (Keltan  EPDM, Syngenta material protection products and Unitex). It is soon  to be launched in other countries such as Singapore and China. The  system is regularly adapted to the Globally Harmonized System of  Classi cation and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) in the various coun- tries in the event of changes relating to hazardous goods and other  amendments to legislation. REACH Implementation Schedule 1) CMR: carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic 2) Very toxic to aquatic organisms; may cause long-term adverse effects in the aquatic environment 3) tpa = tons per annum Pre-registration of all substances 3)3) 3)3)  3) CMR substances3)) 3) Creation of the European  Chemicals Agency  Preparation for REACH       We expressly support the protection goals of E. U. chemicals policy.  During the  rst registration phase stipulated by the REACH regu lation,  we prepared dossiers for all 193 substances at  LANXESS that are  affected and submitted these to the European Chemicals Agency  (ECHA) by the deadline of November 30, 2010. A further 250 sub- stances from our portfolio are now to be registered during the second  phase, which runs until the end of May 2013. To date, these activities  are going to schedule. We expect to have to complete a total of some  750 dossiers over all three phases through 2018. Since REACH  prescribes the stewardship of substances over their entire life cycle,  we are cooperating very closely with our suppliers and customers. In addition to REACH, there is another important regulation in E.U.  chemicals policy – the CLP Regulation – which is intended to imple- ment the international GHS initiative in the European Union. The  objective of GHS is to harmonize existing classi cation and labeling  48 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  systems used in various sectors, such as transportation and con- sumer, employee and environmental protection. The CLP Regulation  (also sometimes referred to as the GHS Regulation) stipulated the  classi cation and labeling of all chemical substances in the E. U. by  December 1, 2010. We also met this deadline for all relevant sub- stan ces in our portfolio. Environmental and climate protection As  LANXESS sees it, conserving natural resources – for example,  through the most ef cient possible use of raw materials and  energies –  and identifying further potential for reducing emissions and waste are  an ongoing mission and an inherent part of our ecological responsibility  to which we must apply our expertise. The continuous improvement  of environmental performance is a key corporate goal. It is an established part of our strategy to equip all new production  sites in line with state-of-the-art environmental standards, even if the  applicable local regulations are less stringent. This approach sets  us apart from many local competitors, particularly in the emerging  markets. It will also give us a clear competitive edge in the medium  term, as these regions, too, are gradually introducing much tougher  environmental standards. Progress in climate protection As a driving force in the chemical   industry, we are helping to reduce or even eliminate greenhouse gas  emissions using a range of cutting-edge technical solutions. Our mea- sures are applied along the value creation chain – from energy gene- ration through manufacturing processes to waste disposal.  We have been involved in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006,  sharing data and information on climate protection and the reduction  of emissions. The Carbon Disclosure Project is an organization repre- senting international institutional investors who have joined forces in  order to improve transparency for the  nancial market on questions  linked to climate change and the requisite corporate guidelines. Since 2007, we have succeeded in reducing our direct greenhouse  gas emissions by around 45 percent worldwide. In Germany, our  aim was to cut emissions of climate gases through 2012 by around  80 percent compared to 2007 levels. We achieved this target in  2009. A further review showed that CO2 equivalents remained within  the target corridor in 2011. Having succeeded in almost completely neutralizing our emissions of  particularly harmful nitrous oxide since the start of 2009, we are now  focusing our climate protection efforts on the sustainable generation  and economical use of energy by, for example, utilizing one of the  most ef cient power plant technologies available – cogeneration. In  2010 alone, we started up four new cogeneration plants at our sites  in Porto Feliz, Brazil; Nagda and Jhagadia, India; and Zwijndrecht,  Belgium. Wherever possible, we use renewable and environmentally  friendly raw materials such as waste from food production to fuel  these plants.  The use of isobutene from renewable resources will also make a   signi cant contribution to cutting direct and indirect greenhouse gas  emissions by our butyl rubber business in the medium term. This  manufacturing process is being optimized for industrial-scale use in  cooperation with Gevo Inc. (see also page 22). Isobutene is an impor- tant raw material for the manufacture of butyl rubber and, until now,  has usually been produced from petroleum derivatives. According to  our calculations, switching to this new technology would signi cantly  improve the eco-balance of our butyl rubber. In March 2011, we became the  rst chemical company to use the  TV SD-approved Eco-Plus solution offered by logistics provider  DB Schenker Rail for transporting our products by rail. The electricity  required for transport is obtained from renewable energy sources. In  this way, we can reduce the CO2 emissions from our rail transport  operations by almost 75 percent. Each year,  LANXESS transports  a total of around 160,000 tons of chemicals and bulk materials by  rail in Europe. Energy Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold gigajoules per ton of product 1) Figure restated  The absolute energies for 2010 were corrected as information  about new energies was requested subsequently in light of GRI G3.  In  addition, two sites (Zwijndrecht and Orange) provided some data  late, especially in respect of heating oil, diesel and steam. The  further  increase in absolute energies in 2011 is attributable to the new  Keltan sites. 0 2 4 6 8 10 8.04 8.25 8.47 8.161) 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 8.52 49 Corporate Responsibility  We also aim to continually improve the energy ef ciency of our produc- tion facilities. The energy management systems we have introduced  should help us achieve the targets we have set ourselves. One of these  is cutting each segments speci c energy consumption by ten percent  by 2015 (base year: 2010). Energy Consumption by Segment gigajoules per ton of product The Scope 1 speci c greenhouse gas emissions are  unchanged. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) in Relation to Volumes Sold CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product 1) Figure restated  Our stated aim is to reduce each segments speci c CO2e emissions  by ten percent by 2015 (base year: 2010). Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product 0 8 6 4 2 10 2010 2011 8.55 8.58 9.17 8.38 7.74 7.05 Performance Polymers Advanced Intermediates Performance Chemicals 0.56 0.41 0.32 0.301) 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 0.30 0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1 2010 2011 0.36 0.35 0.25 0.27 0.24 0.22 Performance Polymers Advanced Intermediates Performance Chemicals 0 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.5 We have almost halved speci c emissions since 2007. Alongside many  individual measures, the start-up of a second facility for the reduction  of harmful nitrous oxide (N2O) at our Krefeld-Uerdingen site in 2009  had a major impact on the results. We have also recorded indirect CO2 emissions worldwide (according  to the GHG Protocol Scope 2), as shown below. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) in Relation to Volumes Sold CO2 , tons per ton of product Other atmospheric emissions The European Unions NEC (National  Emission Ceiling) Directive has set maximum limits for the release of  the atmospheric pollutants sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx ),  ammonia (NH3) and volatile organic compounds. Since 2011, these  limits may no longer be exceeded. We have speci cally inspected sites  that release relevant emissions and taken all the necessary precautions  for ensuring compliance with the limits. VOC Emissions in Relation to Volumes Sold VOC, kilograms per ton of product 1) Figure restated  0.46 0.41 2011 2009 2010 0.45 0 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.60 0.68 1.31 1.261) 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 1.21 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 50 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  In 2011, VOC emissions declined further year on year in relation to  volumes sold. This was due to, among other things, various measures  taken to achieve our environmental protection target of cutting VOC  emissions by 30 percent through 2015. The general increase in VOC  emissions between 2008 and 2009 was attributable to our portfolio  expansion, especially in Brazil. Conserving resources LANXESS attaches great importance to the  careful use of resources. The company aims to employ a consistent  material  ow management process – from the use of raw materials to  the manufacture of the  nal product – so as to minimize the amount  of waste we produce. Some forms of waste can be used as secondary  raw materials and are thus a valuable resource. Sustainable waste  manage ment therefore involves systematically avoiding waste and, if  this is not possible, using waste as a raw material and energy source.  We are working on the continual optimization of our production pro- cesses with the aim of maximizing the reduction in off-spec product.  Numerous measures have enabled us to cut absolute hazardous waste  volumes in particular by around 32 percent compared to 2007 levels. In January 2011, we started up a new state-of-the-art waste incine- ration plant at our site in Nagda, India. It is now no longer necessary to  transport production residues to distant incineration facilities. Instead,  they can be used effectively at our own site. The off gases from incine- ration are also used to generate steam, which is fed directly into our  production process. Total Waste in Relation to Volumes Sold kilograms of waste per ton of product 1) Figure restated  2) Adjusted for one-time effects related to a production closure at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site 0 20 30 10 40 50 60 51.32) 46.5 39.6 40.51) 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 41.6 Waste for Disposal %   Land lled waste    Incinerated waste  without energy recovery    Incinerated waste  with energy recovery    Material recovery    Waste disposal by other means The total amount of waste generated worldwide in relation to volumes  sold has decreased by approximately 19 percent compared to 2007.  Some 43 percent of our waste is used in material or energy recovery,  while around half is classi ed as hazardous.   Solutions for clear water Our innovative products and technologies  help our customers worldwide to clean, treat and conserve water. We  also go to great lengths to minimize water consumption and pollution  during production operations at our own plants. Overall, total water consumption in relation to volumes sold declined  only marginally year on year. Water Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold cubic meters per ton of product 1) Figure restated 26 9 18 12 35 Process water Cooling water 0 20 40 60 80 0 20 40 60 80 54.4 63.5 72.7 4.8 14.4 49.6 49.1 23.6 49.1 2008 2007 2009 36.71) 2010 45.61) 45.4 8.2 8.91) 37.2 2011 51 Corporate Responsibility  HSEQ Targets for 2011 Target Program/Measures Target  Date Target Attainment  1.  Improved occupational  safety No injuries Ongoing The number of accidents with working days lost increased to 76  compared to 2010 when 61 accidents with working days lost were  recorded worldwide. LTIFR of work-related injuries resulting in days of absence  less than 2.0 in 2011 (all business units, group functions  and companies with a higher LTIFR will have failed to  attain their target) 2011 In 2011 the LTIFR was 2.7, compared to the prior-year figure of 2.3.  The target was not attained. 2. Climate protection Reduction in specific CO2e emissions by 10% per   business segment by 2015 (base year: 2010) 2015 Unchanged Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% per  business segment by 2015 (base year: 2010) 2015 Unchanged  Footprint analyses for relevant products   2011 Pilot project for Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) concluded for adipic  acid; other PCFs will be produced for butyl rubber and Mesamoll. 3.  Environmental   protection Reduction in absolute VOC emissions by 30% by 2015  (base year: 2010) 2015 Reduction from 8,000 t in 2010 to 7,700 t in 2011 4.  Implementation of an  energy management  system Completion of the project by the end of 2012  (focus on Germany) 2012 A global energy management directive and handbook were compiled  as the basis for the management system and optimized in collaboration  with two pilot plants in Uerdingen and Leverkusen. The roll-out of the  energy management system (ISO 50001) is planned for 2012/2013.  In 2012 the focus is on implementation in plants in Germany.  5.  REACH implementation  – next level Registration by the specified deadlines of substances  > 100 tpa 2013 Fully completed by the specified deadlines Adaptation of safety datasheets in accordance  with REACH 2011 Fully attained 6.  Adaptation to national  chemicals programs in  non-E.U. countries Compliance with requirements of national chemicals  programs by the specified deadlines 2011 Fully implemented by the specified deadlines 7.  Continuation of GHS  implementation Implementation of measures required by GHS in the  E.U. by the specified deadlines 2011 GHS and resulting measures were fully implemented by the specified  deadlines. Monitoring of GHS activities in non-E.U. countries and  implementation by the specified deadlines 2011 GHS in the various countries fully implemented by the specified  deadlines. 8.  Continuation of consoli- dation of HSE data  systems Global harmonization of HSE data in ATRION  (now IHS: global regulatory product compliance system) 2011 The further roll-out of the harmonized HSE data system for categorizing  and classifying products, raw materials and waste was completed with  the roll-out of SCORE to Brazil, South Africa and Italy. Preparatory work  has been started for implementation in China and Singapore. 9.  Improvement in   transport safety and  quality Optimization of interfaces between external logistics  providers and LANXESS to develop stable transport  processes and to minimize operative risks; pilot project  started in January 2011 2011 Extensive analysis of current situation and development of   improvement measures; implementation of measures in 2012 10.  Completion of the global  matrix certificate  (ISO 9001 & ISO 14001) Inclusion of further sites in LANXESSs global matrix  certificate: Liyang (China), Moscow (Russia) and   Jhagadia (India) 2011 In 2011, the sales office in Moscow, Russia, was included in the  manage ment system for the first time. By the end of 2011, a total of  81 sites (mainly production facilities, technical laboratories and sales  offices) had been integrated into our matrix certificate. The site at   Jhagadia,  India, was audited by DQS at the end of 2011. Inclusion in  the  certificate is expected for February 2012. At the production site at  Liyang, China, the implementation of safety projects has priority. The  site is to be included in the matrix certificate in 2012.  11.  Standardization of   management system  tools Global provision, standardization and optimization of  electronic management system tools by the end of 2012 2012 eMax (document management system) was rolled out and implemented  in Germany and introduced in both legal entities (LANXESS Pte. Ltd.  and LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd.) in Singapore.  The roll-out process was started at the multi-BU sites in France,  North America, Mexico, Brazil, South Africa and Argentina. Triple A (audit and activity management tool), the HSE data recording  system and April Star (complaint management system) are already  established worldwide and are used systematically.  52 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  HSEQ Targets for 2012 Target Program/Measures Target Date 1.  Improvement in occupational safety and  plant safety – no injuries  Implementation of Xact safety project 2012 2.  Implementation of international   chemical programs Implementation and monitoring of chemicals programs worldwide by the specified deadlines, e.g.  REACH, TSCA Inventory Update Rules Amendments (U.S.A.), South Korean REACH requirements,  CSCL in Japan, EHS in Malaysia, notification procedure for China, GHS By the specified  deadlines 3. Climate protection Reduction in specific CO2e emissions by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) 2015 Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) 2015 Increase in resource efficiency and analysis of environmental footprint of suitable products 2012 4. Environmental protection Reduction in absolute emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010) 2015 5. Energy management Introduction of an energy management system based on ISO 50001  (roll-out focus in 2012 is Germany) 2012 6.  Harmonization of HSE data for   categorizing and classifying products,  raw materials and waste  Global harmonization of HSE data in the IHS system  (formerly ATRION: global regulatory product compliance system) as part of the   SCORE project for e.g. China, Singapore, Keltan sites   AXAPTA project for the United Kingdom (pilot project) 2012 7.  Improvement in transport safety Optimization of transport safety in line with the potential analysis performed in 2011 2012 8.  Standardization of management   system tools   Expansion of global implementation of eMax (document management) in accordance with the  2011 plan and implementation of April Star (complaints management), Triple A (audit and activity   management tool) and the HSE data recording system at newly acquired sites 2012 53 Corporate Responsibility  Society   As a company, we draw numerous bene ts from the society in which  we operate – well-trained employees, satis ed customers, legal and  political stability and an excellent infrastructure. We believe it is only  right that, in line with the concept of corporate citizenship, we assume  responsibility and ensure that society also bene ts from our success.  Our social commitment is based on the same fundamental principle  as our entrepreneurial activities – a consistent focus on a manageable  number of projects that promise long-term success.  Our not-for-pro t activities focus on providing support for science  education in schools. After all, skilled employees are a crucial pre- requisite for the sustainable success of our company, no matter where  in the world it operates. We endeavor to encourage young people to  develop a passion for chemistry at a young age, awaken their inventive  spirit and make them aware of the diverse career opportunities that  the  LANXESS Group offers. The LANXESS education initiative –  an award-winning model for success In 2008, we launched the extensive  LANXESS education initiative  that underscores our clear commitment to Germany as a business   location and as a base for the chemical industry. This initiative has since  provided funding to schools close to eight of our sites in Germany. We  also regularly offer interested and talented students the chance to gain  work experience and to take part in vacation courses and workshops. The workshops held in 2011 were inspired by the  LANXESS Year of  High-Tech Plastics. Under the motto High-tech plastics made easy,  40 talented high school students took part in a four-day workshop  dedicated to this versatile material. The aim was to develop plastic  inno vations and generate new impetus for the future. The young people  were invited to give full rein to their inventiveness and creativity. In   addition to the practical side of things, the workshop also encouraged  them to think along economic and business lines. They considered  future developments such as globalization, climate change, environ- mental pollution and the increasing scarcity of resources. In a future  workshop, they analyzed key trends, developed ideas for new manu- facturing processes and designed new applications. They presented  their product ideas in a forum attended by leading  gures from the  regions political, business and public-sector communities. In recognition of its valuable contribution to Germanys position as a  business and industry location, the  LANXESS education initiative was  among the winners in 2011 of the countrys sixth 365 Landmarks  in the Land of Ideas contest. Under the patronage of the German  President, this annual competition honors ideas and projects that  make a sustainable contribution to Germanys future viability as a  business location.  Over the past four years, we have invested around 3.5 million in the  initiative. Feedback from teachers, principals and school authorities  con rms that we have succeeded in signi cantly boosting the impor- tance of the MINT subjects (mathematics, information technology,  Chemical research and industry play key roles in developing  new energy sources, feeding the growing world population  and conserving resources. The United  Nations proclaimed  2011 the International Year of Chemistry with the aim of  drawing attention to chemistrys accomplishments and  contri butions to the wellbeing of humanity. We contributed  to the celebrations with a total of 48 projects and events  worldwide.   54 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  natural sciences and technology) in school timetables, in fundamentally  changing the way these subjects are taught and in stimulating the  demand for more courses.   Spurred on by this extremely positive feedback, we will continue the  initiative in future. In 2012, we plan to provide  nancial support for  school projects, project weeks at schools close to our sites and experi- ment kits for elementary school children. Engaged around the world LANXESS has also initiated projects focusing particularly on the pro- motion of science education at almost all its sites across the globe.  In the BRICS countries especially, we are involved in a wide range of  projects and initiatives. The local activities in Brazil have been merged under the e3 initiative.  e3 stands for education, ecology and economy. South Americas  largest country has some catching up to do, particularly in the  elds of  environmental protection and education. We aim to use our expertise  to offer effective support in this area.  The Chemical Theater project at our Triunfo site provides chemistry  lessons of a completely different kind. Actors seek to interest students  in science by playing short scenes that explain basic chemical prin- ciples in an entertaining way. The Rubber Club and Rubber University  initiatives launched at Triunfo in 2011 have the same goal. School  students of various ages were invited to our facility to investigate the  interesting world of synthetic rubber close up. We also foster scienti c knowledge with our Green Cycle environmental  competition, which was staged at four Brazilian sites in 2011. The  winners not only receive recognition for the environmental protec tion  projects they develop for the competition.  LANXESS also fully  nances  implementation of the projects.  The Educate to Grow initiative in Argentina aims to promote develop- ment in the Zrate region by supporting schools and not-for-pro t  organi zations engaged in educational, social and environmental  protec tion activities there. As part of this initiative, we provide funding  for sustainable education projects and help those wishing to launch  such projects by delivering the fundamental know-how they need.  27 schools took part in the fourth year of the program in 2011. More  than 7,000 people have already bene ted directly or indirectly from the  29 projects implemented since the program was launched in 2007.  In 2011, we received the Corporate Social Responsibility Award from  the Industrial Association of Zrate and Campana for our commitment  in the region. An important CR project in India is the long-term Teach for India pro- gram, part of the Teach to Lead initiative. It recruits top graduates  from Indian universities who, after completing their studies, spend an  initial period of two years teaching full-time at schools with insuf cient   funding. Our  nancial support, which amounts to 50,000 each year,  will fund current Teach for India projects in Mumbai until at least 2013.  The funding will also help extend the project to other towns and cities  in India, including New Delhi and Jhagadia, where  LANXESS has sites.  Social Activities by Region 1) %   Asia-Paci c   EMEA   North America   Latin America 1) Basis: 107 projects undertaken in 2011 Social Activities by Topic 1) %   Education   Climate protection   Water   Corporate volunteering   Culture   Networking 1) Basis: 107 projects undertaken in 2011 17 24 20 39 9 17 14 4 4 52 55 Corporate Responsibility  The  LANXESS Education Project run jointly with the not-for-pro t  organization Save The Children India (STCI) aims to provide socially  disadvantaged children in Mumbai with a pre-school education so  that they can attend state-run high schools later on and continue  their education there. Since 2010, our partnership with Indias ArriveSafe initiative has   focused on road safety. The aim of this cooperation is to make the   Indian population more aware that investing in high-quality tires   improves road safety. We donated 10,000 to this initiative in 2011  and also supported training events. A project organized jointly with the Stree Mukti Sanghatana Womens  Liberation Organization, a not-for-pro t organization that recycles  waste paper, combines social responsibility, environmental aware- ness and resource conservation in a special way. Together, we used  World Environment Day as a platform to raise employee awareness of  recycling. For example, we implemented a waste separation guideline  to help reduce the amount of waste generated in our of ces in future.  The environment and sustainable development were also the focus  of a project day for high school students at  LANXESSs Nagda site.  Within the context of the UNESCO International Year of Chemistry initia- tive, we helped these young people develop ideas for using modern  chemistry to protect the environment – for example, in the treatment  of drinking water. Science Day made its debut at our site in Qingdao, China, in 2011.  More than 80 participants had the opportunity to look behind the  scenes and get involved in experiments themselves.  As an event sponsor, we had our own stand at Fun Chemistry World  in South Korea for the  rst time in 2011. Using a range of entertaining   experiments,  LANXESS employees gave elementary school students  their  rst encounter with the fascinating world of modern chemistry. The aim of the Xplore Science with  LANXESS program initiated by our  subsidiary  LANXESS Corporation in the United States is to show young  people that science can be exciting and that learning can be fun by  introducing interactive learning experiences. In cooperation with the  Science Screen Report organization, we distributed educational DVDs  on current science-related topics to schools around the country, thus  extending the programs reach far beyond our U. S. sites.  At our site in Merebank, South Africa, we organized an employee event  to raise awareness and knowledge of HIV. The highlights of the event  included a speech and performance by HIV-positive singer Tender  Mavundla. All participants also had the opportunity to have their blood  sugar, cholesterol and blood pressure measured and to be tested for  HIV. The event marked the start of a series of CR activities that we  intend to organize in South Africa in the future. On a spectacular bike trip from the United  Kingdom  to Hong Kong, British scientists Jon Lee and  Micheil Gordon drew attention to water as an  important environmental issue. 56 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Clean water Our knowledge of water is a further focal point of our corporate   responsibility. In 2011, we donated equipment and  nancial support to an unusual  water initiative. Environmental scientists Jon Lee and Micheil Gordon  took exactly 259 days to cycle from Newbury, United Kingdom, to  Hong Kong to raise money for WaterAid and promote awareness of  water as an environmental issue through various events and countless  conversations. The two young Britons raised more than 23,000 on  their 15,740 kilometer trip that took them to many  LANXESS sites.  WaterAid is a non-governmental organization that aims to provide  people in the poorest parts of the world with clean drinking water. Our  water treatment products enable us to make an important contribution. We have also been supporting the African Medical & Research Foun- dation (AMREF) for a number of years. By the end of 2010, AMREF  had used  LANXESSs  nancial assistance to establish water sup- plies for 25 Tanzanian schools attended by approximately 10,000   children and provide the sanitary facilities they need. In addition to  these infra structure measures, AMREF also provided hygiene training  for teachers and children, thus helping spread the safe water message  in their daily lives.  We have now launched a similar project at schools near our South  African production site in Rustenburg. As many as 3,000 students,  their teachers and parents in this area will soon bene t from improved  access to clean water and modern sanitary facilities. The project also  aims to signi cantly reduce the incidence of disease caused by con- ta m i nated water. Help where it is needed Although our social commitment is normally carefully thought out and  in uenced by strategic considerations, some events require a rapid  and unbureaucratic response.  Following the devastating earthquake in Japan in March 2011, for  example, we immediately provided 250,000 to help rebuild the local  infrastructure such as school buildings. We also matched the donations  made by our employees worldwide. Over the course of the year, we  gave a further 310,000 to Save the Children Japan. In 2011, East Africa was hit by one of the worst droughts in more  than 60 years. Our donation of 250,000 to the African Medical  & Research Foundation (AMREF), an organization we have been   working with for many years, was used to fund projects to improve  food supplies and medical care in the affected regions. Once again,  our employees demonstrated great solidarity and a readiness to help,  donating more than 18,000. Promoting art and culture For several years now, our cultural commitment has focused on   encouraging young musicians. We support two Young Euro Classic  orchestras, which bring together the greatest talents from Germany,  China and India and give them the opportunity to showcase their  ability during concert tours and prestigious events.  At the end of May 2011, the Young Euro Classic Orchestra Germany-  India celebrated its debut at the of cial celebrations in New Delhi to  mark 60 years of diplomatic relations between Germany and  India. The  performance was enjoyed not only by Indias Parliamentary Speaker  Meira Kumar and Germanys Chancellor Angela Merkel, but also by the  accompanying German delegation which included  LANXESS Board  of Management Chairman Dr. Axel C. Heitmann. The celebrations to  mark the 150th anniversary of the friendship between Germany and  Japan were also accompanied by two concerts, including a solidarity  concert for the evacuees of the Fukushima disaster.  Our  LANXESS SNYO Classic cultural initiative sponsors an exchange  program for the Singapore National Youth Orchestra. The program is  intended for young orchestral musicians who, by rehearsing with inter- nationally renowned soloists, can bene t from the skill and experience  of these musical celebrities. We also supported the formation of the  Ozawa International Chamber Music Academy Orchestra (OICMA)  in 2011. Led by Japanese star conductor Seiji Ozawa, this ensemble  offers talented young musicians from across Asia the chance of a top- quality musical education.  We will remain the main partner to lit. COLOGNE, Europes biggest  literature festival in Cologne, until at least 2015. At this annual event,  renowned authors and actors demonstrate how the written word can  really be brought to life.  57 Corporate Responsibility  Investor Information fast start For a An increasing number of cars are equipped with a fuel-saving start-stop  system  which can reduce consumption by up to 15 percent, especially in  urban traf c.  Made from our  ame-retardant plastic Pocan, high- performance booster  modules for on-board electrical systems are  tted in the engines of the French  PSA Peugeot Citron Group to ensure a fast, almost soundless and vibration-free  start. The Pocan grade used is characterized above all by its low level of distor- tion, which is crucial for the exact positioning of the circuit boards on the module.  Investor  Information The European debt crisis dominated the  stock markets in 2011. In Germany, both  the blue-chip DAX and LANXESSs  bench mark index MDAX fell sharply. Our  stock also came under pressure, dropping  in value and closing the year at 40.  In the  rst half of 2011, the worlds stock markets were still posting  a gratifying performance overall and stayed at the high level seen in  2010. The DAX touched a new three-year high of over 7,500 points  in April. The MDAX, which includes LANXESS stock, again drew  close to 11,000 points. Market turmoil then increased from the  third quarter and continued until the end of the year. All German  indices sustained signi cant and persistent losses in the wake of the  upheaval. The DAX dropped to a low for the year of 4,966 points  in September and ended the year at 2009 levels on 5,898 points,  a loss of around 15 percent. The MDAX also fell sharply, dipping  below 8,000 points to 7,780 points in the fourth quarter. At years  end, it stood at 8,898 points, a decline of 12 percent over the  reporting period.   The performance of the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, the  LANXESS benchmark index, was broadly similar to that of the German  indices. It climbed above the 600-point threshold in the  rst half of  2011, only to decline steeply from the third quarter onward and hit  a low of about 430 points in October. At the end of December, the  DJ STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM registered just under 514 points, a loss  of 11 percent on the year.   The international stock markets displayed extreme nervousness last  year, chie y because of the European debt crisis. It increasingly became  the dominating theme and in uenced stock market performance in the  second half of the year especially. Other signi cant events in 2011,  including the political unrest in the Middle East and the catastrophic  natural disaster in Japan, triggered signi cant price corrections, pri- marily in February and March, but did not have a sustained impact.  On the contrary, the strong economic upswing continued to inject  positive momentum, especially in the second quarter, leading to the  indices solid performance as described above. At that time, hope  still prevailed that Europes debt crisis would ease, with the member  states of the European Union holding out the prospect of additional  aid packages, particularly for Greece.     When the debt crisis in Europe intensi ed in the third quarter, stock  prices slumped massively across the world. Greeces overindebted- ness worsened dramatically, and the  nancial crisis in other  European   countries like Italy and Spain also escalated. The events in Europe domi- nated market dynamics through the end of 2011. Thus,  December 30  marked the end to a very turbulent trading year in which Europes  stock markets in particular performed poorly. LANXESS stock continued to trade at the high prior-year level during  the  rst half of 2011, reaching 63 (closing price) in early May, the  highest price since its initial listing. However, as the European debt  crisis worsened, it proved impossible to sustain this positive perfor- mance. With the markets growing increasingly nervous, our stock  also came under considerable pressure. The share price dropped  signi cantly in the second half, especially in August and September. In  August, for example, it dipped to less than 40 for the  rst time since  September 2010 and remained at or near this level in the following  weeks. It closed 2011 on 40, a decline of 32 percent on the year.  60 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Stock Performance since Listing %    LANXESS    DJ STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM    MDAX    DAX Stock Performance 2011 %    LANXESS    DJ STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM    MDAX    DAX 50 100 150 200 250 300 400 350 Jan. 31, 2005 Dec. 30, 2005 Dec. 30, 2008 Dec. 30, 2009 Dec. 30, 2011 Dec. 30, 2010 Dec. 29, 2006 Dec. 28, 2007 Dec. 30, 2010 June 30, 2011 Sep. 30, 2011 Dec. 30, 2011 March 31, 2011 50 75 100 125 150 61 Investor Information  With the market characterized by high levels of uncertainty, company- speci c news was unable to generate sustained momentum for our  share price. For example, when we published very solid results for the   rst quarter, we announced our guidance for the full year 2011, which  included the expectation that EBITDA pre exceptionals would exceed  1 billion for the  rst time. We posted very good results in the sub- sequent quarters as well, and raised our growth forecast for the year  to 20 percent. We also con rmed our medium-term target for 2015.  At our analyst roundtables in September, we presented the projects  and investments that are intended to ensure we attain this target. Other key capital market information related to the successful acqui- sition of the Keltan EPDM business of Royal DSM N.V. at the beginning  of May 2011 and its seamless integration into the Technical Rubber  Products (TRP) business unit of our Performance Polymers segment.  We also announced another major capital expenditure project in Singa- pore. Alongside our butyl rubber plant there, we will be building a new  neodymium polybutadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) plant at a cost of around  200 million. This is scheduled to come on stream in 2015. Further  signi cant investments in our future growth were made in all three  segments (for more information see page 15ff. in the Strategy section).  In the area of sustainability, LANXESS was included for the  rst time in  the globally recognized Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World  in September. Overall, we raised our sustainability pro le signi cantly in  the year under review, further increasing the attractiveness of our stock  as a sustainable investment. Capital Market Information Share class No-par shares Listing code LXS WKN (German securities   identi cation number) 547040 ISIN DE0005470405 Reuters/Bloomberg codes LXSG.DE/LXS:GR Market segment Prime Standard Trading venues XETRA, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart,  Dsseldorf, Hamburg, Hannover, Berlin Selective indices MDAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM,  DAXsupersector Basic Materials, MSCI  Germany Standard, MSCI Germany Mid  Cap, Dow Jones Sustain ability Index World,  FTSE4Good Investment-grade ratings Standard & Poors: BBB (stable) Moodys: Baa2 (stable) Fitch: BBB (stable) Performance Data 2011 Q1 2011 Q2 2011 Q3 2011 Q4 2011 Year 2011 Capital stock/no. of shares1) /no. of shares 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 Market capitalization1)  billion 4.39 4.71 3.02 3.32 3.32 High/low for the period  59.90/47.33 64.08/53.13 61.13/33.40 46.90/31.34 64.08/31.34 Closing price1)  52.78 56.60 36.24 40.00 40.00 Volatility2) % – – – – 38.73 Trading volume million shares 35.983 33.361 50.792 33.753 153.890 Average daily trading volume shares 562,234 529,539 769,576 527,390 598,793 Earnings per share  2.00 2.17 1.85 0.06 6.08 Price/earnings ratio1),3) – – – – 6.58 Price/cash  ow ratio1),3),4) – – – – 4.95 1)  End of quarter: Q1: March 31, 2011, Q2: June 30, 2011, Q3: September 30, 2011, Q4 and full year: December 31, 2011 2) Source: Thomson Financial 3)  Data, especially cash  ow, are in uenced by exceptionals, which restricts the signi cance accordingly 4) Reference value: operating cash  ow 62 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  LANXESS drove its growth forward last year and systematically attained  the goals communicated for 2011. We also  rmed up our strategy and  the individual steps with which we intend to achieve our medium-term  earnings target for 2015. Unlike in 2010, the companys success and  best earnings to date were not re ected in our share price. They were  overshadowed by external factors, most notably Europes debt crisis.  Our stock was therefore unable to achieve a positive performance for  the full year or to end better than the DAX or LANXESSs benchmark  indices, the MDAX and DJ STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM. In the second  quarter and at the beginning of the third quarter, by contrast, our stock  had been signi cantly outperforming these indices.   Sustainability  Exercising responsibility in our entrepreneurial activities is a key  element  of our corporate strategy. We continued to raise our sustainability pro le  last year and pressed our claim to being a sustainable investment.  In June, LANXESS signed the United Nations Global Compact, the  worlds largest and fastest growing corporate social  responsibility (CSR)  initiative. In September, the company was  included in the  renowned  Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World. LANXESS also satis-  ed the criteria for inclusion in the FTSE4Good index in 2011. In  addition, leading rating agency oekom research raised our corporate  responsibility rating to C+.  Strengthening our sustainability pro le will remain a priority in the  current  scal year. Detailed information about sustainability is available  from page 34 and on the Internet at http://corporate.lanxess.com/ en/sustainability-home. Ownership structure   As in previous years, the majority of LANXESSs stockholders in 2011  were institutional investors whose strategy is oriented toward growth or  value. At December 31, 2011, these investors held roughly 89 percent  of the stock, a slight increase on the previous year (2010: roughly  88 percent). Some of the investors in this group own a stake of at least three  percent in LANXESS, which they are required to report in mandatory  notices regarding shareholdings in LANXESS. Since 2007, these in- vestors have included U.S.-based Dodge & Cox. Fidelity and  Norways   Norges Bank also have reportable holdings. Of the institutional inves- tors based in Germany, Allianz Global Investors last year reported  holding more than three percent of LANXESSs voting rights for the   rst time (see table on page 64). In addition to the stakes held by institutional investors, around  11  percent of our shares are in the hands of private investors and  LANXESS employees. This represents a slight decrease from 2010  (around 12 percent). As in the prior year, these investors were primarily  located in Germany.   The United States, United Kingdom and Germany remain the top  countries in the regional breakdown of LANXESSs investors. With a  share of about 36 percent (2010: roughly 42 percent), the United  States has held the lead since our initial listing. The share held by  investors in Germany remained stable in 2011, standing at around  27 percent as of December 31, 2011 (2010: roughly 27 percent).  Investors in the United Kingdom held around 17 percent of our stock  on the reporting date (2010: roughly 21 percent). Investors from  other European countries, including, in particular, France, Norway,  Denmark, Switzerland and the Netherlands, increased their share  signi cantly to 18 percent, from nine percent in 2010. Last year, we  strengthened our investor communications and roadshow activities  to other European countries in addition to the major global  nancial  centers (see Investor Relations Activities). Stockholder Pro le as of December 31, 2011 %   Institutional investors   Private investors   Employees ~10 ~89 ~1 63 Investor Information  Geographical Breakdown as of December 31, 20111) %   U.S.A.   Germany   U.K.   Other Europe   Other regions 1) Based on the stockholders identi ed Reported Holdings of Three Percent or Above by Institutional Investors  (up to and including February 15, 2012) Dodge & Cox, San Francisco, U.S.A.  9.93% BlackRock, Inc.  5.10% 1) Norges Bank (central bank of Norway), Oslo, Norway 5.04% Fidelity 3.13% 1) Allianz Global Investors, Frankfurt, Germany 3.04% 1)  The reported shareholdings include the interests held by several companies, all of which have  submitted voting rights notices. Analysts In  scal 2011, numerous analysts issued reports on the current and  future performance of LANXESS. Around 30 sell-side analysts, most  of them from Germany and the United Kingdom, regularly issued their  appraisals of LANXESS.   One focus of the broad dialogue with analysts was LANXESSs growth  in the current economic environment. Moreover, the sustainable   strategic alignment with which we intend to achieve our medium- term earnings target for 2015 was an important aspect of this  ongoing  exchange.   ~18 ~2 ~17 ~36 ~27 On the whole, the analysts again evaluated our stock positively for  the most part in 2011. The number issuing a buy recommen dation  on LANXESS shares increased yet again to 69 percent (2010:  59  percent). 21 percent (2010: 31 percent) said to hold our shares,  while 10 percent (2010: 10 percent) gave a sell recommendation. Summaries of analyst appraisals from an independent service provider  are available in the Investor Relations section of our website under the  Shares menu item. Recommendations as of February 15, 2012  %   Buy   Hold   Sell Annual Stockholders Meeting With 56.21 percent of the voting capital present (2010: 61.09  percent),  corresponding to 46,767,244 shares and the same number of votes,  the number of voting stockholders represented at LANXESSs  Annual  Stockholders Meeting on May 18, 2011 was once more very high.  All the agenda items were passed by solid majorities. Detailed  voting  results are available to our stockholders on the Internet: http://  stockholdersmeeting.lanxess.com.  The next Annual Stockholders Meeting takes place on May 15, 2012,  in the LANXESS arena at Willy-Brandt-Platz 1, Cologne.    21 10 69 64 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Dividend In principle, LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. For the  year under review, our most successful ever, we plan to increase our  dividend by a further 21 percent compared to 2010. The Board of  Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG will propose to  the Annual Stockholders Meeting on May 15, 2012, that a dividend  of 0.85 per share be declared for  scal 2011. Relative to the price  at which LANXESS shares ended 2011, this equates to a dividend  yield of 2.1 percent. Subject to approval of the corresponding resolu- tion by the Annual Stockholders Meeting, the dividend will be paid  on May 16, 2012.  Bonds LANXESS successfully placed one new Euro Benchmark Bond on  the European capital market in  scal 2011. The bond has a volume  of 500 million, a term of seven years (May 23, 2011 to May 23,  2018) and an annual interest coupon of 4.125 percent.  This brings to four the total number of bonds we successfully issued  through the end of 2011. The  rst Euro Benchmark Bond was placed  on the European capital market in  scal 2005; two others were placed  in 2009.  Our  rst bond with a volume of 400 million runs from June 21, 2005  to June 21, 2012, and has an annual interest coupon of 4.125 per- cent.  In April 2009, we issued a bond with a volume of 500 million and  a term of  ve years, maturing on April 9, 2014. The annual interest  coupon is 7.75 percent. The third bond was issued in September  2009. It has a volume of 200 million and features an annual interest  coupon of 5.5 percent. With a term of seven years, it will mature on  September 21, 2016. We issued the 2009 bonds under our Debt  Issuance Program.    The successful placement of these bonds enabled us to greatly  improve our  nancial  exibility and successfully extend the maturity  pro le of our  nancial liabilities to 2018.  The Euro Benchmark Bonds were issued by LANXESS Finance  B.V. and are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The term  sheets are available in the Investor Relations section of our website  (http://corporate.lanxess.com/en/investor-relations) under the Bond  menu item.  We also placed our  rst bond on the Asian market in February 2012.  This so-called Dim Sum Bond has a volume of CN500 million  (around 60 million), a term of three years (February 16, 2012 to   February 16, 2015) and an annual interest coupon of 3.95 percent.  It also trades on the stock exchange in Luxembourg.  Further information about our bonds can be found on page 94. Overview of LANXESSs Bonds ISIN/WKN Volume Term Coupon XS0222550880 400  million June 21, 2005 – June 21, 2012 4.125% XS0423036663 500  million April 9, 2009 – April 9, 2014 7.750% XS0452802175 200  million September 21, 2009 –  September 21, 2016 5.500% XS0629645531 500  million May 23, 2011 –  May 23, 2018 4.125% XS0746637296 CN500  million (around 60 million) February 16, 2012 –  February 16, 2015 3.950% Ratings The worlds three major rating agencies, Standard & Poors, Moodys  Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, recon rmed their existing invest- ment-grade ratings with stable outlook for LANXESS in  scal 2011. 65 Investor Information  In their rating con rmations, the agencies highlighted LANXESSs   leading market positions with key products such as rubber. They  believe  that LANXESS is in good shape and has strong liquidity which will  enable it to continue participating in growth trends in the future and  systematically pursue its growth strategy.   Standard & Poors and Moodys have had LANXESS at a BBB and  a Baa2 rating, both with stable outlook, since 2007. Fitch has rated  LANXESS a BBB with stable outlook since 2006.   Investor relations activities We continued to expand our investor relations activities in  scal 2011.  Roadshows, conferences and analyst roundtables are important tools  for maintaining an extensive and active dialogue with analysts and  investors. LANXESS management representatives, including the   Chairman of the Board of Management and the Chief Financial  Of cer,  had a greater role in these activities. However, the Investor Relations  team also had a fuller schedule. The declared objective of our investor  relations activities remained the same in the year under review. We  aim to provide analysts and investors with a broad and continuous   ow of information about the LANXESS Groups performance and  targets, sustain their con dence in our company and deepen their   understanding of how our individual businesses work.     Roadshow frequency increased again   In  scal 2011, we continued to use roadshows as the central tool  for our intensive personal contacts with institutional investors. The  frequency of roadshows involving management was increased again  from the previous years already high level. Altogether, we hosted  more than 70 roadshow days in 2011. As well as stopping in the  major  nancial centers, we sought dialogue with investors in other  European cities like Amsterdam,  Brussels, Copenhagen, Edinburgh,  Geneva, Madrid, Milan and Oslo. We also stepped up our dialogue  with capital market participants in Asia last year by holding roadshows  in Singapore and Hong Kong. Our roadshow activities continued to  focus on our shareholders, but we also sought to actively address  external capital providers and, for the  rst time, initiate a dialogue with  investors who are focused on sustainability (corporate responsibility).  Major conferences used as an important forum  In 2011, capital market conferences remained an important forum  for providing information to analysts and investors. LANXESSs Board  of Management and Investor Relations team used major international  conferences as a platform for communicating the companys perfor- mance in 2011 and the  important strategic measures being taken to  ensure its  sustained growth. In addition to established capital market  conferences held in Frankfurt, London and New York, conferences  organized outside these major  nancial centers also provided key  opportunities for exchanging views. For the  rst time, we introduced  our company to interested investors at conferences in Eastern Europe  (Warsaw) and Asia ( Singapore). In the current year, conferences will  remain an extremely important communications platform for us in our  dialogue with both institutional and private investors.  2011 analyst roundtables a platform for   strategy  updates   After  announcing new medium-term targets in 2010, LANXESSs  Board of Management used the analyst roundtables held in Frankfurt  and London in September 2011 as an opportunity to inform some 40  analysts about the companys progress with its strategy for achieving  its announced growth target by 2015 (see page 13ff. in the Strategy  section). The Chairman of the Board of Management and the Chief  Financial Of cer also talked with participants about raw materials, our  hedging strategy and the successful integration of the Keltan EPDM  business acquired from Royal DSM N.V. LANXESS will again host a capital markets and media conference in  September 2012.   66 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011  Additional IR activities to promote exchange  of  information   Conference calls are another important means of providing capital  market participants with timely and extensive information updates. In  these calls, LANXESSs Board of Management explains newly released  results or current strategic events. Conference calls are streamed live  in the Investor Relations section of our website, and recorded versions  are available for download for one year. The Investor Relations section of our website also contains the  presen tations from roadshows and major conferences, which are  made  available on the date of the respective event. Publications like  the LANXESS Fact Book,  nancial reports, investor news, corporate  governance disclosures and information about our shares and bonds  complete the range of information offered.  LANXESS earns top marks for its capital market   communications   Maintaining a broad, targeted, timely and transparent dialogue with  the capital markets has been a priority for us from the beginning. That  is why we are especially pleased to have again earned top marks for  our capital market communications in prestigious rankings last year.  Among the most important criteria for the portfolio managers and  analysts polled were the credibility and transparency of communi- cations, the focus on target groups and access to top management.  Our investor relations activities received three  rst-place honors from  the U.K.s respected IR Magazine. In addition to ranking highest among  German companies for our investor relations work, we also took top  place for the best analyst/investor event and best IR communications  accompanying a corporate transaction (acquisition of DSM Elasto- mers). These placings were the result of a telephone poll of around 500  portfolio managers and analysts in Europe conducted by IR Magazine. Additionally, our IR team was again recognized as the best in the  European chemical industry in the annual survey by U.S. magazine  Institutional Investor. We were also placed third behind two major DAX  companies in the magazines cross-sector ranking of German industry.  Some 2,000 investors and analysts were asked for their opinion by  Institutional Investor. Our IR team had achieved the top ranking in the  European chemical industry for the  rst time in 2010. We also retained our top place among MDAX companies in last years  Capital Investor Relations Prize. Some 300 fund managers and analysts  evaluated the capital market communications of listed  German and  European companies for this survey, which is  conducted by the Ger- man Society of Investment Professionals (DVFA) and  German business  magazine Capital. With a score of more than 400 points, we were  among the few companies across all sectors that is considered to  perform very good investor relations work.  Investor Relations contacts Head of Investor Relations Oliver Stratmann Tel. +49 214 30 49611 E-mail: oliver.stratmann@lanxess.com Private Investors, Annual Stockholders Meeting, Events  Tanja Satzer Tel. +49 214 30 43801 E-mail: tanja.satzer@lanxess.com Institutional Investors, Analysts Constantin Fest Tel. +49 214 30 71416 E-mail: constantin.fest@lanxess.com Joachim Kunz  Tel. +49 214 30 42030 E-mail: joachim.kunz@lanxess.com Ulrike Weihs   Tel. +49 214 30 50458  E-mail: ulrike.weihs@lanxess.com 67 Investor Information  Financial Information  The Durethan oil pans  tted in the engines for the Mercedes Actros trucks are up to  120  centimeters long, 40 centimeters wide and 35 centimeters deep. Never before  have such large truck oil pans been produced from poly amide 6 and 66. This record  is proof of the potential of HiAnt, our technical service offering for high-tech plastics.  Using complex computer calculations and simulations, we were able to prove that the  project was possible and contribute directly to producing a low-cost design that met  the speci cations.  dimensions New  70 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Group Management Report and Corporate Governance 71 Group Management Report   71  LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy 74 Value management and control system  76 Legal environment 76 Business conditions 78 Key events in uencing the companys business 78 Comparison of forecast and actual business 79 Business performance of the LANXESS Group 82 Business trends by region 84 Segment information 87 Statement of  nancial position and  nancial condition 95 Managements summary of the  scal year 97 Employees 99 Compensation report 99 Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4  of the German Commercial Code 102 Procurement and production 103 Sales organization and customers 104 Research and development 106 Corporate responsibility 107 Events after the reporting period   107 Report on risks and opportunities 120 Corporate Governance 120 Corporate governance statement 123 Compensation report 127 Directors dealings 128 Of ces held by Board of Management members 128 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board 130 Report of the Supervisory Board  71 Group Management Report LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy  LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy Group structure  Legal structure LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS  Group and functions largely as a management holding company.  LANXESS Deutschland GmbH and LANXESS International  Holding  GmbH are wholly owned subsidiaries of LANXESS AG, and in turn   control the other subsidiaries and af liates both in Germany and   elsewhere. The following are the principal companies wholly owned by LANXESS AG  directly or indirectly: Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG Company Name and Domicile Function Segments  LANXESS Deutschland GmbH,  Leverkusen, Germany Production  and sales All  LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd.,  Singapore Production  and sales Performance Polymers  LANXESS Corporation,  Pittsburgh, U.S.A. Production  and sales All LANXESS Elastomers B.V.,  Heerlen, Netherlands Production  and sales Performance Polymers LANXESS Elastomres S.A.S.,  Lillebonne, France Production  and sales Performance Polymers  LANXESS Elastmeros do Brasil S.A.,  Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Production  and sales Performance Polymers  LANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L.,  Barcelona, Spain Holding   company All  LANXESS Inc.,  Sarnia, Canada Production  and sales Performance Polymers  LANXESS International SA,  Granges-Paccot, Switzerland Sales All  LANXESS N.V.,  Antwerp, Belgium Production  and sales Performance Polymers,  Perfor mance Chemicals  LANXESS Rubber N.V.,  Zwijndrecht, Belgium Production  and sales Performance Polymers Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH,  Mannheim, Germany Production  and sales Performance Chemicals Saltigo GmbH, Langenfeld,  Germany Production  and sales Advanced  Intermediates Key additions to the Group portfolio At the beginning of May 2011 we  successfully completed the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM  business  of Dutch company Royal DSM N.V. Assigned to the Performance  Polymers segment, the acquisition strengthens the position of our  Technical Rubber Products business unit in the steadily expanding  EPDM synthetic rubber business.   Through the acquisition of the material protection business of Swiss  company Syngenta AG, the Material Protection Products business  unit of our Performance Chemicals segment is becoming one of the  leading suppliers of biocides for protecting construction materials. The  purchase in April 2011 largely covers patents, customer lists, supply  agreements and registrations for Syngenta products. The acquisition  in November 2011 of Verichem Inc., a U.S. biocide specialist based  in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, will signi cantly strengthen the position of  the Material Protection Products business unit on the North American  market. Our Rhein Chemie business unit, which is also part of the  Performance  Chemicals segment, strengthened its product portfolio with three  measures. With the acquisition of the Argentina-based Darmex group  in January 2011, Rhein Chemie has not only become one of the  worlds leading suppliers of release agents for rubber products. It has  also gained access to the market for vulcanization bladders, which  is worth an estimated 300 million. Bladders are used during the  vulcanization phase of tire production to give the tires their  nal shape.  The purchase in April 2011 of the Vocol and Santoweb product lines  from U.S. company Flexsys America L.P. systematically expanded our  portfolio for rubber processors. In addition, the purchase of selected  assets from the tire release agents business of Wacker Chemie AG in  July 2011 cements our leading position on this market and gives us  access to new growth opportunities, especially in the United States.  We acquired U.S. company Unitex Chemical Corporation, which is  based in Greensboro, North Carolina, in October 2011. The busi- ness, which has some 40 employees, was assigned to the Functional  Chemicals business unit of the Performance Chemicals segment.  Unitex primarily manufactures environmentally friendly phthalate-free  plasticizers and other specialty products, including  ame retardants. In  addition to acquiring the Unitex product portfolio, the transaction also  gives us access to the companys  exible production units. The global  market for phthalate-free plasticizers is currently valued at 1.3 billion,  with annual growth rates of around 7%. When U.S. biofuel and biochemical manufacturer Gevo Inc. of   Englewood, Colorado, was listed on the stock exchange in February  2011, we raised the minority stake we have held in the company  since 2010 to 9.1%. In cooperation with Gevo, we are seeking to  manufacture isobutene from renewable resources. Isobutene is a key  precursor for the manufacture of butyl rubber.  Management and control organization LANXESS AG has a dual  manage ment structure consisting of the Board of Management, which  manages the company, and the Supervisory Board, which oversees  the Board of Management with the assistance of an Audit Committee  formed from among its members to advise on  nancial matters. The  Board of Management shapes Group strategy and manages resource  allocation, infrastructure and organization. As the Group management  company, LANXESS AG is responsible for  nancing and for communi- cation with the companys key stakeholders. For additional information, please see the Corporate Governance  section of this Annual Report.  72 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Compensation system and long-term incentive programs Compen- sation for the members of the Board of Management and Super- visory Board comprises both  xed and variable components. The  Board of Management, selected subordinate management levels and   certain other employee groups are entitled to participate in long-term,   stock-based incentive programs. Further details are given in the Compensation Report, which forms  part of this Management Report. Business Business organization We made no changes to our business organi- zation in  scal 2011. The LANXESS Group is structured in three  segments with 13 business units, each of which conducts its own  operations and has global pro t responsibility. Group functions and  service companies assigned to them support the business units by  providing  nancial, legal, technical and other centralized services.  Complementing this global alignment of the business units and group  functions, the country organizations ensure the necessary proximity  to markets and provide the organizational infrastructure required. At the present time, we do not plan to make any material changes to  the legal or organizational structures described above in  scal 2012. The segments in brief We have combined our synthetic rubber and  high-tech plastics manufacturing activities in the Performance  Polymers  segment. Performance Polymers Business units Butyl Rubber Performance Butadiene Rubbers Technical Rubber Products Semi-Crystalline Products Sites Dormagen, Hamm-Uentrop, Krefeld-Uerdingen,  Leverkusen and Marl, Germany Antwerp and Zwijndrecht, Belgium La Wantzenau and Port Jrme, France Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands Sarnia, Canada Orange, U.S.A. Cabo, Duque de Caxias and Triunfo, Brazil Wuxi, China Applications Tires Automotive Electronics Electrical engineering Medical equipment The business activities that LANXESS combines in its Advanced  Intermediates segment make it one of the worlds leading suppliers of  industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in the production  of chemical precursors and specialty active ingredients for individual  customers (custom synthesis and manufacturing). Advanced Intermediates Business units Advanced Industrial Intermediates Saltigo Sites Brunsbttel, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Leverkusen, Germany Baytown, U.S.A. Liyang, China Nagda, India Applications Agrochemicals Automotive Construction Dyestuffs Coatings Pharmaceuticals We have consolidated our application-oriented specialty chemicals  operations in the Performance Chemicals segment. Performance Chemicals Business units Material Protection Products Inorganic Pigments Functional Chemicals Leather Rhein Chemie Rubber Chemicals Ion Exchange Resins Sites Bitterfeld, Brunsbttel, Dormagen, Krefeld- Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Mannheim, Germany Antwerp, Belgium Filago, Italy Vilassar de Mar, Spain Branston, United Kingdom Isithebe, Merebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg,  South Africa Burgettstown, Bushy Park, Chardon, Greensboro and Pittsburgh, U.S.A. Burzaco, Merlo and Zrate, Argentina Porto Feliz, Brazil Colonia, Uruguay Qingdao, Shanghai, Tongling and Wuxi, China Jhagadia, India Toyohashi, Japan Sydney, Australia Applications Disinfection Protection and preservation of wood,  construction materials, coatings and foodstuffs Color pigments Leather processing products Tire chemicals Water treatment  73 Group Management Report LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy Strategy The LANXESS Group is a globally operating chemicals enterprise  with a portfolio ranging from polymers to industrial, specialty and  ne  chemicals. All of the conditions are in place for long-term success  in our core businesses. These include a  exible asset structure, a  diversi ed customer base, a global presence with regional  exibility  and an entrepreneurial management structure. Through innovations and selective additions to our product port- folio, we have positioned ourselves as a reliable high-tech supplier  of premium products that actively supports its customers innovation  processes and thereby adds measurable value. This enables us to   strengthen customer loyalty, set ourselves apart from our competitors,  and  remain highly competitive even in economically challenging times. Sustained megatrends offer potential for future success The future  development we anticipate is shaped by four sustained megatrends:   The growing demand for mobility, particularly in China, India and  other large emerging markets, and the simultaneous need to  make mobility more environmentally friendly.   The sharp increase in global food requirements due to a rapidly  growing world population.   Urbanization resulting worldwide in the migration of people from  rural areas to cities. According to current forecasts, the number of  city-dwellers will jump by 40% this decade. All these people will  need living space, of ces and a robust infrastructure.   The rising demand for water due to population growth and climate  change will result in water becoming a commodity as valuable as  oil in the not-too-distant future.  LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World Australia Asia Africa South  America North- and Central  America Europe  74 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 With the customized products and services offered by their business  units, our segments make a valuable social and economic contribu- tion to mastering the challenges presented by these megatrends in  everyday life.  Earnings strategy Against this backdrop, we are consistently  aligning  our product portfolio with markets that promise steady, above-average  growth in the coming years. Accordingly, our regional focus is mainly  on expanding our businesses and production capacities in the faster- growing BRICS countries, especially Brazil, India and China. To safe- guard our pro tability, part of our approach right from the start has been  to establish our price-before-volume strategy, which involves passing  the volatility in raw materials prices on to the market. Our primary mid-term corporate goal is to increase EBITDA pre excep- t ionals to 1.4 billion in 2015. The investment projects already un- der way are expected to make a sustained contribution to increasing   EBITDA pre exceptionals to around 1.3 billion (see  Opportunity  Report). We intend to generate the remaining amount from organic  growth as well as from targeted acquisitions, with our focus on organic  growth. Capital expenditure strategy We make targeted capital expenditures  to increase our international competitiveness, focusing on attractive  growth opportunities in pro table markets. The following principles  guide our capital expenditure policy:     The focus is on building our portfolio of premium products that set  us apart from our competitors.    We invest in sustainably growing markets that are the strategic  focus for our operating segments.   Capital expenditures must satisfy clear  nancial criteria  that  improve our companys average return on capital and   incorporate an adequate risk premium.   Most capital expenditures are  nanced out of the cash  ow from  operating activities or, if that is insuf cient, from other available  liquidity or credit lines. Financing strategy Our conservative, sustainability-based   nancing  policy prepares the ground for long-term dynamic business activity.  The corner stones of this policy are accessing international  nancial  markets and thus securing future  nancial  exibility. In respect of capital requirements and capital coverage, we work to  optimally reconcile competing requirements for pro tability, liquidity,  security and autonomy. The debt level is aligned to the ratio systems  used by the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies. Our company is able to grow as a result of its business operations  and by means of speci c  nancing measures. Our goal is to  generate  positive cash  ow along with a positive contribution to earnings. Value management and control system Value Management and Control System 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 EBITDA pre   exceptionals  million 719 722 465 918  1,146  EBITDA margin  pre exceptionals % 10.9 11.0 9.2 12.9  13.1  Capital employed  million 2,660 2,989 3,475 3,750  4,784  ROCE % 17.7 15.4 5.9 17.0 17.2 Days of sales in  inventories (DSI) Days 54.5 66.9 55.1 53.7  60.1  Days of sales  outstanding  (DSO) Days 49.3 44.6 47.0 46.3  49.9  Net  nancial   liabilities  million 460 864 794 913  1,515  Net debt ratio 0.6x 1.2x 1.7x 1.0x 1.3x Investment ratio % 4.3 5.4 6.8 7.4  8.0  To achieve our strategic goals, we need speci c controlling parameters  against which we can measure the success of our efforts. Such assess- ments are founded on a reliable, readily understandable  nancial and  controlling information system. We are constantly working to further  improve the information provided by the Accounting and Controlling  group functions through consistent reporting of budget, forecast and  actual data.  Financial performance   The key controlling parameter for the LANXESS Group and the   individual segments at present is EBITDA (earnings before interest,  income taxes, depreciation and amortization) pre exceptionals. It is  calculated from EBIT by adding back operational depreciation and  amortization and any exceptional items. Every operational decision or  achievement is judged by its sustainable impact on EBITDA. As part  of the annual budget and planning process, targets are set for this  benchmark of our companys success, which are then incorporated  into the assessment of employees variable income components (see  the Employees section in this Management Report).  75 Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the Groups con- trolling parameters because they do not permit any direct conclusions  about our pro tability. Volatile raw material prices are a hallmark of our  industry. When raw material prices  uctuate throughout the year, we  adjust our selling prices in line with our price-before-volume strategy.  This has an effect on sales, but almost none on the margins that are  signi cant to our pro tability. We therefore give no guidance on sales. Company-speci c lead indicators  Lead indicators support the timely identi cation of material changes  in assets and liabilities,  nancial condition and earnings performance.  Our annual budget and planning process provides the starting point for  measuring the Groups pro tability and our ability to  nance operations  from our own funds. This information is used, for example, to make   nancing decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes in market  conditions and the competitive environment, operational forecasts are  prepared three times each year as the basis for updating the full-year  budget and the associated key values we use to control the Group. Pro tability   Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented as a  controlling parameter at Group level. ROCE is a pro tability ratio  that  indicates how ef ciently we utilize our capital. This makes it an   important criterion in investment decisions, for example. All new invest- ment projects must exceed the Groups ROCE.         EBIT pre exceptionals   ROCE  =           Capital employed   Capital employed  =   Total assets Less deferred tax assets Less interest-free liabilities Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for pensions),  income tax liabilities, trade payables, and items included under other  liabilities. In addition, we use a simpli ed variant of ROCE, called  business ROCE, to manage our business units. EVA (economic value added) is also used as a parameter for value  management in the context of strategic planning and decisions about  the long-term alignment of the business units. Group Management Report  LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy | Value management and control system Cost of capital   Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in our case,  from the return on a long-term German government bond plus a  risk premium for industrial companies in the same risk category as  LANXESS. The cost of equity re ects the return expected by investors  from an investment in LANXESS shares. Equity investors demand a  risk premium due to the greater risk involved in acquiring shares than  in buying risk-free government bonds. This is known as a market risk  premium and is calculated using the long-term excess return generated  by a stock investment over an investment in risk-free government bonds  and adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk of an invest- ment in LANXESS stock compared to that of the market as a whole. At 17.2%, ROCE in 2011 (2010: 17.0%) was well above our weighted  average cost of capital (WACC), which was adjusted for compara- bility. After tax, the WACC amounted to 8.4% in  scal 2011 (2010:  8.4%). The net debt ratio (ratio of net  nancial debt to EBITDA pre  exceptionals) rose only slightly, from 1.0 in the prior year to 1.3 as of  December 31, 2011, resulting from the implementation of our growth  strategy and the associated increase in investment activity last year. Capital employment   To control our working capital, we use two key performance indicators:  DSI (days of sales in inventories) and DSO (days of sales outstanding).  These represent inventories and receivables, respectively, in relation  to sales. Another important performance indicator is business free  cash  ow, which indicates how much cash our business units are   generating directly. It is calculated for the operating units using a  simpli ed cash  ow method. Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject to rigorous  capital discipline and are aligned systematically with those product  areas with the greatest potential for success. We prioritize investment  projects on the basis of  nancial indicators such as the pay-off period,  net present value and ROCE.  76 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Debt  The net debt ratio, which we use solely at Group level, is de ned as net   nancial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre exceptionals. Net  nancial  liabilities are the total of current and non-current  nancial liabilities, less  cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. The  nancial liabilities  re ected in the statement of  nancial position are adjusted here for  liabilities for accrued interest.   Net Financial Liabilities  million 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Non-current  nancial   liabilities 601 9591) 1,462 1,302  1,465  Current  nancial liabilities 59 168 94 176  633  Less  Liabilities for accrued  interest (11) (14) (47) (41)  ( 55)  Cash and cash equivalents (189) (249) (313) (160)  (178)  Near-cash assets 0 0 (402) (364)  (350)  460 864 794 913  1,515  1) After deduction of 27 million in speci c exchange hedging of  nancial liabilities Legal environment  There were no changes in the legal environment in 2011 that would  have had a material impact on the cash  ows,  nancial condition or  results of operations of the LANXESS Group. Business conditions  GDP and Chemical Production in 2011 Change vs. prior year in real terms (%), projected 0 4 6 2 8 1.9 4.1 4.2 2.5 2.3 2.6 4.3 6.7 Chemical production North America Latin America EMEA Asia-Pacific Gross domestic product The economic environment  2011 was characterized by economic expansion. However, its pace  slowed as the year progressed to yield an overall growth rate of 2.7%.  One of the main reasons for this slowdown was the less robust growth  in the industrialized countries. The Japanese economy in particular  suffered from the direct and indirect consequences of the March 2011  earthquake disaster. In the United States, the rising public debt, high  unemployment and ongoing dif culties in the real estate sector  dampened growth to 1.8%. In addition, the  nancial markets grew  increasingly nervous in the face of the European debt crisis and the  debate about possible solutions. Growth in Western Europe was slow  at 1.5%, although Germany stood out with expansion of 3.0%. The  market uncertainty described above was also re ected in a cooling  of the economy in the emerging markets. Nevertheless, China and  India still posted high growth rates of 8.5% and 6.8%, respectively. The subdued performance of the global economy also affected the  worlds capital markets, which showed mixed trends over the course of  the year and regionally. The  rst half of the year was dominated by share  price gains, but then a downturn took hold from the third quarter that  saw key indices post a loss for 2011 overall. Impacted by the public  debt crisis in Europe, the DAX shed 15% while the FTSE 100 dropped  around 6%. The Nikkei Index lost around 18% following the natural  disaster in March 2011. The U.S. Dow Jones was the only index to go  against the trend, with gains of around 6% for 2011. In this environ- ment, central banks worldwide continued to pursue their low-interest  policy. LANXESS shares were also unable to evade the  developments  on Europes stock markets and ended the year down 32%. The exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar was again  very volatile during 2011. The value of the dollar dropped signi cantly  against the euro up to the middle of the year. In the second half, how- ever, a steady recovery began, in the course of which the U.S. dollar  more than recouped its losses, trading at a lower rate than at the start  of the year. At the end of the year, the euro was worth US$1.29, which  represented an increase in the value of the U.S. currency of about 3.7%  over the course of 2011. Its average price for the year was US$1.39,  which was weaker than the prior-year price of US$1.33. Due to the  positioning of our business, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a  positive effect on our earnings. Centralized hedging activities limit  any impact that cannot be neutralized by ensuring that production  and sales take place in the same currency area.     77 Group Management Report Value management and control system | Legal environment | Business conditions  Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro  2011   Average 2011  2010   Average 2010 Despite the global economys rather restrained performance, raw  material prices continued the upward trend begun in 2010 in the   reporting period. As a purchaser primarily of petrochemical raw   materials,  particularly butadiene, LANXESS is impacted by this trend,  as it leads to higher production costs. The chemical industry  The trend observed in the chemical industry was positive overall,  with production expanding by 4.6% in 2011, somewhat less than  the 5.5% we had forecast. Following a very robust  rst half, growth in  chemical production slowed as the year progressed, triggered by the  increasing market uncertainty. The NAFTA region performed better  than we expected with growth of 4.1%. By contrast, Western Europes  expansion of 1.3% lagged behind our expectations. Growth in the  Asia-Paci c and Latin America regions was also slower than we had  anticipated at 6.7% and 2.5%, respectively. Evolution of major user industries  Evolution of Major User Industries in 2011 Change vs. prior year  in real terms (%) (projected) Tires Auto- motive Agro- chemicals Con- struction Americas 2.1 8.8 6.6 2.7 NAFTA 1.7 9.7 8.0 2.4 Latin America 3.4 6.1 4.1 4.5 EMEA 6.9 6.5 6.0 2.0 Germany 2.3 6.2 7.4 6.4 Western Europe 2.2 3.1 4.7 1.0 Central and Eastern Europe 10.7 12.4 10.3 3.9 Asia-Paci c 3.7 (0.5) 7.8 6.0 World 4.2 3.4 6.9 3.9 Jan. Feb. March April May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. 1.20 1.10 1.30 1.40 1.50 1.60 Tire industry production expanded by a robust 4.2% in 2011, driven  mainly by 10.2% growth in Central and Eastern Europe. Asia also  performed well with overall growth of 3.7%, led by the ASEAN region  with 5.6% and China with 5.3%. Supported by the upswing in the  automotive industry, the original equipment business proved to be a  key driver of this positive performance. The replacement tire business  was slightly weaker than anticipated on account of the strong demand  in the prior year. Truck tires, especially in the OEM segment, posted  substantial growth, above all in Europe and the NAFTA region. By  contrast, the performance of the replacement tire business was below  average overall. OEM car tires saw very positive development across  all regions. The replacement tire market was weak in North America,  but grew in Europe. The automotive industry continued to grow. The large backlog in  demand in the United States and Russia led to strong expansion in  the NAFTA region (9.7%) and Central and Eastern Europe (12.4%).  By contrast, automobile production in China fell by 0.5% although it  remained at a high level. This decline was caused by expiring incen- tive programs that had been launched in 2010 to encourage the  purchase of smaller commercial vehicles. After the previous years  steep increase, production in this vehicle category decreased signi - cantly in 2011 due to lower demand and a high baseline  gure. The  natural disasters in Japan pushed production down by 9.2% over  the course of the year. Overall, production in the Asia-Paci c region  decreased by 0.5%. In Western Europe, the automotive sector grew  by 3.1%. Expansion in Germany was particularly robust at 6.2%, due  in large part to higher exports. Production in South America was also  very strong, with a gain of 6.1%. The production of chemicals for the agricultural industry grew by a  signi cant 6.9%. This very positive trend was driven by the high prices  for agricultural products. The growth in production was particularly  high in the NAFTA region at 8.0% and in Central and Eastern Europe  at 10.3%. The construction sector in the industrialized countries  nally stabilized  at a low level after having contracted sharply since the start of the  global economic crisis in 2008/2009. Construction in the NAFTA  region actually showed a slight upward trend in 2011 with growth of  2.4%, whereas Western Europe saw only marginal improvement of  1.0%. Germany was a positive exception, posting healthy growth of  6.4%. The Asia-Paci c region remained the construction industrys  growth engine with expansion of 6.0%.  78 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Key events in uencing the companys business Our business in 2011 was shaped mainly by the performance of  our Performance Polymers segment and, in geographical terms, the  markets in our EMEA (excluding Germany) and Latin America regions.  The sharp rise in raw material prices across all our segments did  not have a sustained impact on our business due to the systematic  implementation of our price-before-volume strategy. The Performance Polymers segment posted the strongest year-on-year  growth rates in terms of both sales and EBITDA pre exceptionals and  was therefore the main engine of our business success. This positive  trend was based on brisk demand from the tire industry for high-quality  synthetic rubber and from the automotive industry for high-tech plastics,  which are used in car bodies and other components. It was additionally  supported by the acquisition in early May 2011 of the Keltan EPDM  business from Royal DSM N.V., since demand from car makers for  these products was also strong. Driven by the demand for agricultural products, sales of the Advanced  Intermediates segments agrochemicals also increased. Sales grew signi cantly in all reporting regions. Adjusted for currency  and portfolio effects, the most marked business expansion was seen in  Latin America. Demand from the tire and automotive-related industries  was the driving force here.  Comparison of forecast and actual business Fiscal 2011 was dominated by the mobility and agriculture  megatrends. At the end of 2010, we anticipated continued healthy business   performance in view of the excellent global positioning of our  segments.  We assumed that our key customer industries would continue to  perform well, albeit with regional differences, and anticipated higher  sales and improved earnings compared to the prior year. Key industries, particularly the tire and automotive sectors but also  agrochemicals, exceeded our expectations, in some cases by a wide  margin, and enabled us to achieve excellent results, primarily in the  Performance Polymers segment. The regional performance of our  businesses was more homogeneous than we had originally anticipated,  with growth rates of more than 20%. Only Germany lagged slightly  behind this trend. Taking into account the market developments at the time, we projected  a year-on-year increase in EBITDA pre exceptionals of between 10%  and 15% when we reported our results for the  rst quarter of 2011.  In view of subsequent economic forecasts, our results for the  rst half  of the year, and the successfully completed acquisition of the Keltan  EPDM business of Royal DSM N.V., we later raised our guidance to  an increase of 20%. Our EBITDA pre exceptionals for 2011 came to  1,146 million, representing an increase of 24.8%, which exceeded  our forecast and is mainly attributable to the positive performance of  our polymers business. As generally expected, the price of the raw materials used by the  Group increased by around 27%. In line with our price-before-volume  strategy, these higher costs were passed on to the market and did not  have an adverse effect on the results of operations. In connection with the ongoing LANXESS Technology Initiative,  our research and development spending increased by 24.1% to  144  million in 2011. Our investment in the companys future poten- t  ial was therefore higher than originally planned. The focus was on the  Performance Polymers segment, with a share of 50%. In the year under review, the cash out ow for capital expenditures  totaled 679 million, around 13.2% more than the  gure forecast  during the course of the year. This was mainly due to our completion  ahead of schedule of the capacity expansion at the existing butyl rubber  plant in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, early expenditures for the butyl rubber  plant in Singapore, and extensive maintenance measures undertaken  in the fourth quarter of 2011. In light of the maturity structure of our  nancial liabilities, there was  no need for substantial re nancing in 2011. As a replacement for the  bond that is maturing in 2012, we took advantage of the favorable inter- est rates in May 2011 to issue a 500 million Euro Benchmark Bond.  79 Group Management Report Key events in uencing the companys business | Comparison of forecast and actual business  | Business performance of the LANXESS Group Business performance of the LANXESS Group   Sales up 23.2%, largely due to price effects, supported by   portfolio additions   Positive demand trend, particularly in automotive and tire   industries    Signi cant sales growth in all reporting regions     EBITDA pre exceptionals up 24.8% to 1,146 million   EBITDA margin pre exceptionals of 13.1% tops strong  prior-year 12.9%   Net income rises to 506 million after 379 million  in previous year   Earnings per share of 6.08, up from 4.56   Solid statement of  nancial position and  nancing structure   Net debt ratio up only moderately, from 1.0 to 1.3,  despite extensive acquisition and investment activities Key Financial Data  million 2010 2011 Change  % Sales 7,120  8,775  23.2  Gross pro t 1,739  2,010  15.6  EBITDA pre exceptionals 918  1,146  24.8  EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 12.9%  13.1%  — EBITDA 890  1,101  23.7  Operating result (EBIT)  pre exceptionals 635  826  30.1  Operating result (EBIT)  607  776  27.8  EBIT margin 8.5%  8.8%  —  Financial result (114)  (121) (6.1)  Income before income taxes 493  655  32.9  Net income  379  506  33.5  Earnings per share () 4.56  6.08  33.5 Sales and earnings  Group Sales  million LANXESS Group sales rose by a robust 23.2% from 7,120 million  in the prior year to 8,775 million. Adjustments to selling prices be- cause of signi cantly higher raw material costs characterized 2011.  Sales volumes were up 2.7% over the strong prior-year period. With  positive portfolio and currency effects of 3.3% on balance, operational  sales improved by 19.9%. Volumes expanded in all segments. Due  to higher raw material prices, selling prices also increased in all  segments. In some cases, particularly in the Performance Polymers  segment, these increases were substantial. Sales contributed by  the businesses acquired in 2011 generated a positive portfolio  effect of 6.1%. 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 6,608 6,576 5,057 7,120 8,775 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business Forecast for 2011 in  Annual Report 2010 &  Q1 Interim Report Forecast for 2011 in  H1 Interim Report Forecast for 2011 in  Q3 Interim Report Actual 2011 Business development: Group EBITDA pre exceptionals 10% to 15% increase 20% increase 20% increase 24.8% increase Seasonality of sales H1 > H2 H1 > H2 H1 > H2 H1 > H2 1) Business development: segments Performance Polymers Increasing demand Increasing demand Increasing demand Sales +37% Advanced Intermediates Increasing demand Increasing demand Increasing demand Sales +10% Performance Chemicals Increasing demand Increasing demand Increasing demand Sales +8% Raw material prices Further increase Further increase Further increase Signi cant increase Research and development Research and development expenses +15% +15% +15% +24% Financial condition: Group Cash out ows for capital expenditures 550 – 600 million 550 – 600 million Approx. 600 million 679 million 1) Portfolio-adjusted  80 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Effects on Sales  million/% Our Performance Polymers segment performed very positively   throughout the reporting year, increasing sales by a substantial 37.0%  compared to the previous year. The effects of strong demand in the   rst nine months were dampened by a decline in volumes in the fourth  quarter, resulting in a mid single-digit percentage increase in volumes  for the year as a whole. A sharp rise in raw material prices against  the prior year led to a signi cant increase in selling prices, despite a  temporary and in some cases considerable drop in the price of certain  strategic raw materials that was observed before the end of the year.  The gratifying operational performance was supported by the posi- tive portfolio effect from acquiring the Keltan EPDM business, offset  slightly by currency effects. Sales by the Advanced Intermediates segment expanded by 9.5%.  Increased raw material costs resulted in higher selling prices in this  segment as well. Volumes grew rapidly during the  rst half of the year,  but demand then began to wane, especially in the fourth quarter. This  resulted in a low single-digit percentage increase in volumes for the  year. Currency effects had a slightly negative impact on sales growth. In our Performance Chemicals segment, sales were up 7.7%. We  raised prices here, too, because of rising raw material costs. Business  expansion was also supported by acquisitions made in 2011. These  activities were assigned to the Rhein Chemie, Material Protection  Products and Functional Chemicals business units. A slight increase  in volumes compared to the previous year had a positive effect on  sales, while currency effects had a mildly negative impact. We grew sales in all regions, in most cases by well over 20%. The  Performance Polymers segment proved to be a major growth driver  in all regions. This positive regional performance is representative of  the stable demand worldwide in nearly all our customer industries in   scal 2011 and of LANXESSs sustained successful positioning in  the growth markets. 7,120 +17.2% +2.7% +6.1% 8,775 (2.8)% 2010 Currency Portfolio Volume Price 2011 Sales by Segment  million 2010 2011 Change  % Proportion  of Group  sales   % Performance Polymers 3,692  5,059  37.0  57.7  Advanced Intermediates 1,411  1,545  9.5  17.6  Performance Chemicals 1,978  2,130  7.7  24.2  Reconciliation 39 41  5.1  0.5  7,120  8,775  23.2  100.0  2010  gures restated Order book status  Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreements on  xed  volumes and prices. Instead, our business is characterized by long- standing relationships with customers and revolving master agree- ments. Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders with rela- tively short lead times which do not provide a basis for forward-looking  statements about our capacity utilization or volumes. Our business  is managed primarily on the basis of regular Group-wide forecasts  of Group operating targets. For additional information, please see  Company-speci c lead indicators. Any disclosure of the Groups order book status at a given report- ing date therefore would not be indicative of the Groups short- or  medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such disclosure is  made in this report. Gross pro t  The cost of sales rose slightly more than sales, increasing by 25.7%  from the prior year to 6,765 million. As a result, the gross pro t  margin decreased, from 24.4% to 22.9%. Among the reasons for this  development were write-downs on inventories that became necessary  when prices for certain strategic raw materials began to fall in the sec- ond half of the year. Until then, the prices for strategic raw materials had  been much higher than the year before, with a signi cant in ationary  effect observed for butadiene and isobutylene, but also cyclohexane  and toluene. At Group level, the higher prices were passed on in full  to the market, so our price-before-volume strategy remained intact.  Capacity utilization was just above the prior-year level at around 86%.  Maintenance shutdowns and the adjustment of production to declin- ing demand toward the end of the year kept capacity utilization in the  fourth quarter below the level for the year as a whole. The resulting  costs for idle capacities and maintenance projects as well as energy   81 Group Management Report Business performance of the LANXESS Group costs, which rose over the course of the year, increased manufactur- ing costs. Currency effects, which were negative on a full-year basis,  also had an adverse effect on the gross margin. The resulting charge  to gross pro t contrasted with positive hedging results reported in  other operating income. The acquisitions made during the reporting  year yielded a positive portfolio effect on the gross pro t despite the  negative effects of the purchase price allocations. EBITDA and operating result (EBIT)  Selling expenses rose by 86 million to 732 million in 2011, mainly  due to volume- and price-related increases in freight charges and to  portfolio effects. However, the ratio of selling expenses to sales receded  from 9.1% to 8.3%.  Research and development costs increased by 24.1% to 144 million,  underscoring the continued expansion of research activities as part  of the LANXESS Technology Initiative. As a percentage of sales, they  were level with the prior year at 1.6%. The number of employees in  R&D grew to 731 as of December 31, 2011, up substantially from  519 on December 31, 2010.  General administrative expenses climbed from 298 million to  325 million in 2011. Reasons for this included portfolio effects as  well as an increase in employees variable compensation due to the  companys positive performance in 2011. These expenses accounted  for 3.7% of sales, down from 4.2% in the previous year.  Other operating expenses, net of other operating income, decreased by  39 million to 33 million. Positive results from hedging trans actions  and the absence of one-off expenses from the previous year had a  favorable impact. The exceptional charges of 50 million included in  this  gure, 45 million of which impacted EBITDA, related mainly to  various reorganization projects and portfolio measures. In 2010, net  exceptional charges amounted to 28 million, all of which impacted  EBITDA. These were also associated primarily with restructuring and  portfolio measures. EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment  million 2010 2011 Change  % Performance Polymers 548  768  40.1  Advanced Intermediates 259  264  1.9  Performance Chemicals 281  289  2.8  Reconciliation (170)  (175)  (2.9)  918  1,146  24.8  2010  gures restated We signi cantly increased our operating result before depreciation and  amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals to 1,146 million in 2011 from  918 million the year before. This improvement was  primarily due to  increased raw material costs being passed quickly on to the market, the  continual optimization of the Groups product mix,  increased volumes,  and the portfolio effect from the acquisitions made in the reporting year,  particularly the Keltan EPDM business. Currency changes resulting  from the appreciation in the value of the euro compared to the prior- year period had the opposite effect. The Groups EBITDA margin pre  exceptionals improved from 12.9% to 13.1%. EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals  million EBITDA pre exceptionals of the Performance Polymers segment grew  by approximately 40% against the previous year. Higher raw material  costs were passed on in full to the market. The increase in volumes and  a signi cant portfolio effect from the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM  business contributed substantially to the earnings improve ment. In  the Advanced Intermediates segment, selling prices were raised to  compensate for the higher raw material costs. An  increase in energy  costs and negative currency effects were mitigated by the expansion  of volumes, which resulted in earnings being slightly higher than  in the previous year. EBITDA pre exceptionals of the Performance  Chemicals segment also improved during the reporting period. By  quickly passing higher raw material costs on to the market, we were  able to offset higher costs in other areas, including energy and freight.  Volumes remained at or near the prior-year level. The slight decline in  EBITDA pre exceptionals reported in the reconciliation was due in part  to an increase in research expenditure, performance-related, one-time  payments at the end of the  scal year, expenses for portfolio measures,  and the design and implementation of IT projects. 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 719 10.9% 722 11.1% 465 9.2% 918 12.9% 1,146 13.1% 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500  82 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 The operating result (EBIT) improved very substantially from 607 mil- lion to 776 million in  scal 2011.  Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income   million 2010 2011 Change  % Operating result (EBIT) 607  776  27.8  Income from investments   accounted for using the  equity method 16  7  (56.3)  Net interest expense (83)  (93)  (12.0)  Other  nancial income and  expenses – net  (47) (35)  25.5 Financial result (114) (121)  (6.1)  Income before income taxes 493  655  32.9  Income taxes (112)  (148)  (32.1)  Income after income taxes 381  507  33.1  of which: attributable to non-controlling  interests 2  1  (50.0)  attributable to  LANXESS AG  stockholders (net income) 379  506  33.5  Financial result  The  nancial result came in at minus 121 million in  scal 2011,  compared to minus 114 million for the prior year. The pro-rated  income from investments accounted for using the equity method,  primarily Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, came to 7 million, against  16 million in 2010. Interest expense rose considerably, while inter- est income remained constant. This was due mainly to the increase  in net  nancial liabilities by 602 million from the previous year, to  1,515 million, as a result of investments and acquisitions as well as  the business-related increase in working capital. The capitalization of  a portion of borrowing costs, mainly relating to the construction of the  new butyl rubber plant in Singapore, had the opposite effect. In total,  net interest expense was 10 million higher than in the previous year  at 93 million. The improvement in the other  nancial income and  expense items was due to a signi cantly better net exchange position  compared to the prior-year period. This contrasted with a slight year- on-year increase in the interest portion of interest-bearing provisions,  mainly because of interest rate adjustments. Income before income taxes  Due to the positive EBIT trend, income before income taxes rose by  162 million to 655 million. Income taxes In  scal 2011, the Group had tax expense of 148 million, compared  to 112 million the year before. The Groups tax rate was 22.6%, after  22.7% in the previous year.  Net income, earnings per share  The LANXESS Groups net income increased significantly by  127  million year on year to 506 million. 1 million (2010:  2  million) was attributable to non-controlling interests.  With the number of LANXESS shares in circulation unchanged,   earnings per share improved substantially year on year, from 4.56  to 6.08, due to the high level of net income. Business trends by region  Sales by Market % Sales by Market 2010  2011  Change  million %  million % % EMEA (excluding  Germany) 2,038  28.6  2,546  29.0  24.9  Germany 1,320  18.5  1,569  17.9  18.9  North America 1,174  16.5  1,458  16.6  24.2  Latin America 955  13.4  1,201  13.7  25.8  Asia-Paci c 1,633  23.0  2,001  22.8  22.5  7,120  100.0  8,775  100.0  23.2  2010 2011 29.0 28.6 17.9 18.5 16.6 16.5 13.7 22.8 13.4 23.0 EMEA (excluding Germany) Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific  83 Group Management Report Business performance of the LANXESS Group | Business trends by region  EMEA (excluding Germany)  In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), we recorded sales of  2,546 million, 508 million or 24.9% more than in 2010. Adjusted  for portfolio and currency effects, sales grew by 17.9%. Please see  Key additions to the Group portfolio in this Management Report for  detailed information about the portfolio changes. The Performance  Polymers and Advanced Intermediates segments drove operational  sales expansion with nearly identical mid double-digit growth rates.  Growth in the Performance Chemicals segment was slightly lower with  a high single-digit percentage increase. In Eastern Europe and the  Middle East, sales grew by high double-digit percentages. Western  Europe posted lower growth rates, but dominated operating perfor- mance in absolute  gures. The individual countries where growth was  very gratifying included Hungary, Russia, Turkey, Switzerland and the  United Kingdom. The EMEA region (excluding Germany) accounted for 29.0% of Group  sales, up 0.4 percentage points on the prior-year level. Germany  In Germany, our sales came to 1,569 million in 2011, up 249  million,  or 18.9%, over the previous year. Adjusted for portfolio effects from the  acquisitions made in the reporting year, growth was 15.9%. The Perfor- mance Polymers segment, where business increased by a  double-digit  percentage, accounted for a signi cant share of this growth. The Perfor- mance Chemicals and Advanced Intermediates segments reported  sales increases in the high single-digit per centage range. Germanys share of Group sales fell slightly from 18.5% to 17.9%. North America  In this region, we generated sales of 1,458 million in 2011, up  284 million, or 24.2%, from the previous year. Adjusted for positive  portfolio and negative currency effects that nearly canceled each  other out, operational sales growth was almost identical at 24.4%.  The Performance Polymers segment was the primary driver of this  development with a growth rate of around 40%, followed by the Per- formance Chemicals segment, where growth neared the double-digit  percentage range. Advanced Intermediates saw sales growth in the  low single digits. At 16.6%, the North American share of Group sales remained close  to the prior-year level of 16.5%. Latin America  As in the previous year, we posted our largest percentage sales   increases in Latin America. Sales there advanced by 246 million, or  25.8%, to 1,201 million in 2011. Adjusted for negative currency and  positive portfolio effects, operational sales growth was nearly  identical  at 25.6%. This growth was driven by the Performance  Polymers   segment, which expanded sales by a high double-digit percentage.  The Advanced Intermediates segment held steady with low single-digit  growth compared to the previous year, while sales in the Performance  Chemicals segment came in slightly below the prior-year  gure. Brazil  contributed signi cantly to the expansion of sales in this region. Latin Americas share of Group sales edged up from 13.4% to 13.7%. Asia-Paci c  Sales in this region increased by 368 million, or 22.5%, to  2,001 million in 2011. After adjustment for currency and port- folio effects, sales grew by 19.0%. The strongest expansion was in  the Performance Polymers segment, which raised sales by a mid  double-digit percentage, followed at a considerable distance by  Advanced Intermediates with a growth rate just below double digits.  Operational sales in the Performance Chemicals segment rose by a  mid single-digit percentage. We saw very positive sales momentum  in China (including Hong Kong), India and South Korea. Asia-Paci cs share of Group sales declined slightly year on year,  from 23.0% to 22.8%. However, it remained the Groups second- strongest region in terms of sales.  84 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Segment information   Performance Polymers: positive price and portfolio effects  increase sales and earnings considerably   Advanced Intermediates: strong earnings driven by agricultural  business with slight decline in other customer industries at  year end   Performance Chemicals: prices lift earnings on specialty  chemicals Sales by Segment % Performance Polymers Overview of Key Data 2010 2011 Change  million Margin  %  million Margin  % % Sales 3,692  5,059  37.0  EBITDA  pre  exceptionals 548  14.8  768  15.2  40.1  EBITDA  549  14.9  759  15.0  38.3  Operating  result (EBIT)  pre  exceptionals 407  11.0  607  12.0  49.1  Operating result  (EBIT) 408  11.1  598  11.8  46.6  Cash out ows for  capital expenditures1) 298  437  46.6  Depreciation and  amortization 141  161  14.2  Employees as of  Dec. 31 4,281  4,977  16.3  2010  gures restated 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment In  scal 2011, our Performance Polymers segment posted an excel- lent performance, with sales increasing 37.0% from the prior year to  5,059 million. High year-on-year in ation in the cost of raw materials,  57.7 2010 51.9 17.6 19.8 24.2 27.8 0.5 0.5 2011 Performance Polymers Advanced Intermediates Performance Chemicals Reconciliation particularly butadiene and isobutylene, was offset by timely selling price  increases, giving a positive price effect on sales of 26.7%. Volumes  rose 3.5% on account of the robust demand situation compared to  the prior year. Negative currency effects of 3.8% were more than  compensated by the positive portfolio effect of 10.6%. This was due  to inclusion in the Groups results of the sales of the Keltan EPDM  business, which we acquired in early May 2011 and assigned to the  Technical Rubber Products business unit. The integration of this busi- ness is proceeding according to plan. All of the segments business units recorded an increase in demand  from all principal customer industries through most of 2011. In the  fourth quarter, volumes fell slightly due to maintenance shutdowns  and some inventory reductions at our customers. The Butyl Rubber  and Performance Butadiene Rubbers business units, which have close  ties with the tire industry, bene ted from the strong demand in the  markets for OEM and replacement tires, and were able to raise volumes  compared to the prior year. In the Technical Rubber Products and  Semi-Crystalline Products business units, sales increased because of  rising demand from automobile manufacturers. The Technical Rubber  Products business unit saw the largest year-on-year increase in sales  and bene ted especially from the portfolio effect from the acquisition  of the Keltan EPDM business. North America was the region with the  strongest percentage growth, although absolute increases were very  high overall. EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals  million EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Performance Polymers segment rose  by 220 million, or 40.1%, to 768 million. Raw material costs were  up year on year, but all business units passed these increases on to  the market in the form of higher selling prices. Earnings also improved  376 14.0% 413 12.6% 250 10.5% 548 14.8% 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 768 15.2% 0 200 400 600 800 1,000  85 Group Management Report Segment information as the result of product mix effects and volume growth due to stable  demand. Despite scheduled expansion and maintenance shutdowns  at the end of the year and destocking by customers, capacity utiliza- tion for the segment surpassed prior-year levels. Valuation effects on  inventories due to de ationary trends for some key raw materials in  the fourth quarter adversely affected earnings. The consolidation of  the Keltan EPDM business we acquired more than compensated for  the adverse exchange rate developments which negatively impacted  earnings. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals improved from 14.8%  to 15.2%. The exceptional charges of 9 million that impacted the segments  EBITDA related to expenses in connection with corporate transactions  and remediation measures at our site in Canada. The exceptional  income of 1 million that positively affected EBITDA in  scal 2010  was related to past ef ciency improvement measures. Advanced Intermediates Overview of Key Data 2010 2011 Change  million Margin  %  million Margin  % % Sales 1,411  1,545  9.5  EBITDA  pre  exceptionals 259  18.4  264  17.1  1.9  EBITDA  259  18.4  245  15.9  (5.4)  Operating  result (EBIT)  pre  exceptionals 201  14.2  198  12.8  (1.5)  Operating result  (EBIT) 201  14.2  175  11.3  (12.9)  Cash out ows for  capital expenditures1) 73  107  46.6  Depreciation and  amortization 58  70  20.7  Employees as of  Dec. 31 2,903  2,883  (0.7)  2010  gures restated 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Sales in the Advanced Intermediates segment grew by 134 million,  or 9.5%, to 1,545 million in 2011. Price increases implemented to  compensate for higher raw material prices yielded a 7.7% price effect.  Volumes rose by 3.4% due to improved demand, while exchange rates  had a slightly negative impact on sales of 1.6%. Demand for agrochemicals remained strong throughout the year. Both  of the segments business units pro ted from this development. In the  Saltigo business unit, volumes for fungicide precursors increased,  while volumes for pharmaceutical precursors declined. The Advanced  Industrial Intermediates (formerly Basic Chemicals) business unit  posted year-on-year volume growth, especially with products from  the aromatics network for the agrochemical and automotive-related  industries. By contrast, volumes with products for the construction  industry declined. Higher prices for raw materials, including toluene,  were offset by selling price adjustments. Growth was strongest in the  EMEA region (excluding Germany) in both absolute and relative terms. EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals  million EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates segment in- creased by 5 million to 264 million. Higher prices for raw materials  were passed on in full to the market. Stable growth in the agricultural  sector led to a positive volume effect in both business units. The  segments capacity utilization exceeded the prior-year level overall.  In the fourth quarter, however, it dropped from the previous quarters  high level due to shutdowns for expansion and maintenance. Adverse  exchange rate effects had a negative impact on earnings, causing  the EBITDA margin pre exceptionals to dip from 18.4% to 17.1%.  In 2011, exceptional items amounted to 23 million, 19 million of  which impacted EBITDA. These charges relate to the Saltigo business  unit. Saltigo is anticipating a continued downturn in demand in the  pharmaceuticals custom manufacturing business. By contrast, the  growth trend in the agrochemicals custom manufacturing business  remains intact. Saltigo is addressing this development proactively  and will therefore be focusing more strongly on the successful agro- chemicals business. Existing infrastructure and resources from the  pharmaceuticals area will be gradually converted for use by the  growing agrochemicals business or taken off stream. The Group  has recognized provisions accordingly. 174 14.5% 186 14.2% 154 13.9% 259 18.4% 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 264 17.1% 0 100 200 300 400  86 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Performance Chemicals Overview of Key Data 2010 2011 Change  million Margin  %  million Margin  % % Sales 1,978  2,130  7.7  EBITDA  pre  exceptionals 281  14.2  289  13.6  2.8  EBITDA  276  14.0  289  13.6  4.7  Operating  result (EBIT)  pre  exceptionals 214  10.8  211  9.9  (1.4)  Operating result  (EBIT) 209  10.6  211  9.9  1.0  Cash out ows for  capital expenditures1) 114  112  (1.8)  Depreciation and  amortization 67  78  16.4  Employees as of  Dec. 31 4,907  5,819  18.6  1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Sales in our Performance Chemicals segment rose 7.7% in  scal  2011, from 1,978 million to 2,130 million. This growth was pri- marily attributable to the 6.8% increase in selling prices, but volumes  also increased by a modest 0.4%. Negative exchange rate effects  of 1.9% were more than compensated by positive portfolio effects  of 2.4% resulting from acquisitions assigned to the Rhein Chemie,  Material Protection Products and Functional Chemicals business units. Volumes in the segment were just above the prior-year level, but the  picture across the business units was mixed. The Rubber Chemicals  and Rhein Chemie business units, which generate a signi cant pro- portion of their revenues from customers in the automotive industry,  posted substantial year-on-year volume growth. However, both busi- ness units saw a negative trend in the second half of the year due to  destocking by customers. The Ion Exchange Resins business unit  bene ted from the commissioning of a new production facility in India  and increased volumes, both in the fourth quarter and year on year.  Volumes in the Leather business unit were adversely affected by a  lack of feedstock related to a suppliers plant shutdowns. A decline in  orders from the construction industry at the end of the year caused  a decline in volumes in the Inorganic Pigments business unit as well.  The EMEA region (excluding Germany) posted the highest growth  in both absolute and relative terms. EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals  million EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals segment  improved by 8 million over the prior year to 289 million. This growth  was largely attributable to positive selling price effects. The segments  higher raw material costs were passed along in full to the market.  However, earnings were slightly dented because capacity utilization  fell below the high prior-year level, resulting primarily from scheduled  maintenance shutdowns in the fourth quarter and a seasonal drop in  demand ampli ed by destocking by customers. The positive portfolio  contribution from acquisitions made during the year partly offset nega- tive currency effects. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals fell from  14.2% to 13.6%, in part because of the negative margin effect and  despite passing on higher raw material prices to customers in full. In the reporting year, the segment had no exceptional items that im- pacted EBITDA. The exceptional items of 5 million in the prior year  related to restructuring expenses in the Functional Chemicals busi- ness unit.  Reconciliation Overview of Key Data  million 2010 2011 Change  % Sales 39 41  5.1  EBITDA pre  exceptionals (170) (175)  (2.9)  EBITDA  (194) (192)  1.0  Operating result (EBIT)  pre  exceptionals (187) (190)  (1.6)  Operating result (EBIT) (211) (208)  1.4  Cash out ows for capital  expenditures1) 16 23  43.8  Depreciation and amortization 17 16  (5.9)  Employees as of Dec. 31 2,557 2,711  6.0  1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 285 14.5% 241 12.5% 182 11.9% 281 14.2% 2011 2009 2008 2007 2010 289 13.6% 0 100 200 300 400  87 Group Management Report Segment information | Statement of  nancial position and  nancial condition  The EBITDA pre exceptionals of minus 175 million reported in the  Reconciliation (against minus 170 million in the prior year) was  in uenced in part by a planned expansion of central research activi- ties. The exceptional charges of 18 million, of which 17 million  impacted EBITDA, primarily related to expenses for the design and  implementation of IT projects and for portfolio adjustments. Such  expenses included personnel adjustment costs, expenses for the  closure or partial closure of facilities, and costs for the preparation and  execution of corporate transactions, to the extent that these expenses  could not be allocated accurately to the segments or business units.  The exceptional charges of 24 million reported in the Reconciliation  in 2010, all of which impacted EBITDA, primarily related to expenses  for restructuring activities and portfolio adjustments.  Statement of  nancial position and  nancial condition  Statement of  nancial position   Solid statement of  nancial position provides basis for  further growth   Total assets increase, mainly due to acquisitions   Higher working capital as a result of sharp rise in raw  material prices and strong demand   Equity ratio remains close to prior-year level    External  nancing of pensions through further allocations  under CTA   Net  nancial liabilities rise to 1,515 million due to capital  expenditures and acquisitions  Structure of the Statement of Financial Position Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2011 Change  million %  million % % Assets Non-current assets 2,738  48.3  3,489  50.7  27.4  Current assets 2,928  51.7  3,389  49.3  15.7  Total assets 5,666  100.0  6,878  100.0  21.4  Equity and   liabilities Equity (including  non-controlling  interests) 1,761  31.1  2,074  30.2  17.8  Non-current   liabilities 2,454  43.3  2,715  39.5  10.6  Current liabilities 1,451  25.6  2,089  30.3  44.0  Total equity  and liabilities 5,666  100.0  6,878  100.0  21.4  Structure of the statement of  nancial position Total assets of the  LANXESS Group amounted to 6,878 million as of December 31,  2011, an increase of 1,212 million, or 21.4%, on the prior-year   gure. This was primarily due to acquisitions made during the year  and the increase in working capital. The latter resulted from higher  raw material prices against the prior year and high demand, as well as  portfolio effects. The ratio of non-current assets to total assets rose from  48.3% to 50.7%. On the equity and liabilities side, current liabilities  especially were higher due to the reclassi cation from non-current to  current  nancial liabilities of the 2005 Euro Benchmark Bond that is  maturing in 2012. At the end of 2011, the equity ratio was 30.2%  after 31.1% in the previous year.  Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets  million Non-current assets rose by 751 million, or 27.4%, to 3,489 mil- lion. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment increased by  695 million to 3,052 million, largely due to capital expenditures and  acquisitions. Cash out ows for purchases of property, plant, equipment  and intangible assets, at 679 million, were very signi cantly above the  prior-year  gure of 501 million because of the planned expansion of  investment projects. Depreciation and amortization totaled 325 mil- lion, against 283 million in the previous year. The nearly unchanged  carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method  was chie y attributable to the positive earnings of Currenta GmbH  & Co. OHG during the reporting period and the offsetting effects  from adjusting the interest rates relevant to the measurement of this  af liates pension provisions. In addition, LANXESS raised its capital  contribution to the joint venture company LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong)  Chemical Industrial Co. Ltd. in China. The change in investments in  other af liated companies was in uenced by the stock market listing of  U.S. company Gevo Inc., in conjunction with which LANXESS raised its  holding in the company, and the recognition in other comprehensive  income of the difference resulting from the fair-value measurement of  the investment following the recent decline in the share price.  3,052 437 2,532 528 329 2,357 381 2,036 524 368 6,878 5,666 2010 2011 Inventories and receivables Other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Other non-current assets Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment  88 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Current assets increased by 461 million against the prior year, to  3,389 million. The ratio of current assets to total assets declined to  49.3% from 51.7% in the previous year. Inventories grew by 292 mil- lion to 1,386 million, chie y because of higher raw material prices and  the portfolio effect from the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business.  In addition, inventory levels were increased to support the positive  business performance. Days of sales in inventories (DSI) increased  to 60.1 from 53.7 in 2010. Trade receivables rose by a substantial  204 million against the previous year to 1,146 million, mainly due  to the strong expansion in business and to portfolio effects. There  were no material defaults. Days of sales outstanding (DSO) came in  at 49.9 compared to 46.3 in the previous year. The total of cash, cash  equivalents and near-cash assets increased by 4 million against the  end of 2010, to 528 million. Because of accounting rules, the statement of  nancial position of the  LANXESS Group does not contain signi cant internally generated  assets. These include LANXESSs brand equity and the value of the  companys other brands. A variety of measures was deployed in the  reporting period to continually enhance these assets, which contributed  to our ongoing success in positioning our business units in the market. Our established relationships with customers and suppliers also con- stitute a signi cant intangible asset. These long-standing, trust-based  partnerships with customers and suppliers, underpinned by consistent  service quality, have made it possible for us to systematically apply our  price-before-volume strategy. Our speci c competence in technology  and innovation, also a valuable asset, is rooted in our expertise in the  areas of research and development and custom manufacturing. It  enables us to generate added value for our customers.  The know-how and experience of our employees are also central pillars  of our corporate success. In addition, our sophisticated production  and business processes create competitive advantages for us in the  markets in which we operate.  Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities  million 2,074 1,478 1,237 1,439 650 1,761 1,313 1,141 863 588 6,878 5,666 2010 2011 Other non-current liabilities Other current liabilities Current financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Equity Equity, including non-controlling interests, amounted to 2,074 mil- lion, up from 1,761 million in the previous year. At the end of 2011,  the equity ratio was 30.2% after 31.1% at the end of 2010. A promi- nent factor in the equity increase was the high net income for the  year. This was offset by negative currency translation adjustments in  other equity components and by the dividend payout of 58 million  to LANXESS AG stockholders in May 2011. Non-current liabilities rose by 261 million to 2,715 million as of  December 31, 2011.This resulted mainly from the 163 million in- crease in other non-current  nancial liabilities to 1,465 million, due  largely to the issue in May 2011 of a 500 million Euro Benchmark  Bond that will mature in 2018. The Euro Benchmark Bond issued in  2005 and maturing in 2012 was reclassi ed to other current  nan- cial liabilities. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment  bene ts increased by 74 million as against the end of 2010, mainly  on account of an adjustment in the interest rates used to measure the  provisions. The allocation of 30 million (2010: 75 million) under  the contractual trust arrangement (CTA) offset this increase. The ratio  of non-current liabilities to total assets was 39.5%, down from 43.3%  at the end of 2010. Current liabilities increased by 638 million to 2,089 million against  the end of 2010. This was due primarily to the increase in other current   nancial liabilities, which re ects the aforementioned reclassi cation of  the 2005 Euro Benchmark Bond that matures in 2012. Trade payables  grew by 102 million to 766 million as a result of higher raw material  prices, portfolio effects and increases in purchasing volumes linked  to business growth. The ratio of current liabilities to total assets was  30.3% as of December 31, 2011, up from 25.6% at year end 2010.  Net  nancial liabilities increased by 602 million from the previous  year to 1,515 million. The reasons for this development included  our extensive capital expenditures and company acquisitions made  in  scal 2011.   89 Group Management Report Statement of  nancial position and  nancial condition  The Groups key ratios developed as follows: Ratios % 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Equity ratio Equity1) Total assets 37.7 29.2 28.5 31.1 30.2  Non-current asset ratio Non-current assets Total assets 44.6 47.2 47.0 48.3 50.7  Asset coverage I Equity1) Non-current assets 84.4 61.7 60.7 64.3 59.4  Asset coverage II Equity1) and non-current liabilities Non-current assets 165.1 151.8 165.8 153.9 137.3  Funding structure Current liabilities Total liabilities 42.3 40.0 30.9 37.2 43.5  1) Including non-controlling interests Capital expenditures In 2011, capital expenditures for property,  plant and equipment and intangible assets came to 700 million,  compared to 529 million the year before, and led to cash out ows  of 679 million (2010: 501 million). Depreciation and amortization  totaled 325 million in the same period (2010: 283 million). This   gure included 5 million in impairments reported as exceptional  items (2010: 0 million). Adjusted for these impairments, capital  expenditures in support of our growth strategy exceeded depreciation  and amortization by a substantial 118% (2010: 87%). Cash Out ows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization  million In 2011, capital expenditures focused on the following areas:   construction of new facilities, expansion and maintenance of  existing facilities;   measures to increase plant availability;   projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply  with environmental protection requirements. 679 325 501 283 275 273 342 279 284 298 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 0 400 200 600 800 Depreciation and amortization Cash outflows for capital expenditures 71% of the capital expenditures in 2011 went toward expansion or  ef ciency improvement measures, while the rest went to replace exist- ing facilities. This underlines our goal of generating further organic  growth through investments, as described under Earnings strategy  in the Strategy section of this Management Report. In regional terms, 32% of capital expenditures in 2011 were made  in Germany, 24% in the EMEA region (excluding Germany), 7% in  North America, 6% in Latin America and 31% in Asia-Paci c. Major  capital expenditures in Germany mostly comprised our investments  to increase capacities and modernize facilities in all segments, to  complete construction of a new plant for the Ion Exchange Resins  business unit and to expand facilities for the Advanced Industrial  Intermediates business unit. The large share of capital expenditures  made in the Asia-Paci c region is due primarily to the construction  of a new butyl rubber plant for the Butyl Rubber business unit in  Singapore, the largest investment project in our companys history. Cash Out ows for Capital Expenditures by Segment  million 437 2010 298 107 73 112 23 114 16 679 501 2011 Performance Polymers Advanced Intermediates Performance Chemicals Reconciliation  90 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 In the Performance Polymers segment, capital expenditures were  447 million (2010: 298 million), 437 million (2010: 298 mil- lion) of which were cash out ows. Depreciation and amortization  amounted to 161 million (2010: 141 million). The major capi- tal expenditures in this segment were made in the Butyl Rubber  business unit. Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates  segment amounted to 117 million (2010: 101 million). Cash  out ows came to 107 million (2010: 73 million), exceeding the  depreciation and amortization of 70 million (2010: 58 million).  This  gure includes capital expenditures in the Advanced Industrial  Intermediates business unit for construction of a new formalin plant  and expansion of menthol production in Krefeld-Uerdingen. In the  Performance Chemicals segment, capital expenditures came to  113 million (2010: 114 million), 112 million (2010: 114 mil- lion) of which were cash out ows. Depreciation and amortization  stood at 78 million (2010: 67 million). Key capital expenditures  were the completion of a plant for water treatment products for the  Ion Exchange Resins business unit in Bitterfeld, Germany, and the  start of construction of a production facility for leather chemicals for  the Leather business unit in Changzhou, China.  The following table shows major capital expenditure projects in the  LANXESS Group. Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2011 Segment Site Description Performance Polymers Butyl Rubber Singapore Construction of a new butyl rubber plant, start-up in the  rst quarter of 2013 Butyl Rubber Zwijndrecht, Belgium Expansion of butyl rubber capacities Performance Butadiene Rubbers Orange, U.S.A. Expansion of neodymium polybutadiene rubber capacities Performance Butadiene Rubbers Singapore Construction of a new neodymium polybutadiene rubber plant,  start-up in the  rst half of 2015 Technical Rubber Products Leverkusen, Germany; Orange, U.S.A. Expansion of synthetic rubber capacities Technical Rubber Products Geleen, Netherlands Conversion of EPDM rubber production to innovative Keltan ACE technology Semi-Crystalline Products Jhagadia, India; Gastonia, U.S.A.;  Porto Feliz, Brazil Construction of three new compounding plants for  high-tech engineering plastics Semi-Crystalline Products Antwerp, Belgium Expansion of glass  ber capacities Semi-Crystalline Products Hamm-Uentrop, Germany Doubling of high-tech plastics capacities at  plant operated jointly with U.S. company DuPont Advanced Intermediates Advanced Industrial Intermediates Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany Construction of a new formalin plant Advanced Industrial Intermediates Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany Expansion of menthol production, completion in the  rst half of 2012 Performance Chemicals Ion Exchange Resins Bitterfeld, Germany; Jhagadia, India Completion of facilities for membrane  ltration technology and ion exchange resins Rhein Chemie Burzaco, Argentina Expansion of vulcanization bladder capacities Leather Changzhou, China Construction of a new plant for leather chemicals Expansion of investment portfolio Please see the Key additions to  the Group portfolio section of this Management Report for more  information on the subsidiaries and af liates added to our portfolio in   scal 2011, including the acquisition of DSMs Keltan EPDM business,  the Darmex group, Unitex and Verichem.  91 Group Management Report Statement of  nancial position and  nancial condition  Financial condition   High operating cash  ow thanks to strong business performance   Cash tied up in working capital increases due to raw material  prices   Cash used for investing activities re ects acquisitions and  extensive capital expenditures for growth projects   Liquidity reserve for continued implementation of growth strategy The cash  ow statement shows in ows and out ows of cash and cash  equivalents by type of business operation.  Cash Flow Statement  million 2010 2011 Change Income before income taxes 493  655  162  Depreciation and amortization  283  325  42  Other items (126)  (52)  74  Net cash provided by   operating activities before  change in working capital 650  928  278  Change in working capital (220)  (256)  (36)  Net cash provided by  operating activities 430  672  242  Net cash used in investing  activities (375) (923)  (548)  Net cash provided by (used in)   nancing activities (214)  276  490  Change in cash and cash equiva- lents from business activities (159)  25  184  Cash and cash equivalents  as of December 31 160  178  18  2010  gures restated Cash provided by operating activities, before changes in working  capital, increased by a signi cant 278 million to 928 million in   scal 2011 compared to the year before. This was mainly due to in- come before income taxes, which grew by 162 million over the prior  year to 655 million. The LANXESS Groups asset base expanded  due to our extensive investment and acquisition activities, and de- preciation and amortization increased as a result from 283 million  to 325 million. The change in other items is primarily due to lower  income tax payments in the year under review. A further 30 million  (2010: 75 million) was paid into LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. (CTA)  during the reporting year for the external  nancing of the companys  pension obligations.  The increase in working capital compared to December 31, 2010  resulted in a cash out ow of 256 million. The out ow from the change  in working capital in 2010 was 220 million. The increase in operat- ing cash  ow in 2011 is mainly attributable to higher prices for raw  materials as well as to the strong operating business and the associ- ated replenishment of inventories and increase in receivables. This  was  nanced from the high cash in ows yielded by operating activities. LANXESSs investing activities in  scal 2011 resulted in a cash out ow  of 923 million, up from 375 million in the previous year. Disburse- ments for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment totaled  679 million, which was 178 million more than in  scal 2010. The  cash out ows for the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses,  net of acquired cash and subsequent purchase price adjustments,  amounted to 285 million. Cash in ows from  nancial assets came to  24 million and mainly comprised the proceeds from the sale of short- term money market investments, which offset the cash out ows for  the purchase of additional shares of Gevo Inc. in the United States and  the capital increase at LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical  Industrial  Co. Ltd. in China, which is accounted for using the equity method in  the consolidated  nancial statements. Free cash  ow – the difference between the cash in ows from oper- ating activities and the cash used in investing activities – decreased  by 306 million from 55 million in 2010 to minus 251 million, a  development attributable to the extensive investments and acquisitions  we carried out in the year under review in pursuit of our growth strategy. Net cash provided by  nancing activities came to 276 million, against  a net out ow of 214 million the year before. Borrowing resulted in  cash in ows of 655 million, mainly from the issue of a 500 mil- lion Euro Benchmark Bond in May and from an installment loan of  120 million granted by the Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau (KfW).  Principal and interest payments were comparable to the previous years  amounts. A 58 million out ow was accounted for by the dividend  paid to the stockholders of LANXESS AG in May (2010: 42 million). The net change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities  in  scal 2011 was 25 million (2010: minus 159 million). After  taking into account other changes in cash of minus 7 million, cash  and cash equivalents at the closing date amounted to 178 million  (2010: 160 million). Taken together with near-cash assets (short-term  investment of liquid assets in money market funds) of 350 million  (2010: 364 million), the Group retained a sound liquidity position  of 528 million as of December 31, 2011 (2010: 524 million).  92 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Principles and objectives of  nancial management  LANXESS pursues  a conservative  nancial policy characterized by secured long-term   nancing and the forward-looking management of  nancial risks. Our  aim is to be able to provide suf cient liquidity to our business operations  at all times, regardless of cyclical  uctuations in the real economy or   nancial markets. The debt level is largely aligned to the ratio systems  of the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies. In ad- dition to liquidity risk,  nancial management also covers other  nancial  risks, such as interest and foreign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to  mitigate the  nancial risks that arise and increase planning reliability,  partly by using derivative  nancial instruments. Detailed information  about the management of these risks is contained in the Risk Report  and in Note [35], Financial instruments, to the Consolidated Financial  Statements. The success and accuracy of our  nancial management  was con rmed in  scal 2011, as in previous years. Our sound  nancial  position and our rating were not adversely affected by the volatility of  the capital markets. This stable  nancial condition enabled us to suc- cessfully pursue our growth strategy and attain our operational targets. LANXESS Group ratings Access to the capital markets and good rela- tions with German and international commercial banks are essential for  achieving our  nancial management objectives. Accordingly, ongoing  dialogue and communication with banks, investors and rating agen- cies are of crucial importance. In  scal 2011, the latter continued to  assess LANXESSs creditworthiness with ratings of BBB and Baa2 with  stable outlook. They also emphasized that our conservative  nancial  policy coupled with the aforementioned objectives is a very important  factor in the retention of these ratings. Development of  LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2007 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Standard & Poors BBB /stable July 31, 2007 BBB /stable May 16, 2008 BBB /stable May 28, 2009 BBB/stable Sept. 1, 2010 BBB/stable Aug. 23, 2011 Moodys Investors Service Baa2/stable July 17, 2007 Baa2/stable July 25, 2008 Baa2/stable May 26, 2009 Baa2/stable May 19, 2010 Baa2/stable Nov. 23, 2011 Fitch Ratings BBB /stable May 31, 2007 BBB /stable Dec. 4, 2008 BBB /stable July 20, 2009 BBB/stable Dec. 17, 2010 BBB/stable Nov. 22, 2011 Financing analysis  LANXESS started  scal 2011 with a very sound   nancial and liquidity position thanks largely to our ongoing commit- ment to our conservative  nancial policy and to the increase in our  operating income in  scal 2010. Particularly notable in this regard is  the elimination of the  nancial covenant from our syndicated credit  facility in the amount of 1.408 billion and the conclusion of new loan  agreements for 450 million without  nancial covenants. Additional  information is provided in the Liquidity analysis section. There was no material change in our solid  nancial situation in  scal  2011. The improvement in earnings from business operations  nanced  the growth in current assets and the increase in capital expenditures  in property, plant and equipment. We succeeded in  nancing ad- ditional growth from acquisitions using existing liquidity and credit  lines, which resulted in higher net  nancial liabilities compared to the  previous year. Initially, this led to a reduction in the liquidity reserves  available at the start of the year. In May 2011, we took advantage of  the favorable market environment to place a 500 million bond with  a term of seven years. This helped us strengthen our liquidity position  at favorable terms and created  nancial reserves for redemption of the  402 million bond that matures in 2012. Accordingly, the cash and  cash equivalents and near-cash assets items in the statement of  nan- cial position were close to the prior-year levels at 178 million (2010:  160 million) and 350 million (2010: 364 million), respectively.  LANXESS launched a 2.5 billion debt issuance program in March  2009. Using this documentation base, aligned with the prevailing  market conditions, bonds can be placed very  exibly on the capital  market. The 500 million bond placed in May 2011 was based on  this documentation. As of December 31, 2011, just under half of the  2.5 billion  nancing facility had been utilized since 2009 to issue  three bonds with a total volume of 1.2 billion.  93 Group Management Report Statement of  nancial position and  nancial condition  The other  nancing measures implemented in the year under review  served primarily to  nance internal and external growth projects, im- prove the maturity structure of our  nancial liabilities, and make timely  preparations ahead of the aforementioned bond redemption in 2012.  In spring 2011, new long-term credit facilities amounting to around  330 million were arranged. An additional credit facility for 120 mil- lion with a term of up to seven years was obtained in September  2011 and utilized in October. In total, we successfully obtained new   nancing amounting to some 950 million in 2011. These transac- tions were the main reason for the increase in long-term borrowings  from 1,302 million to 1,465 million.  Current  nancial liabilities increased from 176 million to 633 mil- lion, primarily because the 402 million bond which matures in 2012  was reclassi ed from non-current to current  nancial liabilities.  We also used  nance leases to further diversify  nancing sources.  These are reported accordingly as  nancial liabilities in the statement  of  nancial position. As of December 31, 2011, this item amounted  to 84 million, against 90 million in the previous year. Minimum  future payments relating to lease agreements and operating leases  totaled 418 million (2010: 235 million). The increase over the  prior year is principally due to the construction of the new production  facility in Singapore and conclusion of the lease for the new Group  headquarters in Cologne. As of December 31, 2011, LANXESS had no material  nancing  items not reported in the statement of  nancial position in the form  of factoring, asset-backed structures or project  nancing, for example.  LANXESSs total  nancial liabilities, i.e. net of accrued interest, climbed  from 1,437 million in 2010 to 2,043 million as of December 31,  2011. Net  nancial liabilities – the total  nancial liabilities net of cash  and near-cash assets – rose by 602 million, from 913 million to  1,515 million. Of the total  nancial liabilities, some 98% bear a  xed interest rate  over the term of the  nancing, which is comparable to the previous  year. Interest rate changes therefore do not have a material effect  on LANXESSs  nancial condition considering the current  nancing  structure. The average proportion of loans and bonds denominated  in euros was 97% (2010: 94%). The weighted average interest rate  for our  nancial liabilities was 5.3% at year end 2011 (2010: 5.9%).  The following overview shows LANXESSs  nancing structure as of  December 31, 2011 in detail, including its principal liquidity reserves. Financing Structure Instrument Amount    million Maturity Interest  rate   % Financial  covenant 1) Eurobond 2005/2012  (402 million) 401 June  2012 4.125 no Eurobond 2009/2014  (500 million) 497  April  2014 7.750 no Eurobond 2009/2016  (200 million) 199 September  2016 5.500 no Eurobond 2011/2018  (500 million) 496 May  2018 4.125 no Investment loan 80  December  2017 no Development bank loan 120 September  2018 no Other loans 166  n/a no Finance lease 84 n/a no Total  nancial   liabilities 2,043 Cash 178 < = 90 days Near-cash assets 350 < = 90 days Total liquidity 528 Net  nancial liabilities 1,515 1) Ratio of net  nancial liabilities to EBITDA pre exceptionals Thanks to extensive  nancing measures taken in past  scal years,  we have continually improved the maturity pro le of our  nancial li- abilities. At the time this Group Management Report was  nalized,  LANXESS therefore had no need for substantial re nancing other  than for the 402 million Euro Benchmark Bond that matures in June  2012. The other loans relate mainly to short- and medium-term use  of credit facilities by subsidiaries in Brazil, China, India and Argentina,  some of which mature in 2012. Because these facilities are regularly  extended – annually, for example – we do not expect any need for  substantial re nancing.  Maturity Pro le of  LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2011  million 0 100 200 300 400 600 700 500 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 after 2016  94 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Liquidity analysis In addition to cash of 178 million and various  investments in highly liquid AAA money market funds of 350 mil- lion, LANXESS has additional sizeable liquidity reserves in the form of  undrawn credit facilities. The investments in money market funds are  undertaken only at European Group companies that are not subject to  restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. We can therefore  freely dispose of the funds. Around 85% of our cash is held in Group  companies in countries with no restrictions on foreign exchange and  capital transfers. Only about 15% of our cash is held in companies in  regulated capital markets where cash transfers are restricted.  Thanks to our strong liquidity position, our solvency was assured at  all times in  scal 2011. This is an aspect that was assessed positively  by the rating agencies in their credit ratings in 2011. By far the most important of our credit lines is the syndicated credit  facility of 1.4 billion that is valid until November 2014 and was  undrawn at the end of 2011. This credit facility is designed as an  operating line of credit and to provide funds for capital investment. It  corresponds to market requirements in the European syndicated loan  market for investment-grade companies with a BBB rating. In April  2011, the  nancial covenant made for this credit line, which existed  in addition to the standard rights and obligations of the parties to syn- dicated loan contracts, was eliminated for the remaining duration of  the credit facility by arrangement with the lending banks. The essence  of the covenant was that the net  nancial liabilities excluding pension  obligations could not exceed 3.5 times EBITDA pre exceptionals.  As of December 31, 2011, this ratio was 1.3 (1.0 in the previous  year). Just like the stable ratings issued by the rating agencies, this  is a good indicator of LANXESSs very sound  nancial management.  At this time, therefore, none of our major loan agreements contains a   nancial covenant. LANXESS had unused credit lines totaling around  1.8 billion as of December 31, 2011. The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us a liquidity  scope of more than 2.3 billion. Given the ongoing volatility of the  capital markets, the capital market liabilities maturing in 2012 and our  growth targets, this liquidity reserve is an expression of our forward- looking and conservative  nancial policy. Our solvency is safeguarded  for the short and long term, and we also do not expect any liquidity  bottlenecks going forward. Bond performance – evolution of credit spread in 2011 An impor- tant indicator for corporate bonds, apart from the absolute change  in price, is the relative valuation of the risk speci c to the issuer in  comparison to a reference interest rate. This credit risk premium is  expressed in what is known as the credit spread. Due to the higher  default risk associated with longer bond maturity, long-term bonds  generally feature a wider credit spread. This, and factors such as  liquidity and trading volume, also apply to the various LANXESS  bonds. The chart below shows the evolution of the credit spreads  of our bonds and the average credit spread of corporate bonds with  a BBB rating and a  ve-year maturity in comparison to the interest  rate swap curve.  LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index Basis points   LANXESS Eurobond 2012    LANXESS Eurobond 2018   LANXESS Eurobond 2014    BBB Corporates, 5 years   LANXESS Eurobond 2016 As in 2010, credit spreads for corporate bonds continued to be strongly  in uenced by  nancial market uncertainties throughout 2011. Spreads  were still relatively stable in the  rst half of the year, but then started to  widen from the second quarter of 2011 in response to the European  debt crisis. Jan. 3, 2011 Dec. 31, 2011 0 50 (50) 100 150 200 250  95 Group Management Report Statement of  nancial position and  nancial condition | Managements summary of the  scal year Credit spreads in the BBB-rated reference group were relatively constant  in the  rst half of 2011, when market conditions were favorable. Our  spreads increasingly improved, particularly in the second quarter, and  therefore outperformed the BBB reference index. In the second six  months, the market for government and corporate bonds was dominated  by growing uncertainty about the escalating debt crises in Greece and  other peripheral eurozone countries, causing credit risk premiums to  rise sharply. As a result of this development, the spreads on our bonds  widened by up to 140 basis points, drawing much closer to the BBB  reference index in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, our spreads  improved signi cantly compared to the BBB-rated reference group and  thus ended the year only slightly higher than at the start of the year. The  substantially improved spread of our bond that matures in June 2012  was due particularly to the short remaining term. Managements summary of the  scal year Fiscal 2011 was characterized by the economic upturn carried over  from 2010, which varied by region and lost momentum in the second  half of the year. We succeeded in boosting sales by 23.2% year on year. Adjusted for  currency and portfolio effects, operational sales rose by 19.9%, largely  due to higher prices. Driven mainly by business in the Performance  Polymers segment, all regions contributed signi cant double-digit  percentage growth to this result. Our price-before-volume strategy remained intact in 2011. Year on  year, EBITDA pre exceptionals increased substantially, exceeding the  1 billion mark for the  rst time in the course of the year. The EBITDA  margin also improved further. Earnings per share rose signi cantly  compared to the prior year due to the high after-tax income. Based on our conservative accounting and  nancing policies, our  statement of  nancial position is solid. Of special note is the equity  ratio of 30.2%. Total assets increased, mainly due to acquisitions,  and working capital rose substantially compared to the previous year  because of our very positive business performance in the reporting  year. In accordance with the consistency principle, we applied the  same measurement methods and exercised the same discretion as in  the previous year. For further information, please see the explanations  in the Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion section in  the Notes. Our liquidity position is solid, as shown by the statement of  nancial  position, and additional substantial liquidity reserves are also available.  Of the total  nancial liabilities, some 98% bear a  xed interest rate  over the term of the  nancing, which is comparable to the previous  year. Interest rate changes therefore do not have a material effect on  the LANXESS Groups  nancial condition considering the current   nancing structure. As a result of successful negotiations last year,  our  nancial liabilities are now free of  nancial covenants. Net  nancial liabilities stand at 1,515 million, which is 1.3 times  EBITDA pre exceptionals. In  scal 2011, the rating agencies recon-  rmed the LANXESS Groups creditworthiness with ratings of BBB  and Baa2 with stable outlook. Through the acquisitions made in the reporting year, we have placed  our business on a broader base and unlocked additional growth po- tential. In particular, the purchase of the Keltan EPDM business of  Royal DSM N.V. has enabled us to acquire a leading technology for  our Performance Polymers segment that provides the prospect of  attractive pro ts. The transactions completed for our Performance  Chemicals segment strengthen the core competencies of the affected  business units and open up new business opportunities, especially  with Darmexs vulcanization bladder technology. In view of this business performance and our sound liquidity and   nancing positions, we believe that our companys business situation  is positive overall and provides a suitable foundation for attaining the  pro table growth targets we have set. The  rst two months of  scal  2012 have gone well and have been characterized by solid demand  resulting from the careful inventory management undertaken by our  customers at the end of the previous year.  96 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Business Ratios – Multi-Period Overview   million 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Earnings performance Sales 6,608  6,576  5,057  7,120  8,775  EBITDA pre exceptionals 719  722  465  918  1,146  EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 10.9% 11.0% 9.2% 12.9%  13.1%  EBITDA 513  602  422  890  1,101  Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 472  462  204  635  826  Operating result (EBIT) 215  323  149  607  776  EBIT margin 3.3% 4.9% 2.9% 8.5%  8.8%  Net income 112  183  40  379  506  Earnings per share () 1.32 2.20 0.48 4.56  6.08  Liquidity Cash  ow from operating activities 470  492  565  430  672  Depreciation and amortization 298  279  273  283  325  Cash out ows for capital expenditures 284  342  275  501  679  Net  nancial liabilities 460  864  794  913  1,515  Assets and liabilities Total assets 4,049  4,592  5,068  5,666  6,878  Non-current assets 1,806  2,169  2,382  2,738  3,489  Current assets 2,243  2,423  2,686  2,928  3,389  Net working capital 1,217  1,289  1,096  1,372  1,766  Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,525  1,339  1,445  1,761  2,074  Pension provisions 470  498  569  605  679  Key data ROCE 17.7% 15.4% 5.9% 17.0%  17.2%  Equity ratio 37.7% 29.2% 28.5% 31.1%  30.2%  Gearing 30.2% 64.5% 54.9% 51.8%  73.0%  Non-current asset ratio 44.6 47.2 47.0 48.3 50.7 Asset coverage I 84.4 61.7 60.7 64.3 59.4 Net working capital/sales 18.4% 19.6% 21.7% 19.3%  20.1%  Employees (as of December 31) 14,610 14,797 14,338 14,648  16,390  2008  gures restated  97 Group Management Report Managements summary of the  scal year | Employees Employees As of December 31, 2011, the LANXESS Group had a total of  16,390 employees, 2,895 of whom were women and 8,472 of whom  were non-German nationals. This was 1,742 more than a year earlier,  including 301 women and 1,517 non-German nationals. In addition,  we had 416 employees working on temporary employment contracts.  The number of employees increased primarily as a result of acquisitions  plus additional new hires within the framework of LANXESSs growth  strategy. Part-time employees currently account for 10.5% of the work- force at our German core companies. In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of employees as  of December 31, 2011 was 3,357, up from 2,638 in the previous year.  In Germany, the headcount grew from 7,590 to 7,846. The number  of employees in North America rose from 1,309 as of December 31,  2010 to 1,427, while Latin America saw its workforce expand from  1,215 in the previous year to 1,585. At the reporting date, we also had  a higher headcount in Asia-Paci c, where the increase from 1,896 to  2,175 re ected our expansion through acquisitions and organic growth. Personnel expenses totaled 1,244 million in  scal 2011 (2010:  1,141 million). Wages and salaries, at 985 million (2010: 912 mil- lion), accounted for the greater part of this  gure. Social security contri- butions were 174 million (2010: 160 million), while pension plan  expenses totaled 77 million (2010: 61 million), and social assistance  bene ts came to 8 million (2010: 8 million).  Employees by Region %   EMEA (excluding Germany)    Germany   North America   Latin America   Asia-Paci c 20.5 13.2 47.9 9.7 8.7 Employees by Segment %   Performance Polymers   Advanced Intermediates   Performance Chemicals   Other Employees by Functional Area %   Production   Marketing   Administration   Research Working conditions and HR policy  Our success is fundamentally based on the performance and com- mitment of our employees. The only way to reach our corporate goals  and ensure our competitiveness is through focused and sustainable  training and development of our workforce. By actively exercising social  responsibility, providing attractive jobs in an international environ- ment with  at hierarchies, offering performance-based, market-rate  compensation, and promoting a culture that inspires leadership and  trust, we give our employees access to remarkable career develop- ment opportunities. In addition to developing and implementing innovative concepts for  mastering the challenges resulting from demographic change, the top  long-term strategic human resources goal is to attract and cultivate  talented employees, regardless of their national origin or gender. To this  end, we are also working to continually expand our tools for building  a comprehensive employer brand that enables us to recruit, integrate  and retain talented young people and professionals for LANXESS  worldwide. We involve our existing employees at numerous internal  and external events to provide an authentic picture of LANXESS as  an employer. Working together with our specialist departments, we  have systematically expanded our network of contacts with research  institutes, colleges and universities worldwide.  35.5 16.5 30.4 17.6 11.1 4.4 72.0 12.5  98 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 A major focus in the year under review was support for internal and  external growth. In this context, we exercised special care in integrat- ing new employees into the Group, particularly when they joined us  as the result of acquisitions. One of the pillars of our human resources policy is close coopera- tion between employee representatives and management, including  labor unions and employer associations, in line with the principle of  active codetermination. Nearly 70% of our employees worldwide are  covered by the terms of collective agreements; in Germany this  gure  is more than 90%. We maintain a close dialogue with employee representative bodies  in Germany, Europe and around the world to regularly discuss our  corporate goals and involve these bodies in organizational change  processes at an early stage. In the crisis year 2009, for example, as  part of the Challenge09-12 program in Germany, we implemented  QUEST in response to declines in production. This is a training, de- ployment and job management center that serves as an internal job  placement of ce for employees affected by capacity reductions. An  internal team of consultants supports the affected employees in qualify- ing for new tasks and  nding jobs inside or outside the company. As of  December 31, 2011, a permanent solution or a new challenge had  been found for more than 87% of the employees affected. The place- ment phase was accompanied by the offer of temporary assignments  inside and outside the LANXESS Group. This innovative instrument  has already proved its value as a means of preventing job reductions. Compensation and stock plan  Following our excellent business performance in 2011, we made  a total of 100 million available to give our employees worldwide a  share in the companys success. Much of this amount was paid out  in the form of an additional bonus. Our managers are able to reward  outstanding employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically.  In  scal 2011, this resulted in payments of 8.7 million worldwide  (6.4 million in Germany) for outstanding individual performance. We strive for a merit-based compensation system linked to our com- panys success and employees individual performance. Compensation  systems that include variable compensation components in addition  to  xed remuneration have been implemented for more than 85% of  our employees.  We again offered an employee stock plan in 2011. All LANXESS  Group employees in Germany were given the opportunity to buy  LANXESS shares at a 50% discount. The shares were purchased  on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange at an average price of 57.54. The  participation rate was 75%. At the reporting date, our employees and  Board of Management members held around 1% of the companys  shares through stock plans.  The Board of Management launched a plan to succeed the LANXESS  Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for the years 2010 to 2013. The  Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 2010 – 2013 (LTSP) comprises  four tranches, one commencing each year. This plan compares the  companys value against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM  index over a period of four years. The participation rate is 89.7%. Vocational training  Providing vocational training for young people has always been a high  priority at LANXESS. It helps to safeguard the companys future and  is an element of our social responsibility. In 2011, we strengthened  the marketing activities for our vocational training programs in various  media, attended all major regional career fairs and visited schools.  We also address interested young people directly at our own events,  such as neXt Azubi (neXt Apprentice), where we give them valuable  guidance about their subsequent career choices.  In Germany, young people can opt to combine vocational training at  LANXESS with university studies, or they can complete a traditional  scienti c, technical or commercial training program in our plants and  departments. In addition to the combined IT vocational training and  study program, we will strengthen our natural sciences offering in the  future with a combined program of university studies and vocational  training in the  elds of technical chemistry and business administration.  With a view to leveraging expertise and synergies, we are supported  by the Training Department of our af liate Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG  for some aspects of theoretical training and for organizational and  administrative functions. Across Germany, 317 young people were being trained in 14 differ- ent career paths as of the December 31, 2011 reporting date. This  means we are providing solid training opportunities for signi cantly  more young people than we need to meet our own requirements.  Despite  uctuating employee numbers and the economic crisis, we  have directly or indirectly hired 253 trainees for temporary and perma- nent positions in recent years. We expressly seek out the opportunity  to promote the concept of combined vocational training and studies  outside Germany as well. In China, for instance, we have entered into  a partnership with Changzhou Institute of Engineering Technology to  attract larger numbers of technically skilled employees, bringing our  diverse experience and practical focus to the program.  99 Group Management Report Employees | Compensation report | Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code  Each year, under the motto Prepare for the Future, we attract par- ticularly highly skilled university graduates for our LANXESS corpo- rate trainee programs. Through the end of 2011, 51 highly quali ed  university graduates had taken part in various intakes of our trainee  program. Our aim is to prepare the participants for an international  career within the LANXESS Group and establish a global pool of young  managers with an international perspective.  In 2010, we created the China Management Trainee Program speci - cally for the Chinese market. This two-year program aims to prepare  highly quali ed business and technology graduates for management  roles and create a pool of local talent. In China, we were again hon- ored as Chinas Top Employer by the CRF Institute. In the United  States, we received two prestigious Best Places to Work awards: in  Pennsylvania and in Ohio. At our Pittsburgh site, we were also named  Manufacturer of the Year by the Pittsburgh Business Times. Employee development  We assign great importance to motivating employees throughout their  entire career to undertake continuing professional development and  accept new challenges within the Group regardless of their age. To  promote the talents of individual employees, LANXESS has established  a systematic, multi-stage process of global employee development  conferences where future managerial employees from around the  world are regularly evaluated with regard to their potential. In 2011,  the LANXESS Academy continued promoting leadership and manage- ment skills with nearly all managers from around the world attending  its modular programs as part of the uniform leadership system that  is in effect throughout the LANXESS Group. In addition, we provided  extensive support to our young managers through focused coaching  and modular leadership seminars. In view of our ambitious growth targets, one focus of our human re- sources development activities in 2011 was the creation of the Inter- national LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA), which offers a tailored  and practical training program to all sales employees worldwide. The  one-year modular program aims to develop both the specialist knowl- edge and soft skills of our sales employees. It perfectly complements  the programs already in place in the business units and countries by  facilitating communication and the sharing of best practices across  business units and national borders. We believe that the broad quali-  cation of our global sales team gives us an important lever for further  improving our customer relationships. It also gives LANXESS a crucial  competitive edge in todays global markets. Occupational safety  The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries  for every million hours worked) in Germany, is the key indicator we  use to assess occupational safety. The LTIFR in 2011 was 2.7, a slight  deterioration on the previous year (2.3). This resulted primarily from a  number of accidents at just one site – our chrome ore mine in South  Africa. The site has gained statistical relevance through the international  harmonization of our reporting structures and the employee situation  there. A special program aimed at signi cantly reducing the number  of accidents is already being implemented. Idea management   When LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work proce- dures, plants and processes, these ideas pay off. An idea management  system fosters the development, processing and implementation of  suggestions for improvements to ensure that we will continually re- ceive proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, occupational safety  and environmental protection. In 2011, employees at our German  companies submitted 3,191 new suggestions, a rate of 445 per  thousand employees. In the same period, 1,199 ideas were imple- mented, yielding total savings of 2.2 million. 759 of these ideas led  to improvements in occupational safety and environmental protection. Compensation report  A description of the compensation system and details of the compensa- tion paid to the individual members of the Board of Management and  the Supervisory Board are contained in the Compensation report  starting on page 123, which is equally a part of this Group Manage- ment Report. Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4  of the German Commercial Code Pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 Nos. 1 to 9 of the German  Commercial Code, we hereby make the following declarations:  1.  The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to 83,202,670 as  of December 31, 2011 and is composed of 83,202,670 no-par  bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations.  One vote is granted per share, and pro t is distributed per share.  The rights and obligations arising from the shares are governed  by the German Stock Corporation Act.  100 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 2.  We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights or the  transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under employee stock  plans are subject to a lock-up period before they may be sold. 3.  We received no reports of direct or indirect equity investments in  the capital of LANXESS AG exceeding 10% of total voting rights. 4.  No shares carry special rights granting control authority.  5.  Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS AG  through employee stock programs. There are no restrictions on  directly exercising the control rights arising from these shares. 6.  Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act and  Section 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply to the ap- pointment and dismissal of Board of Management members. Under  the provisions of these sections, Board of Management members  are appointed by the Supervisory Board for a term not exceeding   ve years. Such appointment may be renewed or the term of of ce  may be extended, provided that the term of each such renewal or  extension shall not exceed  ve years. Appointments require a major- ity of at least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board members votes.  Section 6 Paragraph 1 of the articles of association states that the  Board of Management must consist of at least two members. Over  and above this, the number of members of the Board of Manage- ment is determined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory  Board may appoint a chairman of the Board of Management and  a vice chairman of the Board of Management. Alternative members  of the Board of Management may be appointed. The Supervisory  Board may revoke the appointment of a member of the Board of  Management or the appointment of a member as Chairman of the  Board of Management for cause (Section 84 Paragraph 3 of the  German Stock Corporation Act).    Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act provides that a  resolution of the Stockholders Meeting is required for any amend- ment to the articles of association. Pursuant to Section 17 Para- graph 2 of the articles of association, resolutions of the Stockhold- ers Meeting require a simple majority of the votes cast and, if a  capital majority is required, a simple majority of the capital stock,  unless otherwise required by law or provided by the articles of as- sociation. The articles of association contain no further provisions  in this regard. Section 10 Paragraph 9 of the articles of association  of LANXESS AG authorizes the Supervisory Board to resolve on  amendments relating solely to the form of the articles of association.  7.  The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been authorized  to issue or repurchase shares as follows:    Repurchase of own shares On May 18, 2011, the Annual Stock- holders Meeting of LANXESS AG issued an authorization, valid  through May 17, 2016, to the Board of Management to purchase  shares of the company up to a total of 10% of the companys  capital stock for any legally permissible purpose. The companys  af liates as well as any third parties acting on the companys or its  af liates behalf may also exercise this authority. At the discretion  of the Board of Management, such shares may be acquired on  the stock exchange or via a public purchase offer. The Board of  Management is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted  by law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than  via the stock exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or transfer  them against consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring  companies, parts of companies or equity interests in companies  or in order to conclude mergers. It is also authorized to use them  to satisfy conversion rights from convertible or warrant bonds and/ or pro t-participation rights or income bonds (or any combination  of these instruments) issued by the company and to grant holders  of convertible or warrant bonds and/or pro t-participation rights  or income bonds (or any combination of these instruments) is- sued by the company or its direct and indirect af liates that grant  a conversion or option right or stipulate a conversion or warrant  obligation the number of shares for which such parties would be  entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or option  rights or ful llment of the conversion or warrant obligation. Except  when shares are retired, the subscription right of stockholders shall  be excluded in the aforementioned cases.      Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders Meeting of LANXESS  AG on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until  May 17, 2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue  – in one or more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible  bonds, pro t-participation rights and/or income bonds or a combina- tion of these instruments (collectively referred to as bonds) – either  as registered or as bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up  to 2,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, and to grant  option rights to, or impose option obligations on, the holders or  creditors of warrant bonds, pro t-participation rights with warrants  or income bonds with warrants, and/or to grant conversion rights  to, or impose conversion obligations on, the holders or creditors  of convertible bonds, convertible pro t-participation rights or con- vertible income bonds in respect of bearer shares of the company  representing a total pro-rata increase of up to 16,640,543 in the  companys capital stock on the terms to be de ned for these bonds.  Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 4 of the articles of association,  the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased  by up to 16,640,534 (Conditional Capital).     The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the  extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exer- cise, option or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the  company or a dependent company against cash contributions, or  issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the company  or a dependent company, on or before May 17, 2016 on the basis of   101 Group Management Report Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code  the authorization granted to the Board of Management by the Annual  Stockholders Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option or  conversion rights or, where they are obligated to do so, ful ll such  obligation, or to the extent that the company elects to grant shares  in the company in place of all or part of the cash amount due for  payment. The conditional capital increase shall not be implemented  if cash compensation is granted or if the companys own shares,  shares issued out of authorized capital or shares in another listed  company are used to service the option or conversion rights.     When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with  the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights  in the following cases:     for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio;     insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued  option or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights to the  number of new shares to which they would be entitled to subscribe  as stockholders upon exercise of their option or conversion rights  or ful llment of their option or conversion obligations;     in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue  price is not signi cantly below the theoretical market value of the  bonds with option or conversion rights or conversion obligations,  as determined using accepted pricing models; if bonds are issued  by application of Section 186 Paragraph 3 Sentence 4 of the  German Stock Corporation Act, in which case the issued shares  may not exceed a total of 10% of the capital stock either at the  time this authorization takes effect or at the time it is utilized;      if pro t-participation rights or income bonds without option or  conversion rights or conversion obligations are vested with bond- like characteristics.    Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 2 of  LANXESS AGs articles of association, the Annual Stockholders  Meeting on May 7, 2009 authorized the Board of Management  until May 6, 2014, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to  increase the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new  no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total  amount of 16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are  generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is  utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription  rights can be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant  holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company  and its af liates subscription rights to the number of new shares for  which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise  of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights  can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when  the companys capital stock is increased against contributions in  kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription  rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory  Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds  issued by the company or its af liates new shares upon exercise of  their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with  the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new  shares is not signi cantly lower than the stock market price at the  time the issue price is  xed and the issued shares do not exceed  10% of the companys capital stock. Further details are given in  Section 4 Paragraph 2 of the articles of association.     In addition, pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AGs ar- ticles of association, the Annual Stockholders Meeting on May 28,  2010 authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015,  with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the com- panys capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new  no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total  amount of 16,640,534 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are  generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is  utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription  rights can be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant  holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company  and its af liates subscription rights to the number of new shares for  which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise  of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights  can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when  the companys capital stock is increased against contributions in  kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription  rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory  Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds  issued by the company or its af liates new shares upon exercise of  their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with  the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new  shares is not signi cantly lower than the stock market price at the  time the issue price is  xed and the issued shares do not exceed  10% of the companys capital stock. Further details are given in  Section 4 Paragraph 3 of the articles of association. 8.  The service contracts between the company and the members  of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain provisions  regarding the potential departure of the members of the Board  of Management in the context of a change of control. These are  outlined in the compensation report in this Management Report.  Such agreements, albeit with different terms, also exist between  the company and members of the  rst and second levels of up- per management. In addition, the terms of the 500 million Euro  Benchmark Bond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in 2005 con- tain a change-of-control clause which gives bondholders the right  to redeem the bond should certain events occur that affect its rat- ing. The bond was guaranteed by LANXESS AG. The same applies  to the terms of the 500 million and 200 million Euro Benchmark  Bonds issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in the 2009  scal year,  the 500 million Euro Benchmark Bond issued by LANXESS   Finance B.V. in the 2011  scal year as well as the CN500 million  bond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in February 2012, which   102 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 are all guaranteed by LANXESS AG. The company has signed an  agreement with one major bank for a loan of 93 million. This  agreement may be terminated without notice or repayment of the  outstanding loan may be required if another company or person  gains control of more than 50% of LANXESS AG. The same applies  to two additional loan agreements for 200 million and 120 mil- lion that LANXESS Finance B.V. signed with investment banks in   scal 2011. The company also entered into an agreement with a  syndicate of banks concerning a credit facility that is currently at  1,408 million. This agreement can also be terminated without  notice if another company or person takes control over more than  50% of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, according to agreements be- tween the company and LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., the company  is obligated to make considerable payments to LANXESS Pension  Trust e.V. in the event of a change of control. 9.  The service contracts between the company and the members of  the Board of Management of LANXESS AG as well as between  the company and members of the  rst and second levels of upper  management of LANXESS AG contain compensation agreements  applicable in the event of a change of control, as such change is  more particularly described in the respective contracts. Procurement and production Procurement  LANXESS uses a centrally managed global procurement organization  to ensure a reliable supply of materials and services. Global Categories  coordinate with our business units to pool requirements. Our worldwide  procurement network helps them leverage purchasing synergies, so  that we can move ef ciently in the market and exploit price advantages.  We avoid delivery bottlenecks or reliance on individual suppliers using  techniques like multiple sourcing. We systematically apply best-practice  processes. These include e-procurement tools, such as e-catalogs  and electronic marketplaces, many of which are integrated into our  internal IT systems. In 2011, about 55% of all items ordered (2010:  around 48%) were handled through e-procurement. Our HSEQ management process begins when raw materials and  services are procured. We expect our suppliers to comply with all ap- plicable national and other laws and regulations on safeguarding the  environment, ensuring health and safety in the workplace and using  appropriate labor and hiring practices. These criteria play an important  role in our selection and evaluation of suppliers. Regular supplier audits  conducted in Germany and abroad help verify compliance with these  regulations. Internally, a global procurement directive de nes how our  staff should behave toward suppliers and their employees. Procuring chemical raw materials is a signi cant priority at LANXESS.  The biggest suppliers here in 2011 included BASF, Bayer, BP,  Braskem, Chevron Phillips, Enterprise, Evonik, Exxon Mobil, INEOS,   LyondellBasell, Nova Chemicals, Sabic, Shell Chemicals, Texas Petro- chemicals and Total/Petro na. Among the most important strategic raw materials by far for our pro- duction operations in 2011 were ammonia, 1,3-butadiene, caustic  soda, crude butadiene, cyclohexane, ethylene, isobutylene,  propylene,  toluene and styrene. In all, strategic raw materials accounted for a  purchasing volume of about 3.9 billion in  scal 2011 (2010:  approx.  2.6 billion), or around 85% of the LANXESS Groups total expenditure  for raw materials and goods in 2011, which amounted to approxi- mately 4.6 billion (2010: approx. 3.5 billion). Our total procurement  volume in 2011 was around 6.8 billion (2010: about 4.8 billion). We are still not dependent on individual suppliers. Furthermore, no  delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks occurred in the reporting period that  had a material effect on our business development. Production   LANXESS is one of the worlds major producers of chemical and  polymer products. Our production facilities make anywhere from very  small batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty and   ne chemicals and polymers in quantities of several ten thousand tons. Each of our production facilities is organizationally assigned to an  individual business unit. The most important production sites are at  Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany; Antwerp,  Belgium; Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands; Orange, United States; Sarnia,  Canada; Triunfo and Duque de Caxias, Brazil; Jhagadia, India; and  Wuxi, China. LANXESS also has other production sites in Argentina,  Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan,  South Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States and Uru- guay. For a complete breakdown of our production sites by segment,  please see The segments in brief in this Management Report.  103 Group Management Report Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code | Procurement and production | Sales organization and customers The following signi cant changes occurred in our global production  network in 2011:   At the site in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, we completed work to add  14,000 tons to the annual production capacity of our Butyl Rubber  business unit ahead of schedule.   Our Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit completed an  expansion in Orange, United States, that raised annual production  capacity for Nd-PBR rubber by 15,000 tons.   With the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business of the Dutch  company Royal DSM N.V., our Technical Rubber Products business  unit took over two EPDM sites: one in Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands,  and the other in Triunfo, Brazil.   In Wuxi, China, our Semi-Crystalline Products business unit started  up the second expansion phase of its state-of-the-art compounding  facility.   This business unit also completed the expansion of caprolactam  production in Antwerp, Belgium, as scheduled.   Our Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit commissioned a  new formalin plant at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site at the end of 2011.   In India, we relocated all the production facilities previously operated  at the Madurai site to our new site in Jhagadia. The move affected  our Material Protection Products, Leather and Rhein Chemie busi- ness units.    The takeover by our Functional Chemicals business unit of Unitex  Chemical Corporation based in Greensboro, United States, marked  our  rst acquisition of a U.S. production facility.   With the purchase of Verichem Inc., based in Pittsburgh, United  States, our Material Protection Products business unit added another  site to its global biocide production network.   Our Rhein Chemie business unit took over the Darmex group with its  production facilities in Burzaco and Merlo, Argentina, and Colonia,  Uruguay.   Following a successful start of the pilot and development phase, we  of cially commissioned a new plant for membrane  ltration technol- ogy at our Bitterfeld site for the Ion Exchange Resins business unit. Including the above-mentioned measures, our cash out ows for capital  expenditures came to 679 million in the past  scal year. Additional  information is given under Capital expenditures in the Financial  Condition section of this Management Report. Sales organization and customers Sales organization    We sell our products all over the world, to several thousand customers  in more than 150 countries across all continents. LANXESSs long- standing customer base includes leaders in each of its user industries.  We have well-established customer relationships in all sales regions.  To meet our customers needs, we have set up very  exible market- ing and sales structures. We manage our sales throughout the world  through 49 companies owned by LANXESS itself. We are continuing  to extend our global presence so we are closer to our customers and  can better evaluate strategic potential. Growth regions are where we  too are growing.  We have responded quickly in recent years to the sharp rise in demand  in Central and Eastern Europe and have established our own sales com- panies – LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o. and OOO LANXESS –  in Bratislava and Moscow, respectively. LANXESS controls all its busi- ness activities in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Russia  and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) from these loca- tions. This proximity allows us to take direct advantage of interesting  opportunities with respect to raw material sourcing and the growing  demand for quality products. The most recent of our sales organiza- tions is the representative of ce established in Dubai in 2011, which  is managed by LANXESS Middle East GmbH. In countries where we  do not yet have our own company, we work with local sales partners. To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they receive  individual support, each of our business units manages its own sales  organization. Another competitive advantage is provided by our 47  production sites in 17 countries. Wherever possible, customers are  supplied from production sites in the same region, which saves them  both time and money. Orders worth 1,583 million, or 18.0% of total sales, were pro- cessed via e-business in  scal 2011. This capability is provided by the  LANXESS one Internet portal and the system-to-system connections  via ELEMICA. Compared to the previous year, the net sales invoice  values accounted for by e-business continued to increase in euro terms.  Altogether, around 300,000 orders and the respective automated  follow-up notices in the areas of purchasing, sales and logistics were  handled as e-business. We will continue to expand this process, which  provides bene ts for all involved, by adding additional partners and  technical services. Selling costs for  scal 2011 came to 8.3% of LANXESS Group sales,  down 0.8 percentage points on the prior-year level of 9.1%.  104 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 The table below shows selling costs by segment over the last  ve years. Selling Costs 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  Selling costs ( million) 659 658 530 646 732 % of sales 10.0 10.0 10.5 9.1 8.3 Breakdown by segment Performance Polymers 190 228 178 216 262 Advanced Intermediates 99 110 92 122 127 Performance Chemicals 305 307 253 300 320 Reconciliation 65 13 7 8 23 Customers  Because of our many products and lines of business, we have business  relationships with a vast range of customers all over the world. These  customers need an individualized, well-focused approach, which we are  able to provide because our sales organizations are managed through  the business units. Individual marketing strategies are reviewed on the  basis of regular customer satisfaction surveys.  LANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires, chemicals,  automotive supply, plastics, electronics, agrochemicals, pharmaceuti- cals, food, water treatment, construction and furniture. Shares of Sales by Industry Sector  % 2011 Tires ~ 25 Chemicals ~ 15 Automotive ~ 15 Construction, electrical/electronics,  agrochemicals, leather/footwear in each case  3 – 10 Others (cumulative share) ~ 15 In  scal 2011, our top ten customers accounted for about 28% of  total sales (2010: 25%). None of our customers accounted for more  than 10% of Group sales. 53 (2010: 40) customers accounted for  annual sales in excess of 20 million. The increase is due to the strong  level of demand and the resulting high purchasing volumes by key  accounts. In addition, our customers bene ted from the expansion  of our product range in the area of high-performance rubbers follow- ing our acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business from DSM in May.  Sales per customer were also impacted by the considerable increase  in raw material prices during the year as a result of our price-before- volume strategy. The number of customers in each segment varied widely. The Perfor- mance Polymers segment had some 3,100 customers in 2011 (2010:  3,100), while Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals  had about 2,900 (2010: 2,900) and 12,000 (2010: 12,400), re- spectively. This information is based on the customer numbers issued  in each segment. Each segment includes all customer groups and  sales categories. However, one customer may do business with more  than one segment. The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance Chemi- cals segment, as well as its broad customer base, re ect the way in  which its business often involves custom-tailored solutions in specialty  chemicals. The substantially lower number of customers in the Per- formance Polymers segment, which generates relatively high sales,  is likewise typical of the synthetic rubber products business. This  extensive customer base means that no segment can be considered  dependent on just a few customers.  Research and development  We continued to systematically broaden our research and develop- ment activities in 2011. Existing products and processes were re ned  and optimized with a short- to medium-term time horizon. We also  expanded our Innovation & Technology Group Function which initiated  additional medium- to long-term research projects to ensure success  in the high-growth areas of the future and thus safeguard the Groups  sustainable performance. Cost trend and employees  Our total research and development expenditures in 2011 increased  by 24.1% on the prior year to 144 million, or 1.6% of sales (2010:  116 million or 1.6% of sales). The Technical Rubber Products, Butyl  Rubber, Saltigo and Semi-Crystalline Products business units ac- counted for the largest share of these expenditures at 54% (2010:  53%). Saltigo, Material Protection Products, Ion Exchange Resins  and Butyl Rubber were the business units most active in research in  terms of their ratios of research and development expenses to sales.  105 Group Management Report Sales organization and customers | Research and development  The table below shows research and development expenditures in  the last  ve years. Research and Development Expenditures 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  Research and development  expenditures ( million) 88 97 101 116 144 % of sales 1.3 1.5 2.0 1.6 1.6 A commitment for long-term  nancing from the European Investment  Bank (EIB), the E.U.s Luxembourg-based development bank, will  increase our scope for funding research and development activities  over the next seven years. It covers a 200 million credit facility that  carries attractive conditions. We see the partnership as af rmation of  our innovative potential and recognition of our clear focus on develop- ing sustainable products and production processes. At the end of 2011, we employed 731 people (2010: 519) in our  research and development laboratories worldwide. Number of Employees in Research and Development 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  Year end 408 453 489 519 731 % of Group employees 2.8 3.1 3.4 3.5 4.5 Our largest research and development units are at the sites in Lever- kusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen, Germany; London, Canada;  and Qingdao and Wuxi, China. The development and testing of high- performance rubber products for energy-saving green tires and high- tech plastics for lightweight construction applications in the automotive  industry are examples of the work we perform there. By consolidating  our research and development activities for nitrile-butadiene rubber  (NBR) at our site in La Wantzenau, France, in 2010, we are now in an  even better position to develop innovative, high-quality, sophisticated  products that are tailored to our customers speci c requirements. Fields of activity and patent strategy  In 2011, we conducted around 210 research and development proj- ects (2010: 170), around 125 of which (2010: 100) aimed to develop  new products and applications or improve existing ones. Some 85  projects (2010: around 70) concerned process technology issues with  a view to reducing costs, improving ef ciency or increasing capacity. We  plan to have roughly 20% of the research and development projects  we started in 2011 in the market or technical implementation stages  by the end of 2012 (previous year: about 20%).  The results of our research and development work are protected by  patents, where this is possible and expedient. In the course of 2011,  we submitted 84 priority applications worldwide. As of December 31,  2011, the full patent portfolio included approximately 1,100 patent  families covering around 7,200 property rights. As part of the purchase  of the Keltan business, we acquired the intellectual property rights to  the Keltan ACE technology, which has also strengthened our propri- etary technology base.  Organizational focus  Our research and development activities are closely allied to the needs  of the market and our customers. Organizationally, the LANXESS  Groups research and development units are assigned to the individual  business units. For example, business units with a substantial propor- tion of products in very mature markets, such as Advanced Industrial  Intermediates, concentrate on constantly improving their production  facilities and processes (process optimization). Other business units  focus their research and development activities more on optimizing  their products and product quality and on developing new products to  meet market requirements and customers special needs. We have set  ourselves the goal of aligning our research programs in the future more  directly and more systematically with the major global megatrends: the  expanding need for mobility, sharply rising global food requirements,  increasing urbanization and the growing demand for water. Our basic research is conducted mainly via alliances with universities  and research institutes. Generating knowledge in this way is sub- stantially more ef cient and cost-effective than if we were to maintain  our own resources for this purpose. In 2011, we had a total of 145  (2010: 143) major research and development alliances, 50 (2010:  53) of which were with universities, 55 (2010: 53) with suppliers or  customers, and 40 (2010: 37) with research institutes. Innovation & Technology Group Function  As a central unit, the Innovation & Technology Group Function comple- ments our business units research work with new, longer-term, cross- business unit projects to ensure that potential synergies are exploited to  the full and innovations can be applied in various LANXESS units. We  further expanded this group function in 2011 so that it now consoli- dates our expertise in both chemistry and technology. The Innovation  & Technology Group Functions research concentrates on process and  product innovation. An additional focus is supporting the business  units in all issues relating to energy technology within the context of  the newly established LANXESS energy ef ciency program.  106 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 In the area of process innovation, we direct our efforts toward devel- oping new processes and integrating new technologies into existing  production processes with the aim of achieving cost and technology  leadership. One focus is on reviewing current production processes  using mathematical methods in order to pinpoint optimization potential.  In this way, we have already identi ed and in some cases achieved  considerable savings on raw materials and energy. We made further  savings in operating costs by implementing our process control con- cepts in a number of facilities. These newly implemented concepts  – including online analytics – enable us to run plants even closer to  the optimum operating point, which, in addition to reducing costs, in  some cases even increases their capacity. Against the backdrop of  our strategic growth initiative, we are also stepping up our efforts to  re ne the technological aspects of our processes for growth projects. Product innovation is focused on the development of new products and  new applications for existing products as well as on product modi ca- tions. The search for new products is more broadly based than in the  business units, the main topics are generally applicable to multiple  business units, and there is a medium- to long-term time horizon.  Here, too, our research goals are derived from the global megatrends.  By launching an ideas platform on the companys intranet, we have  created a Group-wide forum for developing ideas and solutions for  future-oriented innovations. We have already transformed a large  number of ideas into concrete projects with the help of standardized  processes. These projects are regularly evaluated with regard to their  technological and  nancial attractiveness. We have further expanded  our broad network of external partners through the establishment of  new alliances with universities, institutes and leading companies in  various  elds such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, micro tech nology  and membrane technology.  Our research collaboration with the Russian Academy of Sciences  (RAS), which we started in 2010, was strengthened in the year under  review. RAS numbers among the worlds most distinguished scienti c  institutions and has a history dating back over 285 years. We initiated  additional cooperation projects with some of the Academys renowned  research institutes, for example, in the area of catalysis research.  Overall, research and development plays a signi cant role in increas- ing our competitiveness and further expanding our business through  the development of innovative, original processes and products as  well as the ongoing optimization of existing production processes. Corporate responsibility  In our business activities we are committed to taking account of the  demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure. With  our products and our expertise in the area of sustainable development  we can make a signi cant contribution to supporting our customers,  protecting the environment and improving the quality of life of people  everywhere. All our corporate responsibility activities must be linked  to our core business or to our available expertise.  We have been supporting the Responsible Care initiative since 2006,  when we became a signatory to the Global Charter initiated by the  International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Amended in  February 2011, our corporate directives ensure that the principles of  the charter are integrated into our management principles and corpo- rate strategy. We once again raised our sustainability pro le during the  reporting period by signing up to the U.N. Global Compact, the worlds  largest and fastest growing corporate social responsibility initiative.  Our Corporate Compliance Guideline is a code of legal compliance and  responsible conduct that is binding on all LANXESS employees and  commits them to act in accordance with the law, apply the principles  of Responsible Care and demonstrate ethical conduct. Environmental management  Our central management system enables us to steer our activities  worldwide in accordance with internal directives and operating pro- cedures as well as strict quality and environmental standards in line  with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. In 2007, we started integrating all our sites worldwide into a single  management system covered by one global matrix certi cate. We  regularly commission external, independent experts to audit and verify  the implementation status of this process. In 2011, the sales of ce in  Moscow, Russia, was included for the  rst time. By the end of 2011,  a total of 81 sites had been integrated into the matrix certi cate. For  our sites in the United States, we have also received certi cation to  RC 14001. In addition, we decided in 2010 to introduce a global energy manage- ment system based on ISO 50001. We aim to complete implementa- tion in Germany by the end of 2012.  107 Group Management Report Research and development | Corporate responsibility | Events after the reporting period | Report on risks and opportunities Environment data  We have developed a proprietary electronic system for the systematic  global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of  safety and environmental protection. Data for all indicators except the  lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) are gathered only at those pro- duction sites in which the company has a holding of more than 50%.  In the year under review, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprfungsgesellschaft  assessed our data recording processes and system in the course of a  business audit. Most of our HSE indicators for 2010 and 2011 were  tested with a view to achieving a reasonable assurance rating. The  certi cate can be viewed at www.lanxess.com. Product responsibility We expressly support the protection goals of European chemicals  policy. During the  rst registration phase stipulated by the REACH  regulation, we submitted the dossiers for all 193 of our substances  that are affected to the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) by the  deadline of November 30, 2010. A further 250 substances from our  portfolio will be registered during the second phase, which runs until  the end of May 2013. To date, these activities are going to schedule.  We expect to have to complete a total of some 750 dossiers over all  three phases through 2018.  Social commitment  Our not-for-pro t activities focus on providing support for science  education in schools. To this end, we launched the extensive LANXESS  education initiative in 2008 that underscores our clear commitment  to Germany as a business location and as a base for the chemical  industry. Over the past four years, we have invested around 3.5 million  in this initiative. In recognition of its valuable contribution to Germanys  position as a business and industry location, our program was among  the winners in 2011 of the countrys 365 Landmarks in the Land  of Ideas contest. We have also initiated projects focusing particularly on the promotion  of science education at almost all LANXESS sites across the globe.  In the BRICS countries especially, we are involved in a wide range of  projects and initiatives. LANXESS is one of the worlds leading suppliers of products for the  puri cation and treatment of water. The expertise acquired by our Ion  Exchange Resins and Inorganic Pigments business units over the  decades enables them to play a key role in solving the global water  problem. Using this expertise for charitable purposes is a further focus  of our corporate social commitment. Events after the reporting period  No other events of particular signi cance took place after Decem- ber 31, 2011 that could be expected to have a material effect on  the cash  ows,  nancial condition and results of operations of the  LANXESS Group. Report on risks and opportunities Expected changes in business conditions Expected Growth in GDP Change vs. prior year in  real terms (%)1) Gross domestic product 2012 2013 2014 –2016 Americas 2.0 3.0 3.5 NAFTA 2.0 2.5 3.0 Latin America 3.5 5.0 5.0 EMEA 0.5 2.0 2.5 Germany 0.5 1.0 1.5 Western Europe (0.5) 1.0 2.0 Central and Eastern Europe 2.5 3.5 4.0 Asia-Paci c 5.0 5.5 5.0 World 2.5 3.0 3.5 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight in February 2012 General business conditions We expect the global economy to be  volatile overall in 2012. The ongoing problems in the  nancial sector  triggered by the public debt crisis and additional geopolitical tensions  in the Middle East and Africa are likely to increase market uncertainty.  As a result, there is a growing risk that economic momentum will  slow, especially in the industrialized nations. We expect this to be felt  especially strongly in Europe, in particular in its peripheral states. The  emerging markets, by contrast, are likely to continue growing, despite  the  rst signs that their economic expansion is slowing. Overall, we  consider the risk of a global recession to be very low, but still anticipate  increased economic volatility.  108 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 On account of the higher risks, we expect the world economy to grow  by 2.5%, around the same level as in 2011. In all likelihood, the emerg- ing markets will remain the focal point of expansion, but we believe  that the Chinese economy will grow more slowly than last year at  7.5%. For India, we predict growth of 7.0%. Among the industrialized  economies, we expect Western Europe to be the only region to post  an overall negative trend of minus 0.5%, while the expectation for the  United States is growth of around 2.0%. In Japan, the economy is  expected to recover and expand by 3.0%. We believe that the regional  disparities in growth will continue in the years to come. On account of the  uctuations in the economic environment, we expect  volatility in the raw materials markets in 2012. According to forecasts  by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the rate of in ation in raw  material prices will decline overall in 2012. Early IMF projections for  2012 put oil prices at or near the same level as at the end of 2011.  These forecasts took into account geopolitical risks and the uncertain  prospects for economic development. It can be assumed that energy  prices will continue to increase in the coming years. In 2012, we expect the U.S. dollar to weaken slightly from the exchange  rate of US$1.29 to the euro on December 31, 2011.  Future performance of the chemical industry On the basis of the  macroeconomic environment described above, we predict that the  global chemical industry will expand by 3.5% in 2012. The growth  of chemical production in the industrialized countries is likely to be  below average. Only Japan, supported by the overall recovery of its  economy following the disasters in March 2011, is poised to be the  exception with projected growth of 3.0%. Chemical production in  Europe is expected to be at or near the prior-year level. We expect the  chemical industry in North America to post slight growth of around  1.0%. The emerging economies are likely to display above-average  growth again, with chemical production in India increasing by 8.0%  and in China by 7.5%. We forecast expansion of 3.5% for the chemical  industry in Latin America and in Central/Eastern Europe. Increasing capacities in the growth regions will raise the pressure on  the traditional industrialized nations – which are additionally suffering  from relatively weak domestic demand. For this reason we expect  production in these countries to grow at a slower pace than the global  average. Expected Growth in Chemical Production Change vs. prior year in  real terms (%)1) Chemical production 2012 2013 2014 –2016 Americas 1.5 2.0 3.0 NAFTA 1.0 1.5 2.5 Latin America 3.5 4.5 4.5 EMEA 1.0 2.5 2.5 Germany 0.0 1.0 1.0 Western Europe 0.0 2.0 2.0 Central and Eastern Europe 3.5 4.0 4.0 Asia-Paci c 7.0 7.5 6.5 World 3.5 4.5 4.5 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight in February 2012 Future evolution of selling markets In 2012, we expect the selling  markets that are most important to LANXESS to trend in line with the  global economy.  According to our forecasts, the tire industry is expected to expand  by 2.5% overall. High growth rates are anticipated for Brazil (7.0%),  China (8.0%) and India (12.0%). In Europe, we believe production will  return to a normal growth trend following the recent catch-up phase.  However, it could decline by 2.5% in total given the outlook for the  automotive industry. In North America, tire production is expected to  be at or near the previous years level. Growth in the automotive industry is predicted to remain at a high  7.5%. North America and Asia are likely to drive this development. We  anticipate an increase of 8.0% in production in North America, but that  remains well below pre-crisis levels. We expect considerable growth of  18.0% in Japan as well, but this would be attributable to the recovery  effect described earlier. For the Indian market, we forecast production  expansion of a robust 14.5%. In Europe, Central and Eastern Europe  are likely to show positive growth of 3.5%, but we believe production  in Western Europe will decline by 6.5%. The growth drivers in agrochemicals – high demand and the associ- ated high prices for agricultural products – will remain in place, yielding  expansion of 3.0% by our estimates. In Asia, growth in China and India  will stay stable, at 3.0% and 4.0%, respectively. Steady growth is also  expected in South America and in Central/Eastern Europe, where we  predict expansion of 4.5% and 3.0%, respectively. Still impacted by the debt crisis, Western Europes construction   industry may very well bottom out in 2012. We expect a slight de- crease of 1.0% for the region. In North America, we project a modest  increase of 2.0% for 2012. Asia is likely to remain the industrys global  engine with Japan posting 9.0% growth on rebuilding efforts, while  construction in China is expected to advance 9.5%.  109 Group Management Report Report on risks and opportunities Expected Evolution of Major User Industries Change vs. prior year in  real terms (%)1) Tires Automotive Agrochemicals Construction 2012 2013 2014  – 2016 2012 2013 2014  – 2016 2012 2013 2014  – 2016 2012 2013 2014  – 2016 Americas (0.5) 1.5 1.5 8.0 7.5 3.5 3.5 2.0 2.0 3.0 9.0 8.0 NAFTA (2.0) (0.5) (0.5) 8.0 6.5 3.5 2.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 9.0 8.5 Latin America 4.5 7.5 5.5 8.0 9.0 4.0 4.5 3.5 3.5 5.5 7.0 5.5 EMEA 2.0 3.0 2.5 0.0 6.0 5.5 1.5 2.5 3.0 0.5 2.0 2.5 Germany (3.5) (4.5) (2.5) (4.0) (0.5) 3.5 (1.0) 1.5 2.5 0.5 0.5 1.0 Western Europe (2.5) (0.5) (0.5) (6.5) 1.0 5.0 0.0 2.0 2.5 (1.0) 1.0 1.5 Central and Eastern Europe 6.0 6.5 4.5 3.5 17.0 6.0 3.0 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.0 5.0 Asia-Paci c 4.0 7.5 7.5 11.0 10.5 7.0 3.5 5.5 6.0 8.0 6.5 5.5 World 2.5 5.0 5.5 7.5 8.5 6.0 3.0 3.5 4.5 4.0 5.5 5.0 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight, LMC and other sources in February 2012 Risk report  Opportunity and risk management system Our success is signi cantly  dependent on identifying the opportunities and risks in our business  activities and on actively managing them. Effective risk management  is a core element in safeguarding the companys existence for the  long term and ensuring its successful future development. Risks and  opportunities are understood as negative or positive deviations from  planned results. Our management activities are based both on internal organizational  work ows, which are managed by way of control and monitoring  mechanisms, and on early warning systems that are used to closely  observe changes in external conditions and systematically implement  the appropriate measures. This approach applies equally to risks and  opportunities.  Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this system  does not offer absolute protection. However, it does serve to prevent  business risks from having a material impact on the company with a  suf cient degree of certainty. Structural basis Our opportunity and risk management is based on  clearly de ned business processes, the precise assignment of respon- sibilities throughout the Group, and reporting systems that ensure the  timely provision of the information required for decision-making to the  Board of Management or other management levels. The principles  are set forth in a Group directive. Our management system is based  on an integration concept, i.e. the early identi cation of opportunities  and risks is an integral part of the management system and not the  object of a separate organizational structure. The risk management system comprises many different elements that  are embedded in the overall structural and process organization. The  management of opportunities and risks is a primary duty of the heads of  all business units, as well as of those people in Group companies who  hold process and project responsibility. It is incorporated into business  processes primarily through the companys organizational structure, its  planning, reporting and communication systems, and a set of detailed  management policies and technical standards. Various committees  and other bodies discuss and monitor our opportunities and risks. Roles of key organizational units At LANXESS, the business units  each conduct their own operations, for which they have global pro t  responsibility. Group functions and service companies support the busi- ness units by providing  nancial, legal, technical and other centralized  services. Complementing this global alignment of the business units  and group functions, the country organizations ensure the required  proximity to the markets and the necessary organizational infrastructure. In line with this division of duties, we have assigned responsibility, i.e.  de ned the risk owners, for the following:    identi cation and analysis of risks and opportunities,   risk prevention (measures taken to avoid, minimize  or diversify risk),   risk monitoring (e.g. on the basis of performance indicators and,  perhaps also, early warning indicators),   risk mitigation (measures to minimize damage upon  occurrence of a risk event) and   communication of the key risks and opportunities to the manage- ment committees of the business units and group functions.   110 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 The Corporate Controlling Group Function is responsible for collecting  and aggregating key information across the Group at the following  intervals:     three times per year during the intrayear forecasting process    one time per year as part of the budget and planning process for  the subsequent year and the medium-term forecast horizon The reported opportunities and risks are collected in a central database  and regularly analyzed for the Board of Management and Supervisory  Board. This ensures that when new risks and opportunities arise or  when existing ones change substantially, the necessary information  can be communicated in a timely manner all the way to the Board  of Management and therefore also be speci cally integrated into the  general management of the company. The reporting threshold for opportunities and risks is an effect of  1 million on the Groups net income or EBITDA, taking into account  a minimum probability of occurrence. This low reporting threshold  guarantees that the information gathered about opportunities and  risks is comprehensive and that the collection of information is not  just limited to material risks or risks that could jeopardize the future of  the company as a going concern. The Corporate Controlling Group  Function centrally determines the top opportunities and risks only  after the information has been gathered. The threshold for material  risks has been de ned at 10 million for the Group.  The Corporate Development Group Function systematically analyzes  and measures signi cant and strategic opportunities and risks with  the goal of ensuring that the Group is pursuing the correct long-term  strategy. Transactions particularly for the transfer of  nancial but also operating  risk (hedging transactions or insurance) are managed centrally by the  Treasury Group Function. This is explained in more detail in the Risks  of future development section. Due to the highly integrated nature of our general business processes,  we have specialized committees composed of representatives of the  business units and group functions who deal with issues concerning  the Groups risks and opportunities. This enables us to react quickly  and  exibly to changing situations and their in uence on the company. Signi cance of the Group-wide planning process Corporate planning  is a core element of our opportunity and risk management. Opportuni- ties and risks with a likelihood of occurrence greater than the speci ed  minimum probability  ow directly into the planning process. Key budget  values are calculated and those risks and opportunities considered  relatively likely to materialize are presented as worst-case/best-case  scenarios. The processes for corporate planning and intrayear forecast- ing as well as the corresponding analyses and suggestions for action  are steered by the Corporate Controlling Group Function, which works  closely in this regard with the business units. Certain Board of Manage- ment meetings are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate  planning outcomes, including the associated opportunities and risks.  We monitor the annual budget in any given  scal year by regularly  updating our expectations for business development. There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on speci c risk  issues such as signi cant corporate compliance violations. In 2011,  there was no cause for immediate reporting of this kind.  Compliance as an integral component Risk management also in- cludes preventing illegal conduct by our employees. To this end, we  obtain extensive legal advice concerning business transactions and  obligate employees by means of our compliance code to observe  the law and to act responsibly. A Compliance Committee promotes  and monitors adherence to our compliance guidelines. Its work is  supported by compliance of cers who have been appointed for each  country in which we have a subsidiary. The Compliance Committee  is chaired by a compliance of cer, who reports directly and regularly  to the Board of Management. Accounting aspects of the internal control and risk management sys- tem The aspects of the internal control and risk management system  relating to the accounting process include the principles, procedures  and measures required to ensure the effectiveness, ef ciency and  propriety of the companys accounting, and compliance with appli- cable legal regulations. To this end, clear organizational, control and  monitoring structures have been established. The distinctive features  of the chemical industry and the risk management tools used regu- larly by LANXESS in this regard are taken into account. In addition  to the accounting process in its narrower sense, this also includes  the aforementioned structured budget and forecasting process, and  extensive contract management. However, the effectiveness and reli- ability of the internal control and risk management system can be  restricted by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or  other circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used are  applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of accounting  issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance. The Accounting Group Function, which reports to the CFO, is respon- sible for the accounting process and therefore for preparing the consoli- dated  nancial statements of the LANXESS Group and the single-entity   nancial statements of the companies. Consolidated interim  nancial  statements are prepared each quarter. The condensed consolidated  half-yearly  nancial statements are reviewed, while the consolidated   111 Group Management Report Report on risks and opportunities annual  nancial statements are subjected to a full audit by the audi- tor of the Groups  nancial statements. The foundation for uniform  and IFRS-compliant consolidated  nancial reporting at LANXESS is  the Group Financial Statements Guideline. This governs the way the  provisions of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  applicable to the Group are applied by the subsidiaries as reporting  entities. Moreover, the guideline also de nes charts of accounts that  are binding throughout the Group. On the IT side, the guideline is  supplemented by a uniform, Group-wide delivery and consolidation  system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected  by security measures against unauthorized access. By controlling and monitoring LANXESSs group accounting pro- cesses, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices in  line with the applicable laws and standards, particularly the IFRS, are  applied and guarantee the reliability of our  nancial reporting. The  accounting-related internal control system we use is based on generally  accepted standards (COSO model). There were no material changes to  this system during the period under review. Corresponding standards  also apply to the single-entity  nancial statements of the subsidiaries.  Preparation of the consolidated  nancial statements is based on a  very detailed process that includes specifying a  nancial statement  calendar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data. A further  component is the regular review of the correctness and completeness  of the scope of consolidation. The principle of the segregation of  duties as expressed in structured authorization and approval proce- dures and the dual-control principle as well as continual plausibility  testing on data is applied end-to-end throughout the preparation and  consolidation process. For the consolidated  nancial statements, all subsidiaries subject to  reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting data using the  above-mentioned consolidation system. Validation rules integrated into  the system ensure that the data reported by the subsidiaries are consis- tent at the time of delivery. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring the  correctness of the reported data content lies with the accounting de- partments of the subsidiaries. The Corporate Accounting Department  within the Accounting Group Function conducts more detailed testing  of the correctness of the data content. To this end, the department  evaluates standardized reports in which the companies explain material  facts relevant to  nancial reporting. After the process-based controls  have been applied, Group consolidation including currency transla- tion is carried out in the same system, without additional interfaces,  utilizing both automated and manual procedures. The correctness of  the automated consolidation steps and of the master data necessary  for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information that  must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to the  extent required and veri ed downstream. This is supplemented by  validation rules that are integrated into the system. Regular coordination with other  nancial group functions, particularly  the Treasury, Tax and Controlling group functions, assists the  nancial  reporting process. A continual exchange of information with the op- erating business units and other group functions makes it possible  for the Accounting Group Function to identify and deal with issues  arising outside of accounting processes. These include litigation risks,  projections for impairment testing and special contractual agreements  with suppliers or customers. In addition, third-party service providers  are consulted on special issues, particularly relating to the valuation  of pensions and other post-employment bene ts. Monitoring of risk management and the internal control system Within  the Group, the Internal Auditing Group Function is tasked with oversee- ing whether the internal control and monitoring system is functioning  properly and whether organizational safeguards are being observed.  The planning of audits (selection of audit subjects) and audit methods  applied by this group function are correspondingly aligned with risks.  To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an annual self-assessment is  also carried out in major Group companies, operating units and group  functions. In addition, the early warning system is evaluated by the  auditor as part of the audit of the annual  nancial statements. The  Supervisory Board also exercises control functions, including regular  monitoring of the ef ciency of the management systems described  above by the full Supervisory Board and by its Audit Committee. The  Audit Committee reviews reports about the Compliance Committees  activities and  ndings, the work of the Internal Auditing Group Function,  and the status of the risk management and internal control system.  Risks of future development The main sources of risk are shown in  the table below:    Main Sources of Risk Macroeconomic Regional differences in performance Long-term exchange-rate parities Demographic trends Strategic Corporate strategy Investments Information technology Human resources Operational Sales markets Plant operations Environmental risks Procurement markets Financial risks Regulatory Legal aspects Regulatory measures Taxes  112 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Regional differences in economic trends LANXESS is inherently ex- posed to the general economic and political opportunities and risks  of the countries and regions in which the LANXESS Group operates.  Regional differences in economic performance and the associated  demand trends can affect the Groups pricing and sales potential  in its various geographical markets, with corresponding effects on  its earnings. We address these issues with our broad regional pres- ence and by expanding our pro le in selected growth regions. This  approach is discussed in further detail in the Strategy section of this  Management Report. Long-term exchange rate trends Shifts in exchange rate parities can  affect sales revenues as reported in the Groups currency and the  gross pro t margins on sales as they relate to the production costs of  products, depending on the country of production. In addition to the  hedging we perform as described in the Financial risks section, we  also make a point of expanding our production sites in the key growth  regions in order to build a natural hedge position by matching produc- tion and sales in the regional markets.   Demographic trends LANXESS takes an active approach to man- aging the risk of demographic trends as well. To ensure continued  access to a highly skilled workforce, we launched a comprehensive  package of measures known as XCare in 2009, starting in Germany.  Interdisciplinary working groups are cooperating closely with em- ployee representatives at LANXESS to develop innovative concepts  to preempt and actively address shifts resulting from demographic  change – ranging from increasing the number of trainee positions  to measures allowing older employees to enjoy a longer working life.  The successive introduction of a long-term worktime account is also  part of these efforts. This will enable employees in Germany to  exibly  tailor their transition to retirement by building up credit from various  time and income components over an extended period. Another area  of activity is health. The goal is to increase productivity, while continu- ing to reduce the risk of lost workdays. Measures aimed at prevention  and reintegration have been successfully expanded. In 2011, we also  worked closely with our employee representatives to reach agree- ment on a multi-stage concept that will make it easier for employees  to care for family members while continuing their jobs. One feature  of the concept is individually agreed part-time working for caregivers. Corporate strategy risks We are consistently pursuing the strategic  optimization of the enterprise. Our efforts include ongoing ef ciency  enhancement, strengthening of core businesses, active portfolio man- agement, and proactive participation in industry consolidation through  partnerships, divestments and acquisitions. The success of the decisions associated with these efforts is naturally  subject to forecasting risk in respect of predicting future (market) de- velopments and making assumptions about the feasibility of planned  measures. For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment  could be based on pro tability or growth expectations that prove to  be unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and system- atically analyzing the information that is relevant to decision-making.  During this process, the business units affected and the Board of  Management receive support from departments with the requisite  expertise and, if necessary, from external consultants. When gathering information about potential M&A candidates, it is  possible that certain facts required to assess a candidates future  performance or to determine the purchase price are not available or  are not correctly interpreted. We reduce this risk by conducting well- structured due diligence analyses and, where possible, by concluding  appropriate agreements with the sellers. Insuf cient integration of  acquired companies or businesses can result in expected develop- ments not materializing. For this reason, we have processes in place  with which full integration of acquired businesses is assured. Investment risks The preparatory work for investments that exceed  a speci ed signi cance threshold is the responsibility of the relevant  business units. After review by an Investment Committee set up for this  purpose, the information is presented to the Board of Management for  a decision. By following this procedure, we ensure that investments  are in line with our corporate strategy and satisfy our pro tability and  security requirements. IT risks Our IT systems support our business activities worldwide,  including the essential processes from receiving an order to receiving  payment and from placing an order to paying a vendor. It is impor- tant in this regard to give the relevant parties correct and meaningful  information at an appropriate time. To accomplish this, we invest in  expanding and improving the software, hardware and networks we  use worldwide, which also enhances integration and facilitates the  use of uniform system platforms. The inherent risk with IT is that net- works will fail or that systems and their data will be compromised or  destroyed because of operating and programming errors or external  factors. This can cause serious business interruptions. To mitigate this  risk, LANXESS has increased its investment in suitable data protection  systems and mirror databases designed to prevent the loss of data.  Methods for safeguarding against malicious software attacks, access  restriction and authorization systems along with other security and  monitoring tools are used to ensure data integrity, the trouble-free  operation of software and user-oriented data security. The manage- ment of IT risks complies with recognized standards. Additionally, we  have reduced our reliance on critical suppliers.  113 Group Management Report Report on risks and opportunities HR policy risks Our activities depend on our employees. The risk of  industrial actions in some countries resulting from disputes in con- nection with negotiations concerning future collective pay agreements  or associated with restructuring measures cannot be ruled out. We  counter this risk by fostering open communication with our employees  and their representatives in a culture of active labor relations. QUEST,  our training, deployment and job management center, is part of these  efforts. Formed in 2009 and  rmly anchored in our German organiza- tions, this internal job placement unit enables us to redeploy surplus  headcount and keep expertise within the company.   Our employees expert knowledge of internal processes and issues  relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor in the ef ciency  of our business operations. We take various approaches to mitigate the  risk of losing this expertise and to increase our employees loyalty to  the company, including attractive compensation models, challenging  jobs and international career options. Additionally, we use person- nel conferences and development centers as a means of identifying  particularly well-quali ed employees for subsequent appointment to  key functions and management positions. This allows us to further  develop the expertise already available within the company and avoid  the loss of expertise. One indicator of our success so far in limiting the  loss of know-how is the low employee  uctuation rates in all regions.  Overall, we estimate as low the risk of our business being impaired  by a loss of knowledge. To further increase productivity at LANXESS, we developed and  launched the International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) for our  global sales organization within the context of our strategic growth  program.  Thus far, there has not been a major shortage of labor in our global  markets. However, in the interests of a forward-thinking, sustainable  human resources policy, we considerably strengthened our coopera- tions with research institutes, colleges and universities in Germany  and other important target markets in 2011. We were also able to  position the company as an attractive employer through participation  at numerous events around the world. Active involvement in educa- tion plays an important role in our efforts, as demonstrated by our  cooperation with the not-for-pro t Teach First organization. Through  this collaboration, we hope to access additional channels for recruit- ing quali ed personnel. For more detailed information, please see the  Employees and Corporate Responsibility sections. Risks in sales markets The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of  the global chemical and polymer markets and their dependence on  developments in customer industries harbor risks to LANXESSs busi- ness. In addition to being subject to these demand-side market risks,  LANXESSs risk pro le is in uenced, and its earnings power can be  impaired, by structural changes in markets, such as the entry of new  suppliers, the migration of customers to countries with lower costs,  and product substitution or market consolidation trends in some sec- tors. We counter such trends by systematically managing costs and  by taking comprehensive measures designed to achieve a sharper  focus and arrive at a product portfolio with which we can operate  successfully for the long term. Risks in plant operations A lack of plant availability and disruptions of  plant and process safety can make it impossible for us to meet produc- tion targets and adequately satisfy existing demand, resulting in a loss  of marginal income. We use a comprehensive range of measures to  counter this scenario. These include regular compliance checks, the  preparation of risk assessments and systematic training of employees  to improve standards and safety.  Environmental risks from production processes Although LANXESS  applies high technical and safety standards to the construction, opera- tion and maintenance of production facilities, interruptions in opera- tions, including those due to external factors, such as natural disasters  or terrorism, cannot be ruled out. These can lead to explosions, the  release of materials hazardous to health, or accidents in which people,  property or the environment are harmed. In addition to systematically  monitoring compliance with quality standards in order to avoid such  stoppages and accidents, we are also insured against the resulting  damage to the extent usual in the industry. LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at which chem- icals have been produced for periods that in some cases exceed  140 years. This responsibility also extends to waste disposal facilities.  The possibility cannot be ruled out that pollution occurred during  this time that has not been discovered to date. We are committed  to the Responsible Care initiative and actively pursue environmental  management. This includes constant monitoring and testing of the  soil, groundwater and air. We have set up suf cient provisions within  the scope permitted by law for necessary containment or remediation  measures in areas with identi ed contamination. LANXESSs product portfolio includes substances that are classi ed  as hazardous to health. In order to prevent possible harm to health,  we systematically test the properties of our products and draw our  customers attention to the risks associated with their use. We also  carry product liability insurance that is customary in our industry.  114 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Risks in procurement markets On the procurement side, the principal  risk lies in the volatility of raw material and energy prices. If the price  of the materials we use increases, our production costs increase. If  the price of the materials we use decreases, write-downs may have  to be recognized on inventories. We mitigate this risk by following a  sensible inventory and procurement policy. Most of the companys  raw material needs are met by long-term supply contracts that have  price escalation clauses, and many agreements with customers also  contain price escalation clauses. We also hedge this risk in some  cases via derivatives transactions if liquid futures markets are available  for hedging raw material and energy price risks (see also Financial  risks). Detailed information is contained in the section headed Raw  material price risks under Note [35], Financial instruments, to the  Consolidated Financial Statements. To guard against possible supply  bottlenecks due to factors such as the failure of a supplier or of an  upstream operation at a networked site, we pursue an appropriate  inventory strategy and line up alternative sources of supply. We also  face increases in our personnel expenses because of future wage  increases. Such an increase in the cost of human resources can be  just as detrimental to earnings as increases in raw material prices, as  described above, but in the case of personnel we cannot hedge the risk  in futures markets or pass it on to the customer. In order to cushion the  impact of such negative developments on our cost base, we pursue a  market-oriented pricing policy that is in line with the premium nature  of our products. Additionally, we are constantly looking for ways to  use our resources more ef ciently so that we can offset higher costs  by raising productivity. Financial risks The Treasury Group Function centrally manages  nan- cial risks. The chief  nancial risks are: Financial Risks Price risks Liquidity and   re nancing risks Default risks Investment risks Interest Availability of cash Banks Investments in  pension assets Currencies Access to multi-  and bilateral capital  markets Customers Raw materials Energy Price risks are managed using derivative  nancial instruments within  approved limits for hedging. We ensure our access to the capital mar- kets and our solvency through a conservative  nancing policy and a  target capital structure that is largely based on the ratio systems used  by leading rating agencies. We mitigate default risks by setting sensible  credit limits. The Pension Committee, which is made up of the CFO and  representatives from the Treasury, Accounting and Human Resources  group functions, limits investment risk by making decisions about the  allocation of the pension funds investments, insofar as LANXESS is  able to exercise its in uence in this regard. Detailed information about our  nancial risks and how we manage  them is contained in Note [35], Financial instruments, to the Con- solidated Financial Statements. Legal risks Companies in the LANXESS Group are parties to various  litigations. The outcome of individual proceedings cannot be predicted  with assurance due to the uncertainties always associated with legal  disputes. To the extent necessary in light of the known circumstances  in each case, we have set up risk provisions for the event of an unfa- vorable outcome of such proceedings. Taking into account existing  provisions and insurance, as well as agreements reached with third  parties in respect of liability risks arising from legal disputes, it is cur- rently estimated that none of these proceedings will materially affect  our future  nancial condition or earnings. In our reporting in previous years, we referred to heightened risks relat- ing to certain antitrust proceedings brought by regulatory authorities  or civil courts in the United States, Canada and Europe concerning  certain products of the former Rubber Business Group, which was  transferred to the LANXESS Group in the course of the spin-off from  Bayer AG. LANXESS AG and Bayer AG agreed on speci c rules gov- erning their respective share of the liabilities in connection with these  proceedings. The rules provide that LANXESS will bear 30% and  Bayer AG 70% of such liabilities. LANXESSs total liability was limited  to an amount that has now been exhausted by the payments which  have since been made. In addition to this maximum amount, it is liable  for the reimbursement of income tax payable as a result of limited tax  deductibility and the proportionate costs of external legal counsel,  which are also split between LANXESS and Bayer at a ratio of 30:70. Additional information on legal risks can be found in Note [14], Other  current and non-current provisions, to the Consolidated Financial  Statements. Risks from regulatory measures Possible tightening of safety, quality  and environmental regulations or standards can lead to additional  costs and liability risks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the  implementation of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration,  Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). In  addition to direct costs that could arise due to additional measures  necessary to comply with these standards, market structures could  change to our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and  customers to regions outside Europe.  115 Group Management Report Report on risks and opportunities Tax risks Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms  of their assessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other coun- tries. Even if we believe that all circumstances have been reported  correctly and in compliance with the law, the possibility cannot be  ruled out that the tax authorities may come to a different conclusion  in individual cases. Summary of LANXESSs overall risk exposure Our risk exposure de- creased in the reporting year due to the recovery of the economic en- vironment compared to the previous year. Nonetheless, all planning is  subject to a certain degree of forecasting risk, which could necessitate   exible adjustments to rapidly changing business conditions. This is  particularly true in view of the fact that planning and forecasts in gen- eral have become somewhat less reliable due to the drastic changes  observed recently in our global procurement and customer markets. Because of the management  exibility we have already demonstrated  in prior years and our improved  nancial structures, we are con dent  that we can successfully master the risks that are materializing.  Based on an overall evaluation of risk management information, the  Board of Management at the present time cannot identify any suf-  ciently likely risks or risk combinations that would jeopardize the  continued existence of LANXESS. Opportunity report Strategic opportunities LANXESSs strategic alignment proved to  be successful in  scal 2011. We systematically aligned our product  portfolio to those markets that promise continued growth in the future.  The BRICS countries – especially Brazil, China and India – will retain  a central role in this regard.  In the future too, we will be positioning ourselves as a  exible, market- facing premium supplier at the core of the chemical industry that is  applying its great innovative capability to generate measurable added  value for its customers.  Our medium-term corporate objective is to increase our key controlling  parameter, EBITDA pre exceptionals, to 1.4 billion in 2015. Based  on our earnings in 2011, the investment projects already under way  are expected to make a sustained contribution to increasing EBITDA  pre exceptionals to around 1.3 billion. We aim to pursue our goal  on the basis of organic growth and selective acquisitions, with the  focus on organic growth.  The composition of our product portfolio, our regional focus, acquisi- tions, targeted research and development, and a variety of strategic  initiatives will be instrumental in helping us achieve this objective.  Product portfolio aligned to four global megatrends  With its exten- sive product portfolio, LANXESS has a presence in all key customer  industries. Our broad diversi cation of this portfolio makes us inde- pendent of any one product or process. In that regard, no product  or process innovations are expected in 2012 that would individually  have a signi cant in uence on the LANXESS Groups performance.  In spite of this, there are product segments in our portfolio that we  are focusing on strengthening with optimized production processes  and methods, continual innovation, capacity expansion measures,  new production facilities or acquisitions. We are aligning these to  four of the most important global megatrends: Mobility: The increasing demand for vehicles, especially in the  emerging economies, and the need to improve the environmen- tal compatibility of mobility throughout the world are providing the  key impulses for growth in the tire and automotive sectors, both  of which are important user industries for LANXESS. At European  and international level, legislation is being implemented to improve  quality standards by requiring the classi cation of vehicle tires on  the basis of their rolling resistance, grip, noise emissions and mile- age. In  Europe, for example, the new law on tire labeling will enter  into force in November 2012. The desirable ratings can only be  achieved using high-performance rubbers. In automotive engineer- ing, it is above all the increasing efforts to achieve substantial weight  reductions using high-performance plastics that are providing us  with opportunities for growth.  Agriculture: The demand for agricultural products driven by the  growing world population and the associated urgent need to improve  ef ciency in agriculture are crucial issues for our customers in the  chemical and agrochemical industries in particular. Our products will  help increase future agricultural yields and protect crops.   116 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Urbanization: Urban expansion and the emergence of new megacities  can be observed especially in the fast-growing newly industrialized  nations such as Brazil, China and India. The need for new buildings  and an ef cient infrastructure is correspondingly large. Moreover,  demand for better consumer goods and a higher standard of living  is evolving with the growing middle class in these countries. This  trend is bene ting our customers in the construction and consumer  goods industries in particular. Water: Given the steady rise in water consumption because of on- going population growth, escalating environmental pollution and  industrial requirements, the demand for clean water will far exceed  the current supply in around 20 years. With our innovative solutions  for purifying and treating drinking water, wastewater and industrial  process water, we are therefore serving a high-growth niche market.  Again, the most important growth regions for water products are Asia- Paci c – especially India and China – and Latin America with Brazil.  Sustainable expansion in the BRICS countries In recent years, we  have substantially strengthened our business activities in Asia, Central  and Eastern Europe and Latin America and will continue to expand  our market position there. Our growing presence in these key eco- nomic regions will enable us to participate in their dynamic economic  development. Last year, we laid the foundation for further growth by  making new and selective investments in Brazil, India, China and  Singapore in particular.  An overview of our ongoing investment projects in the BRICS countries  is given in the Operational opportunities section of this report on  risks and opportunities. Strengthening the Group through acquisitions We are not planning  to make any fundamental changes to our corporate structure and  business policy in the coming years. However, strengthening our seg- ments through selective acquisitions will remain a  xed element of  our strategy.   Focused research and development activities We intend for own cus- tomer- and market-oriented innovations to continue playing a large role  in generating organic growth and cementing our competitive positions  as a premium supplier. Process and product innovations will remain  the focus of our research and development activities.  The importance of research and development is also re ected in the  fact that our R&D budget for  scal 2012 exceeds the 2011 budget  by nearly 40%. Roughly 20% of our research and development proj- ects started in 2011 are scheduled to reach the market or technical  implementation stages by the end of 2012.  Operational opportunities Unlocking and exploiting operational oppor- tunities is an important aspect of LANXESSs entrepreneurial activities.  We are making selective investments that enable us to exploit the op- portunity to systematically drive forward our future organic growth and  sustainably strengthen our position in the global growth markets. The  focus is on capital expenditure projects which generate organic growth.  In the paragraphs below the projects are described. By also investing  in external growth, LANXESS is advancing the future development  of its segments. Signi cant projects in this area are described below. Performance Polymers segment In recent years, LANXESS laid the  foundations for this segments future growth with selective investments  in existing, pro table businesses and we continued this policy in the  year under review. In the Butyl Rubber business unit, construction of our new butyl rubber  facility in Singapore, which was started in May 2010, is proceeding  according to schedule. With an annual capacity of up to 100,000 tons,  the new facility is expected to start production in the  rst quarter of  2013. This new capacity will enable us to meet the steady medium-  and long-term growth in demand for butyl rubber for tires, particularly  from the BRICS countries. Costing some 400 million, this is the  largest single investment project in the history of LANXESS.  In addition, we expanded the capacity of the Butyl Rubber business  unit in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, by approximately 14,000 tons per year.  We  nished this expansion in the fourth quarter of last year, ahead  of the originally scheduled completion date of mid-2012. The total  investment was 20 million. We expect these two investments in the Butyl Rubber business unit  to contribute around 330 million to annual sales.  In the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit, LANXESS is  planning to build a new production facility for high-performance neo- dymium polybutadiene rubber (Nd-PBR), also in Singapore. Investment  in the new plant on Jurong Island will total around 200 million. The  facility, which is due to come on stream in the  rst half of 2015, will be  the largest of its kind in the world, with an annual capacity of 140,000  tons. Construction is scheduled to begin in September 2012.  117 Group Management Report Report on risks and opportunities In the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit, we are also  adding about 35,000 tons to annual capacities for Nd-PBR at our sites  in Dormagen, Germany, and Cabo, Brazil. The additional expansion  of 15,000 tons per year in Orange, United States, was successfully  completed in 2011. The total investment in these projects is about  20 million. We expect to generate additional annual sales of around  70 million from these expanded capacities. Together with Taiwan-based TSRC Corporation, the Technical Rubber  Products business unit is building a new facility for technical rubber  (NBR) in Nantong, China. With an annual capacity of around 30,000  tons, this facility is due to come on stream in the  rst half of 2012. It  will serve the automotive industry in particular and enable us to ben- e t from the mobility megatrend in one of the most important growth  markets. The two companies are jointly investing a total of around  36 million (equivalent to around US$50 million) in the new facility. Additionally, our Technical Rubber Products business unit is boosting  production capacities for some of its special elastomers like EVM in  Dormagen, Germany, and adding 40% to capacities for hydrogenated  acrylonitrile butadiene rubber (HNBR) at the sites in Leverkusen,  Germany, and Orange, United States. A high-performance synthetic  rubber, HNBR is marketed under the brand name Therban. The  expansion projects in Germany and the United States have already  begun. The work in Leverkusen is expected to be  nished in April  2012, while the measures in Orange are scheduled for completion  in December 2012.  We were quick to respond to the increase in demand for products from  the Semi-Crystalline Products business unit – due mainly to the trend  toward lightweight construction in vehicle production – by investing in  the expansion of our capacities in the BRICS countries and building  up our presence in these important growth regions. After completing  the expansion at our production facility for high-tech plastics in Wuxi,  China, in 2011, which has raised production by around 20,000 tons  per year to a total of approximately 60,000 tons, we are building ad- ditional new plants for the production of high-tech plastics in Jhagadia,  India; Gastonia, United States; and Porto Feliz, Brazil. The new facilities  in the United States and India will be commissioned in 2012. The  start-up of production in Brazil is set for 2013. All the new facilities  will have an initial annual capacity of about 20,000 tons.   The Semi-Crystalline Products business unit successfully completed  the expansion of its production capacities for caprolactam and KA oil in  Antwerp, Belgium, in 2011. Caprolactam is an important precursor in  the manufacture of our high-tech plastics. This investment will secure  our backward integration, giving us a competitive edge in this market. Advanced Intermediates segment LANXESS is making investments  in the Advanced Intermediates segment to strengthen its ability to  bene t from the agriculture megatrend, but also to participate in other  megatrends.  The Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit commissioned  a new formalin production facility at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site at the  end of 2011, which means it is no longer dependent on buying in  this feedstock. This will also generate substantial cost advantages.  Formalin, which is used in the production of trimethylolpropane, can  be found in many products for the automotive, furniture and con- struction industries. The new plant has an annual capacity of about  150,000 tons. Another highlight for our Advanced Industrial Intermediates business  unit last year was the start of construction on an enlargement of our  menthol plant at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site. Given the signi cant  global demand for menthol, we plan to double this plants capacity.  The project is expected to be completed in the  rst half of 2012.   Performance Chemicals segment LANXESS is also making selective  investments in the Performance Chemicals segment, primarily with  the goal of participating in the growth generated by the water and  urbanization megatrends.  Last year, we completed important projects for the Ion Exchange  Resins business unit, whose ion exchange resins are used to purify  and treat water, and will press ahead with ongoing projects this year.  At our Bitterfeld site, for example, we inaugurated a new plant for  innovative water treatment technology. Membrane technology comple- ments the  ltration process using ion exchange resins. On the basis  of this technology, which is new for LANXESS, we will be accessing  an application with an estimated global market volume of around  1 billion. Following a successful pilot and development phase, mem- brane  ltration technology will be available to the market in the course  of this year. The total investment in the new plant comes to around  30 million.   118 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 In the Leather business unit we began construction of a new leather  chemicals facility in Changzhou, China. This plant will have an annual  capacity of up to 50,000 tons and is scheduled to start up in the  rst  half of 2013, producing LANXESSs premium leather chemicals for  the growing Chinese market. These chemicals are used for various  applications like leather tanning, dyeing and  nishing. The investment  volume for the new plant totals around 30 million. Expected results of operations LANXESS has de ned clear medium- term targets for future earnings performance. We aim to increase  the Groups key controlling parameter, EBITDA pre exceptionals, to  1.4 billion in  scal 2015.  Given the heightened macroeconomic uncertainty related to the Euro- pean  nancial crisis, our ability to make concrete earnings projections  for the current year is limited. However, we believe that our key earn- ings parameter, EBITDA pre exceptionals, will continue to increase in  the coming years and that achievement of our medium-term EBITDA  target of 1.4 billion is realistic. For the Performance Polymers segment, we expect the solid demand  for tires to continue in 2012. Europes new tire labeling law, which  enters into force in November 2012, will support this trend. Thanks to  the early completion of expansion projects at our butyl rubber facility  in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, we will have additional capacities from the  beginning of 2012 to meet this demand. We will support this seg- ments growth with the completion of other expansion projects as  described in this Group Management Report. In our Technical Rub- ber Products business unit, we will continue to bene t this year from  the successful integration of the Keltan EPDM business we acquired  in May 2011. Because of the ongoing trend to substantially reduce  vehicle weight, we see further growth opportunities for our high-tech  plastics. Looking at raw material cost trends, we expect moderate  increases in raw material prices in the  rst half of the year, which we  will offset by raising the prices of our products. In the Advanced Intermediates segment, we expect good demand  overall for our products for agrochemicals in 2012. As mentioned, we  will be realigning our portfolio for the pharmaceutical industry this year.  In the Performance Chemicals segment, we believe demand from  the construction industry will rebound on the whole, following the  weak trend that dominated the second half of last year. We anticipate  continued stable demand from the automotive industry for the Rub- ber Chemicals and Rhein Chemie business units. In this respect, the  Rhein Chemie business unit will also bene t from the acquisition of  the Darmex group. In the Ion Exchange Resins business unit, the focus  of our activities for the water megatrend, we stand to bene t this year  from the strong demand for ion exchangers and the market launch  of our membrane technology.  Expected cost development Despite the increasingly dif cult economic  conditions we may face, LANXESS expects its business to continue to  develop favorably in 2012 and is not planning any further extensive  cost-cutting programs for 2012 or 2013 at this time. In the course  of the last few years, against the backdrop of the global economic  and  nancial crisis, we have further  exibilized our cost base and, if  necessary, are able to adapt our costs to the economic environment  at an early stage.  We believe that our cost base will be higher in 2012 than in 2011,  mainly as a result of the pending collective bargaining agreement and  the associated increase in salaries.  On the whole, we expect volatility in raw material prices in 2012. As  in previous years, we will seek to pass on rising costs to the market  by raising our product prices. Since some raw material prices are  extremely volatile, we are very limited in our ability to make a medium- term forecast for our raw material costs. However, we are generally  assuming that the trend toward higher procurement costs, particularly  for petrochemical raw materials, could continue beyond 2012. We also  anticipate sustained increases in energy prices in the coming years. We project depreciation and amortization of between 330 and  350 million in  scal 2012.  Possible exchange rate  uctuations may also impact earnings. We  have already entered into hedging transactions to ward off the effects  of such developments in the current year as well as 2013. We estimate that the effective tax rate for the LANXESS Group in  2012 will be around 22.0%, which would be a slight reduction on  last years rate of 22.6%.   119 Group Management Report Report on risks and opportunities Expected  nancial condition Liquidity situation  LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking  and conservative  nancial policy in the future. With more than 2.3 bil- lion in cash and undrawn credit lines, as described in the section on  our  nancial condition, we have a very good liquidity and  nancing  position which will enable us to continue funding our growth strategy. Capital expenditures We will continue to pursue our selective invest- ment and growth strategy in  scal 2012. Around 70% of cash out ows  for capital expenditures will relate to the expansion of existing plants or  the construction of new production facilities. The remaining 30% will  be used for the maintenance of existing LANXESS production facilities.  We are currently projecting cash out ows for capital expenditures  of about 600 million for 2012. Some 100 million of this amount  will be attributable to the investment in our new butyl rubber plant in  Singapore. In the second half of 2012, we will be starting construction  of the new facility for high-performance Nd-PBR, also in Singapore. The  investment volume in 2012 for this project will be about 35 million.  Financing measures The  nancing for the planned capital expenditures  and the expected dividend payment is ensured by future cash  ows,  available liquidity and existing lines of credit. LANXESS is in a strong  position due to the consistent realignment implemented in recent  years, the investment in new and more ef cient production processes  and the long-term nature of its  nancing. On account of the extensive  measures we have adopted to date to improve our  nancial position,  there is no signi cant need for re nancing this year. This also applies  to the Euro Benchmark Bond that we issued in 2005 and will redeem  later this year for 402 million. In addition, LANXESS will continue its  efforts to secure long-term funding as part of a conservative  nancing  policy by further diversifying its  nancing sources and implementing  forward-looking  nancing measures. Dividend policy  LANXESS will continue to follow a consistent dividend  policy in principle. As in the past, future dividend proposals will take  into account the business performance of the relevant  scal year, the  Groups  nancing goals and development trends in the new  scal year.  Summary of Groups projected performance In recent years, the  LANXESS Group has successfully positioned itself and its product  portfolio in key customer industries and established itself in the worlds  growth regions. It will strengthen this position further in the coming  years. We have set a clear medium-term earnings target for future perfor- mance. We aim to raise the Groups key controlling parameter, EBITDA  pre exceptionals, to 1.4 billion in  scal 2015. In order to achieve this  objective, we have de ned clear growth opportunities arising from the  four megatrends of mobility, urbanization, water supply and agriculture,  and adapted our strategic alignment accordingly.  The investments in future organic growth that we have already suc- cessfully completed and those we have initiated will contribute sub- stantially to the earnings target we have de ned. Moreover, we will  generate additional growth from recent acquisitions, our successful  price-before-volume strategy, the focus on premium products, and  product and process innovations. There are certain factors that can in uence LANXESSs future busi- ness performance. The principal company-speci c factors include the  development of raw material and energy costs. We expect these costs  to be largely volatile in 2012 and are preparing for the possibility that  this trend may continue thereafter. As in previous years, we will seek  to pass on rising costs to the market by raising our product prices.  We expect the U.S. dollar, the key currency for LANXESSs business,  to weaken slightly from the exchange rate of US$1.29 to the euro on  December 31, 2011.  Overall, LANXESS has started 2012 optimistically. We envisage a  solid business performance in our three segments this year, despite  growing economic uncertainty and more cautious customer behavior.  Our key customer industries will also continue to develop positively,  though with regional variations. We are extremely well-positioned in  all our segments worldwide to bene t from this growth again this year.  Against this backdrop, we are con dent overall for 2012 and the  following year. We therefore remain well on our way to achieving our  medium-term target EBITDA pre exceptionals of 1.4 billion in  scal  2015.  120 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 In this section, the Board of Management reports – also on behalf of the  Supervisory Board – on corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to  Section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code. This section  also contains the corporate governance statement pursuant to Section  289a of the German Commercial Code and the compensation report.  Corporate governance statement  Declaration by the Board of Management and the  Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG pursuant to Section  161 of the German Stock Corporation Act regarding  the German Corporate Governance Code The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG are  committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate  governance and control. They place high value on the standards of  good corporate governance. The Board of Management and Super- visory Board have issued the following joint declaration pursuant to  Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act: Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance in March  2011, LANXESS AG has complied with, and will continue to comply  with, the recommendations of the Government Commission on the  German Corporate Governance Code as amended on May 26, 2010,  which was published on July 2, 2010 by the Federal Ministry of Justice  in the of cial portion of the electronic version of the Federal Gazette,  with the following exceptions:   1.  Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 4, Sentence 1     In concluding Management Board contracts, care shall be taken  to ensure that payments made to a Management Board member  on premature termination of his contract without serious cause,  including fringe bene ts, do not exceed the value of two years  compensation (severance pay cap) and compensate no more than  the remaining term of the contract.    The employment contracts for Board of Management members  limit payments to a Board of Management member on prema- ture termination of his contract without serious cause, including  fringe bene ts, to two years compensation, except in the event of  a change of control. However, they do not contain the additional  limitation that no more than the remaining term of the contract  shall be compensated. The Supervisory Board does not consider  it appropriate to base the absolute amount of any severance pay- ment on the date of termination.  2.  Section 5.4.5, Sentence 2     Members of the Management Board of a listed company shall not  accept more than a total of three Supervisory Board mandates in  non-group listed companies or in the supervisory bodies of com- panies with comparable requirements.    Supervisory Board member Robert J. Koehler, Chairman of the  Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE, is a member of the su- pervisory boards of three listed companies outside the SGL Group  and holds one supervisory board mandate in a non-listed company  with comparable requirements. However, we do not believe that this  detracts from Mr. Koehlers ability to diligently perform his duties  as a member of the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board.  In addition to its recommendations, the Code also contains a number  of suggestions for ef cient, responsible corporate governance, compli- ance with which is not required to be disclosed under the statutory  provisions. LANXESS currently complies with these suggestions as  well, with only a few exceptions.   In accordance with Section 3.10 Sentence 3 of the German Corporate  Governance Code, the Board of Management and the Supervisory  Board therefore voluntarily issue the following declaration: Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance in March  2011, LANXESS AG has complied with, and will continue to comply  with, the suggestions of the Government Commission on the German  Corporate Governance Code as amended on May 26, 2010, which  was published on July 2, 2010 by the Federal Ministry of Justice in  the of cial portion of the electronic version of the Federal Gazette,  with the following exceptions: 1.  Section 2.3.3, Sentence 3, 2nd Half-Sentence     The Management Board shall arrange for the appointment of a  representative to exercise shareholders voting rights in accordance  with instructions; this representative should also be reachable dur- ing the General Meeting.      The representatives appointed by LANXESS AG to exercise  stockholders voting rights in accordance with instructions can  be reached at the Stockholders Meeting until the voting is held.  Stockholders not attending the meeting can reach the representa- tives up to the previous evening. 2.  Section 2.3.4     The company should make it possible for stockholders to follow  the General Meeting using modern communication media (e.g.  Internet). Corporate Governance  121 Corporate Governance    The speech by the Chairman of the Board of Management to the  Stockholders Meeting is broadcast on the Internet. Continued  broadcasting of the proceedings thereafter, particularly of contri- butions made by stockholders, could be seen as a violation of the  stockholders rights to privacy. For this reason, LANXESS does not  plan to broadcast the further proceedings. Shareholders can download the declaration of compliance from the  companys website at any time.  Management practices above and beyond  the legal requirements LANXESS views compliance with laws and ethical principles as the  basis of sustainable corporate governance. Our employees integrity  and awareness of their responsibilities are key factors in the success  of our company. Compliance with laws, social responsibility, sustain- able environmental protection, and occupational, plant and product  safety are an essential part of our corporate culture. The Code for  Legal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS, which  is applicable throughout the Group, speci es minimum standards  and gives employees advice and guidance on complying with these  standards. This code can be viewed on our website at http://www. lanxess.com under the menu item About LANXESS/Values & Visions.  An effective compliance management system has been established  to implement the compliance code. Components of this system are a  compliance organization that is integrated into the overall LANXESS  Group organization, risk identi cation and assessment, a compliance  program (comprising directives, hotlines, training, knowledge shar- ing, compliance reporting and guidance on responding to observed  breaches of compliance), and measures for monitoring the overall  compliance situation within the LANXESS Group. The objective is  to prevent breaches of compliance and to create and foster a culture  of compliance. LANXESS does not tolerate breaches of compliance  and enforces observance of the provisions of its compliance code. As an international specialty chemicals enterprise, LANXESS bears  a large degree of responsibility toward people and the environment.  Our entrepreneurial activities re ect this sense of responsibility. Safety,  environmental protection, social responsibility, quality and economic  ef ciency are all key corporate goals at LANXESS. The companys  objective is sustainable, forward-looking development which meets  the demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure.  The concept of Responsible Care is  rmly anchored in the LANXESS  organization, requiring all employees to act responsibly when dealing  with people, the environment and capital. An overview of the imple- mentation of corporate responsibility at LANXESS can be downloaded  from the Sustainability pages of our website (http://www.lanxess.com).  Additionally, LANXESS joined the United Nations Global Compact  initiative in July 2011 and has supported and consistently applied  the Responsible Care Global Charter adopted by the International  Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) since 2006. Additional  information can be found on our website (http://www.lanxess.com)  under Sustainability/Responsibility. Work of the Board of Management  and Supervisory Board   LANXESS AG is a company established under the laws of Germany.  One of the fundamental principles of German stock corporation law  is the dual management system with the governing bodies of man- agement board and supervisory board. This system is characterized  by a clear separation between the management board as the body  that manages a company and the supervisory board as the body that  advises and oversees management. Concurrent membership on both  boards is strictly prohibited. The management board and the super- visory board work closely together in a relationship of mutual trust for  the bene t of the company. The management board is appointed to manage and represent the  company. It is responsible for conducting business in the companys  interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The principal  tasks of the management board include de ning the companys goals  and strategic alignment, managing and overseeing the operating  units, human resources policy, arranging the companys  nancing,  and establishing an effective risk management system. The Board of  Management of LANXESS AG currently comprises four members,  with the Chairman coordinating the work of the Board of Manage- ment. As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted with  a simple majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting  vote. Resolutions of the Board of Management are generally passed  at regularly held meetings. The rules of procedure for the Board of Management that are enacted  by the Supervisory Board contain further regulations concerning the  form of cooperation within the Board of Management, the allocation  of duties and the matters requiring resolution by the full Board of Man- agement. In deciding the composition of the Board of Management,  the Supervisory Board gives consideration to professional suitability,  leadership qualities and diversity. The Supervisory Boards role is to advise the Board of Management  in its management of the company and to monitor its conduct of the  business. Its responsibilities also include appointing the members of  the Board of Management as well as reviewing the annual  nancial  statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated  nancial statements  of the LANXESS Group. The Supervisory Board reaches its decisions  with a majority of the votes cast unless a different majority is stipulated  by law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has  1210  122 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 two votes in a second ballot on the resolution, even if this also results  in a tie. The German Codetermination Act contains special require- ments concerning resolutions. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board  coordinates the work in the Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings  and represents the concerns of the body externally. Supervisory Board  resolutions are usually adopted at regularly held meetings. The Board of Management reports to the Supervisory Board on a  timely and comprehensive basis about the progress of business and  the situation of the Group, including potential risks and relevant issues  relating to corporate planning. The Supervisory Board has laid down  the Board of Managements noti cation and reporting requirements  in detail in its rules of procedure for the Board of Management. The  Chairman of the Board of Management regularly exchanges information  with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Certain transactions and  measures of major or long-term importance require the Supervisory  Boards approval. Measures requiring approval include, but are not  limited to: adoption of the corporate planning; the acquisition, sale  or encumbrance of real property, shareholdings or other assets; bor- rowings and certain other types of  nancial transactions. Thresholds  have been set for some of these transactions. Composition of the Supervisory Board The companys Supervisory Board is composed of equal numbers  of stockholder representatives and employee representatives in ac- cordance with the provisions of the German Codetermination Act of  1976. The stockholder representatives are elected by the Annual  Stockholders Meeting, whereas the employee representatives are  elected in accordance with the provisions of the Codetermination Act  and its electoral regulations. Supervisory Board members normally  serve for a  ve-year term.  The composition of the Supervisory Board changed during  scal 2011.  Employee representative Wolfgang Blossey stepped down from the  Supervisory Board effective May 31, 2011 for professional reasons.  The Local Court of Cologne appointed Thomas Meiers, District Sec- retary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union,  Cologne, to serve as an employee representative on the Supervisory  Board of LANXESS AG with effect from June 1, 2011. Gisela Seidel,  Axel  Berndt, Dr. Rudolf Fauss, Ulrich Freese, Thomas Meiers and Hans- Jrgen Schicker serve as the employee representatives on the Super- visory Board. The Annual Stockholders Meeting of LANXESS AG held  on May 28, 2010, elected Dr. Friedrich Janssen, Robert J. Koehler,  Rainer Laufs, Dr. Ulrich Middelmann, Dr. Rolf Stomberg and Theo  H. Walthie as the stockholder representatives to the companys Su- pervisory Board. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Dr. Rolf  Stomberg. The Vice Chairman is Ulrich Freese. Goals for the composition of the Supervisory Board Section 5.4.1 Sentence 5 of the German Corporate Governance Code  states that the concrete objectives of the Supervisory Board regarding  its composition and the status of the implementation of these objectives  are to be published in the Corporate Governance Report  The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG possess the  necessary expertise, skills and professional experience to perform  their duties. The members of the Supervisory Board autonomously  undertake the necessary training required for their tasks and are sup- ported in their efforts by the company. In making nominations, the  Supervisory Board applies only legally permissible and fair selection  criteria, acts in the companys best interests, and gives consideration to  the nominated candidates integrity, commitment and independence. All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent. There  are no material con icts of interest, and no former member of the Board  of Management of LANXESS AG is a member of the Supervisory Board.  An age threshold for members of the Supervisory Board was speci ed  in the rules of procedure of the Supervisory Board when the company  was established. The rules of procedure have been amended and  now state that members of the Supervisory Board should not serve  past the end of the  rst Annual Stockholders Meeting following their  seventy- fth birthday. In general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the principles  of diversity in its composition. On the basis of their various personal  and professional backgrounds, the members of the Supervisory Board  contribute a broad spectrum of experience and skills. The global reach  of LANXESS AG has been re ected in the composition of the Super- visory Board thus far and will remain a factor in selecting candidates  to be proposed to the Annual Stockholders Meeting for election to  the Supervisory Board. In many cases, the experience and skills of the  members of the Supervisory Board have been acquired while working  abroad for a long period or in an international  eld. One member of  the Supervisory Board is not a German citizen. Other members of the  Supervisory Board have professional knowledge of the chemical indus- try and other sectors that are important for the companys business. With the election of stockholder and employee representatives in   scal 2010, the composition of the Supervisory Board is essentially   xed for the current term ending in 2015. One of the twelve members  currently serving on the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board is a woman.  With a view to ensuring appropriate representation of women, the  number of women on the Supervisory Board is to be increased. The  Supervisory Board aims to have at least three women members of  the Supervisory Board from the start of the next term. Stockholder  and employee representatives to the Supervisory Board view it as  their joint responsibility to ensure the appropriate representation of  women. They aim to work together in ful lling this responsibility. Future   123 Corporate Governance nominations to the relevant bodies of candidates for membership of  the Supervisory Board should support the attainment of this goal.  In setting this goal, the Supervisory Board is assuming that it will be  able to identify women candidates with the requisite professional and  personal quali cations for election. Composition and work of the Supervisory Board  committees The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit Commit- tee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German Code- termination Act and a Nominations Committee formed from among  its members.  The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares the meet- ings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. It makes decisions  on transactions requiring approval that are already included in the  companys annual planning. The Presidial Committee may also re- solve on the exercise of participation rights pursuant to Section 32  of the German Codetermination Act and on transactions requiring  approval that cannot be deferred. It consults regularly about long-term  succession planning for the Board of Management. Furthermore, the  Committee also prepares the personnel decisions to be made by the  Supervisory Board and resolutions of the full Supervisory Board regard- ing the compensation of the members of the Board of Management. In  place of the full Supervisory Board, the Presidial Committee resolves  on the conclusion and amendment of employment contracts with  the members of the Board of Management and all other contractual  matters not pertaining to compensation. The members of the Presidial  Committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Ms. Seidel,  Mr. Schicker, Mr. Koehler and Dr. Middelmann. The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in overseeing the  conduct of the business and deals with matters relating to the super- vision of accounting, the effectiveness of the internal control system,  the risk management system and the internal auditing system as well  as auditing, including the independence of the auditor and the work ad- ditionally performed by the auditor. It prepares the Supervisory Boards  resolutions concerning the annual  nancial statements of LANXESS  AG and the consolidated  nancial statements of the LANXESS Group  and recommends an auditor whom the Supervisory Board then pro- poses to the Annual Stockholders Meeting for appointment. The  Chairman of the Audit Committee is an independent  nancial expert  and has specialist knowledge and experience in the  eld of account- ing acquired through his professional activities. The members of the  Audit Committee are Dr. Janssen (Chairman), Mr. Berndt, Dr. Fauss,  Mr. Meiers, Mr. Laufs and Mr. Walthie. The Committee pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German Codeter- mination Act performs the tasks described in Section 31 (3) of the  German Codetermination Act. The members of this committee are  Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Mr. Schicker and Dr. Middelmann. The Nominations Committee solely comprises stockholder repre- sentatives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory Board to  nominate for election as new members of the Supervisory Board by  the Annual Stockholders Meeting. The members of this committee  are Dr.  Stomberg (Chairman), Dr. Janssen and Dr. Middelmann. The respective committee chairmen report regularly to the Supervisory  Board on the work of the committees. Stockholders and stockholders meetings The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the Annual  Stockholders Meeting, where they can vote on the resolutions submit- ted. The Annual Stockholders Meeting resolves on all matters reserved  for its decision by law, with binding effect on the stockholders and the  company. Each share confers one vote. The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders Meeting include  appropriation of the balance sheet pro t, rati cation of the actions taken  by the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory  Board, appointment of the auditors and election of the stockholder  representatives to the Supervisory Board. The Annual Stockholders  Meeting also resolves on amendments to the articles of association,  measures affecting the companys capital and the approval of inter- company agreements. Each year there is an Annual Stockholders  Meeting at which the Board of Management and Supervisory Board  give an account of the last  scal year. The German Stock Corporation  Act requires the convening of an Extraordinary Stockholders Meeting  in certain situations. All stockholders who register in time and prove their eligibility to attend  the Annual Stockholders Meeting and exercise their voting rights shall  be allowed to participate in the Annual Stockholders Meeting. Stock- holders may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Stockholders  Meeting in person, through a proxy of their own choosing or through  a company-nominated proxy who acts according to their instructions. Compensation report The compensation report describes the structure of the compensa- tion system and the level of compensation for the members of the  Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. It complies with  legal requirements and with the recommendations of the German  Corporate Governance Code. It is a part of the Group Management  Report of LANXESS AG. 1230  124 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Compensation of the Board of Management The structure of the compensation system and the level of compensa- tion for the members of the Board of Management are determined by  the Supervisory Board. The appropriateness of the compensation is  regularly reviewed. The criteria for determining the appropriateness  of the compensation for an individual Board of Management member  include, in particular, his duties, his personal performance, and the  economic situation and sustainable growth of the LANXESS Group.  Consideration is also given to the companys overall compensation  structure and to compensation at comparable companies. The com- pensation structure is also designed to be competitive in the interna- tional market for highly quali ed executives and provide the motivation  to successfully work toward sustainable corporate development. Back in 2010, a new contractual basis was established for the work of  the Board of Management that takes into account and implements the  provisions of the German Law on the Appropriateness of Management  Board Compensation and the German Corporate Governance Code.  The 2010 Annual Stockholders Meeting of LANXESS AG resolved to  approve the compensation system that was introduced with these new  contracts. This compensation system was also applied in concluding  the service contract with Dr. Bernhard Dttmann, who was appointed  to the Board of Management effective April 1, 2011.  In 2011, in addition to the annual base salary, the compensation  of the members of the Board of Management included three vari- able components aligned with LANXESSs annual performance and,  particularly, with its corporate success over a number of years. A cap  has been de ned for each of the variable compensation components.  The compensation mix of 31% annual base salary and 69% variable  compensation components is strongly aligned with the companys  performance and long-term value creation. Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management % Annual base salary  31 Annual Performance Payment 36 Long-Term Incentive Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 19 Long-Term Performance Bonus 14 100 The individual compensation components are as follows: The  xed compensation comprises the annual base salary and remu- neration in kind, the latter consisting mainly of the tax value of perqui- sites such as the use of a company car. The annual base salary of the  members of the Board of Management is market-oriented and in line  with that paid at other comparable companies. The aggregate amount  of the  xed compensation came to 2,747 thousand in  scal 2011.  The annual performance-based component, known as the Annual  Performance Payment (APP), is based on corporate business targets  and other conditions, such as the attainment of certain Group EBITDA  targets, which are de ned by the Supervisory Board before the begin- ning of the respective  scal year. The APP is equivalent to 115% of  the annual base salary in the case of 100% target attainment, with  the maximum payment limited to 150% of this variable compensation  component. Compensation from the performance-based APP in 2011  totaled 3,951 thousand. Actual payments in 2012 may differ from  this amount, which was calculated in advance.  The following table shows details of the annual compensation paid  to individual members of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG: Annual Compensation of the Board of Management  000 Fixed  compensation Variable   compensation1) Total Dr. Axel C. Heitmann 943 1,423 2,366 Dr. Werner Breuers 547 862 1,409 Dr. Bernhard Dttmann  (effective April 1, 2011) 5692) 646 1,215 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 538 862 1,400 Matthias Zachert  (until March 31, 2011) 150 158 308 2,747 3,951 6,698 1) Payment in 2012; in the case of Mr. Zachert, settlement at the end of his service in 2011 2) Including one-time payments In March 2011, on account of the companys exceptional performance  in  scal 2010, the Supervisory Board approved the payment of a spe- cial bonus to Dr. Heitmann, Dr. Breuers and Dr. van Roessel equal to  20% of APP target income. This bonus amounted to 190 thousand  for Dr. Heitmann and 109 thousand each for Dr. Breuers and Dr. van  Roessel. Mr. Zachert received a total of 1,320 thousand in connec- tion with the end of his service on the Board of Management, part of  which was in settlement of his entitlement to variable compensation  components. One element of long-term compensation is the Long-Term Incentive  Plan (LTIP), which was succeeded in 2010 by the Long-Term Stock  Performance Plan (LTSP). This compensation component is based  on the performance of LANXESS stock. The LTIP and LTSP respond  to the call by legislators for a stronger focus on long-term company  performance. The LTIP is divided into three three-year tranches. For  the  rst program, which was for the period from 2005 to 2007 and  ended in 2011, it comprised the Stock Performance Plan (SP) and  the Economic Value Plan (EVP), while for the period from 2008 to  2010 it consisted only of the SP. This is linked to the performance  of LANXESS stock against a reference index, the Dow Jones STOXX  600 ChemicalsSM.   125 Corporate Governance The following table provides additional information about the long- term compensation paid: Long-Term Compensation of the Board of Management SP rights granted in 2011  ( exercisable from 2015) LTPB 1) Number  of rights Fair values   000  000 Dr. Axel C. Heitmann 532,125 266 556 Dr. Werner Breuers 306,375 153 336 Dr. Bernhard Dttmann  (effective April 1, 2011) 322,500 161 126 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 306,375 153 336 Matthias Zachert  (until March 31, 2011) 354,750 177 0 1,822,125 910 1,354 1) Payment in 2012 and 2013, respectively On termination of their service contracts, the members of the Board  of Management receive bene ts under the company pension plan.  These bene ts are paid when the bene ciary reaches age 60 or if the  bene ciary is permanently unable to work. They are paid to surviving  dependents in the event of the bene ciarys death.  The pension plan for the members of the Board of Management is a  de ned contribution plan stipulating a basic contribution of 25% of  annual base salary. Moreover, the members of the Board of Manage- ment must themselves pay an amount from deferred compensation  amounting to 12.5% of the APP. Effective January 1, 2011, the mem- bers of the Board of Management may increase the amount they pay  themselves from deferred compensation to up to 25% of the APP. The  company makes a contribution equal to 25% of the APP. From the date  of entitlement, up to 30% of the accumulated capital – including the  interest thereon – may be converted to a pension bene t. There are  claims arising from provisions in place before 2006 that are granted  as vested rights. If the service contract ends before the bene ciary  reaches the age of 60, the company pays certain additional bene ts  up to a de ned ceiling. LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims of Board of  Management members. The total service cost recognized in the 2011  annual  nancial statements for this purpose was 918 thousand. The  present value of the obligations for the members of the Board of Man- agement serving as of December 31, 2011 was 13,166 thousand.  The past service cost resulting from the plan changes that became  effective on January 1, 2011 totaled 860 thousand.  The service cost for pension entitlements earned in 2011 and the  present value of the obligations, including vested rights, as of De- cember 31, 2011 amounted, respectively, to 184 thousand and  8,148 thousand for Dr. Heitmann, 156 thousand and 1,314 thou- Participation in the LTIP required a prior personal investment each  year in LANXESS shares to a value of 13% of the annual base salary.  Under each plan, these shares were subject to a  ve-year lock-up  period. First payments under the LTIP were made after three years,  provided de ned conditions had been satis ed. In the event of 100%  target attainment by the SP and EVP for 2005 to 2007, the payment  per tranche was 43.3% of the individual target income, which is the  annual base salary plus the APP assuming 100% target attainment.  For 2008 to 2010, 100% target attainment by the SP brings a pay- ment per tranche of 50% of the individual target income. Because the LTIP expired in 2010, the Supervisory Board approved  a new plan for the years 2010 through 2013. The LTSP is divided  into four four-year tranches and is also based on the performance of  LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM  reference index. Compared to the previous LTIP, the possible payment  per tranche under the new plan has been reduced from 50% to 30%  of the individual target income, assuming 100% target attainment. The  condition for participation in the LTSP is a prior personal investment  each year in LANXESS shares to a value of 5% of the annual base  salary. The shares are subject to an average  ve-year lock-up period. For more information, particularly regarding the valuation parameters  applied, please see Note [14] to the Financial Statements. The personnel expenses incurred in  scal 2011 for the SP entitlements  granted amount to 816 thousand for Dr. Heitmann, 559 thou- sand each for Dr. Breuers and Dr. van Roessel, and 20 thousand  for Dr.  Dttmann. These personnel expenses are theoretical amounts  and are not to be equated with the actual gains realized when the  entitlements are exercised in the future. The entitlements granted to  Mr. Zachert lapsed when he stepped down from the Board of Manage- ment. This resulted in income of 1,020 thousand. Also in the interests of long-term corporate performance, a Long-Term  Performance Bonus (LTPB) is a further variable compensation compo- nent which rewards target attainment only after two successive  scal  years. It was  rst pledged to the members of the Board of Manage- ment in 2010. The basis for calculating the LTPB is the individual APP  target attainment for the  scal years in question. The exact amount of  the LTPB results from the average individual APP target attainment for  the two  scal years. Assuming an average APP target attainment of  100%, the LTPB amounts to 45% of the annual base salary. The  rst  payments could be made in spring 2012 on the basis of  scal 2010  and 2011. Actual payments in 2012 may differ from this amount,  which was calculated in advance. 1250  126 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 sand for Dr. Breuers, 68 thousand and 3,232 thousand for Dr. van  Roessel, 413 thousand and 472 thousand for Dr. Dttmann, and  97 thousand and 2,040 thousand for Mr. Zachert. The past service  cost resulting from plan changes was 767 thousand for Dr. Heitmann,  520 thousand for Dr. van Roessel and minus 427 thousand for  Mr. Zachert. Obligations to former members of the Board of Management, including  Mr. Zachert, who stepped down during the year under review, totaled  9,478 thousand as of December 31, 2011. Payments of 1,799 thousand were made to former members of  the Board of Management. These include the payments made to  Mr. Zachert in connection with the end of his service in 2011. In  scal 2011, the members of the Board of Management received  indemni cation should their service contracts be terminated for de-  ned reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event of a  material change of control over the company. The terms depended on  the respective circumstances and, regardless of the remaining term  of the service contract, included severance payments amounting to  up to two times the annual base salary or, in the event of a change of  control, three times the annual base salary, plus the APP and LTPB  assuming 100% target achievement. No additional bene ts have been pledged to any member of the Board  of Management in the event of termination of their service. In 2011, no  member of the Board of Management received bene ts or assurances  of bene ts from third parties in respect of their duties as members of  the Board of Management.  No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management in   scal 2011. Compensation of the Supervisory Board The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by Sec- tion 12 of the companys articles of association. From  scal 2011,  it was changed in respect of the  xed remuneration and attendance  allowance following a resolution of the Annual Stockholders Meeting  held on May 18, 2011. The members of the Supervisory Board of   LANXESS AG now receive  xed compensation of 80 thousand per  year. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives three times, and  the Vice Chairman one and a half times, this amount. Serving as the  chair or a member of Supervisory Board committees is compensated  separately in accordance with the German Corporate Governance  Code. Supervisory Board members who belong to a committee receive  one half of the  xed compensation amount in addition. The chair of the  Audit Committee receives a further half. Supervisory Board members  who chair a committee other than the Audit Committee receive a  further quarter. However, no member may receive in total more than  three times the  xed compensation amount.  Supervisory Board members are reimbursed for their expenses in  addition and also receive an attendance allowance of 1.5 thousand  for each Supervisory Board meeting and each committee meeting  they attend, with the exception of meetings of the Committee formed  pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German Codetermination Act and  meetings of the Nominations Committee. With respect to their mem- bership on the supervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, the  members of the Supervisory Board were remunerated only for their  service on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH  in the amount of 5 thousand each. The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term incentive  based on the companys performance during the standard term of an  individuals membership on the Supervisory Board ( ve years). Unlike  the  xed compensation component, this variable compensation com- ponent is not paid every year, but only once at the end of the standard  term of of ce. If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term,  the amount is prorated.  Payment of the variable compensation depends on how LANXESSs  stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM in- dex during a members  ve-year term. The average price of LANXESS  stock and the average level of the index during the 90 trading days  prior to the Annual Stockholders Meeting at which the Supervisory  Board members were elected are each compared to the respective  average for the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders  Meeting at the conclusion of which the members terms end. The  variable compensation is only payable if the stock has outperformed  the benchmark index. The exact amount of the variable compensa- tion depends on the extent to which the stock price outperformed  the benchmark index in the preceding  ve years. If LANXESS stock  has outperformed the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up  to 10 percentage points, the variable compensation amounts to  50 thousand for this  ve-year period; if it has outperformed the  index by  between 10 and 20 percentage points, 100 thousand is  paid, and if the degree of outperformance is greater than this, the  compensation is 150 thousand.  No variable compensation was paid in  scal 2011.  The expected compensation payable for the term of of ce that began  with the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders Meeting on May 28,  2010 and runs until the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders Meet- ing that resolves to ratify the Supervisory Board members actions for   scal 2014 was valued at a total of 1,500 thousand (previous year:  1,500 thousand) at December 31, 2011 and reported as a provision.  127 Corporate Governance None of the members of the Supervisory Board received bene ts for  services provided individually during the reporting period. No loans or  advances were granted to members of the Supervisory Board during  the reporting year. The following table breaks down the compensation received by each  member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the Supervisory  Board in  scal 2011: Compensation of the Supervisory Board in the 2011 Fiscal Year1)  Fixed   compensation  LANXESS AG Compensation   as committee   member  LANXESS AG Attendance  allowance Fixed   compensation  LANXESS  Deutschland GmbH Total Dr. Rolf Stomberg, Chairman 240,000 0 21,000 5,000 266,000 Ulrich Freese, Vice Chairman 120,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 186,000 Axel Berndt  80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Wolfgang Blossey  (until May 31, 2011) 33,333 16,667 7,500 2,083 59,583 Dr. Rudolf Fauss 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Dr. Friedrich Janssen 80,000 80,000 18,000 5,000 183,000 Robert J. Koehler 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Rainer Laufs 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Thomas Meiers  (effective June 1, 2011) 46,667 23,333 7,500 2,917 80,417 Dr. Ulrich Middelmann 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Hans-Jrgen Schicker 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Gisela Seidel 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Theo H. Walthie  80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 1,160,000  480,000  231,000  60,000  1,931,000  1) Figures exclude value-added tax Directors dealings Pursuant to Section 15a (1) of the German Securities Trading Act  (WpHG), the trading of securities by certain parties, including mem- bers of a management board or supervisory board, must be reported  if the total sum of the transactions undertaken in any given calendar  year equals or exceeds 5,000. Individuals who are closely related  to these parties (e.g. spouses, registered partners and  rst-degree  relatives) are also subject to this reporting requirement. LANXESS AG  publishes reportable securities transactions.  The table below shows the total number of LANXESS shares held by  members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of  February 29, 2012: Function Name Total number Chairman of the Board of Management Dr. Axel C. Heitmann 23,220 Board of Management member Dr. Werner Breuers 10,880 Board of Management member Dr. Bernhard Dttmann 1,150 Board of Management member Dr. Rainier van Roessel 16,500 Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr. Rolf Stomberg 800 Supervisory Board member Dr. Rudolf Fauss 335 Supervisory Board member Theo H. Walthie 2,000 The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by members of the  Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of February 29, 2012  was less than 1% of all shares issued by the company. 1270  130 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Report of the  Supervisory Board Dear Stockholders, 2011 marked another very successful year for LANXESS. The company  achieved new sales and earnings records. Once more, the course set  in prior years proved to be the right one. The company successfully   implemented its strategy of focusing on sustainable growth and con- sistently targeting global growth markets. The Supervisory Board would  like to thank the Board of Management and all Group employees for  their dedication and excellent work. In 2011, as in previous years, the Supervisory Board duly and fully  performed the tasks and duties incumbent upon it under the law  and the articles of association. It advised the Board of Management  regularly on the management of the company and monitored its work.  The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions of funda- mental importance for the company. The Board of Management in- formed us regularly and without delay in detailed written and oral reports  about business performance, the situation of the Group, including the  risk situation, strategic development and current issues. On the basis of  these reports, we discussed signi cant business transactions in detail.  We thoroughly examined the reports and the resolutions proposed by  the Board of Management and discussed them at length in meetings  of the full Supervisory Board and its committees. If the law, articles  of association or other provisions required the Supervisory Board to  approve the actions of the Board of Management, we discussed these  actions and adopted resolutions on them.  The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Chairman of the Board  of Management and the other members of the Board of Management  were in regular contact outside of the Supervisory Boards meetings.  We regularly discussed the present state and future development of  the company as well as material events.  131 Report of the Supervisory Board Focus of deliberations by the Supervisory Board  The Supervisory Board met a total of eight times in  scal 2011.  We regularly discussed the sales and earnings performance of the com- pany and its segments, as well as the  nancial condition. Additionally,  the Board of Management kept us updated about the overall state of  the economy, the situation in the chemical industry, the performance  of LANXESS stock, and investment and acquisition plans. Other impor- tant issues addressed by the Supervisory Board are presented below.  We examined the purchase of the material protection business of  Syngenta AG at a special meeting in February 2011. After detailed  review and discussion, the Supervisory Board approved the acquisition.  The Supervisory Board held another special meeting in February 2011  at which it unanimously resolved to terminate Mr. Matthias Zacherts  service on the Board of Management effective March 31, 2011, in  line with Mr. Zacherts own request. At the same time, the Supervisory  Board resolved to appoint Dr. Bernhard Dttmann to serve on the Board  of Management of LANXESS AG for a three-year term starting April 1,  2011. The Supervisory Board thanked Mr. Zachert for his outstanding  work and important contributions to the companys successful growth. The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held in March was the  review of the annual  nancial statements and consolidated  nancial  statements for  scal 2010, the proposal for use of the distributable  pro t, and preparation of the motions for resolution by the Annual  Stockholders Meeting. The Supervisory Board also dealt at length with  issues relating to corporate governance. The Board of Management  reported on the status of environmental protection and safety in the  company. With regard to human resources issues, the Supervisory  Board adopted the necessary resolutions concerning the attainment  of performance targets for variable compensation components and  the granting of a performance bonus to the members of the Board of  Management. Lastly, an adjustment was made to the base salaries of  Dr. Werner Breuers and Dr. Rainier van Roessel.  At the meeting in May, the Supervisory Board approved the placement  of a 500 million Euro Benchmark Bond under the existing Debt   Issuance Program. In addition, the Board of Management reported  on the companys current innovation projects. At a second meeting in May, we approved the conclusion of a building  lease in connection with the relocation of company headquarters to  Cologne.  At the August meeting, a considerable amount of time was devoted to  personnel issues. The Supervisory Board resolved to extend Dr. Axel C.  Heitmanns appointment as a member and Chairman of the Board  of Management by an additional  ve years starting July 1, 2012. We  also adopted resolutions concerning the adjustment of pension entitle- ments for the members of the Board of Management and adjusted  Dr. Heitmanns base salary. Additionally, the Board of Management  gave us a detailed report on the companys energy concept and on  compliance management. Lastly, the Supervisory Board amended its  rules of procedure. As well as making changes to the wording, the age  limit for members of the Supervisory Board was raised from 72 to 75. At the meeting in November, the Board of Managements report in- cluded an overview of recruiting at LANXESS.  At its December meeting, the Supervisory Board reviewed in full and  reached a decision on the corporate planning for 2012 as proposed  by the Board of Management. It also discussed the companys strategic  alignment and capital expenditure policy. The Board of Management  reported to us on the internal control, risk management and auditing  systems. Lastly, we de ned the targets for the Board of Managements  variable compensation components for  scal 2012.  All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees performed  their duties diligently and conscientiously. The Supervisory Boards  meetings in 2011 were attended by all members, with the exception  of two meetings at which one of the twelve members was absent. All  committee meetings were attended by all members. The stockholder  representatives and employee representatives to the Supervisory Board  worked together in a spirit of trust. They regularly held separate meet- ings at which they prepared the meetings of the full Supervisory Board.  1310  132 LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Work of the committees The Supervisory Board has four committees. The membership of these  committees is shown on page 123. The committees are tasked with  preparing the topics and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of the  full Supervisory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-making  powers conferred on them by the Supervisory Board.  The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt in parti- cular with the annual  nancial statements and management report of  LANXESS AG for  scal 2010, the consolidated  nancial statements  and Group management report for  scal 2010, the interim reports  issued during  scal 2011, and the condensed consolidated  nancial  statements and interim management report included in the 2011 half- year  nancial report. It also extensively reviewed the risk management  and internal control systems. Other topics discussed were the signi - cant  ndings by the internal audit department, corporate governance,  compliance, accounting-related topics and the determination of the  principal areas of focus for the audit of the 2011  nancial statements.  The external auditor attended all of the Audit Committees meetings  and reported on the auditing activities. The Presidial Committee convened six times during 2011 to prepare  the meetings of the Supervisory Board and to discuss personnel issues.  A chief focus of its deliberations was the preparation of the personnel  decisions to be reached by the full Supervisory Board.  The Committee formed pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German  Codetermination Act and the Nominations Committee did not convene  in  scal 2011. The chairmen of the committees each reported on the meetings and  the work of the committees at the meetings of the full Supervisory  Board.  Corporate governance and declaration of compliance The Supervisory Board discussed the further development of the  German Corporate Governance Code (the Code) in the year under  review. In connection with the Codes recommendations, we extensively  reviewed and de ned goals for the composition of the Supervisory  Board. We also discussed the outcome of the ef ciency review of the  Supervisory Boards activities. No con icts of interest on the part of  Supervisory Board members became known last year. Stockholders can download the joint declaration of compliance by  the Board of Management and Supervisory Board pursuant to Sec- tion 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act from the companys  website at any time. As expressed in the declaration, LANXESS AG  complies with the Codes recommendations and suggestions except  in a few justi ed cases. More information is contained in the corporate  gover nance statement, which can be found in the section on corporate  governance on page 120 of this Annual Report.   133 Report of the Supervisory Board Financial Statements of LANXESS AG and  Consolidated Financial Statements of the  LANXESS Group The  nancial statements and management report of LANXESS AG for  the 2011  scal year, which were prepared by the Board of Manage- ment in accordance with the rules of the German Commercial Code,  as well as the consolidated  nancial statements and Group manage- ment report for  scal 2011, which were prepared by LANXESS AG  in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards  (IFRS), were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesell schaft  Wirtschaftsprfungsgesellschaft, the auditor appointed by the Annual  Stockholders Meeting and engaged by the Supervisory Board. The  auditor issued an unquali ed opinion in each case.  The Supervisory Board satis ed itself of the independence of the  auditor and the persons acting on the auditors behalf. The audit reports and the documents relating to the  nancial state- ments were discussed with the Board of Management and the auditor  at the Audit Committee meeting held on March 8, 2012. They were  also discussed in detail on the basis of the required documents and  notes at the Supervisory Boards  nancial statements meeting held  on March 20, 2012. The responsible auditor was present for the  discussions concerning the  nancial statements of LANXESS AG  and the consolidated  nancial statements of the LANXESS Group.  He reported on the material results of the audits. He was also avail- able to the Audit Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide  additional information.  Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well as on  its own review and in-depth discussions about the  nancial statements  and management report of LANXESS AG, the consolidated  nancial  statements of the LANXESS Group and the Group management report  and the proposal for appropriation of the pro t, the Supervisory Board  endorsed the auditors conclusions and had no objections to raise. The  Supervisory Board has approved the  nancial statements of LANXESS  AG and the consolidated  nancial statements of the LANXESS Group,  which were prepared by the Board of Management. The  nancial state- ments of LANXESS AG, thus, have been adopted. We endorsed the  Board of Managements proposal for use of the distributable pro t after  close examination and extensive deliberations that carefully weighed  the best interests of the company and the stockholders.  Composition of the Supervisory Board The composition of the Supervisory Board also changed during  scal  2011. Employee representative Wolfgang Blossey stepped down  from the Supervisory Board effective May 31, 2011 for professional  reasons. We thank Mr. Blossey for his commitment and trustful   cooperation. The Local Court of Cologne appointed Thomas  Meiers,  District Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Indus- trial Union, to serve as an employee representative on the Supervisory  Board of LANXESS AG with effect from June 1, 2011. Mr. Meiers  was selected by the Supervisory Board to be a member of the Audit  Committee.  Leverkusen, March 20, 2012  The Supervisory Board Dr. Rolf Stomberg Chairman 1330  134  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Consolidated Financial Statements  Consolidated Financial Statements   135 Statement of Financial Position 136 Income Statement 137 Statement of Comprehensive Income 138 Statement of Changes in Equity 139 Statement of Cash Flows 140 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 140 General information  140 Structure and components of the  consolidated  nancial statements 140 Financial reporting standards and  interpretations applied 141 New standards and interpretations issued  but not yet mandatory 142 Presentation changes and restatement  of prior-year  gures 142 Consolidation methods 143 Currency translation 143 Accounting policies and valuation principles 150 Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion 152 Companies consolidated 156 Notes to the Statement of Financial Position 156 (1) Intangible assets 157 (2) Property, plant and equipment 158 (3) Investments accounted for using the equity method 158 (4) Investments in other af liated companies 158 (5) Derivative  nancial instruments 159 (6) Other non-current and current  nancial assets 159 (7) Other non-current assets 160 (8) Inventories  160 (9) Trade receivables 160 (10) Near-cash assets 160 (11) Other current assets 160 (12) Equity 162 (13)  Provisions for pensions and other  post-employment bene ts 167 (14)  Other non-current and current provisions 170 (15) Other non-current and current  nancial liabilities 171 (16) Non-current and current income tax liabilities 171 (17)  Other non-current and current liabilities 171 (18) Trade payables 171 (19) Further information on liabilities 172 Notes to the Income Statement 172 (20) Sales 172 (21) Cost of sales 172 (22) Selling expenses 172 (23) Research and development expenses 172 (24) General administration expenses 172 (25) Other operating income 172 (26) Other operating expenses 173 (27) Financial result 173 (28) Income taxes 174 (29) Earnings and dividend per share 174 (30) Personnel expenses 175 Other Information 175 (31) Employees 175 (32)  Contingent liabilities and other   nancial commitments 176 (33)  Related parties 176 (34)  Compensation of the Board of Management  and the Supervisory Board 176 (35) Financial instruments  182 (36) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows 183 (37) Segment reporting 185 (38) Audit fees 185 (39)  Declaration of Compliance pursuant to  Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act 185 (40)  Exemptions under Section 264 Paragraph 3  of the German Commercial Code 186 Responsibility  Statement 187 Auditors Report  135 Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of Financial Position Statement of Financial Position  LANXESS Group  million Note Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2011 ASSETS Intangible assets (1) 226  373  Property, plant and equipment (2) 2,131  2,679  Investments accounted for using the equity method (3) 13  12  Investments in other af liated companies (4) 8  19  Non-current derivative assets (5) 3  8  Other non-current  nancial assets (6) 74  82  Deferred taxes (28) 170  196  Other non-current assets (7) 113  120  Non-current assets 2,738  3,489  Inventories (8) 1,094  1,386  Trade receivables (9) 942  1,146  Cash and cash equivalents 160  178  Near-cash assets (10) 364  350  Current derivative assets (5) 19  8  Other current  nancial assets (6) 58  27  Current income tax receivables 69  64  Other current assets (11) 222  230  Current assets 2,928  3,389  Total assets 5,666  6,878  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital stock and capital reserves 889  889  Other reserves 699  943  Net income 379  506  Other equity components (221) (280) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 15  16  Equity (12) 1,761  2,074  Provisions for pensions and other post-employment bene ts (13) 605  679  Other non-current provisions (14) 351  331  Non-current derivative liabilities (5) 11  13  Other non-current  nancial liabilities (15) 1,302  1,465  Non-current income tax liabilities (16) 50  63  Other non-current liabilities (17) 95  89  Deferred taxes (28) 40  75  Non-current liabilities 2,454  2,715  Other current provisions (14) 422  446  Trade payables (18) 664  766  Current derivative liabilities (5) 23  40  Other current  nancial liabilities (15) 176  633  Current income tax liabilities (16) 34  49  Other current liabilities (17) 132  155  Current liabilities 1,451  2,089  Total equity and liabilities 5,666  6,878   136  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Income Statement  LANXESS Group  million Note 2010 2011 Sales (20) 7,120  8,775  Cost of sales (21) (5,381) (6,765)  Gross pro t 1,739  2,010  Selling expenses (22) (646) (732) Research and development expenses (23) (116) (144) General administration expenses (24) (298) (325) Other operating income (25) 189  179  Other operating expenses  (26) (261) (212) Operating result (EBIT) 607  776  Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 16  7  Interest income 10  11  Interest expense (93) (104) Other  nancial income and expense (47) (35) Financial result (27) (114) (121) Income before income taxes 493  655  Income taxes (28) (112) (148) Income after income taxes 381  507  of which attributable to non-controlling interests 2  1  of which attributable to  LANXESS AG stockholders (net income) 379  506  Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) () (29) 4.56 6.08  137 Consolidated Financial Statements Income Statement | Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Comprehensive Income  LANXESS Group  million 2010 2011 Income after income taxes 381  507  Actuarial gains/losses, effects of the asset ceiling and  minimum funding requirements for de ned-bene t plans (130) (94)  Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 125  (33) Financial instruments (41) (38) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to companies accounted for using the equity method (26) (11) Income taxes on other comprehensive income 49  40  Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (23) (136) Total comprehensive income  358  371  of which attributable to non-controlling interests 2  1  of which attributable to  LANXESS AG stockholders 356  370   138  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Statement of Changes in Equity  LANXESS Group  million Capital  stock Capital   reserves Other  reserves Net  income  Other equity components  Equity   attributable  to   LANXESS AG  stockholders  Equity  attribut- able to non- controlling  interests  Equity Currency  translation  adjustment Financial  instruments Dec. 31, 2009 83  806  818  40  (340)  25  1,432  13  1,445  Allocations to retained earnings 40  (40)  0  0  Dividend payments (42) (42)  0  (42)  Total comprehensive income (117) 379  125  (31)  356  2  358  Income after income taxes 379  379  2  381  Other comprehensive income,  net of income tax (117) 125  (31) (23) 0  (23) Actuarial gains/losses, effects of the  asset ceiling and minimum funding  requirements for de ned-bene t  plans (130) (130) (130) Exchange differences on translation  of operations outside the eurozone 125  125  0  125  Financial instruments (41) (41) (41) Other comprehensive income  (net of income tax) attributable to  com panies  accounted for using  the equity method (26) (26) (26) Income taxes on other   comprehensive  income 39  10  49  49  Dec. 31, 2010 83  806  699  379  (215)  (6) 1,746  15  1,761  Allocations to retained earnings 379  (379)  0  0  Dividend payments (58) (58) 0  (58) Total comprehensive income (77) 506  (33) (26) 370  1  371  Income after income taxes 506  506  1  507  Other comprehensive income,  net of income tax (77) (33) (26) (136) 0  (136) Actuarial gains/losses, effects of the  asset ceiling and minimum funding  requirements for de ned-bene t  plans (94) (94) (94) Exchange differences on translation  of operations outside the eurozone (33) (33) 0  (33) Financial instruments (38) (38) (38) Other comprehensive income  (net of income tax) attributable to  com panies  accounted for using  the equity method (11) (11) (11) Income taxes on other   comprehensive  income 28  12  40  40  Dec. 31, 2011 83  806  943  506  (248) (32) 2,058  16  2,074   139 Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of Changes in Equity | Statement of Cash Flows Statement of Cash Flows  LANXESS Group  million Note 2010 2011 Income before income taxes 493  655  Depreciation and amortization 283  325  Gains on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 0  (2)  Income from investments accounted for using the equity method (16)  (7) Financial losses 83  98  Income taxes paid (114) (95) Changes in inventories (205) (178) Changes in trade receivables (176) (148) Changes in trade payables 161  70  Changes in other assets and liabilities (4) (16) Net cash provided by operating activities before external  nancing  of pension obligations (CTA) 505  702  Cash out ows for external  nancing of pension obligations (CTA) (75) (30) Net cash provided by operating activities (36) 430  672  Cash out ows for purchases of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment (501) (679) Cash in ows from  nancial assets 107  24  Cash out ows for the acquisition of subsidiaries, less acquired cash and cash equivalents  and net of subsequent purchase price adjustments 0  (285) Cash in ows from sales of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment 3  7  Interest and dividends received 16  10  Net cash used in investing activities (36) (375) (923) Proceeds from borrowings 170  655  Repayments of borrowings (251) (221) Interest paid and other  nancial disbursements (91) (100) Dividend payments (42) (58) Net cash provided by (used in)  nancing activities (36) (214) 276  Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities (159) 25  Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 313  160  Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents 6  (7) Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 (36) 160  178  2010  gures restated  140  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 General information  LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial  Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652. Its registered  of ce is at Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee 40, 51369 Leverkusen, Germany. The annual  nancial statements of  LANXESS AG and the consolidated   nancial statements of the  LANXESS Group, to which the auditors,  PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprfungs- gesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, have issued unquali ed auditors  reports, are published in the electronic version of the German Federal  Gazette (Bundesanzeiger).  The consolidated  nancial statements of the  LANXESS Group for  scal  2011 were prepared by the Board of Management of  LANXESS AG  and authorized for submission to the Supervisory Board on Febru- ary 28, 2012. It is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board to   examine the consolidated  nancial statements and declare whether  or not it approves them. Structure and components of the  consolidated  nancial statements The consolidated  nancial statements comprise the statement of   nancial position, the income statement and statement of compre- hensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement  of cash  ows and the notes, which include the segment information. The consolidated  nancial statements of the  LANXESS Group were  prepared in euros (). Amounts are stated in millions of euros ( mil- lion) except where otherwise indicated. Assets and liabilities are clas- si ed in the statement of  nancial position as current or non-current.  Further details of their maturities are provided below in certain cases. The consolidated  nancial statements were prepared on the basis of  historical acquisition, generation, construction or production costs of  the assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed, these  are used. They are explained in the section on accounting policies  and valuation principles. The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales method. The  scal year for these consolidated  nancial statements is the   calendar year. Financial reporting standards and  interpretations applied The consolidated  nancial statements of the  LANXESS Group as of  December 31, 2011 were prepared in accordance with the Inter- national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the  European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretations, together  with the additional requirements of Section 315 a Paragraph 1 of the  German Commercial Code (HGB).   Application of the following accounting standards and interpretations  became mandatory starting in 2011. However, they currently have no  impact, or no material impact, on the  LANXESS Group:   IAS 32: Classi cation of Rights Issues – Amendments to IAS 32   IFRIC 14: Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement –  Amendments to IFRIC 14   IFRIC 19: Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity   Instruments   IFRS 1 and IFRS 7: Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7  Disclosures for First-time Adopters  – Amendments to IFRS 1  and IFRS 7   Various IASs and IFRSs: Improvements to IFRSs (2010) The amended version of IAS 24 (Related Party Disclosures) published  in November 2009 was already applied by the  LANXESS Group as of  December 31, 2010. It had no impact on the consolidated  nancial  statements. Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements  141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information | Structure and components of the consolidated  nancial statements | Financial reporting standards and  interpretations applied | New standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory New standards and interpretations issued  but not yet mandatory  In 2011 the  LANXESS Group did not yet apply certain further account- ing standards and interpretations that had already been issued by the  International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the IFRS Inter- pretations Committee but were not mandatory for that year. The applica- tion of these standards and interpretations is in some cases contingent  upon their adoption by the E.U. It is therefore possible that the dates  for mandatory application may ultimately be later than indicated below.  In November 2009 the IASB published IFRS 9. The new require- ments this standard introduced for classifying and measuring  nancial   assets were supplemented in October 2010 by requirements for the  measurement of  nancial liabilities and the derecognition of  nancial  instruments. The new standard represents the  rst of three phases in  the complete replacement of IAS 39. If adopted by the E.U., IFRS 9 is  to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2015.  The  LANXESS Group is currently evaluating the impact the application  of IFRS 9 will have on its  nancial position and results of operations. In May 2011 the IASB published three new standards – IFRS 10,  IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 – and two revised standards – IAS 27 and  IAS 28 – on accounting for participating interests in other entities. If  adopted by the E.U., these new and revised standards are to applied  for the  rst time for  scal years beginning on or after January 1, 2013.  Earlier application is permissible provided that this is stated in the  notes to the  nancial statements and all of the standards are early  applied at the same time. An entity may, however, early provide some  of the disclosures on interests in other entities required by IFRS 12  without being compelled to apply the other new or revised standards.  The  LANXESS Group is currently evaluating the impact the applica- tion of these standards will have on its  nancial position and results  of operations. In June 2011 the IASB issued a revised version of IAS 19. This   addresses the recognition and measurement of expense for de ned- bene t plans and termination bene ts. It also results in altered dis- closures on employee bene ts. If adopted by the E.U., the amended  version of IAS 19 is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or  after January 1, 2013. The  LANXESS Group is currently evaluating  the impact the application of this revised standard will have on its   nancial position and results of operations. The following accounting standards and interpretations currently have  no impact, or no material impact, on the  LANXESS Group. Standard/Interpretation Date of  publication Mandatory for   LANXESS as of   scal year Adoption  by the E.U. IFRS 7 Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets – Amendments to IFRS 7 Oct. 7, 2010 2012 yes IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets – Amendments to IAS 12 Dec. 20, 2010 2012 no IFRS 1 Severe Hyperin ation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters –  Amendments to IFRS 1 Dec. 20, 2010 – no IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement May 12, 2011 2013 no IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income – Amendments to IAS 1 June 16, 2011 2013 no IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine Oct. 19, 2011 2013 no IFRS 7 and IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IFRS 7 and IAS 32 Dec. 16, 2011 2013/2014 no  142  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Presentation changes and restatement  of prior-year  gures To harmonize the presentation of pension payments, cash out ows  to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany, for external   nancing of pension obligations (contractual trust arrangement, CTA)  are included in cash  ows from operating rather than investing activi- ties starting in 2011. To enhance transparency, a subtotal Net cash  provided by operating activities before external  nancing of pension  obligations (CTA) has been inserted into the presentation of cash  ows  from operating activities. The prior-year  gures are restated accordingly. In the segment reporting, restatements of prior-year  gures were   necessitated by an inter-segment transfer of activities. Further details  are given in Note [37]. No further prior-year  gures have been restated. Consolidation methods The  nancial statements of the consolidated companies were prepared  using uniform accounting policies and valuation principles. If the  scal year of a consolidated company does not end on Decem- ber 31, interim  nancial statements are prepared for the purpose of  consolidation. Intra-Group pro ts, losses, sales, income, expenses, receivables and  payables are eliminated. Scope of consolidation  The consolidated  nancial statements of the  LANXESS Group include   LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the direct or indirect control  of  LANXESS AG. Control exists if  LANXESS AG holds more than half  of the voting rights in a company or is otherwise able to govern the  companys  nancial and operating policies in order to obtain bene ts  from its activities. A company is consolidated as of the date from  which  LANXESS AG is able to exercise control (acquisition date) and  deconsolidated when this is no longer the case. Investments in entities in which the  LANXESS Group exerts a signi cant  in uence, generally through an ownership interest between 20% and  50%, are accounted for using the equity method. Entities that in aggregate are immaterial to the Groups  nancial posi- tion and results of operations are not consolidated, but included in the  consolidated  nancial statements at cost of acquisition. Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the section headed  Companies consolidated, which also contains a list of companies. Fully consolidated companies  Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.  The cost of a business combination is stated as the aggregate of the  fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the assets transferred, liabilities  incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued in exchange  for control of the acquiree. It also contains the fair value of assets and  liabilities resulting from contingent consideration contracts. For the  rst-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and contingent  liabilities identi ed in the course of the acquisition are measured at  fair value as of the acquisition date. For each business combination, there is an option to include any shares  not acquired either at their fair value or at the pro-rata share of the fair  value of the acquirees net assets. They are reported in the statement  of  nancial position as equity attributable to non-controlling interests.  Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt or  equity securities – are recognized in pro t or loss. Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess of the  consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests  and the fair value of any previously held equity interest over the fair  value of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is immediately  recognized in pro t or loss after the purchase price allocation has  been re-examined.  143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Presentation changes and restatement of prior-year  gures | Consolidation methods | Currency translation | Accounting policies and valuation principles  Investments accounted for using the equity method  The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the equity  method (associate) is adjusted annually by the percentage of any  change in its equity corresponding to  LANXESSs percentage inter- est in the entity. Differences arising from the  rst-time accounting for  investments using the equity method are determined according to  the same principles as for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is  included in the carrying amount of the associate. Joint ventures are also included in the consolidated  nancial state- ments using the equity method. Proportionate consolidation is not  used. Currency translation In the  nancial statements of the individual consolidated companies  that form the basis for the consolidated  nancial statements of the   LANXESS Group, all foreign currency receivables and payables are  translated at closing rates, irrespective of whether they are hedged.  Forward contracts serving as economic hedges against  uctuations  in exchange rates are re ected at fair value.  The  nancial statements of each foreign entity are valued on the basis  of the currency of the primary economic environment in which the  entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the majority of  foreign companies are  nancially, economically and organizationally  autonomous and their functional currencies are therefore the local  currencies. The assets and liabilities of these companies are translated  at closing rates, while income and expense items are translated at  average rates for the year. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recorded in  the currency of the acquired entity and translated at the closing rate,  irrespective of the date on which it arose. Since equity (excluding income and expenses recognized directly in  other comprehensive income) is translated at historical rates, the differ- ences arising on translation at closing rates are shown separately in  other comprehensive income as exchange differences on translation  of operations outside the eurozone. If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange differences are  reversed and recognized in pro t or loss. The exchange rates for major currencies against the euro changed  as follows: Exchange Rates  1 Closing rate, Dec. 31 Average rate 2010 2011 2010 2011 Argentina ARS 5.31  5.57  5.19  5.75  Brazil BRL 2.23  2.43  2.33  2.33  China CNY 8.82  8.16  8.98  9.00  United Kingdom GBP 0.86  0.84  0.86  0.87  India INR 59.74  68.60  60.58  64.86  Japan JPY 108.65  100.20  116.38  110.99  Canada CAD 1.33  1.32  1.37  1.38  Singapore SGD 1.71  1.68  1.81  1.75  South Africa ZAR 8.86  10.48  9.70  10.10  United States USD 1.34  1.29  1.33  1.39  Accounting policies and valuation principles  The accounting policies and valuation principles are the same as  those used in the previous  scal year and have been consistently   applied. This does not apply to changes arising from new or amended   accounting standards or intepretations that became mandatory for the   rst time in  scal 2011 (see section headed Presentation changes  and restatement of prior-year  gures). Intangible assets   Acquired intangible assets with a de nite useful life are recognized  at cost and amortized over their respective useful lives using the  straight-line method. The amortization period for software, con cessions,   industrial property rights, similar rights and assets and licenses to  such rights and assets varies from 3 years to 20 years. Amortization  for 2011 has been allocated to the respective functional areas. Any  further loss of value is recognized by means of an impairment charge.  Impairment losses are reversed in the following year if the reasons for  them no longer exist, provided that this does not cause the carrying  amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which  they would have been recognized if the impairment losses had not  been recognized or their current recoverable value. The lower of these   144  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 two amounts is recognized. Intangible assets with inde nite useful  lives and goodwill are not amortized. They are tested for impairment  annually, or more often if events or a change in circumstances indicate  a possible impairment. Any impairment losses are recognized in other  operating expenses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.  The costs incurred for in-house software development at the application  development stage are capitalized and amortized over the expected  useful life of the software from the date it is placed in service. Emissions allowances are recognized at cost. Allowances allocated  free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority (Deutsche  Emissionshandelsstelle, DEHSt) or comparable authorities in other  European countries are capitalized at a value of zero. Property, plant and equipment   Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of acquisition or  construction less depreciation for wear and tear.  LANXESS does not  use the revaluation model. Impairment losses are recognized for any  reduction in value that goes beyond normal depreciation. In com- pliance with IAS 36, impairment losses are measured by comparing  the carrying amounts with the discounted cash  ows expected to  be generated by the assets in the future. Where it is not possible  to allocate future cash  ows to speci c assets, the impairment loss  is assessed on the basis of the discounted cash  ows for the cash- generating unit to which the asset belongs. Impairment losses are  reversed if the reasons for previous years impairment charges no  longer apply, provided that this does not cause the carrying amounts  of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which they would  have been recognized if the impairment charge had not been taken  or their  current recoverable value. The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment comprises  the direct cost of materials, direct manufacturing expenses, appro- priate allocations of material and manufacturing overheads, and an  appropriate share of the depreciation and impairments of assets used  in construction. It also includes the shares of expenses for company  pension plans and discretionary employee bene ts that are attribut- able to construction.  Where an obligation exists to decommission or dismantle assets at  the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its original condition,  the present value of the obligation is capitalized along with the cost  of acquisition or construction and a provision in the same amount is  recognized. If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over  a long period, the directly attributable borrowing costs incurred up to  the date of completion are capitalized as part of the cost of acquisition  or construction. Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are recognized directly  in pro t or loss. Subsequent acquisition or construction costs are  capitalized if they will result in future economic bene ts and can be  reliably determined. Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants are recog- nized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of the related assets  and depreciated over the period between one general overhaul and  the next using the straight-line method. Where assets comprise material components with different purposes,  different properties, or different useful lives, the components are capi- talized individually and depreciated over their useful lives. When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference between  the net proceeds and the carrying amount is recognized as a gain or  loss in other operating income or expenses. Assets are depreciated by the straight-line method based on the fol- lowing useful lives, which are applied uniformly throughout the Group: Useful Lives Buildings 20 to 50 years Outdoor infrastructure 10 to 20 years Plant installations 6 to 20 years Machinery and equipment 6 to 12 years Laboratory and research facilities 3 to 5 years Storage tanks and pipelines 10 to 20 years Vehicles 5 to 8 years Computer equipment 3 to 5 years Furniture and  xtures 4 to 10 years  145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting policies and valuation principles Leasing  In accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where substantially all risks  and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred ( nance leases)  are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and the present value of  the minimum lease payments at the date of addition. They are depreci- ated over their useful lives. If subsequent transfer of title to the leased  asset is uncertain, it is depreciated over the shorter of its estimated  useful life and the lease term.  The future lease payments are recorded as  nancial liabilities.  Liabilities  under  nance leases are recognized at the fair value of the leased   asset at the inception of the lease or the present value of the minimum  lease payments, whichever is lower. Thereafter the minimum lease  payments are divided into  nancing costs and the portion represent- ing repayment of the principal. In the case of leasing contracts that do  not include the transfer of substantially all risks and rewards incidental  to ownership (operating leases), the lessee recognizes the lease pay- ments as current expenses. Property, plant and equipment also includes assets that  LANXESS  leases or rents out to third parties under agreements other than   nance  leases. However, if the lessee is to be regarded as the economic owner  of the assets, a receivable is recognized in the amount of the dis- counted future lease or rental payments. Leasing arrangements may be embedded in other contracts. Where  IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing arrangement, the  components of the contract are recognized and measured separately. Financial instruments   Financial instruments are contracts that give rise simultaneously to  a  nancial asset for one party and a  nancial liability or equity instru- ment for another. These include primary  nancial instruments, such  as trade receivables or payables and  nancial assets or liabilities, as  well as derivative  nancial instruments, which are used to hedge risks  arising from changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices  or interest rates. Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the  LANXESS Group  becomes the contracting party to them. Financial assets are derec- ognized when the contractual rights to receive payments from them  expire or the  nancial assets are transferred together with all substantial  opportunities and risks. Financial liabilities are derecognized when  the contractual obligations are met or canceled, or when they expire. In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement date is  the relevant date for  rst-time recognition or derecognition of  nancial  assets in the  nancial statements. Trade receivables and other  nancial receivables are initially recognized  at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amortized cost using  the effective interest method. Write-downs for amounts unlikely to be  recovered are recognized via impairment accounts. Investments in af liated companies and the equity instruments included  in non-current assets are classi ed as available-for-sale  nancial   assets and recognized at fair value, except where their fair value can- not be reliably determined, in which case they are recognized at cost.  Where objective evidence exists that such assets may be impaired,  an impairment loss is recognized on the basis of an impairment test.  Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method  are recognized at the amounts corresponding to  LANXESSs share  in their equity in accordance with IAS 28 or IAS 31. Financial assets held for trading are recognized at fair value. Any gain or  loss arising from subsequent measurement is re ected in the  income  statement. All other primary  nancial assets are classi ed as available-for-sale  and recognized at fair value except if they are allocable to loans and  receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subsequent measurement,  with the exception of write-downs and translation gains and losses, is  recognized in other comprehensive income until the  nancial asset  is derecognized.  LANXESS does not utilize the option of designating non-derivative   nancial assets or liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss upon  initial recognition.  146  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Derivative  nancial instruments and  hedging  transactions   The  LANXESS Group recognizes derivative  nancial instruments as  assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. Gains and  losses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized in pro t  or loss. Where foreign currency derivatives or forward commodity  contracts used to hedge future cash  ows from pending business or  forecasted transactions qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant   nancial reporting standard, changes in the value of such instruments  are recognized separately in other comprehensive income until the  underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recognized here  are subsequently reclassi ed to other operating income or production  costs, as appropriate, when the hedged transaction is recognized in  pro t or loss. Any portion of the change in value of such derivatives  deemed to be ineffective with regard to the hedged risk is recognized  directly in pro t or loss. Changes in the fair value of interest rate deriva- tives used to hedge long-term liabilities with variable interest rates –  provided such derivatives qualify for hedge accounting – are recognized  in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassi  ed to pro t  or loss as interest income/expense at the same time as the income  from the hedged transaction is recognized in pro t or loss. Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivering non-  nancial items based on expected purchases, sales or utilization and  held for this purpose are recognized not as  nancial derivatives but as  pending transactions. If the contracts contain embedded derivatives,  the derivatives are accounted for separately from the host contract,  provided that the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded  derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract. Determination of fair value  The principal methods and assumptions used in measuring the fair  value of  nancial instruments are outlined below: Trade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivalents  are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is therefore  their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are discounted  using current interest rates to determine their fair value. The fair value of securities is determined from their market price on  the closing date, disregarding transaction costs. The fair value of loans is calculated from discounted future interest  payments and capital repayment amounts. The bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair values are  the prices determined and published by the market. The fair value of trade payables and other primary  nancial liabilities  due within one year is their carrying amount. That of all other liabilities  is determined by discounting them to present value where feasible. The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to  nance leases  are the present values of the net lease payments calculated using the  market rate for comparable lease agreements. Most of the derivative  nancial instruments used by  LANXESS are  traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values of forward exchange  contracts are derived from their trading or listed prices using the for- ward method. Currency options are valued using an asset pricing  model based on the Black & Scholes model. The fair values of forward  commodity contracts are also derived from their trading or listed prices  using the forward method. Where no market price is available, values  are determined using recognized capital market pricing methods. Inventories   Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary course of  business ( nished goods and merchandise), assets in the process of  being manufactured for sale (work in process) and assets consumed  during the production process (raw materials and supplies). They  are valued by the weighted-average method and recognized at the  lower of cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling  price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated remaining  production costs and selling expenses.   147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting policies and valuation principles The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials, direct  manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of  xed and  variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal capacity  utilization, where these are attributable to production.  It also includes expenses for company pension plans, corporate welfare  facilities and discretionary employee bene ts that can be allocated to  production. Administrative costs are included where they are attribut- able to production. Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not included  in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as the products are  not manufactured using long-term production processes. Given the production and distribution sequences characteristic of the   LANXESS Group, work in process and  nished goods are grouped  together.  Cash and cash equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents comprise checks, cash and balances with  banks. Securities with maturities of up to three months from the date  of acquisition are recognized in cash and cash equivalents in view of  their high liquidity. Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale   Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be sold in  their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such assets may  be individual non-current assets, groups of assets (disposal groups)  or complete business entities. A disposal group may also include  liabilities if these are to be divested together with the assets as part  of the transaction. Assets classi ed as held for sale are no longer depreciated. They are  recognized at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and the carry- ing amount. Provisions   Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 37  and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best estimates  of the amounts of the respective obligations. Non-current portions of  material pro visions due in more than one year are discounted to pres- ent value if the extent and timing of the obligation can be assessed  with reason able certainty. Where the projected obligation alters as the  time of performance  approaches (interest effect), the related expense  is recognized in other  nancial expense.  If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change in the  estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding amount and  the effect is recognized in the income or expense item(s) in which the  provision was originally recorded. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment bene ts are estab- lished for de ned-bene t pension plans. The provision is measured  according to the actuarial present value of the obligation, calculated  using the projected unit credit method. This takes into account not  only the known pensions and pension entitlements as of the closing  date, but also expected future salary and bene t increases. Actuarial  gains and losses and adjustments resulting from the asset ceiling  and from minimum funding requirements for de ned-bene t plans  are recognized in full in other comprehensive income in the period  in which they occur. They are not reclassi ed to pro t or loss in a  subsequent period. Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual bonus  payments, payments under multi-year compensation programs and  other personnel costs. Reimbursements to be received from the Ger- man government under the phased early retirement program are  recorded as receivables and recognized in the income statement as  soon as the criteria for such reimbursements are ful lled.  The share-based compensation program provides for cash settle- ment. Provisions are established for the obligations entered into under  such programs on the basis of the proportionate fair value of the  rights allo cated to employees. The fair value is determined using the  Monte Carlo method, in which future returns are simulated and the  expected payment is calculated from the value of the rights based on  a two-dimensional standard distribution of returns. The fair value of  the rights is re ected in a pro-rata provision during the vesting period.  148  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 The  LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or pending  legal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be reasonably  estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees and legal costs  and the cost of potential settlements. The amounts of such provisions  are based upon information and cost estimates provided by the Groups  legal advisers. The provisions are regularly reviewed together with the  Groups legal advisers and adjusted if necessary. Contingent liabilities   Contingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties or existing  commitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably estimated  or which are unlikely to lead to an out ow of resources. They are not  recognized in the statement of  nancial position unless they have been  entered into in connection with a business combination. Liabilities   Current liabilities are recognized at repayment or redemption amounts.  Non-current liabilities are recognized at amortized cost. Financial   liabilities that do not constitute either the hedged item or the hedging  instrument in a permissible hedge accounting relationship are  carried  at amortized cost, calculated using the effective interest method.  Subsidies received from third parties for the acquisition or construc- tion of property, plant and equipment are re ected in other liabilities  and released to the income statement over the underlying period or  expected useful life of the assets to which they relate. Sales and other revenues   Revenues are recognized as soon as delivery has been made or the  service rendered and are reported net of sales taxes and deductions.  This is normally the case when the signi cant risks and bene ts asso- ciated with ownership of the goods pass to the purchaser. It must also  be suf ciently probable that the economic bene ts will be obtained  and the costs incurred must be reliably determinable.  Allocations to provisions for rebates to customers are recognized in  the period in which the respective revenues are legally recognized.  Revenues such as license fees, rental income, interest income or  dividends that are attributable to a subsequent  scal year are accrued. The  LANXESS Group does not have long-term production orders.  Accordingly, the percentage-of-completion method is not applied to  determine when revenues are realized. Research and development expenses   According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized, whereas  development costs must be capitalized if, and only if, speci c narrowly  de ned conditions are ful lled. Development costs must be capitalized  if it is suf ciently certain that future economic bene ts to the company  will cover not only the usual production, selling and administrative  costs but also the development costs themselves. However, since the  development and optimization of products and processes frequently  involves uncertainties, the conditions for capitalization of the develop- ment are generally not met. Income taxes   This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual  countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the  basis of local tax rates. Income tax liabilities and provisions for income taxes comprise liabilities  pertaining to 2011and any liabilities from previous years.  In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for temporary  differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities in the  statement of  nancial position and the tax base and for differences aris- ing from consolidation measures or realizable tax loss carryforwards.  Deferred taxes are calculated at the rates which – on the basis of the  statutory regulations in force, or already enacted in relation to future  periods, as of the closing date – are expected to apply in the individual  countries at the time of realization.  The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each closing  date and only the amount likely to be realizable due to future taxable  income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards  are recognized if it is probable that the carryforwards can be utilized.   149 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting policies and valuation principles Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to income  taxes levied by the same tax authorities. Statement of cash  ows   The statement of cash  ows shows how cash in ows and out ows  during the year affected the cash and cash equivalents of the  LANXESS  Group. Cash  ows are classi ed by operating, investing and  nancing  activities in accordance with IAS 7. The liquidity reported in the state- ment of cash  ows comprises cash and cash equivalents. The cash  ow from operating activities is calculated using the indirect  method. This involves eliminating the translation effects and the effects  of changes in the scope of consolidation from the changes recognized  in the items on the statement of  nancial position. Therefore, the cash   ows calculated by the indirect method cannot be directly derived  from the statement of  nancial position.  Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment are  included in the cash  ows for investing activities after deducting any  third-party subsidies. Investments involving  nance leases, along with  capitalized borrowing costs, are not included. Comparison therefore  should not be made between these items and the capital expenditures  shown in the schedule of changes in property, plant and equipment. Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash  ows from  operating activities. Disbursements made under  nance leases where   LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as cash out ows for  nancing  activities, while cash in ows under  nance leases where  LANXESS  is the lessor are recognized as cash in ows from investing activities.  Cash out ows relating to the  nancing of pension obligations are  allocated to cash  ows for operating activities. Purchase prices paid or received in connection with acquisitions or  divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities are included in  the investing cash  ow after deducting cash and cash equivalents  acquired or divested. Interest and dividends received are also included in investing cash  ow,  while interest and dividends paid are re ected in  nancing cash  ow.  Global impairment testing procedure   In the  LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-current assets  starts with an analysis to determine whether impairment losses need to  be recognized or previously recognized impairment losses reversed. If  there are indications that this is the case, the residual carrying amount  of each cash-generating unit is compared to its recoverable amount.  In the  LANXESS Group these impairments tests are performed at  least once a year.  Cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are tested  annually  for impairment – or more frequently if events or changes in circum- stances indicate a possible impairment. The residual carrying amount  of each cash-generating unit, including the goodwill allocated to it, is  compared to its recoverable amount. The  LANXESS Group de nes its business units as the cash-generating  units. However, if there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current  assets below business-unit level, impairment testing is also performed  at this level and impairment losses recognized in the income state- ment where necessary. The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs  to sell and the value in use. If the carrying amount of a cash-generating  unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognized.  The fair value less costs to sell is the best estimate of the price that  would be obtained by selling the cash-generating unit to a third party  at the time of valuation less the estimated selling costs. The value in  use is de ned as the present value of future cash  ows based on the  continuing use of the asset and its retirement at the end of its useful  life. The  rst step in an impairment test is to determine the fair value  less costs to sell. If this is less than the carrying amount of the cash- generating unit, the value in use is then determined.  150  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 The recoverable amount is calculated from a forecast of future cash   ows based on the  LANXESS Groups current long-term planning.  This planning is based on the latest approved  ve-year plan, which is  in turn built on past experience and the Board of Managements esti- mates of expected market conditions, including assumptions regarding  future raw material prices, cost of sales, selling expenses, research  and development expenses, general administration expenses and  exchange rates. The present value of future cash  ows is calculated  by discounting them using a weighted capital cost factor. The capital  cost factor is derived according to IAS 36 from capital market models,  taking into account the capital structure and business risks speci c  to the chemical industry.  If the impairment test shows a strategic business unit to be impaired,  an impairment loss is  rst recognized for any goodwill assigned to  it. Any remaining impairment amount is allocated among the other  non-current assets of the strategic business unit in proportion to their  net carrying amounts at the closing date.  Impairment losses are fully recognized in the income statement under  other operating expenses and re ected in the segment reporting in  the expenses of the respective segments.  The results of the global impairment tests in  scal 2011 are outlined  in the following section.  Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion   The preparation of consolidated  nancial statements in accordance  with IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and valuation prin- ciples and the use of forward-looking assumptions and estimates that  may affect the valuation of assets and liabilities, income and  expenses  and contingent liabilities. All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated  nancial  statements are based on managements expectations. Information  that could alter these estimates is reviewed continually and may result  in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the respective assets and  liabilities.  Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the valuation  of the  LANXESS Groups assets and liabilities are explained below. The  LANXESS Group tests its cash-generating units for impairment at  least once a year by determining the respective recoverable amount  (for further information see the section headed Global impairment  testing procedure and impact). The test is based on forecasts of future  cash  ows, derived from reasonable assumptions representing the  managements best assessment of the economic circumstances at the  time of the impairment test. Managements expectations of future cash   ows therefore indirectly affect the valuation of assets and goodwill.  The assumptions and estimates used for the impairment test con- ducted on assets in  scal 2011 could differ from the actual values in  subsequent periods, necessitating subsequent valuation adjustments.  The impairment test was based on a discount rate after taxes of 7.4%  (2010: 8.0%), without using growth rates to extrapolate the last year  of the forecasting period.  The testing of the cash-generating units did not reveal any indication of  possible asset impairment or of the need for impairment loss reversals.   151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting policies and valuation principles | Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion  The principal goodwill items were tested for impairment on the basis of  fair value less costs to sell. As of the annual impairment testing date, the  goodwill from previous years was tested for impairment after adjusting  for currency translation effects. This included, in particular, the goodwill  of 105 million in the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit  recognized in connection with the acquisition of Petro ex in 2008. The goodwill of 45 million acquired in  scal 2011 was tested for  impairment as of the closing date for the consolidated  nancial state- ments. The impairment test included goodwill that arose in the Techni- cal Rubber Products business unit from the acquisition of the elasto- mers business of Royal DSM N.V., Netherlands, in the Rhein Chemie  business unit from the acquisition of the Darmex group, Argentina, in  the Material Protection Products business unit from the acquisition  of the materials protection business of Syngenta AG, Switzerland,  and in the Functional Chemicals business unit from the acquisition of  Unitex Chemical Corporation, United States (see the section headed  Companies consolidated). Neither a one percentage point increase in the discount rate nor a  10% reduction in expected future cash  ows would have led to the  recognition of an impairment loss on these goodwill items.  The recognition and measurement of provisions are also affected by  assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timing, the underlying  discount rate and the absolute level of risk. The  LANXESS Group  performed sensitivity analyses on all provisions existing as of Decem- ber 31, 2011 as required by the IFRS. These involved calculating the  impact of variations in the parameters used, especially the probability  of occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk. The outcome  of these sensitivity analyses shows that variations in the assumptions  described above would not have a material impact on the level of other  provisions reported in the consolidated  nancial statements of the   LANXESS Group. For further information on the sensitivity analyses  relating to provisions for pension and other post-employment bene ts,  see Note [13]. De ned-bene t pension plans also necessitate actuarial computa- tions and valuations. The section on provisions for pension and other  post-employment bene ts contains information on the assumptions  on which the actuarial calculations and estimates were based (see  Note [13]). There is also a degree of uncertainty surrounding the assessment of  certain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the  LANXESS  Group believes it has presented all tax-relevant information correctly  and in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax authorities  may occasionally reach different conclusions. Other signi cant estimates are used to assess the useful lives of in- tangible assets and property, plant and equipment, the probability of  collecting receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventories  and the ability to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets recognized  for temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. The  rst-time  consolidation of business operations also involves estimation uncer- tainties and the exercise of discretion in determining the fair values of  the acquired assets and assumed liabilities. Up to the time these consolidated  nancial statements were prepared,  no circumstances had become known that would necessitate a major  change in such estimates.   152  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Companies consolidated  The consolidated  nancial statements of the  LANXESS Group in- clude the parent company  LANXESS AG and all domestic and foreign   af liates. EMEA (excluding  Germany) Germany North America Latin America Asia-Paci c Total Fully consolidated companies  (incl. parent company) Jan. 1, 2011 19 13 6 5 16 59 Additions 2 3 4 1 10 Subtractions (1) (1) (2) Mergers (1) (1) (1) (3) Changes in scope of consolidation (1) (1) 1 (1) Dec. 31, 2011 20 13 7 6 17 63 Companies accounted for using  the equity method Jan. 1, 2011 1 2 3 Dec. 31, 2011 0 1 0 0 2 3 Non-consolidated companies Jan. 1, 2011 2 2 1 2 1 8 Additions 2 2 Subtractions 0 Changes in scope of consolidation 1 1 (1) 1 Dec. 31, 2011 5 2 1 3 0 11 Total Jan. 1, 2011 21 16 7 7 19 70 Additions 4 3 4 1 12 Subtractions (1) (1) (2) Mergers (1) (1) (1) (3) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 0 0 0 Dec. 31, 2011 25 16 8 9 19 77 Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at cost. These com- panies are immaterial to the Groups  nancial position and results of  operations, since together they account for less than 0.1% of Group  sales and less than 0.1% of equity. On May 2, 2011  LANXESS completed the acquisition of the elas- tomers business of Royal DSM N.V., Netherlands. This transaction  comprised the acquisition of all the shares of DSM Elastomers  Europe  B.V., Heerlen, Netherlands, and its af liates, and all the shares of  DSM Elastmeros Brasil Ltda., Triunfo, Brazil, and selected assets  and  liabilities. The companies were consolidated as of this date. The  acquisition was funded from existing liquidity of the  LANXESS Group.  The elastomers business acquired from DSM produces the Keltan  brand of ethylene propylene diene monomer (EPDM) rubber at sites  in the Netherlands and Brazil. The business supplements the EPDM  activities of the Technical Rubber Products business unit in the Per- formance Polymers segment.  Between the date of acquisition and year-end 2011, the business  contributed 389 million to  LANXESS Group sales and 44 million to  earnings. Its earnings contribution was affected by the remeasurements  made for purposes of the purchase price allocation. If the business  had been acquired with effect from January 1, 2011, it would have  contributed roughly 150 million more to Group sales and some  20 million more to earnings.  The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination pursu- ant to IFRS 3. Thus, in allocating the purchase price, the acquirees  identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities were included  at fair value. The remaining difference of 12 million represents the  goodwill acquired on the acquisition. The following table shows a  breakdown of the purchase price allocation and its impact on the  statement of  nancial position of the  LANXESS Group.  153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Companies consolidated  Additions from Acquisition of Keltan EPDM Business  million IFRS carrying  amounts prior  to  rst-time  consolidation Purchase  price  allocation Carrying  amounts upon   rst-time  consolidation Intangible assets 4  58  62  Property, plant and   equipment 121  45  166  Other assets 195  16  211  Total assets 320  119  439  Non-current liabilities 1  24  25  Current liabilities 207  0  207  Total liabilities  208  24  232  Net acquired assets  (excluding goodwill) 112  95  207  Acquisition costs 219  Acquired goodwill 12  The purchase price allocation is provisional and was carried out with  the aid of reports from external experts and in light of the information  available at and immediately after the acquisition date. According to  IFRS, the purchase price allocation is subject to adjustment within one  year after the acquisition date to re ect new information and  ndings. The goodwill resulting from the acquisition of the elastomers business  re ects, in particular, marketing and cost synergies arising from the  improved capacity utilization, especially at the production site in Brazil,  the expansion of  LANXESSs product mix in the EPDM business and  additional sales opportunities to existing and new customers, par- ticularly in South America. The acquisition thus represents a further  step in  LANXESSs long-term growth strategy in the area of ethylene  propylene rubbers. Effective January 11, 2011,  LANXESS acquired all the shares of the  Darmex group, which was assigned to the Rhein Chemie business unit  in the Performance Chemicals segment. This acquisition has given  the business unit access to bladder technology and is in line with its  strategy of growing the business in the emerging markets.  On April 13, 2011, the  LANXESS Group acquired the material pro- tection business of Syngenta AG, Basel, Switzerland. This transaction  mainly comprised selected intangible assets. This acquisition expands  the range of biocides offered by the Material Protection Products busi- ness unit in the Performance Chemicals segment for the protection of  building materials. A further acquisition by this business unit was the  purchase of all the shares of Verichem Inc., Pittsburgh, United States.  This acquisition closed on November 9, 2011. As well as extending   LANXESSs product portfolio, this transaction strengthens the com- panys position on the U.S. market for material protection products.  On October 12, 2011,  LANXESS acquired all the shares of Unitex  Chemical Corporation, Greensboro, United States. This company  was assigned to the Functional Chemicals business unit in the Perfor- mance Chemicals segment. The acquisition gives  LANXESS access  to Unitexs  exible production facilities and expands the portfolio of  phthalate-free plasticizers. These businesses were consolidated as of the above acquisition dates. Since they were acquired, these businesses have contributed a total  of 47 million to  LANXESS Group sales. Their contribution to Group  earnings was negligible due to the continuing effects of the remeasure- ments made for purposes of the purchase price allocation. If these  businesses had been acquired with effect from January 1, 2011, they  would have contributed around 30 million more to Group sales and  3 million more to earnings.  The following table shows the impact of the last four acquisitions  listed above, none of which individually had a signi cant impact on  the Group  assets or liabilities. Additions from Other Acquisitions  million IFRS carrying  amounts prior  to  rst-time  consolidation Purchase  price  allocation Carrying  amounts upon   rst-time  consolidation Intangible assets 0  54  54  Property, plant and   equipment 6  16  22  Other assets 28  2  30  Total assets 34  72  106  Non-current liabilities 0  7  7  Current liabilities 12  0  12  Total liabilities  12  7  19  Net acquired assets  (excluding goodwill) 22  65  87  Acquisition costs 120  Acquired goodwill 33  The goodwill arising from the other acquisitions mainly re ects market- ing and cost synergies resulting from improved capacity utilization,  especially at the production sites in North and South America, and  from the enlargement of  LANXESSs product range in the above busi- ness units.   154  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Other information on companies consolidated   The following table lists the af liated companies in accordance with  Section 313 Paragraph 2 of the German Commercial Code: Company Name and Domicile % Interest held Fully consolidated companies Germany  LANXESS AG, Leverkusen – Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen 100 DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm 50 IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin 100  LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Leverkusen 100  LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl 100  LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen 100  LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Langenfeld 100  LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Leverkusen 100 LXS Dormagen Verwaltungs-GmbH, Dormagen 100 Perlon-Mono l GmbH, Dormagen 100 Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim 100 Saltigo GmbH, Langenfeld 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 52  LANXESS (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100  LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia 100  LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100  LANXESS CISA (Pty.) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa 100  LANXESS Elastomres S.A.S., Lillebonne, France 100  LANXESS Elastomers B.V., Heerlen, Netherlands 100  LANXESS Emulsion Rubber S.A.S., La Wantzenau, France 100  LANXESS Finance B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands 100  LANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100  LANXESS International SA, Granges-Paccot, Switzerland 100  LANXESS Limited, Newbury, U.K. 100  LANXESS Mining (Proprietary) Ltd., Modderfontein,  South Africa 100  LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100  LANXESS Rubber N.V., Zwijndrecht, Belgium 100  LANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France 100  LANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy 100 OOO  LANXESS, Dzerzhinsk, Russia 100 Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., Ede, Netherlands 100 Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 Company Name and Domicile % Interest held Fully consolidated companies North America  LANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100  LANXESS Inc., Sarnia, Canada 100  LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S.A. 100 Rhein Chemie Corporation, Chardon, U.S.A. 100 Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 Unitex Chemical Corporation, Greensboro, U.S.A. 100 Verichem Inc., Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100 Latin America  LANXESS Elastmeros do Brasil S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 100  LANXESS Industria de Produtos Quimicos e Plasticos Ltda.,  So Paulo, Brazil 100  LANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico 100  LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 Rhein Chemie Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay 100 Asia-Paci c  LANXESS Elastomers Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.,  Shanghai, China 100  LANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100  LANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China 100  LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100  LANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100  LANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, China 100  LANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India 100  LANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100  LANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, South Korea 100  LANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100  LANXESS PTY Ltd., Homebush Bay, Australia 100  LANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100  LANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100  LANXESS Wuxi Chemical Co., Ltd., Wuxi, China 100 Nexachem Trading (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. (formerly: Rhein  Chemie LOA (Qingdao) Limited), Qingdao, China 100 Rhein Chemie Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan 100 Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 90  155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Companies consolidated  Company Name and Domicile % Interest held Associates accounted for using the equity method Germany Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen 40 Asia-Paci c  LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd.,  Nantong, China 50 Joint ventures accounted for using the equity method Asia-Paci c Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Chemical Co., Ltd., Tongling, China 25 Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries Germany  LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) Darchem International Ltd., Havant, U.K. 100  LANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited irketi, Istanbul, Turkey 100 OOO  LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia 100 Rustenburg Chrome Mine Holdings (Pty.) Ltd.,  Modderfontein, South Africa 74 W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 North America  LANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 Latin America Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago, Chile 100 Petro ex Trading S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay 100 Other non-consolidated immaterial companies Latin America Hidrax Ltda., Taboo da Serra, Brazil 39  156  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Notes to the statement of  nancial position 1  Intangible assets   Changes in intangible assets were as follows:  Changes in Intangible Assets in 2010  million Concessions, indus- trial property rights,  similar rights and   assets, and licenses to  such rights and assets Acquired goodwill Advance payments Total Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2009 137  128 4 269  Capital expenditures 9  18 27  Disposals (2) (2) Reclassi cations 1  (1) 0  Exchange differences 10  14 0 24  Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2010 155  142 21 318  Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2009 (68) (5) 0 (73) Amortization and impairment losses in 2010 (16) (16) of which impairment losses 0  Disposals 1  1  Reclassi cations 0  Exchange differences (4) 0 (4) Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2010 (87) (5) 0 (92) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2010 68  137 21 226  Changes in Intangible Assets in 2011  million Concessions, indus- trial property rights,  similar rights and   assets, and licenses to  such rights and assets Acquired goodwill Advance payments Total Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2010 155  142  21  318  Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisition 116  45  161  Capital expenditures 25  8 33  Disposals (12) (10) 0  (22)  Reclassi cations 16  (16)  0  Exchange differences (3) (9) 1  (11) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2011 297  168  14  479  Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2010 (87) (5) 0  (92) Changes in scope of consolidation 0  Amortization and impairment losses in 2011 (32) (2) (34) of which impairment losses (2) (2) (4) Disposals 11  6  17  Reclassi cations 0  0  Exchange differences 3  0  3  Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2011 (105) (1) 0  (106) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2011 192  167  14  373   157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the statement of  nancial position 2  Property, plant and equipment  Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows:  Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2010  million Land and buildings Technical  equipment and  machinery Other  xtures,   ttings and  equipment Advance payments  and assets under  construction Total Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2009 1,188  5,167  195  275  6,825  Capital expenditures 27  104  23  348  502  Disposals (38)  (81) (6) (1) (126) Reclassi cations 44  162  11  (217) 0  Exchange differences 34  131  8  16  189  Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2010 1,255  5,483  231  421  7,390  Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses,  Dec. 31, 2009 (833) (4,031) (152) 0  (5,016) Depreciation and impairment losses in 2010 (30) (213) (24) (267) of which impairment losses (1) (1) Disposals 37  80  6  123  Reclassi cations 0  Exchange differences (12) (83) (4) (99) Accumulated depreciation and   impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2010 (838) (4,247) (174) 0  (5,259) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2010 417  1,236  57  421  2,131  Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2011  million Land and buildings Technical  equipment and  machinery Other  xtures,   ttings and  equipment Advance payments  and assets under  construction Total Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2010 1,255  5,483  231  421  7,390  Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions 24  157  2  5  188  Capital expenditures 14  112  19  522  667  Disposals (17) (132) (8) (2) (159) Reclassi cations 31  169  9  (209) 0  Exchange differences (5) (15) (1) 11  (10) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2011 1,302  5,774  252  748  8,076  Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses,  Dec. 31, 2010 (838) (4,247) (174) 0  (5,259) Changes in scope of consolidation 0  Depreciation and impairment losses in 2011 (35) (234) (22) (291) of which impairment losses (2) (7) 0  (9) Disposals 17  130  8  155  Reclassi cations 0  0  0  0  Exchange differences 0  (3) 1  (2) Accumulated depreciation and   impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2011 (856) (4,354) (187) 0  (5,397) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2011 446  1,420  65  748  2,679  Capitalized property, plant and equipment includes assets with a  total  net value of 61 million (2010: 66 million) held under  nance  leases.  The gross carrying amounts of these assets at the closing date  totaled  165 million (2010: 163 million). The assets mainly comprise ma- chinery and technical equipment with a carrying amount of 56 mil- lion (2010: 58 million) and a cost of acquisition or construction of  151 million (2010: 146 million) and buildings with a carrying  amount of 2 million (2010: 7 million) and a cost of acquisition or  construction of 10 million (2010: 16 million). Directly attributable borrowing costs of 12 million (2010: 1 million)  were capitalized, based on an average cost of debt of 5.2% (2010:  5.2%) for the Group.  158  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 3  Investments accounted for using the equity method As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen,  Germany, Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Co., Ltd., Tongling, China, and   LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong,  China, were accounted for using the equity method. The following tables show the main items included in the income state- ment and statement of  nancial position related to these associates: Income from Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method  million 2010 2011 Sales 1,182 1,333 Income from investments accounted for using  the equity method 16 7 Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method  million Dec. 31,  2010 Dec. 31,  2011 Assets 900  911 Liabilities 726  739 Equity 174  172 Adjustment of  LANXESSs interest  and equity valuation (161) (160) Investments accounted for using the  equity method 13  12 The 1 million (2010: 13 million) decrease in the carrying amount  of investments accounted for using the equity method arose from  the equity-method income after adjustments for a loss of 11 million  (2010: 26 million) recognized in other comprehensive income  and the effect of the pro-rata income transfer of 1 million (2010:  8 million). A capital increase at  LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical  Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China, increased the carrying amount  of investments accounted for using the equity method by 4 million  (2010: 5 million). 4  Investments in other af liated companies   This item contains interests in other af liated companies totaling  19 million (2010: 8 million). The increase is primarily due to the  acquisition of shares in service companies acquired together with  the Keltan EPDM business and the acquisition of further shares in  Gevo Inc., Englewood, United States, in connection with its stock  market listing. As of December 31, 2011, the other investments classi ed as  available-for-sale  nancial assets, apart from the shares in Gevo Inc.,  comprised unlisted equity instruments. Since the fair values of these  instruments at the closing date could not be reliably determined, they  were recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of  these investments. 5  Derivative  nancial instruments   Derivatives with a total fair value of 16 million (2010: 22 million) are  capitalized in the consolidated  nancial statements of the  LANXESS  Group for  scal 2011. Instruments with a negative fair value totaling  53 million (2010: 34 million) are recognized as liabilities. Derivative Financial Instruments  million Dec. 31, 2010 Notional  amount Positive fair values Negative fair values Forward exchange contracts 1,718  16  (25)  Currency options 153  2  (9)  Forward commodity contracts 19  4  0  Total derivative  nancial  instruments 1,890  22  (34)  of which current 1,465  19  (23)  of which non-current 425  3  (11)  Derivative Financial Instruments  million Dec. 31, 2011 Notional  amount Positive fair values Negative fair values Forward exchange contracts 2,265  16  (51)  Currency options 0  0  0  Forward commodity contracts 22  0  (2)  Total derivative  nancial  instruments 2,287  16  (53)  of which current 1,827  8  (40)  of which non-current 460  8  (13)  The total notional amount of forward commodity contracts was  22 million (2010: 19 million), including 22 million (2010:  19 million) due within one year. The total notional amount of forward  exchange contracts and currency options was 2,265 million (2010:  1,871 million), including 1,805 million (2010: 1,446 million)  due within one year. Cash  ow hedges As of December 31, 2011 the unrealized losses  recorded in other comprehensive income in 2011 or earlier periods  from currency hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting  amounted to 25 million (2010: 8 million). In  scal 2011, a gain of  12 million (2010: 15 million) was reclassi ed from equity to pro t  or loss due to the realization of the hedged transactions. Currency  hedging contracts had a notional amount of 815 million (2010:  932 million). As of December 31, 2011, these had positive fair  values of 1 million (2010: 12 million) and negative fair values  of 36 million (2010: 24 million). Contracts with a total notional  amount of 583 million (2010: 544 million) are due within one  year. The hedged cash  ows will be realized within the next two years.  159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the statement of  nancial position The  LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized losses from cur- rency hedges recognized in other comprehensive income in 2011,  18 million will be reclassi able from equity to pro t or loss in 2012  and 7 million in 2013 (2010: 3 million expected to be reclassi - able in 2011 and 5 million in 2012). As of December 31, 2011 the unrealized losses recognized in other  comprehensive income in 2011 or earlier periods from forward com- modity contracts that quali ed for hedge accounting amounted to  1 million (2010: 2 million gains). In 2011, a gain of 3 million  (2010: 2 million) was reclassi ed from equity to pro t or loss due  to the realization of the hedged transactions. Hedges comprised for- ward commodity contracts with positive fair values of 0 million on  December 31, 2011 (2010: 4 million) and negative fair values of  2 million (2010: 0 million). The total notional amount of these  hedges was 22 million (2010: 19 million), including 22 million  (2010: 19 million) due within one year. The hedged cash  ows will  be realized within one year.  The  LANXESS Group expects that of the unrealized losses from forward  commodity contracts recognized in other comprehensive income in  2011 (2010: unrealized gains), 1 million will be reclassi able from  equity to pro t or loss in 2012 (2010: 2 million of unrealized gains  reclassi able in 2011). Information on the maturity structure of derivative assets and liabilities  is given in Note [35]. 6  Other non-current and current  nancial assets  Other Financial Assets  million Dec. 31, 2010 Non-current Current Total Available-for-sale  nancial assets 51  1  52  Receivables under  nance leases 6  2  8  Other  nancial receivables 17  55  72  74  58  132  Other Financial Assets  million Dec. 31, 2011 Non-current Current Total Available-for-sale  nancial assets 61  1  62  Receivables under  nance leases 4  2  6  Other  nancial receivables 17  24  41  82  27  109  The available-for sale non-current  nancial assets comprise 60 million  (2010: 50 million) in bearer securities of an exchange-traded index  fund. Accounts receivable of 6 million (2010: 8 million) relate to  lease agreements in which the other party, as lessee, is to be regarded  as the economic owner of the leased assets ( nance leases). The  other  nancial receivables mainly comprise  xed-term investments  with short  xed-interest periods. Write-downs of other  nancial assets  amounted to 9 million (2010: 10 million). The leasing receivables are due as follows: Maturity Structure of Lease Payments  million Dec. 31, 2010 Lease   payments Interest   portion Leasing  receivables Up to 1 year 2  0  2  1 to 5 years 7  1  6  9  1  8  Maturity Structure of Lease Payments  million Dec. 31, 2011 Lease   payments Interest   portion Leasing  receivables Up to 1 year 3  1  2  1 to 5 years 4  0  4  7  1  6  7  Other non-current assets   Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less write-downs.  No write-downs were necessary in 2010 or 2011. Other non-current assets comprised: Other Non-Current Assets  million Dec. 31,  2010 Dec. 31,  2011 Receivables from pension obligations 81  85  Other receivables 32  35  113  120  The increase in receivables from pension obligations was mainly   attributable to an increase in the value of the underlying assets. Other  receivables include security deposits.  160  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 8  Inventories  The inventories of the  LANXESS Group comprised: Inventories  million Dec. 31,  2010 Dec. 31,  2011 Raw materials and supplies 243  271  Work in process,  nished goods and merchandise 851  1,115  1,094  1,386  Inventories of 184 million (2010: 157 million) are re ected at  their net realizable value.  Write-downs of inventories were as follows: Write-Downs of Inventories  million 2010 2011 Balance at beginning of year (79)  (62) Additions charged as expenses (18) (59) Reversals/utilization 38  20  Exchange differences (3) 0  Balance at end of year (62) (101) 9  Trade receivables   Trade receivables are stated after write-downs of 13 million (2010:  19 million) for amounts unlikely to be recovered. These write-downs  related to gross receivables of 28 million (2010: 25 million). All trade receivables – totaling 1,146 million (2010: 942 mil- lion) – are due within one year. Trade receivables of 6 million (2010:  3 million) related to other af liated companies and 1,140 million  (2010: 939 million) to other customers.  Changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as follows: Write-Downs of Trade Receivables  million 2010 2011 Balance at beginning of year (22)  (19) Additions charged as expenses (4) (3) Reversals/utilization 8  8  Exchange differences (1) 1  Balance at end of year (19) (13) The maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was as follows: Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables  million Dec. 31,  2010 Dec. 31,  2011 Carrying amount 942  1,146  of which neither impaired nor past due 850  1,033  of which unimpaired but past due by up to 30 days 75  85  between 31 and 60 days 7  9  between 61 and 90 days 1  1  more than 90 days 3  3  With regard to trade receivables that were neither impaired nor past  due, there were no indications as of the closing date that the respec- tive debtors would not meet their payment obligations. 10 Near-cash assets   The near-cash assets of 350 million (2010: 364 million) comprise  units of money market funds that can be sold at any time and are  expected to be realized within twelve months after the closing date. 11 Other current assets   Other receivables and other assets totaling 230 million (2010:  222 million) are stated at amortized cost less any write-downs. They  principally comprise miscellaneous claims for tax refunds (mainly sales  taxes) amounting to 182 million (2010: 109 million) and other  advance payments. Write-downs totaled 1 million (2010: 1 million). 12 Equity  Share buyback and retirement The Annual Stockholders Meeting of   LANXESS AG on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management  until May 17, 2016 to acquire shares in the company representing  up to 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose  per mitted by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiar- ies of the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or  its subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such  shares may be acquired either in the market or via a public tender  offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any  purpose permitted by law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them  other than via the stock exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or  transfer them against consideration in kind for the purpose of acquir- ing companies, parts of companies or equity interests in companies   161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the statement of  nancial position or in order to conclude mergers. It is also authorized to use them to  satisfy conversion rights from convertible or warrant bonds and/or  pro t-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of these  instruments) issued by the company and to grant holders of convertible  or warrant bonds and/or pro t-participation rights or income bonds  (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the company or  its direct and indirect af liates that grant a conversion or option right  or stipulate a conversion or warrant obligation the number of shares  for which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise  of their conversion or option rights or ful llment of the conversion or  warrant obligation. The stockholders shall not have subscription rights  in such cases, except where the shares are retired. Capital stock The capital stock of  LANXESS AG was 83,202,670 and  thus unchanged from the previous year. It is divided into 83,202,670  no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations.  One vote is granted per share, and pro t is distributed per share. Authorized capital As of December 31, 2011 the companys autho- rized capital comprised the following: Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 2 of   LANXESS AGs articles of association, the Annual Stockholders  Meeting on May 7, 2009 authorized the Board of Management until  May 6, 2014, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase  the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par  shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount  of 16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally  entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized.  With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can  be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of  warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its af liates  subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such par- ties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion  or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with  the approval of the Supervisory Board when the companys capital  stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the  acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded  with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders  of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its   af liates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription  rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board  if the issue price of the new shares is not signi cantly lower than the  stock market price at the time the issue price is  xed and the issued  shares do not exceed 10% of the companys capital stock. Further  details are given in Section 4 Paragraph 2 of the articles of association. In addition, pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 3 of  LANXESS AGs  articles of association, the Annual Stockholders Meeting on May 28,  2010 authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015,  with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the com- panys capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par  shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of  16,640,534 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are generally  entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized.  With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can  be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of  warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its af liates  subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such par- ties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion  or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with  the approval of the Supervisory Board when the companys capital  stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the  acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded  with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders  of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its   af liates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription  rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board  if the issue price of the new shares is not signi cantly lower than the  stock market price at the time the issue price is  xed and the issued  shares do not exceed 10% of the companys capital stock. Further  details are given in Section 4 Paragraph 3 of the articles of association. Conditional capital As of December 31, 2011 the companys con- ditional capital comprised the following: Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders Meeting of  LANXESS AG  on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until May 17,  2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one or  more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, pro t- participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these  instruments (collectively referred to as bonds) – either as registered or  as bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to 2,000,000,000,  with or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or im- pose option obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds,  pro t-participation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants,  and/or to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obliga- tions on, the holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible  pro t-participation rights or convertible income bonds in respect of  bearer shares of the company representing a total pro-rata increase  of up to 16,640,543 in the companys capital stock on the terms  to be de ned for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 4 of  the articles of association, the capital stock of  LANXESS AG is thus  conditionally increased by up to 16,640,534 (Conditional Capital).   162  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the extent  that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exercise, option  or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the company or  a dependent company against cash contributions, or issued against  cash contributions and guaranteed by the company or a dependent  company, on or before May 17, 2016 on the basis of the authorization  granted to the Board of Management by the  Annual Stockholders  Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option or conversion rights  or, where they are obligated to do so, ful ll such obligation, or to the  extent that the company elects to grant shares in the company in place  of all or part of the cash amount due for payment. The conditional  capital increase shall not be implemented if cash compensation is  granted or if the companys own shares, shares issued out of autho- rized capital or shares in another listed company are used to service  the option or conversion rights. When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with  the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights  in the following cases:    for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio;   insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued  option  or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights to the num- ber of new shares to which they would be entitled to subscribe as  stockholders upon exercise of their option or conversion rights or  ful llment of their option or conversion obligations;    in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue price is  not signi cantly below the theoretical market value of the bonds with  option or conversion rights or conversion obligations, as determined  using accepted pricing models; if bonds are issued by application of  Section 186 Paragraph 3 Sentence 4 of the German Stock Corpora- tion Act, in which case the issued shares may not exceed a total of  10% of the capital stock either at the time this authorization takes  effect or at the time it is utilized;    if pro t-participation rights or income bonds without option or con- version rights or conversion obligations are vested with bond-like  characteristics.  Capital reserves The capital reserves of  LANXESS AG were unchanged  from the previous year at 806,195,490. Other reserves The 244 million increase in other reserves to  943 million was entirely attributable to the increase in retained earn- ings from 541 million to 785 million. Retained earnings comprised prior years undistributed income of  companies included in the consolidated  nancial statements. They  also contained actuarial gains and losses along with the effects of the  asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements for de ned-bene t  plans and the associated tax effects. Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests comprised the  interests held by other stockholders in the equity of DuBay Polymer  GmbH, Hamm, Germany; EUROPIGMENTS S.L., Barcelona, Spain;  and Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao, China. The year-on- year change was entirely related to the earnings for 2011.  Capital management The main purpose of capital management in the   LANXESS Group is to maintain the long-term viability of the Groups  operations and achieve an attractive return on sales and capital com- pared to the chemical industry average.  LANXESSs  nancial policy  de nes a second key criterion for capital management, which is to  maintain an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the Group  has to meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most of these are  derived from the statement of  nancial position, income statement  and cash  ow data. Capital management in the  LANXESS Group   entails decisions by the relevant internal bodies on the capital structure  shown on the statement of  nancial position, the appropriateness of  the companys equity, the distribution of the pro t, the amount of the  dividend, the  nancing of capital expenditures and borrowing and the  repayment of debt. The articles of association of  LANXESS AG do not  contain any speci c capital requirements. 13  Provisions for pensions and other  post-employment bene ts   Most employees in the  LANXESS Group are entitled to retirement  bene ts on the basis of statutory regulations or contractual agree- ments. These are provided through both de ned-contribution and  de ned-bene t plans.   163 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the statement of  nancial position In the case of de ned-contribution plans, the company pays contribu- tions into separate pension funds. These contributions are included in  the respective functional cost items as expenses for the year, and thus  in the operating result. Once the contributions have been paid, the  company has no further payment obligations. In 2011 these expenses  totaled 38 million (2010: 34 million). The pension plan  nanced through the Bayer Pensionskasse is also  re ected in the consolidated  nancial statements as a de ned-con- tribution plan. The above amounts include contributions of 21 mil- lion (2010: 21 million) to this pension fund. In 2011 the Bayer   Pensionskasse decided to increase future contribution rates to cover  its long-term pension obligations. Accordingly, contributions are ex- pected to increase to around 28 million for 2012. The Bayer Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurance  company and is therefore subject to the German Insurance Supervision  Act. The obligation of the plan sponsors is not con ned to payment  of the contributions for the respective  scal year. Therefore the Bayer  Pensionskasse is a de ned-bene t plan sponsored by multiple employ- ers and would normally have to be accounted for proportionately as  a de ned-bene t plan. The Bayer Pensionskasse is  nanced not on the principle of coverage  for individual bene t entitlements, but on the actuarial equivalence  principle, based on totals for the whole plan. This means that the sum  of existing plan assets and the present value of future contributions  must be at least equal to the present value of the future bene ts pay- able under the plan. The  LANXESS Group is therefore exposed to the  actuarial risks of the other plan sponsors of the Bayer Pensionskasse  and thus has no consistent or reliable basis for allocating the bene t  obligation, plan assets and costs to account for the Bayer Pensions- kasse as a de ned-bene t plan in accordance with IAS 19. There is no  information available on over- or underfunding that could be used to  estimate any impact on future contributions. The Bayer Pensionskasse  is therefore accounted for as a de ned-contribution plan and not as  a de ned-bene t plan. The Bayer Pensionskasse assumes any pension adjustments in   accordance with Section 16 of the German Occupational Pensions  Improvement Act (BetrAVG) insofar as the necessary funds are made  available to it. Pension adjustments not expected to be assumed by  the Bayer Pensionskasse are accounted for by  LANXESS as a separate  de ned-bene t plan. Pension plans based on statutory regulations mainly comprise an  obligation to pay a lump sum when employment ends. The amount  depends principally on years of service and  nal salary. Pension plans based on contractual agreements generally comprise  lifelong bene ts payable in the event of death or disability or when  the employee reaches a certain age. Bene ts are normally based on  employees salaries and years of service. Alongside retirement bene ts, pension and other post-employment  bene t obligations include the obligation of Group companies in the  Americas to reimburse healthcare costs to retirees.  Bene t entitlements are  nanced either internally through provisions  or externally through legally independent pension funds. The pension  commitments in Germany are partly covered by the  LANXESS Pension  Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany (CTA).  The provisions for pensions and other post-employment bene ts rec- ognized in the statement of  nancial position re ect the present value  of the de ned-bene t obligation at year end, taking into account ex- pected future bene t increases, less the year-end fair value of external  plan assets adjusted for unrecognized past service cost, unrealizable  plan assets and minimum funding requirements. The de ned-bene t  obligation is measured regularly – at least every three years – by an  independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Com- prehensive actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for  all major pension plans. The discount rates used to compute present  value normally correspond to the yields on high-quality corporate  bonds with the same maturities. Total expenses for de ned-bene t plans in 2011 amounted to 47 mil- lion (2010: 38 million). Expenses for pension payments, and the  effect of plan curtailments, settlements and divestments totaling  38 million (2010: 33 million), are recognized in the operating  result. The interest cost pertaining to pension entitlements earned in  prior years and the expected return on plan assets totaled 9 million  (2010: 5 million). This amount was re ected in the  nancial result.   164  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 The costs for the plans comprise the following: Costs for De ned-Bene t Plans  million Pension  obligations Other post-  employment bene t  obligations 2010  2011  2010  2011  Current service cost 18  22  12  7  Past service cost 0  1  0  0  Interest cost 84  89  7  7  Expected return on plan assets (86)  (87)  0  0  Plan curtailments, settlements and  divestments 3  8  0  0  19  33  19  14  The reconciliation of the de ned-bene t obligation to the net amounts  of assets and provisions recognized in the statement of  nancial  position is as follows: Reconciliation to Net Recognized Liability as of Dec. 31  million Pension  obligations Other post-  employment bene t  obligations 2010  2011  2010  2011  De ned bene t obligation (funded) 1,279  1,347  7  6  External plan assets (1,105) (1,156)  (3)  (4)  Underfunding 174  191  4  2  De ned bene t obligation  ( unfunded) 140  187  118  120  Unrecognized past service cost (1)  (1)  1  0  Effects of asset ceiling and   minimum funding requirements 88  95  – – Net recognized liability 401  472  123  122  Amounts recognized in the  statement of  nancial position Receivables from  pension obligations (81) (85)  – – Provisions for pensions and other  post-employment bene ts 482  557  123  122  Net recognized liability 401  472  123  122  The net recognized liability is re ected in the following items in the  statement of  nancial position: Net Recognized Liability as of Dec. 31  million 2010 2011 Provisions for pensions and other   post-employment bene ts 605  679  Other non-current assets (81)  (85) Net recognized liability 524  594  The de ned-bene t obligation and plan assets changed as follows  in 2011:  Change in De ned-Bene t Obligation as of Dec. 31  million Pension  obligations Other post-  employment bene t  obligations 2010  2011  2010  2011  De ned-bene t obligation Bene t obligation at  beginning of year 1,117  1,419  114  125  Current service cost 18  22  12  7  Past service cost 0  1  – – Interest cost 84  89  7  7  Employee contributions 2  2  – – Plan settlements (6)  (34) – – Actuarial gains/losses 188  137  2  1  Bene ts paid (67)  (74)  (17) (13)  Acquisitions/divestments 0  0  – – Plan curtailments 0  0  0  0  Exchange differences 83  (28)  7  (1)  Bene t obligation at end of year 1,419  1,534  125  126   165 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the statement of  nancial position Change in Plan Assets as of Dec. 31  million Pension  obligations Other post-  employment bene t  obligations 2010  2011  2010  2011  Fair value of plan assets Plan assets at beginning of year 876  1,105  3  3  Expected return on plan assets 86  87  0  0  Actuarial gains/losses 5  52  0  0  Acquisitions/divestments – 0  – – Plan settlements (9) (42)  – – Employer contributions 96  48  0  1  Employee contributions 2  2  – – Bene ts paid (52) (57) 0  0  Exchange differences 101  (39)  0  0  Plan assets at end of year 1,105  1,156  3  4   Employer contributions contain both allocations to externally  nanced  pension obligations where  LANXESS is eligible for reimbursement of  pension payments and externally  nanced pension obligations where  subsequent pension payments will be made directly out of external  pension assets. Allocations to external  nancing where  LANXESS can claim reimburse- ment of payments made (CTA) amounted to 30 million (2010:  75 million). Allocations to external  nancing where subsequent  pension payments are made directly out of external pension assets  totaled 19 million in 2011 (2010: 21 million). It is not possible to reliably estimate the employer contributions to  de ned-bene t plans in the next  scal year. These depend mainly on  future decisions by the companys management and on the regulatory  environment in each country.  The following table shows the actuarial gains and losses recognized  outside pro t or loss as a component of other comprehensive income,  the effects of the asset ceiling recognized in other comprehensive  income, and the minimum funding requirements: Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income  million Pension  obligations Other post-  employment bene t  obligations 2010  2011  2010  2011  Actuarial gains/losses (183)  (85)  (2) (1)  Effects of asset ceiling  and minimum funding requirements 78  (10)  – – (105) (95)  (2) (1)  The accumulated actuarial gains and losses recognized in other com- prehensive income at year end 2011 amounted to minus 385 million  (2010: minus 302 million). The actuarial gains and losses are assigned to the following categories: Categories of Actuarial Gains/Losses as of Dec. 31  million Pension obligations Other post- employment bene t obligations 2007  2008 2009 2010  2011  2007 2008 2009 2010  2011  Difference between expected and actual return  on plan assets 1  (50) 15  5  52  0  0  0  0  0  Experience adjustments (23) (26) 36  (54) (39) (3) 0  (2) 4  4  Adjustments for changes in valuation assumptions 95  90  (81) (134) (98) 7  6  (6) (6) (5) Net actuarial gain/loss for the year 73  14  (30) (183) (85) 4  6  (8) (2) (1)  166  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Experience adjustments represent changes in bene t obligations  arising from differences between actuarial assumptions and actual  developments during the year. By contrast, adjustments for changes  in valuation assumptions re ect differences in the bene t obligation  resulting from differences in the assumptions made at the start and  end of the year. The increase in the adjustments for changes in valuation assump- tions is primarily due to the decline in discount rates in the principal  countries in which  LANXESS has pension obligations. The actual return on plan assets in 2011 amounted to 139 million  (2010: 91 million). The following weighted parameters were used to calculate bene t  expense and obligations: Assumptions as of Dec. 31 % Pension  obligations Other post-  employment bene t  obligations 2010  2011  2010  2011  Discount rate 6.7  6.2  6.3  5.7  Expected salary increases 4.0  3.6  4.1  3.8  Expected pension increases 2.1  2.1  – – Expected return on plan assets 8.7  7.8  5.8  5.8  Expected increase in the cost  of medical care – – 8.6  8.4  Expected long-term increase in  the cost of medical care – – 5.5  5.5  The discount rate is weighted on the basis of the bene t obligation for  each pension plan at year end, including all plans in the calculation. By  contrast, the weighting of the percentage for the expected return on  plan assets only includes pension plans with plan assets. The weight- ing is based on the plan assets at year end. The weighted valuation  assumptions also re ect country-speci c differences. The Heubeck mortality tables 2005 G form the biometric basis for  the computation of pension obligations in Germany. Current national  biometric assumptions are used to compute bene t obligations at  other Group companies. Employee turnover rates are estimated on  the basis of age and gender.  The discount rate used to calculate the present value of pension and  other post-employment bene t obligations is derived from the yield  on high-quality corporate bonds with the same maturity. An increase  of 0.5 percentage point in the discount rate would reduce pension  obligations by 105 million (2010: 90 million) and other post- employment bene t obligations by 6 million (2010: 5 million).  A reduction of 0.5 percentage point in the discount rate would have  largely the opposite effect. The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to take place  within about  ve years.  Assuming all other parameters remain unchanged, a one percentage  point increase or decrease in the assumptions relating to the expected  long-term increase in medical costs would raise or reduce the present  value of the de ned-bene t obligation by 9 million (2010: 8 mil- lion). The costs for healthcare plans would not materially increase or  decrease.  The plan assets now comprise: Breakdown of Plan Assets as of Dec. 31 % of plan assets 2010 2011 Fixed-income securities 62.8  58.1  Equity instruments 22.7  25.7  Real estate 2.1  2.0  Other  12.4  14.2  100.0  100.0  The expected return on each category of plan assets was calculated  on the basis of generally available and internal capital market reports  and forecasts. The expected return on  xed-income securities is based  on the maturity of the portfolio and the yields on the closing date. The  expected return on equity instruments re ects the long-term return  expectations for the underlying equity portfolio.  The table below shows the de ned-bene t obligation and plan assets  at the end of each year:  Funded Status as of Dec. 31  million 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 De ned bene t obligation 967  1,049  1,231  1,544  1,660  External plan assets (491)  (668) (879) (1,108) (1,160) Underfunding 476  381  352  436  500   167 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the statement of  nancial position 14  Other non-current and current provisions  These comprise: Other Provisions  million Dec. 31, 2010  Dec. 31, 2011  Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Personnel 151  92  38  281  172  85  30  287  Environmental protection 29  31  68  128  23  34  77  134  Trade-related commitments 97  32  – 129  115  11  – 126  Restructuring 26  23  12  61  23  31  6  60  Miscellaneous 119  43  12  174  113  45  12  170  422  221  130  773  446  206  125  777  Provisions changed as follows in 2011: Changes in Other Provisions in 2011  million Jan. 1, 2011 Allocations Interest effect Utilization Reversals Exchange   differences Dec. 31,  2011 Personnel 281  153  4  (137)  (10) (4) 287  Environmental protection 128  21  4  (11) (7) (1) 134  Trade-related commitments 129  65  0  (41) (26) (1) 126  Restructuring 61  29  0  (14) (16) 0  60  Miscellaneous 174  57  4  (35) (23) (7) 170  773  325  12  (238) (82) (13) 777  Personnel-related provisions Personnel-related provisions mainly  relate to annual performance-related compensation and multi-year  compensation programs.  Multi-year compensation programs Long-Term Incentive Program (LTIP)   LANXESS AG offers a long-term  incentive program to members of the Management Board and certain  other managers. This program provides for cash settlement. Follow- ing the granting of rights under two consecutive three-year programs  launched in 2005, a new program was introduced in 2010 under  which rights are being granted for the years 2010 to 2013. The date  of issue of the rights granted and still outstanding and the rights from  the outstanding tranches is February 1 each year. Participation in the  LTIP is conditional upon each manager making a personal investment  in  LANXESS stock, depending on his/her base salary. Whereas the  rst program comprised a share-based component (Stock  Performance Plan 2005–2007) and a non-share-based component  (Economic Value Plan), the subsequent programs are entirely share- based (Stock Performance Plan 2008–2010 and Stock Performance  Plan 2010–2013). Stock Performance Plan Awards under the Stock Performance Plan  are based on the performance of  LANXESS stock relative to the Dow  Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index. Stock Performance Plan 2005–2007 If  LANXESS stock performs in  line with this index, a payment of 0.75 per right is made. For each  percentage point up to 10% by which the stock outperforms the index,  0.025 is paid in addition. For each percentage point above 10%,  0.05 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right,  however, is 1.50. Members of the Board of Management and senior managers were  entitled to take part in the Stock Performance Plan 2005–2007. Eligi- bility for this plan was contingent upon participation in the Economic  Value Plan described below.  Stock Performance Plan 2008–2010 If  LANXESS stock outperforms  the index, a payment of at least 0.75 per right is made. For each  percentage point up to 5% by which the stock outperforms the in- dex, 0.05 is paid in addition. For each percentage point above 5%,  0.06667 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per  right, however, is 2.00. Stock Performance Plan 2010–2013 If  LANXESS stock outperforms  the index, a payment of at least 0.75 per right is made. For each  percentage point by which the stock outperforms the index, 0.125 is  paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however,  is 2.00.  168  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Members of the Board of Management and senior managers are  entitled to take part in the Stock Performance Plan 2008–2010 and  the Stock Performance Plan 2010–2013. Obligations arising from the Stock Performance Plan are valued on  the basis of the following principal parameters: Principal Parameters as of Dec. 31 % 2010 2011 Expected share price volatility 40.0 41.0 Expected dividend payment 2.0 2.0 Expected index volatility 20.0 23.0 Correlation between  LANXESS stock  and the index 70.0 81.0 Risk-free interest rate 0.7 0.4 The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of   LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index  in the past two years.  The following table provides information on the tranches outstanding  as of December 31, 2011: Stock Performance Plan SP Plan  2005–2007 SP Plan 2008–2010 SP Plan 2010–2013 Tranche 2007 Tranche 2008 Tranche 2009 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2011 Duration 5 years 6 years 6 years 6 years 7 years 7 years Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 4 years 4 years Holding period for personal investment shares Jan. 31, 2010 Feb. 1, 2013 Feb. 1, 2013 Feb. 1, 2013 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Initial  LANXESS share price 40.79 24.03 12.86 27.28 27.28 55.60 Initial Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index price 431.50 points 465.97 points 317.39 points 432.44 points 432.44 points 564.17 points Fair value per right as of December 31, 2010 1.10 2.00 1.98 1.46 1.31 – Fair value per right as of December 31, 2011 0.04 2.00 2.00 1.20 1.04 0.27 Change in number of outstanding rights Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2011 1,002,155  10,746,985  11,966,222  13,186,165  12,312,495  0  Rights granted – – – – – 12,280,036  Rights exercised 639,950  10,208,485  – – – – Rights compensated – – 243,897  131,897  162,641  122,428  Rights forfeited – – 598,333  765,623  1,442,900  451,510  Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2011 362,205  538,500  11,123,992  12,288,645 10,706,954 11,706,098  LANXESS shares were trading at 40.00 at year end 2011, and the  reference index stood at 513.19 points.  The net expense in 2011 totaled 13 million (2010: 40 million).  While rights from the 2007 tranche were exercised at an average  value of 0.78, the rights from the 2008 tranche were exercised at the  maximum value. As of December 31, 2011, a provision of 38 mil- lion (2010: 46 million) had been established. Of this amount, the  intrinsic value of rights exercisable as of the closing date accounted  for 1 million (2010: 1 million).  Economic Value Plan Awards under the Economic Value Plan  were dependent on the development of the economic value of the   LANXESS Group. The Economic Value Plan ended in 2011 following  the disbursement to eligible participants of the provision of 9 million   established as of December 31, 2010. Environmental provisions  The Groups activities are subject to exten- sive legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which it does business.  Compliance with environmental laws may require  LANXESS to remove  or mitigate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical substances  at various sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous site   169 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the statement of  nancial position owner or plant operator may be held liable for the costs of removing  hazardous substances from the soil or groundwater on its property  or neighboring areas, or rendering them harmless, without regard  to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused the presence  of contaminants, and often regardless of whether the practices that   resulted in contamination were legal at the time they occurred. As many  of  LANXESSs production sites have a long history of industrial use, it  is not always possible to accurately predict the effects such situations  may have on the  LANXESS Group in the future. Since  LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility therefore can- not be excluded that soil or groundwater contamination may have  occurred at its locations in the past. Claims in this regard could be  brought by government agencies, private organizations or indi viduals.  Such claims would then relate to the remediation of sites or other land  that the  LANXESS Group acquired from the Bayer Group or from  third parties, where materials were produced speci cally for third par- ties under contract manufacturing agreements or where waste from  production facilities operated by the  LANXESS Group was treated,  stored or disposed of. Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under legislation  such as the U.S. environment law commonly known as Superfund. At  locations in the U.S., numerous companies, including  LANXESS, have  been noti ed that the U.S. authorities or private individuals consider  such companies to be potentially responsible parties under Superfund  or related laws. At some sites,  LANXESS may be the sole responsible  party. Remediation measures have already been initiated at most of  the sites concerned.  The existing provisions for environmental remediation costs relate  primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, recultivation of  land lls, and redevelopment and water protection measures. The pro- visions for environmental remediation costs are stated at the present  value of the expected commitments where environmental assessments  or clean-ups are probable, the costs can be reasonably estimated and  no future economic bene t is expected to arise from these measures.  Costs are estimated based on signi cant factors such as previous expe- rience in similar cases, environmental assessments, current cost levels  and new circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of current  environmental laws and regulations, the number of other  potentially  responsible parties at each site and the identity and  nancial position  of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of the liability,  and the remediation methods likely to be employed. It is dif cult to estimate the future costs of environmental protection  and remediation because of many uncertainties concerning the legal  requirements and the information available about conditions in the  various countries and at speci c sites. Subject to these factors, but  taking into consideration experience gained to date with matters of a  similar nature, we believe our provisions to be adequate based upon  currently available information. However, the possibility that additional  costs could be incurred beyond the amounts accrued cannot be   excluded.  LANXESS nevertheless estimates that such additional costs,  should they occur, would not materially impact the Groups  nancial  position or results of operations. Trade-related commitments Provisions for trade-related commitments  mainly comprise those for rebates, customer discounts, product   returns, outstanding invoices, impending losses and onerous contracts.  Provisions for restructuring Of the restructuring provisions existing as  of December 31, 2010, a total amount of 14 million was utilized  in 2011. 29 million was allocated in 2011 to provisions for further  restructuring programs. Provisions for restructuring totaled 60 million (2010: 61 million) on  December 31, 2011. Of this amount, 45 million (2010: 39 million)  comprised provisions for severance payments and other personnel  expenses and 15 million (2010: 22 million) comprised provisions  for demolition and other expenses.  170  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Miscellaneous provisions Legal risks The  LANXESS Group is involved in numerous legal dis- putes. As an international chemicals group,  LANXESS is exposed to  administrative or court proceedings in the normal course of business  and may be again in the future. Administrative and court proceedings generally involve complex tech- nical and/or legal issues and are therefore subject to a number of  imponderables. The outcomes of any current or future proceedings  cannot be predicted with certainty. It is therefore possible that legal  judgments could give rise to expenses that are not covered, or not fully  covered, by insurance and that could materially affect the business  operations, revenues, earnings and cash  ows of the  LANXESS Group. Sundry provisions The sundry provisions contain provisions for guaran- tees, product liability, waste management commitments not included  in environmental provisions, and provisions for other liabilities.  15 Other non-current and current  nancial liabilities    The following tables show the structure and maturities of other  nan- cial liabilities: Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2010  million Current Non-current 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 > 2015 Total Bonds 401  496  198  1,095  Liabilities to banks 124  57  14  13  12  30  126  Liabilities under  nance leases 11  10  34  6  4  25  79  Other primary  nancial liabilities 41    2  2  176  468  48  515  16  255  1,302  Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2011  million Current Non-current 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 > 2016 Total Bonds 401  497  199  496  1,192  Liabilities to banks 159  27  35  34  34  61  191  Liabilities under  nance leases 11  35  7  4  5  22  73  Other primary  nancial liabilities 62  2  3  3  1  9  633  62  541  41  241  580  1,465  The  LANXESS Group has placed the following bonds on the capital  market: Bonds Issuance Amount  million Interest rate  % Maturity June 2005 500  4.125  June 2012 April 2009 500  7.750  April 2014 September 2009 200  5.500  September 2016 May 2011 500  4.125  May 2018 In September 2009,  LANXESS partially redeemed the bond issued in  June 2005, reducing the outstanding nominal amount to 402 million.  171 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the statement of  nancial position The weighted average interest rate for  nancial liabilities in the   LANXESS Group at year end was 5.3% (2010: 5.9%). Liabilities under lease agreements are recognized if the leased assets  are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as the  economic  property of the Group ( nance leases). Lease payments totaling  100 million (2010: 110 million), including 16 million (2010:  20 million) in interest, are to be made to lessors in future years. Other primary  nancial liabilities include accrued interest of 55 million  (2010: 41 million) on  nancial liabilities. Of this amount, 53 million  (2010: 40 million) relates to the above-mentioned bonds.  Information on the fair values of  nancial liabilities and the contractually  agreed payments, especially interest payments, is given in Note [35]. 16 Non-current and current income tax liabilities  The non-current and current income tax liabilities comprise:  Income Tax Liabilities  million Dec. 31, 2010 Non-current Current Total Provisions 41  33  74  Payables 9  1  10  50  34  84  Income Tax Liabilities  million Dec. 31, 2011 Non-current Current Total Provisions 55  43  98  Payables 8  6  14  63  49  112  17  Other non-current and current liabilities  The other non-current liabilities totaling 89 million (2010: 95 mil- lion) mainly include asset subsidies of 71 million (2010: 79 million)  granted by third parties.  The other current liabilities are recognized at settlement cost. They  comprise: Other Current Liabilities   million Dec. 31,  2010 Dec. 31,  2011 Tax liabilities 42  59  Payroll liabilities 21  27  Social security liabilities 20  24  Miscellaneous liabilities 49  45  132  155  Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies own tax liabili- ties, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities on behalf  of third parties. Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance contri- butions that had not been paid by the closing date.  The miscellaneous liabilities include guarantees, commission payments  to customers and reimbursements of expenses. As in the previous year,  there were no such liabilities to other af liated companies. 18 Trade payables    Trade accounts were mainly payable to third parties. As in the previous  year, the entire amount totaling 766 million (2010: 664 million)  is due within one year. Trade payables of 35 million (2010: 26 million) related to compa- nies accounted for using the equity method and 731 million (2010:  638 million) to other suppliers.  19 Further information on liabilities     Of the total liabilities, 586 million (2010: 261 million) had maturi- ties of more than  ve years. The increase from the previous year was  mainly due to the issue of the 500 million Benchmark Bond that  matures in 2018.  172  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Notes to the income statement 20 Sales    Sales, amounting in 2011 to 8,775 million (2010: 7,120 million),  mainly comprise goods sold less discounts and rebates.  A breakdown of sales and the change in sales by segment and region  is given in the segment information (see Note [37]). 21 Cost of sales Cost of Sales  million 2010 2011 Expenses for raw materials and merchandise 3,451  4,570  Direct manufacturing and other production costs 1,930  2,195  5,381  6,765  Direct manufacturing costs include those for personnel, depreciation,  impairments, energies, and goods and services procured. The other  production costs mainly comprise inventory valuation effects and  inventory discrepancies. 22 Selling expenses   Selling Expenses  million 2010 2011 Marketing costs 375  440  Outward freight charges and  other selling expenses 271  292  646  732  The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal and exter- nal marketing and sales organization, freight charges, warehousing,  packaging and the provision of advice to customers. 23 Research and development expenses    The research and development expenses of 144 million (2010:  116 million) mainly include the costs incurred to gain new scienti c  and technical knowledge, expenses relating to the search for alterna- tive products and production processes, and costs for applying the  results of research. 24 General administration expenses     General administration expenses comprise costs not directly  related  to operational business processes and the costs for the country   organizations. 25 Other operating income   Other Operating Income  million 2010 2011 Income from non-core business 124  93  Income from the reversal of provisions 24  29  Income from hedging with derivative    nancial  instruments 0  16  Income from reversals of write-downs of   receivables and other assets 6  4  Gains from the disposal of non-current assets  1  3  Miscellaneous operating income 34  34  189  179  26 Other operating expenses Other Operating Expenses  million 2010 2011 Expenses for non-core business 108  72  Expenses for allocations to restructuring provisions 11  29  Write-downs of trade receivables and  other current assets 4  3  Losses from the disposal of non-current assets 1  1  Expenses for hedging with derivative   nancial instruments 20  0  Miscellaneous operating expenses 117  107  261  212  Miscellaneous operating expenses include allocations to environmental  provisions, expenses for designing and implementing IT projects, and  costs incurred for corporate transactions.  173 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the income statement 27 Financial result    The  nancial result is comprised as follows: Financial Result  million 2010 2011 Income from investments accounted for   using the equity method  16  7  Interest income  10  11  Interest expense  (93) (104) Net interest expense  (83) (93) Interest portion of interest-bearing provisions  (18) (21) Net exchange loss  (16) (4) Miscellaneous  nancial expenses  (12) (9) Dividends and income from other  af liated companies  (1) (1) Other  nancial income and expense (47) (35) Financial result (114) (121) Interest expense mainly includes payments of bond interest. This  amount has been adjusted for capitalized borrowing costs of 12 mil- lion (2010: 1 million). In compliance with IAS 17, the interest portion  of the lease payments under  nance leases amounting to 4 million  (2010: 5 million) is included in interest expense. Income from invest- ments accounted for using the equity method comprises the 7 million  (2010: 16 million) share in the income of Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG,  Leverkusen, Germany, that is attributable to  LANXESS. 28 Income taxes    This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual  countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the  basis of local tax rates. The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows:  Income Taxes by Origin  million 2010 2011 Current taxes (60)  (129) Deferred taxes resulting from  temporary differences (37) 13  statutory changes in tax rates 0  (1) loss carryforwards (15) (31) Income taxes (112) (148) The actual tax expense for 2011 was 148 million (2010: 112 mil- lion). This  gure differed by 58 million (2010: 42 million) from the  expected tax expense of 206 million (2010: 154 million).  The expected tax expense for the  LANXESS Group is calculated by  applying an overall tax rate of 31.5% (2010: 31.2%) for the German  companies. This comprises a corporation tax rate of 15.0%, plus a  solidarity surcharge (5.5% of corporation tax) and trade tax. The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax result  is as follows: Reconciliation to Reported Tax Income   million 2010 2011 Income before income taxes 493  655  Aggregated income tax rate of  LANXESS AG  31.2%  31.5%  Expected tax expense (154)  (206)  Tax difference due to differences between local  tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate 52  75  Reduction in taxes due to tax-free income and reduction of tax bases 8  7  utilization of unrecognized loss carryforwards 3  25  Increase in taxes due to  non-tax-deductible expenses (6)  (5)  Other tax effects (15)  (44)  Actual tax result (112) (148)  Effective tax rate  22.7%  22.6%  The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the various items  of the statement of  nancial position as follows: Deferred Taxes  million Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2011 Deferred  tax  assets Deferred tax   liabilities Deferred  tax  assets Deferred tax   liabilities Intangible assets 8  17  7  40  Property, plant and equipment 4  136  4  146  Inventories 13  3  38  4  Receivables and other assets 5  66  5  39  Pension provisions 83  0  98  0  Other provisions 104  0  110  0  Liabilities 55  5  49  11  Loss carryforwards 85  – 50  – 357  227  361  240  of which non-current 180  180  159  214  Set-off (187) (187) (165) (165) 170  40  196  75   174  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows: Changes in Deferred Taxes  million 2010 2011 Deferred taxes as of January 1 125  130  Tax income/expense recognized in the  income statement (52)  (19)  Changes in scope of consolidation – (31) Taxes recognized in other comprehensive income 49  41  Exchange differences 8  0  Deferred taxes as of December 31  130  121  The deferred income taxes recognized in other comprehensive income  comprised 29 million (2010: 39 million) relating to actuarial gains  and losses, the impact of the asset ceiling and minimum funding re- quirements for de ned-bene t pension plans, and 12 million (2010:  10 million) relating to  nancial instruments.  Deferred tax assets of 35 million (2010: 140 million) related to tax  jurisdictions in which losses were recorded in 2011 or 2010. In this  respect, the  LANXESS Group has taken into consideration tax planning  calculations and customary and feasible tax strategies. Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred tax assets of  50 million (2010: 85 million) were recognized on the 164 million  (2010: 274 million) in tax loss carryforwards that represent income  likely to be realized in the future. Deferred taxes were not recognized for 206 million (2010: 208 mil- lion) of tax loss carryforwards. Of this amount, 195 million (2010:  200 million) can theoretically be utilized over more than  ve years.  Further, deferred tax assets were not recognized in 2011 for tax- deductible temporary differences of 45 million (2010: 34 million).  Accordingly, deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of 65 million (2010:  66 million) and deferred tax assets on tax-deductible temporary  differences of 15 million (2010: 13 million) were not recognized. 29 Earnings and dividend per share    The calculation of earnings per share for 2011 was based on the  weighted average number of shares outstanding (83,202,670 shares),  including only earnings from continuing operations and disregard- ing the effects of accounting changes. Since there are currently no  equity instruments in issue that could dilute earnings per share, basic  and diluted earnings per share are identical. Further information on  equity instruments that could dilute earnings per share in the future  is contained in Note [12]. Earnings per Share 2010 2011 Change in % Net income ( million) 379  506  33.5  Number of outstanding shares  (weighted) 83,198.3601)  83,202,670  0.0  Earnings per share  ( undiluted/diluted) () 4.56  6.08  33.3  1)  The difference between this  gure and the capital stock of 83,202,670 in 2010 results from the  weighted inclusion of a temporary holding of the companys own shares.  LANXESS AG reported a distributable pro t of 115 million for  scal  2011 (2010: 104 million). The dividend payment made to share- holders of  LANXESS AG in 2011 amounted to 0.70 per share (2010:  0.50 per share). 30 Personnel expenses      The breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows: Personnel Expenses  million 2010 2011 Wages and salaries 912  985  Social security contributions 160  174  Retirement bene t expenses 61  77  Social assistance bene ts 8  8  1,141  1,244  The increase compared to the previous year is principally due to salary  adjustments, higher annual performance-related compensation and  acquisitions made in 2011. Personnel expenses do not include the  interest portion of personnel-related provisions, especially pension  provisions, which is re ected in the  nancial result (see Note [27]).  175 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the income statement | Other information Other information 31 Employees  The average number of employees in the  LANXESS Group in 2011  was 15,849 (2010: 14,475). The increase compared to the previous  year was mainly due to acquisitions made in 2011 and new hires at  one of our sites in South Africa. Employees by Function 2010 2011 Production 10,470  11,421  Marketing 1,882  1,976  Administration 1,632  1,757  Research 491  695  14,475  15,849  32  Contingent liabilities and other   nancial commitments  Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2011 amounted to 12 mil- lion (2010: 4 million). They resulted from guarantees and similar  instruments assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent potential  future commitments in cases where the occurrence of certain events  would create an obligation that was uncertain at the closing date. An  obligation to perform under such contingent liabilities arises in the  event of delayed settlement or insolvency on the part of the debtor.  As a personally liable partner in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG,  Leverkusen,  Germany,  LANXESS may be required to inject further capital into this  company in the future. Apart from provisions, liabilities and contingent liabilities,  nancial  commitments also exist under operating leases. As explained in the section on recognition and valuation principles,  operating leases are those which – unlike  nance leases – do not  transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to the ownership  of the leased assets to the lessee. In the  LANXESS Group, operating  leases are mainly used for operational reasons and not as a means  of  nancing. The minimum non-discounted future payments pertaining to operating  leases total 418 million (2010: 235 million). The increase in the  amount of these future payments compared to 2010 is mainly due  to the construction of the new site in Singapore and the signing of  the rental agreement for the Groups new headquarters in Cologne,  Germany. The respective payment obligations mature as follows: Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments  million Dec. 31,  2010 Dec. 31,  2011 Up to 1 year 31  39  1 to 2 years 27  41  2 to 3 years 25  39  3 to 4 years 22  35  4 to 5 years 21  29  More than 5 years 109  235  235  418  Payments under operating leases amounted to 39 million in 2011  (2010: 32 million). The year-on-year increase was mainly due to the  expansion of the operational business. Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed under pur- chase agreements relating to planned or ongoing capital expenditure  projects in the area of property, plant and equipment total 284 million  (2010: 197 million). The increase is principally attributable to the  construction of the new site in Singapore and a capital expenditure  project at one of our sites in South Africa. Of the respective payments,  211 million are due in 2012, 71 million in 2013 and 2 million  in 2014. Description of the master agreement Under the master agreement that  was concluded between Bayer AG and  LANXESS AG together with the  Spin-Off and Takeover Agreement, Bayer AG and  LANXESS AG agreed,  among other things, on commitments regarding mutual indemni cation  for liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on special  arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims in the areas of  product liability, environmental contamination and antittrust violations.  The master agreement also contains arrangements for the allocation  of tax effects relating to the spin-off and to the preceding measures  to create the subgroup that was subsequently spun off.  176  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 33  Related parties   In the course of its operations,  LANXESS sources materials, inventories  and services from a large number of business partners around the  world. These include companies in which  LANXESS AG holds a direct  or indirect interest. Transactions with these companies are carried out  on an arms-length basis. Transactions with companies accounted for in the consolidated    nancial statements using the equity method and their subsidiaries  mainly comprised the purchase of site services in the  elds of utilities,  infrastructure and logistics totaling 457 million (2010: 386 million).  As a result of these transactions, trade payables of 35 million (2010:  26 million) and trade receivables of 6 million (2010: 3 million)  existed as of December 31, 2011. Further payment obligations to  these companies under operating leases or under purchase agree- ments relating to planned or ongoing capital expenditure projects in  the area of property, plant and equipment are immaterial. Information on the compensation of the Board of Management and  Supervisory Board can be found in the next section.  34  Compensation of the Board of Management  and the Supervisory Board  Total compensation of 9,370 thousand (2010: 11,365 thou- sand) was paid to the members of the Board of Management of   LANXESS AG for  scal 2011, comprising 6,698 thousand (2010:  6,588 thousand) in annual compensation and 2,264 million (2010:  4,613 thousand) in multi-year compensation. In addition to the  compensation reported as expense in the consolidated  nancial state- ments for 2010, further compensation of 408 thousand for 2010  was disbursed in 2011 (2010: 164 thousand for 2009). The multi-year compensation includes payments made under the  Long-Term Incentive Program (LTIP). 1,822,125 share-based com- pensation rights were granted in 2011 (2010: 3,999,000). The fair  value of these rights at the grant date was 910 thousand (2010:  3,210 thousand). Expenses for the LTIP recognized in the consoli- dated  nancial statements amounted to 934 thousand (2010:  8,025 thousand). Payments of 1,320 thousand (2010: 0 thousand) were made to  one member in connection with his leaving the Board of Management  during 2011. In addition, service cost of 918 thousand (2010: 588 thousand)  relating to de ned-bene t pension plans and past service cost of  860 thousand (2010: 0 thousand) was incurred in 2011 for  members of the Board of Management as part of their compensation  package. The present value of obligations as of December 31, 2011  was 13,166 thousand (2010: 11,195 thousand). Payments of 1,799 thousand (2010: 441 thousand) were made to  former members of the Board of Management. This  gure includes the  above payments to one member who left the Board of Management  during 2011. The total obligation for former members of the Board  of Management was 9,478 thousand as of December 31, 2011  (2010: 6,884 thousand). The members of the Supervisory Board received total compensation  of 1,931 thousand in 2011 (2010: 3,448 thousand). The provi- sions established for multi-year compensation for Supervisory Board  members as of December 31, 2011 amounted to 1,500 thousand  (2010: 1,500 thousand). In addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board  who are employees of the  LANXESS Group received salaries under  their employment contracts. The amounts of these salaries represented  appropriate compensation for the employees functions and tasks  within the Group. The compensation amounts for each member of the Board of Manage- ment and the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG are listed on pages  123ff. in the compensation report, which forms part of the audited  Group Management Report. No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management or  the Supervisory Board in  scal 2011 or 2010. 35 Financial instruments  Primary  nancial instruments are re ected in the statement of  nancial  position. In compliance with IAS 39, asset instruments are categorized  as loans and receivables, held at fair value through pro t or loss,  held to maturity or available for sale and, accordingly, recognized at  cost or fair value. Liability instruments that are neither held for trading  nor constitute derivatives are carried at amortized cost.  177 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other information Risks and risk management The global alignment of the  LANXESS  Group exposes its business operations, earnings and cash  ows to a  variety of market risks. Material  nancial risks to the Group as a whole,  such as currency, interest rate, credit, liquidity and commodity price  risks, are managed centrally. These risks could impair the earnings and  nancial position of the   LANXESS Group. The various risk categories and the risk management  system for the  LANXESS Group are outlined below. The principles of risk management are de ned by the Board of Man- agement. At the regular strategy meetings of the Financial Risk Com- mittee, which are chaired by the Chief Financial Of cer, reports on  the outcome of  nancial risk management and on current risks levels  are presented and any further action is decided upon. Simulations are  performed to assess the impact of market trends. The implementation  of the Financial Risk Committees decisions and ongoing risk manage- ment are undertaken centrally by the Group Function Treasury. The  aim of  nancial risk management is to identify and evaluate risks and  to manage and limit their effects as appropriate. Currency risks Since the  LANXESS Group undertakes transactions  in numerous currencies, it is exposed to the risk of  uctuations in the  relative value of these currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, against  the euro. Currency risks from potential declines in the value of  nancial instru- ments due to exchange rate  uctuations (transaction risks) arise mainly  when receivables and payables are denominated in a currency other  than the companys local currency. Currency risks relating to operating activities are systematically moni- tored and analyzed. While the risks relating to changes in the value of  receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are fully  hedged, the scope of hedging for currency risks relating to forecast  transactions is subject to regular review. A substantial proportion of  contractual and foreseeable currency risks are hedged using derivative   nancial instruments. Changes in the fair values of these instruments  are recognized in the  nancial result or, in the case of cash  ow hedges,  in other comprehensive income. Realized income/expense from the  effective portion of cash  ow hedges are recognized in other operat- ing income/expenses. Currency risks arising on  nancial transactions, including interest, are  generally fully hedged, mainly through forward exchange contracts.  Since the  LANXESS Group concludes derivative contracts for the  greater part of its currency risks, it believes that, in the short term,  a signi cant rise or fall in the euro against other major currencies  would have no material impact on future cash  ows. In the long term,  however, these exchange rate  uctuations could adversely affect cash   ows should the  LANXESS Group not be in a position to absorb them,  for example, through the pricing of its products in the respective local  currencies. If the exchange rate for the euro had been 5% higher against all other  currencies on the reporting date, this would have had a 19 million  (2010: 27 million) effect, mainly on other comprehensive income,  which would have improved accordingly. This effect mainly relates to  the U.S. dollar. A correspondingly lower rate for the euro would have  had basically the opposite effect. Many companies in the  LANXESS Group are based outside the euro- zone. Since the Group prepares its consolidated  nancial statements  in euros, the annual  nancial statements of these subsidiaries are  translated into euros for consolidation purposes. Changes in the av- erage exchange rate of a currency from one period to the next can  materially affect the translation of both sales and earnings reported in  this currency (translation risk). Unlike transaction risk, translation risk  has no impact on Group cash  ows in the local currency. The  LANXESS Group has material assets, liabilities and businesses  outside the eurozone that report in local currencies. The related long- term currency risk is estimated and evaluated on a regular basis. In  view of the risks involved in such cases, however, foreign currency  hedging transactions are only concluded if consideration is being given  to withdrawing from a particular business and it is intended to repatri- ate the funds released by the withdrawal. The effects of exchange rate   uctuations on the translation of net positions into euros are re ected  in other comprehensive income. Interest rate risks Fluctuations in market interest rates can cause   uctuations in the overall return on a  nancial instrument. Interest rate  risk affects both  nancial assets and  nancial liabilities. Since the majority of  nancial liabilities were entered into at  xed  interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years will only  have a limited impact on the  LANXESS Group. The available liquidity  is invested in instruments with short-term  xed interest rates, so that the   LANXESS Group bene ts quickly from rising interest rates. A general  change of one percentage point in interest rates as of December 31,  2011 would have altered Group net income by around 3 million  (2010: 3 million). Credit risks Credit risks arise from trade relationships with customers  and dealings with banks and other  nancial partners, especially with re- gard to the investment business and  nancial-instrument transactions.   178  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Customer risks are systematically identi ed, analyzed and managed,   using both internal and external information sources. Customer  port folios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the  risk pro le is elevated. The maximum credit risk is mitigated mainly  through letters of credit and credit insurance agreements in favor of  the  LANXESS Group. Most of  LANXESSs customer risks are insured  against default with a leading European credit insurer.  Since the DSO (days of sales outstanding) period for trade accounts  receivable as of December 31, 2011 ended before the consolidated   nancial statements were prepared, no signi cant credit risk exists  in this regard. Credit risk management also includes global management of the coun- terparty risk relating to banks and  nancial partners. The  LANXESS  Group pays particular attention to risk diversi cation to prevent any  cluster risks that could jeopardize its existence. Through master agree- ments, the market values of open trading positions can be netted if a  partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks.  Liquidity risks Liquidity risks arise from potential  nancial shortfalls  and the resulting increase in re nancing costs. The aim of liquidity  management in the  LANXESS Group is to ensure that the Group has  suf cient liquidity and committed credit facilities available at all times  to enable it to meet its payment commitments, and to optimize the  liquidity balance within the Group. The 1.4 billion (2010: 1.4 billion) syndicated credit facility, which  runs through November 2014 and was unused as of the closing date,  is a key component in the  LANXESS Groups liquidity management.  Further long-term credit facilities amounting to some 450 million were  arranged in 2011. About 330 million of this amount was unused  as of the closing date. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has  short-term liquidity reserves of 528 million in the form of cash and  cash equivalents and highly liquid investments in AAA-rated money  market funds. Accordingly, the  LANXESS Group has a liquidity position  based on a broad range of  nancing instruments. The following table shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted)  cash  ows for primary  nancial liabilities, the interest components  thereof and derivative  nancial instruments: Dec. 31, 2010  million 2011  2012  2013  2014  2015 > 2015 Bonds (26)  (468) (50)  (550) (11) (211)  of which interest (26) (66) (50) (50) (11) (11) Liabilities to banks (135) (64) (17) (15) (14) (32) of which interest (12) (6) (3) (2) (2) (2) Trade payables (664) of which interest 0  Liabilities under  nance leases (15) (14) (37) (8) (5) (31) of which interest (4) (4) (3) (2) (1) (6) Other primary  nancial liabilities (41) (2) of which interest (41) 0  Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (147) (196) Receipts 131  189  Other hedging instruments Disbursements (318) (1) (1) (11)  (13)  Receipts 311  1  1  10  12  Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (219) (87) (71) Receipts 233  89  71  Other hedging instruments Disbursements (429) 0  0  0  (9) Receipts 432  0  0  0  9   179 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other information Dec. 31, 2011  million 2012  2013  2014  2015  2016 > 2016 Bonds (436) (70)  (570)  (32)  (232)  (541)  of which interest (34) (70) (70) (32) (32) (41) Liabilities to banks (167) (33) (40) (38) (37) (63) of which interest (7) (6) (5) (4) (3) (2) Trade payables (766) of which interest 0  Liabilities under  nance leases (14) (38) (9) (6) (6) (27) of which interest (3) (3) (2) (2) (1) (5) Other primary  nancial liabilities (62) (1) (3) (3) (2) (1) of which interest (56) 0  0  0  0  0  Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (447) (183) Receipts 417  173  Other hedging instruments Disbursements (788) (2) (13) (18) (24) Receipts 777  2  11  17  23  Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (38) (2) Receipts 39  2  Other hedging instruments Disbursements (364) 0  0  (6) Receipts 370  2  0  6  The contractually agreed payments for other primary  nancial liabilities  due within one year from the closing date contain accrued interest of  53 million (2010: 40 million) relating to the bonds. Raw material price risks The  LANXESS Group is exposed to changes  in the market prices of commodities used for its business operations.  Increases in energy and raw material procurement costs are generally  passed on to customers. Where such increases cannot be passed on  in their entirety, the related risks are systematically monitored, evaluated  and controlled as part of the  nancial risk management system. The  aim is to achieve a deliberate and controlled reduction in the volatility  of cash  ows and thus the volatility of the companys economic value  by making systematic use of derivatives, for example, for natural gas  or n-butane. Where cash  ow hedges qualify for hedge accounting,  changes in their fair values are recognized in other comprehensive  income until the hedged transaction is realized. If all raw material prices had been 10% higher or lower on the clos- ing date, the changes in the fair values of the respective hedging  instruments would have increased or decreased other comprehensive  income by 2 million (2010: 2 million). Carrying amounts, measurement and fair value of  nancial instru- ments The table shows the carrying amounts of the individual classes  of  nancial assets and liabilities and their fair values. The basis of  measurement is also shown:  180  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Dec. 31, 2010  million IAS 39 measurement   category Carrying amount  Dec. 31, 2010 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 942  Receivables under  nance leases – 8  Other  nancial receivables LaR 72  Cash and cash equivalents LaR 160  Available-for-sale  nancial assets Near-cash assets AfS 364  Other available-for-sale  nancial assets AfS 60  Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 16  Other hedging instruments  FAHfT 6  Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,095)  Liabilities to banks FLAC (250) Trade payables FLAC (664) Liabilities under  nance leases – (90) Other primary  nancial liabilities FLAC (43) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (24)  Other hedging instruments FLHfT (10) Dec. 31, 2011  million IAS 39 measurement   category Carrying amount  Dec. 31, 2011 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,146  Receivables under  nance leases – 6  Other  nancial receivables LaR 41  Cash and cash equivalents LaR 178  Available-for-sale  nancial assets Near-cash assets AfS 350  Other available-for-sale  nancial assets AfS 81  Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 1  Other hedging instruments  FAHfT 15  Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,593)  Liabilities to banks FLAC (350) Trade payables FLAC (766) Liabilities under  nance leases – (84) Other primary  nancial liabilities FLAC (71) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (38) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (15) LaR  Loans and Receivables AfS  Available-for-Sale Financial Assets FAHfT  Financial Assets Held for Trading FLAC  Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost FLHfT  Financial Liabilities Held for Trading  181 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other information Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement   according to IAS 17 Fair value  Dec. 31, 2010 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other comprehensive  income) Fair value (pro t or loss) 942  942  8  8  72  72  160  160  364  364  8  52  52  16  16  6  6  (1,095) (1,203)  (250) (250) (664) (664) (90) (90) (43) (43) (24) (24) (10) (10) Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement   according to IAS 17 Fair value  Dec. 31, 2011 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other comprehensive  income) Fair value (pro t or loss) 1,146  1,146  6  6  41  41  178  178  350  350  8  73  73  1  1  15  15  (1,593) (1,700) (350) (350) (766) (766) (84)  (84) (71) (71) (38) (38) (15) (15)  182  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Category  million Dec. 31,  2010 Dec. 31,  2011 Loans and receivables 1,174  1,365  Available-for-sale  nancial assets 424  431  Financial assets held for trading 6  15  1,604  1,811  Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (2,052)  (2,780)  Financial liabilities held for trading (10)  (15)  (2,062) (2,795)  Fair value measurement Fair value measurement is based on a hier- archy that re ects the signi cance of inputs in the valuation. This  comprises three levels: Level 1  Quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities  in active markets Level 2  Inputs other than quoted prices used within Level 1 that  are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as  prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) Level 3  Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observ- able market data. The classi cation of  nancial instruments using the fair value hierarchy  is as follows: Fair Value Measurement Levels  million Dec. 31, 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Available-for-sale  nancial assets Near-cash assets 364  – – Other available-for-sale  nancial assets 51  1  – Derivative assets – 22  – Derivative liabilities – (34) – Fair Value Measurement Levels  million Dec. 31, 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Available-for-sale  nancial assets Near-cash assets 350  – – Other available-for-sale  nancial assets 72  1  – Derivative assets – 16  – Derivative liabilities – (53)  – Net result by category The following table provides an overview of the  net results based on the measurement categories de ned in IAS 39: Net Results by IAS 39 Category  million 2010 2011 Loans and receivables 13  14  Available-for-sale  nancial assets (1)  (10) Assets and liabilities held for trading 0  0  Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (101)  (100)  (89)  (96) Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and expense  and remeasurement effects.  The net result for available-for-sale  nancial assets includes losses of  7 million (2010: 1 million), which are re ected in other compre- hensive income. In addition, fees of 8 million were incurred in 2011 (2010: 15 mil- lion) in connection with  nancial instruments. Collateralization of  nancial liabilities Financial liabilities amounting  to 15 million (2010: 28 million) were collateralized by mortgages  or other property claims. Mezzanine  nancing Mezzanine instruments such as pro t participa- tion rights, convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued.  Information on the possible issuance of such instruments is given in  Note [12]. 36 Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows        Explanation of the method used to calculate and present cash   ows For a general explanation, please see the comments on the  statement of cash  ows in the section headed Accounting policies  and valuation principles.   183 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other information Net cash  ow provided by operating activities The net cash in ow  from operating activities in 2011 amounted to 672 million (2010:  430 million). Income before income taxes, which is the starting point  for the statement of cash  ows, amounted to 655 million (2010:  493 million) after depreciation, amortization and impairments of  325 million (2010: 283 million). Income taxes paid in 2011  amounted to 95 million (2010: 114 million). The balance of other  assets and liabilities showed a year-on-year decrease of 16 million  (2010: 4 million). Cash out ows for the external  nancing of pen- sion obligations (CTA) comprised payments of 30 million (2010:  75 million) to  LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany.  Total payments of 90 million were made in the years prior to 2010.  Further information on external  nancing of the pension obligations  is given in Note [13].    Net cash used in investing activities Purchases of intangible assets,  property, plant and equipment led to a cash out ow of 679 million  in 2011 (2010: 501 million). Of this amount, 71% went for expan- sions and 29% to maintain existing operating capacities. Cash in ows  from  nancial assets mainly comprised proceeds from the sale of  units in money market funds and overnight funds. The acquisition of  subsidiaries resulted in a cash out ow of 285 million (2010: 0 mil- lion) net of acquired cash and cash equivalents totaling 41 million  (2010: 0 million) and subsequent purchase price adjustments. Cash  in ows comprised 9 million (2010: 8 million) in interest received  and 1 million (2010: 8 million) in income from other af liates. This  consisted mainly of in ows from the transfer to  LANXESS of the pro- rata share of the income of Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen,  Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method. The net cash  out ow for investing activities was 923 million (2010: 375 million). Net cash provided by (used in)  nancing activities A net cash in-  ow of 276 million (2010: out ow of 214 million) was recorded  for  nancing activities. This included a 434 million in ow from net  borrowings (2010: 81 million out ow for net loan repayments), a  100 million (2010: 91 million) out ow for interest paid and other   nancial disbursements, and a 58 million (2010: 42 million) out ow  for the dividend paid by  LANXESS AG in 2011. Details of unused  credit facilities are given in Note [35]. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents (cash, checks,  bank balances) amounted to 178 million (2010: 160 million). In  accordance with IAS 7, this item also includes securities with maturi- ties of up to three months from the date of acquisition. 37 Segment reporting Key Data by Segment  million Performance  Polymers Advanced  Intermediates Performance  Chemicals Reconciliation  LANXESS 2010  2011  2010  2011  2010  2011  2010  2011  2010  2011  External sales 3,692  5,059  1,411  1,545  1,978  2,130  39  41  7,120  8,775  Inter-segment sales 0  1  47  52  8  10  (55) (63)  0  0  Segment/Group sales 3,692  5,060  1,458  1,597  1,986  2,140  (16) (22) 7,120  8,775  Segment result/EBITDA pre exceptionals 548  768  259  264  281  289  (170) (175) 918  1,146  Exceptional items affecting EBITDA 1  (9)  (19)  (5) (24) (17) (28) (45) Segment assets 2,545  3,468  883  941  1,212  1,421  109  135  4,749  5,965  Segment acquisitions 219  120  339  Segment capital expenditures 298  447  101  117  114  113  16  23  529  700  Depreciation and amortization 141  159  57 63  67  77  17  13  282  312  Impairments 0  2  1  7  0  1  0  3  1  13  Segment liabilities 874  1,012  417  454  519  527  459  473 2,269  2,466  Employees (December 31) 4,281  4,977  2,903  2,883  4,907  5,819  2,557  2,711  14,648  16,390  Employees (average for the year) 4,258  4,748  2,920  2,875  4,795  5,574  2,502  2,652  14,475  15,849  2010  gures restated Segment changes made after the closing date for the consolidated   nancial statements for 2010 involved the transfer of the adipic acid  activities from the Semi-Crystalline Products business unit in the Perfor- mance Polymers segment to the Advanced Industrial Intermediates  business unit in the Advanced Intermediates segment. The previous  years  gures have been restated accordingly.   184  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Key Data by Region  million EMEA (exclud- ing Germany) Germany North America Latin America Asia-Paci c  LANXESS 2010  2011  2010  2011  2010  2011  2010  2011  2010  2011  2010  2011  External sales by market 2,038  2,546  1,320  1,569  1,174  1,458  955  1,201  1,633  2,001  7,120  8,775  Non-current region assets 446  706  813  937  385  438  375  431  371  575  2,390  3,087  Acquisitions 108  42  57  118  14  339  Capital expenditures 91  165  193  222  73  53  30  43  142  217  529  700  Employees (December 31) 2,638  3,357  7,590  7,846  1,309  1,427  1,215  1,585  1,896  2,175  14,648  16,390  Notes to the segment reporting The valuation principles applied in  segment reporting correspond to the uniform recognition and valuation  principles used for the consolidated  nancial statements prepared in  accordance with IFRS.  On December 31, 2011 the  LANXESS Group comprised the follow- ing reporting segments:  Segment Operations Performance Polymers Special-purpose rubbers for high-quality rubber prod- ucts, e.g. for use in vehicles, tires,  construction and  footwear; engineering plastics, polyamide compounds Advanced Intermediates Intermediates for the agrochemicals and coatings in- dustries;  ne chemicals as precursors and intermedi- ates for pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and specialty  chemicals; custom manufacturing Performance Chemicals Material protection products; inorganic pigments for  the coloring of concrete, emulsion paints and other  coatings;  nishing agents for the leather industry;  rubber chemicals; ion exchange resins for water treat- ment; plastics additives such as  ame retardants and  plasticizers The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and re ects assets  and liabilities not directly allocable to the core segments including, in  particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center. It also includes the  12 million (2010: 13 million) interest in investments accounted for  using the equity method and the corresponding income of 7 million  (2010: 16 million) (see Note [3]). The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transactions are  calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been agreed upon  between independent third parties in comparable circumstances  (arms-length principle). The majority of employees re ected in the reconciliation provide ser- vices for more than one segment. They include technical service staff. The reporting regions are those into which  LANXESSs activities are  organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle East, Africa),  Germany, North America, Latin America and Asia-Paci c.  Regional sales are calculated according to the recipients place of  business. In  scal 2011, no individual customer of the  LANXESS  Group accounted for more than 10% of Group sales. Since the earnings  gure used for management purposes within the   LANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciation and amor- tization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals, this is the amount reported as the  segment result. It comprises gross pro t, selling expenses, general  administration expenses, research and development expenses and  other operating income and expenses. It does not include, in particu- lar, depreciation and amortization or exceptional items, which relate  principally to restructuring activities. In light of the Groups central  nancial management, interest income  and expense and income tax income and expense are not reported  at segment level. Reconciliation of Segment Sales  million 2010  2011  Total segment sales 7,136  8,797  Other/Consolidation (16)  (22)  Group sales 7,120  8,775  Reconciliation of Segment Result  million 2010  2011  Total segment results 1,088  1,321  Depreciation and amortization (283)  (325)  Other/Consolidation (170) (175) Net interest expense (83) (98) Exceptional items in EBITDA (28) (45) Income from investments accounted for  using the equity method 16  7  Other  nancial income and expense (47) (30) Income before income taxes 493  655   185 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other information Segment assets principally comprise intangible assets, property, plant  and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. In particular, seg- ment assets do not include cash and cash equivalents, income tax  receivables, receivables from derivatives, or other  nancial assets.  Information on equity-method income is contained in Note [3]. It mainly  comprises income from site services provided by Currenta GmbH &  Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is not related to the operating  business of the segments. Therefore, it is not allocated among the  segments.  Reconciliation of Segment Assets  million Dec. 31,  2010 Dec. 31,  2011 Total segment assets 4,640  5,830  Near-cash assets 364  350  Deferred tax assets 170  196  Cash and cash equivalents 160  178  Other  nancial assets 132  109  Income tax receivables 69  64  Derivative assets 22  16  Other/Consolidation 109  135  Group assets 5,666  6,878  Capital expenditures made by the segments mainly comprise additions  to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment.  All depreciation, amortization and impairments in  scal 2010 and  2011 were recognized directly in pro t or loss. Segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade payables and  other liabilities. In particular, segment liabilities do not include income  tax liabilities, liabilities from derivatives, or other  nancial liabilities. Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities  million Dec. 31,  2010  Dec. 31,  2011 Total segment liabilities 1,810  1,978  Other  nancial liabilities 1,478  2,098  Income tax liabilities 84  112  Deferred tax liabilities 40  75  Derivative liabilities 34  53  Other/Consolidation 459  488  Group liabilities 3,905  4,804  38 Audit fees        In 2011, audit fees of 2,714 thousand (2010: 2,485 thousand) for  the auditor of the consolidated  nancial statements of the  LANXESS  Group were recognized as expenses. Of this amount, 1,275 thou- sand (2010: 1,174 thousand) relates to the auditing of  nancial  statements, 653 thousand (2010: 446 thousand) to audit-related  services, and 786 thousand (2010: 865 thousand) to other ser- vices rendered to Group companies. The fees for  nancial statements  audit services comprise all fees, including incidental expenses, paid  or to be paid for the audits of the consolidated  nancial statements  of the  LANXESS Group and the mandatory  nancial statements of   LANXESS AG and its German subsidiaries. 39  Declaration of Compliance pursuant to  Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act        A Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance  Code has been issued pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock  Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders on the   LANXESS website. 40  Exemptions under Section 264 Paragraph 3  of the German Commercial Code       In 2011 the following German subsidiaries made use of disclosure  exemptions pursuant to Section 264 Paragraph 3 of the German  Commercial Code (HGB):   Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen   IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin   LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Leverkusen   LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl   LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen   LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Langenfeld   LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Leverkusen   LXS Dormagen Verwaltungs-GmbH, Dormagen   Perlon-Mono l GmbH, Dormagen   Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim   Saltigo GmbH, Langenfeld   Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen  186  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable   nancial reporting principles, the consolidated  nancial statements  give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,  nancial position and  pro t or loss of the Group, and the management report of the Group  includes a fair review of the development and performance of the  business and the position of the Group, together with a description  of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected  development of the Group. Leverkusen, February 28, 2012  LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Leverkusen The Board of Management Dr. Axel C. Heitmann  Dr. Bernhard Dttmann  Dr. Werner Breuers   Dr. Rainier van Roessel Responsibility   Statement  187 Consolidated Financial Statements Responsibility  Statement | Auditors Report We have audited the consolidated  nancial statements prepared by the   LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Leverkusen, the statement of   nancial  posi tion, the income statement and statement of comprehensive  income, statement of changes in equity, cash  ow statement and  the notes to the consolidated  nancial statements, together with the  group management report for the business year from January 1 to   December 31, 2011. The preparation of the consolidated  nancial  statements and the group management report in accordance with  the IFRSs, as adopted by the E.U., and the additional requirements  of German commercial law pursuant to  (Article) 315a Abs. (para- graph) 1 HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code) are  the responsibility of the parent companys Board of Management. Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on the consoli dated  nancial  statements and on the group management report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the consolidated  nancial statements  in  accordance with  317 HGB and German generally accepted   standards for the audit of  nancial statements promulgated by the  Institut der Wirtschaftsprfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany)  (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit  such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net  assets,  nancial position and results of operations in the consolidated   nancial statements in accordance with the applicable  nancial report- ing framework and in the group management report are detected with  reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the  economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to  possible misstatements are taken into account in the determi nation of  audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal  control system and the evidence  supporting the disclosures in the  consolidated  nancial statements and the group management report  are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the  audit. The audit includes assessing the annual   nancial  statements of  those entities included in consolidation, the determination of the enti- ties to be included in consolidation, the  accounting and consolidation   principles used and signi cant estimates made by the companys Board  of  Management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the  consolidated  nancial statements and the group management report.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our audit has not led to any reservations. In our opinion based on the  ndings of our audit the consolidated   nancial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the E.U.,  the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to   315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets,   nancial  position and results of operations of the Group in accor- dance with  these requirements. The group management report is  consistent with the consolidated  nancial statements and as a whole  provides a  suitable view of the Groups position and suitably presents  the  opportunities and risks of future development. Cologne, February 29, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers  Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprfungsgesellschaft Bernd Boritzki      Carsten Manthei  German Public Auditor    German Public Auditor Auditors Report  188  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Glossary Industry-speci c terms CLP and GHS CLP is the abbreviation for classi cation, labeling and  packaging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains new provisions for the  classi cation, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures.  It was announced on December 31, 2008 and has already entered  into force.     This new regulation is based on the Globally Harmonized System of  Classi cation and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which  ensures that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world.  The use of internationally agreed classi cation criteria and  labeling  elements is aimed at making things easier for distributors and at   protecting people and the environment worldwide from the hazards  that may be caused by chemicals. Compounding facility A facility for processing and  nishing engineer- ing plastics to enhance their functional properties. Elastomers Stable yet elastic and formable polymers that are used  to manufacture tires, rubber bands and sealing rings, for example.   Exclusive synthesis Synthesis is a process in which chemical   elements are used to manufacture a new substance. In the case  of exclusive synthesis, substances are produced individually and  exclusively for a certain customer – in contrast to catalog business. Fermentation process Generally speaking, fermentation character- izes the conversion of organic substances by bacteria or enzymes.  However, industrial chemicals such as acetone or butanol can also  be produced by fermentation. ISO 14001 International standard which supports organizations  in introducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental  targets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental  management system. ISO 50001 International standard which de nes requirements for  systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy  costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. ISO 9001 International standard which de nes minimum require- ments for quality management systems. Off-spec products Products which do not meet the manufacturers  own speci cations or customer requirements. Polyamide A synthetic polymer with very good mechanical and  electrical properties and high resistance to chemicals and wear. REACH Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation,  Authorization  and Restriction of Chemicals. The E.U. REACH Regulation stipu- lates the registration, assessment and approval of chemicals  before   marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers to   determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and  estimate  their impact on health and the environment. Steam cracker A facility that uses steam to produce chemical raw  materials for manufacturing plastics, coatings, solvents and crop  protection products. Synthetic rubber Synthetic rubber is the term used for elastic   polymers produced from petrochemical raw materials. It is the  starting  product for rubber production. With a 50 to 60 percent share of  production volume, styrene-butadiene rubber is the most important  of the synthetic rubbers. It is used especially in the manufacture of  car tires. VOC emissions Volatile organic compounds is the collective term for  organic carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become  gaseous at low temperatures. Vulcanization Vulcanization is a process that applies heat and   pressure over time to make rubber more durable. It destroys the  plastic properties of the rubber or rubber blend and makes it elastic.  189 Further Information Glossary Financial glossary Capital employed This is de ned as total assets less deferred tax  assets and interest-free liabilities. Cash  ow In ows and out ows of cash and cash equivalents.  Corporate governance Responsible corporate management  and oversight aligned with long-term value creation. It comprises  the  observance of laws, regulations, recognized standards and  recommen dations as well as the implementation and application  of company guidelines and management and control structures.  Deferred taxes Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the  future from temporary differences between the carrying amount used  in the annual  nancial statements and the taxable value of  assets and  liabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in future from unused  loss carryforwards or tax credits. Due diligence The careful investigation and analysis of a  company,  particularly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and  nancial   condition and its performance in the areas of technology and the  environment. It is undertaken especially by potential purchasers  involved in  acquisition projects. EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before  deduction of interest and income taxes.   EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorti- zation: the operating result before deduction of interest and income  taxes plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and  equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible  assets. EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa region Equity method Accounting method that sets the interests in  af liated  companies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any  changes in the stakeholders interest lead to an adjustment in the  net assets of the af liated company. Euro Benchmark Bond Bond issued in euros which, on account of  its issue volume, can be used as a reference value for comparable  issuers. Financial covenants Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agree- ments and term sheets. These are contractually binding promises  by the borrower or obligor during the term of the loan agreement,  for example, that net  nancial liabilities will not exceed a de ned  multiple of an earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals. GDP Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services  produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined  for consumption. Goodwill Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company. This is  measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value  of the net assets acquired. Hedging An investment position intended to limit or offset certain  clearly identi ed risks such as exchange rate  uctuations or interest  rate changes. IAS/IFRS International Accounting Standards/International Financial  Reporting Standards. These are uniform international accounting  regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board  with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of  nancial state- ments and the publication of information of relevance to decisions. Joint venture A contractual agreement between two or more partners  concerning an economic activity which they manage jointly. Net  nancial liabilities Calculated as the sum of current and non- current  nancial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest)  less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets.  Net working capital The sum of all inventories and trade accounts  receivable less trade accounts payable. Purchase price allocation Distribution of the cost of an acquisition  to the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Rating Assessment of a debtors credit standing. Ratings are issued  by, for example, the worlds leading rating agencies such as Standard  & Poors, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, but also by  banks applying their own criteria. ROCE Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre  exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of pro tability. Sell-side analysts Sell-side analysts work for banks and  brokerages.  They produce industry-speci c analyses of listed companies.  These  are used to assess the stock of the companies analyzed and to  make investment recommendations. Published in the form of   research  studies, these recommendations are targeted at external  users,  especially institutional investors, and are intended to provide   investment ideas.  190  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 A Acquisitions 16f, 22, 29f, 71, 152f Advanced Industrial Intermediates 26f, 90, 117 Advanced Intermediates 26f, 72, 85, 90, 117ff. Annual Stockholders Meeting 64, 123 B Board of Management 8f, 121f, 128 Bonds 65, 92ff. Business conditions 76f, 107ff. Butyl Rubber 20ff., 90, 116ff. C Capital expenditures 14ff., 20ff., 89f Compensation 44, 98f, 123ff. Corporate governance 120ff. Corporate responsibility 36ff. Customer industries 77, 103f, 108f D Declaration of compliance 120f Demography 43f Directors dealings 127 Diversity 42f Dividend 65, 119 E Earnings per share 82, 174 EBITDA pre exceptionals 13, 74, 81 EBITDA margin 81, 84ff. Education initiative 54ff. Employees 39ff., 97ff. Environmental protection 36f, 46ff. Equity 88, 138, 160ff. F Financial management 92ff. Forecasts 115ff. Functional Chemicals 28ff. G Growth 12ff., 20ff., 79ff. H HR Policy 39ff. HSEQ Targets 52f Index I Income statement 79ff., 136, 172ff. Inorganic Pigments 28ff. Ion Exchange Resins 28ff., 90, 117f L Leather 28ff., 90, 118 Liquidity 94, 119 M Markets 20ff., 72f, 77, 103f, 108f Material Protection Products 28ff. Megatrends 14, 20ff., 115ff. Multi-period overview 96 N Net  nancial liabilities 76, 93 O Of ces 128f Opportunities 115ff. P Performance Butadiene Rubbers 20ff., 90, 116 Performance Chemicals 28ff., 72, 86, 90, 117ff. Performance Polymers 20ff., 72, 84f, 90, 116ff. Products 20ff., 48f R Rating 65f, 92 Research and development 104ff. Rhein Chemie 28ff., 90, 118 Risk management 109ff. Rubber Chemicals 28ff., 118 S Sales 79f, 82ff. Saltigo 26f Segment reporting 84ff., 183ff. Semi-Crystalline Products 20ff., 90, 116ff. Sites 72f Statement of cash  ows 91, 139, 182f Statement of  nancial position 87ff., 135, 156ff. Stock 60ff. Strategy 12ff., 73f, 115ff. Subsidiaries 71, 154f Supervisory Board 120ff. Supervisory Board Committees 123 Sustainability 20ff., 36ff. T Targets 12ff., 115ff. Technical Rubber Products 20ff., 90, 117  191 Further Information Index | Graphics and Tables Cover F2  Key Data F2  Sales by Region F2  Employees by Region C2  Performance Indicators: Performance Polymers C2  Performance Indicators: Advanced Intermediates C2  Performance Indicators: Performance Chemicals Strategy 12 Business Model 13 EBITDA Growth 16 Acquisitions Corporate Responsibility 37 The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 43 LANXESS Employee Structure Germany/Rest of the World 46 Environmental and Safety Performance Data 47 Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting  in Absence from Work (LTIFR) 48 REACH Implementation Schedule 49 Energy Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold 50 Energy Consumption by Segment 50 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) in Relation to Volumes Sold 50 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment 50 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) in Relation to Volumes Sold 50 VOC Emissions in Relation to Volumes Sold 51 Total Waste in Relation to Volumes Sold 51 Waste for Disposal 51 Water Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold 52 HSEQ Targets 55 Social Activities by Topic 55 Social Activities by Region Investor Information 61 Stock Performance since Listing 61 Stock Performance 2011 62 Performance Data 2011 62 Capital Market Information 63 Stockholder Pro le as of December 31, 2011 64 Geographical Breakdown as of December 31, 2011 64 Reported Holdings of Three Percent or Above by Institutional Investors 64 Recommendations as of February 15, 2012 65 Overview of LANXESSs Bonds Group Management Report 71 Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG 72 Performance Polymers in Brief 72 Advanced Intermediates in Brief 72 Performance Chemicals in Brief Graphics and Tables Group Management Report 73 LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World 74 Value Management and Control System 76 Net Financial Liabilities 76 GDP and Chemical Production in 2011 77 Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro 77 Evolution of Major User Industries in 2011 79 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 79 Key Financial Data 79 Group Sales 80 Effects on Sales 80 Sales by Segment 81 EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment 81 EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 82 Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income 82 Sales by Market 84 Sales by Segment 84 Performance Polymers: Overview of Key Data 84 Performance Polymers: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 85 Advanced Intermediates: Overview of Key Data 85 Advanced Intermediates: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 86 Performance Chemicals: Overview of Key Data 86 Performance Chemicals: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 86 Reconciliation: Overview of Key Data 87 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position 87 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets 88 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities 89 Ratios 89 Cash Out ows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization 89 Cash Out ows for Capital Expenditures by Segment 90 Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2011 91 Cash Flow Statement 92 Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2007 93 Financing Structure 93 Maturity Pro le of LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2011 94 LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index 96 Business Ratios – Multi-Period Overview 97 Employees by Region 97 Employees by Segment 97 Employees by Functional Area 104 Selling Costs 104 Shares of Sales by Industry Sector 105 Research and Development Expenditures 105 Number of Employees in Research and Development 107 Expected Growth in GDP 108 Expected Growth in Chemical Production 109 Expected Evolution of Major User Industries 111 Main Sources of Risk 114 Financial Risks Corporate Governance 124 Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management 124 Annual Compensation of the Board of Management 125 Long-Term Compensation of the Board of Management 127 Compensation of the Supervisory Board in the 2011 Fiscal Year 127 Directors Dealings 128 Of ces Held by Board of Management Members 128 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board  192  LANXESS  Annual Report 2011 Financial Calendar 2012 May 9 Interim Report Q1 2012 May 15 Annual Stockholders Meeting August 7 Interim Report H1 2012 September 20 LANXESS Capital Markets Day November 6 Interim Report Q3 2012 Please do not hesitate to contact us  if you have any questions or comments. Contact Corporate Communications Tel. +49 214 30 31872 E-mail: mediarelations@ lanxess.com Contact Investor Relations Tel. +49 214 30 23851 E-mail: ir@ lanxess.com This Annual Report was published  on March 22, 2012.